id: quant-ph/0506001
title: New binding-concealing trade-offs for quantum string commitment
authors: Rahul Jain
comments: To appear in Journal of Cryptology, 10 pages, ver5
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506001
abstract: String commitment schemes are similar to the well studied bit commitment schemes in cryptography with the difference that the committing party, say Alice, is supposed to commit a long string instead of a single bit, to another party say Bob. Similar to bit commitment schemes, such schemes are supposed to be binding, i.e Alice cannot change her choice after committing, and concealing i.e. Bob cannot find Alice's committed string before Alice reveals it. Ideal commitment schemes are known to be impossible. Even if some degrees of cheating is allowed, Buhrman, Christandl, Hayden, Lo and Wehner (quant-ph/0504078) have recently shown that there are some binding-concealing trade-offs that any quantum string commitment scheme (QSC) must follow. They showed trade-offs both in the scenario of single execution of the protocol and in the asymptotic regime of sufficiently large number of parallel executions of the protocol. We present here new trade-offs in the scenario of single execution of a QSC protocol. Our trade-offs also immediately imply the trade-off shown by Buhrman et al. in the asymptotic regime. We show our results by making a central use of an important information theoretic tool called the substate theorem due to Jain, Radhakrishnan and Sen. Our techniques are quite different from that of Buhrman et al. and may be of independent interest.

id: quant-ph/0506002
title: Simulation of interaction Hamiltonians by quantum feedback: a comment on the dynamics of information exchange between coupled systems
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures; invited paper for the special issue of J. Opt. B on quantum control
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) S208-S214
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506002
abstract: Since quantum feedback is based on classically accessible measurement results, it can provide fundamental insights into the dynamics of quantum systems by making available classical information on the evolution of system properties and on the conditional forces acting on the system. In this paper, the feedback-induced interaction dynamics between a pair of quantum systems is analyzed. It is pointed out that any interaction Hamiltonian can be simulated by local feedback if the levels of decoherence are sufficiently high. The boundary between genuine entanglement generating quantum interactions and non-entangling classical interactions is identified and the nature of the information exchange between two quantum systems during an interaction is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0506003
title: Non-local thin films in Casimir force calculations
authors: R. Esquivel, V. Svetovoy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506003
abstract: he Casimir force is calculated between plates with thin metallic coating. Thin films are described with spatially dispersive (nonlocal) dielectric functions. For thin films the nonlocal effects are more relevant than for half-spaces. However, it is shown that even for film thickness smaller than the mean free path for electrons, the difference between local and nonlocal calculations of the Casimir force is of the order of a few tenths of a percent. Thus the local description of thin metallic films is adequate within the current experimental precision and range of separations.

id: quant-ph/0506004
title: Coherence Phenomena in the Phase-sensitive Optical Parametric Amplification inside a Cavity
authors: Hongliang Ma, Chenguang Ye, Dong Wei, Jing Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures, to appear in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506004
abstract: We theoretically and experimentally demonstrate coherence phenomena in optical parametric amplification inside a cavity. The mode splitting in transmission spectra of phase-sensitive optical parametric amplifier is observed. Especially, we show a very narrow dip and peak, which are the shape of $\delta $ function, appear in the transmission profile. The origin of the coherence phenomenon in this system is the interference between the harmonic pump field and the subharmonic seed field in cooperation with dissipation of the cavity.

id: quant-ph/0506005
title: Common Axioms for Inferring Classical Ensemble Dynamics and Quantum Theory
authors: Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: Final proceedings version. 6 pages. Presented at the 3rd QTRF conference at Vaxjo, Sweden, June6-11 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506005
abstract: The same set of physically motivated axioms can be used to construct both the classical ensemble Hamilton-Jacobi equation and Schrodingers equation. Crucial roles are played by the assumptions of universality and simplicity (Occam's Razor) which restrict the number and type of of arbitrary constants that appear in the equations of motion. In this approach, non-relativistic quantum theory is seen as the unique single parameter extension of the classical ensemble dynamics. The method is contrasted with other related constructions in the literature and some consequences of relaxing the axioms are also discussed: for example, the appearance of nonlinear higher-derivative corrections possibly related to gravity and spacetime fluctuations. Finally, some open research problems within this approach are highlighted.

id: quant-ph/0506006
title: Compiling gate networks on an Ising quantum computer
authors: M. D. Bowdrey, J. A. Jones, E. Knill, R. Laflamme
comments: 5 pages RevTeX4 including 4 figures. Will submit to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032315 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506006
abstract: Here we describe a simple mechanical procedure for compiling a quantum gate network into the natural gates (pulses and delays) for an Ising quantum computer. The aim is not necessarily to generate the most efficient pulse sequence, but rather to develop an efficient compilation algorithm that can be easily implemented in large spin systems. The key observation is that it is not always necessary to refocus all the undesired couplings in a spin system. Instead the coupling evolution can simply be tracked and then corrected at some later time. Although described within the language of NMR the algorithm is applicable to any design of quantum computer based on Ising couplings.

id: quant-ph/0506007
title: Quantum damped oscillator I: dissipation and resonances
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Jacek Jurkowski
comments: LaTeX 22 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. 321 (2006) 854-874
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506007
abstract: Quantization of a damped harmonic oscillator leads to so called Bateman's dual system. The corresponding Bateman's Hamiltonian, being a self-adjoint operator, displays the discrete family of complex eigenvalues. We show that they correspond to the poles of energy eigenvectors and the corresponding resolvent operator when continued to the complex energy plane. Therefore, the corresponding generalized eigenvectors may be interpreted as resonant states which are responsible for the irreversible quantum dynamics of a damped harmonic oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0506008
title: Squeezing and amplitude-squared squeezing effects on the dynamics of two nonidentical two-level Squeezing and amplitude-squared squeezing effects on the dynamics of two nonidentical two-level atoms atoms
authors: E.K. Bashkirov
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506008
abstract: Squeezing and amplitude-squared squeezing for two two-level nonidentical atoms in lossless cavity has been investigated assuming the field to be initially in the coherent state. The time-dependent squeezing parameters has been calculated. The influence of the relative differences of two coupling constants on the squeezing parameters has been analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0506009
title: On evolution of the purity of two nonidentical two-level atoms interecting with one-mode coherent field
authors: E.K. Bashkirov
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506009
abstract: The resonant interaction of two nonidentical two-level atoms with one mode of the electromagnetic field has been considered. The pure-state evolution of the atomic states for field initially in the coherent state and atoms in the ground state has been investigated. It has been shown that for intermediate values of the relative differences of two coupling constants the atoms as well as the field are returned most closely to a pure state at the revival time. The possibility of the maximally entangled states at the beginning of the collapse time has been discussed.

id: quant-ph/0506010
title: Coherent backscattering in nonlinear atomic media: quantum Langevin approach
authors: Beno{\^?}t Gr{¨¦}maud}, Thomas Wellens, Dominique Delande, Christian Miniatura
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506010
abstract: In this theoretical paper, we investigate coherence properties of the near-resonant light scattered by two atoms exposed to a strong monochromatic field. To properly incorporate saturation effects, we use a quantum Langevin approach. In contrast to the standard optical Bloch equations, this method naturally provides the inelastic spectrum of the radiated light induced by the quantum electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations. However, to get the right spectral properties of the scattered light, it is essential to correctly describe the statistical properties of these vacuum fluctuations. Because of the presence of the two atoms, these statistical properties are not Gaussian : (i) the spatial two-points correlation function displays a speckle-like behavior and (ii) the three-points correlation function does not vanish. We also explain how to incorporate in a simple way propagation with a frequency-dependent scattering mean-free path, meaning that the two atoms are embedded in an average scattering dispersive medium. Finally we show that saturation-induced nonlinearities strongly modify the atomic scattering properties and, as a consequence, provide a source of decoherence in multiple scattering. This is exemplified by considering the coherent backscattering configuration where interference effects are blurred by this decoherence mechanism. This leads to a decrease of the so-called coherent backscattering enhancement factor.

id: quant-ph/0506011
title: Coherent photons and macroscopic cat states generated by a cyclic artificial atom with broken symmetry
authors: C.P. Sun, Yu-xi Liu, L.F. Wei, Franco Nori
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506011
abstract: We propose a novel method to generate non-classical states of a single-mode microwave field, and to produce macroscopic cat states by virtue of a three-level system with $\Delta$-shaped (or cyclic) transitions. This exotic system can be implemented by a superconducting quantum circuit with a broken symmetry in its effective potential. Using the cyclic population transfer, controllable single-mode photon states can be created in the third transition when two classical fields are applied to induce the other two transitions. This is because, for large detuning, two classical fields are equivalent to an effective external force, which derives the quantized single mode. Our approach is valid not only for superconducting quantum circuits but also for any three-level quantum system with $\Delta$-shaped transitions

id: quant-ph/0506012
title: An Algebra of Pure Quantum Programming
authors: Thorsten Altenkirch, Jonathan Grattage, Juliana K. Vizzotto, Amr Sabry
comments: To appear in ENTCS, 3rd International Workshop on Quantum Programming Languages, 2005. 21 Pages
journal: Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science, Volume 170, 6 March 2007, Pages 23-47
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506012
abstract: We develop a sound and complete equational theory for the functional quantum programming language QML. The soundness and completeness of the theory are with respect to the previously-developed denotational semantics of QML. The completeness proof also gives rise to a normalisation algorithm following the normalisation by evaluation approach. The current work focuses on the pure fragment of QML omitting measurements.

id: quant-ph/0506013
title: Information Complexity of Quantum Gates
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Int. Journal of Theoretical Physics, vol. 45, pp. 933-941, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506013
abstract: This paper considers the realizability of quantum gates from the perspective of information complexity. Since the gate is a physical device that must be controlled classically, it is subject to random error. We define the complexity of gate operation in terms of the difference between the entropy of the variables associated with initial and final states of the computation. We argue that the gate operations are irreversible if there is a difference in the accuracy associated with input and output variables. It is shown that under some conditions the gate operation may be associated with unbounded entropy, implying impossibility of implementation.

id: quant-ph/0506014
title: Reconstruction of the optical potential from scattering data
authors: N.A. Khokhlov, V.A. Knyr
comments: 26 pages, 8 figures, results of nucl-th/0410092 are refined, some new results are presented
journal: Phys.Rev. C73 (2006) 024004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506014
abstract: We propose a method for reconstruction of the optical potential from scattering data. The algorithm is a two-step procedure. In the first step the real part of the potential is determined analytically via solution of the Marchenko equation. At this point we use a diagonal Pad\'{e} approximant of the corresponding unitary $S$-matrix. In the second step the imaginary part of the potential is determined via the phase equation of the variable phase approach. We assume that the real and the imaginary parts of the optical potential are proportional. We use the phase equation to calculate the proportionality coefficient. A numerical algorithm is developed for a single and for coupled partial waves. The developed procedure is applied to analysis of $^{1}S_{0}$ $NN$, $^{3}SD_{1}$ $NN$, $P31$ $\pi^{-} N$ and $S01$ $K^{+}N$ data.

id: quant-ph/0506015
title: Reply To "Comment on 'Quantum Convolutional Error-Correcting Codes' "
authors: H. F. Chau
comments: 1 page, to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506015
abstract: In their comment, de Almedia and Palazzo \cite{comment} discovered an error in my earlier paper concerning the construction of quantum convolutional codes (quant-ph/9712029). This error can be repaired by modifying the method of code construction.

id: quant-ph/0506016
title: Measuring the quality factor of a microwave cavity using superconduting qubit devices
authors: Yu-xi Liu, L. F. Wei, Franco Nori
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 033818 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506016
abstract: We propose a method to create superpositions of two macroscopic quantum states of a single-mode microwave cavity field interacting with a superconducting charge qubit. The decoherence of such superpositions can be determined by measuring either the Wigner function of the cavity field or the charge qubit states. Then the quality factor Q of the cavity can be inferred from the decoherence of the superposed states. The proposed method is experimentally realizable within current technology even when the $Q$ value is relatively low, and the interaction between the qubit and the cavity field is weak.

id: quant-ph/0506017
title: Solvable relativistic quantum dots with vibrational spectra
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: Int. Worskhop "Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics III" (June 20 - 22, 2005, Koc Unversity, Istanbul(this http URL) a part of talk (9 pages)
journal: Czech. J. Phys. 55 (2005) 1187 - 1192
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506017
abstract: For Klein-Gordon equation a consistent physical interpretation of wave functions is reviewed as based on a proper modification of the scalar product in Hilbert space. Bound states are then studied in a deep-square-well model where spectrum is roughly equidistant and where a fine-tuning of the levels is mediated by PT-symmetric interactions composed of imaginary delta functions which mimic creation/annihilation processes.

id: quant-ph/0506018
title: Optimal Quantum Filtering and Quantum Feedback Control
authors: S. C. Edwards, V. P. Belavkin
comments: 14 pages, extended introduction and free particle example included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506018
abstract: Quantum mechanical systems exhibit an inherently probabilistic nature upon measurement. Using a quantum noise model to describe the stochastic evolution of the open quantum system and working in parallel with classical indeterministic control theory, we present the theory of nonlinear optimal quantum feedback control. The resulting quantum Bellman equation is then applied to the explicitly solvable quantum linear-quadratic-Gaussian (LQG) problem which emphasizes many similarities with the corresponding classical control problem.

id: quant-ph/0506019
title: Enhanced algorithms for Local Search
authors: Yves F. Verhoeven
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506019
abstract: Let G=(V,E) be a finite graph, and f:V->N be any function. The Local Search problem consists in finding a local minimum of the function f on G, that is a vertex v such that f(v) is not larger than the value of f on the neighbors of v in G. In this note, we first prove a separation theorem slightly stronger than the one of Gilbert, Hutchinson and Tarjan for graphs of constant genus. This result allows us to enhance a previously known deterministic algorithm for Local Search with query complexity O(\log n)\cdot d+O(\sqrt{g})\cdot\sqrt{n}, so that we obtain a deterministic query complexity of d+O(\sqrt{g})\cdot\sqrt{n}, where n is the size of G, d is its maximum degree, and $g$ is its genus. We also give a quantum version of our algorithm, whose query complexity is of O(\sqrt{d})+O(\sqrt[4]{g})\cdot\sqrt[4]{n}\log\log n. Our deterministic and quantum algorithms have query complexities respectively smaller than the generic algorithms of Aldous and of Aaronson for large classes of graphs, including graphs of bounded genus and planar graphs. Independently from this work, Zhang has recently given a quantum algorithm which finds a local minimum on the planar grid over \{1,...,\sqrt{n}\}^2 using O(\sqrt[4]{n}(\log\log n)^2) queries. Our quantum algorithm can be viewed as a strongly generalized, and slightly enhanced version of this algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0506020
title: Decoherence-free subspaces and subsystems for a collectively depolarizing bosonic channel
authors: Jonathan L. Ball, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 13 pages, osid.sty
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 12, 121 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506020
abstract: We discuss the structure of decoherence-free subsystems for a bosonic channel affected by collective depolarization. A single use of the channel is defined as a transmission of a pair of bosonic modes. Collective depolarization consists in a random linear U(2) transformation of the respective mode operators, which is assumed to be identical for $N$ consecutive uses of the channel. We derive a recursion formula that characterizes the dimensionality of available decoherence-free subsystems in such a setting.

id: quant-ph/0506021
title: Condition and capability of quantum state separation
authors: Yuan Feng, Runyao Duan, Zhengfeng Ji
comments: 6 pages, journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 012313 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506021
abstract: The linearity of quantum operations puts many fundamental constraints on the information processing tasks we can achieve on a quantum system whose state is not exactly known, just as we observe in quantum cloning and quantum discrimination. In this paper we show that in probabilistic manner, linearity is in fact the only one that restricts the physically realizable tasks. To be specific, if a system is prepared in a state secretly chosen from a linearly independent pure state set, then any quantum state separation can be physically realized with a positive probability. Furthermore, we derive a lower bound on the average failure probability of any quantum state separation.

id: quant-ph/0506022
title: Entanglement of bosonic modes in symmetric graphs
authors: M. Asoudeh, V. Karimipour
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures, 3 tables, Latex, Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 72, 0332339 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506022
abstract: The ground and thermal states of a quadratic hamiltonian representing the interaction of bosonic modes or particles are always Gaussian states. We investigate the entanglement properties of these states for the case where the interactions are represented by harmonic forces acting along the edges of symmetric graphs, i.e. 1, 2, and 3 dimensional rectangular lattices, mean field clusters and platonic solids. We determine the Entanglement of Formation (EoF) as a function of the interaction strength, calculate the maximum EoF in each case and compare these values with the bounds found in \cite{wolf} which are valid for any quadratic hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0506023
title: Operator Quantum Error Correcting Subsystems for Self-Correcting Quantum Memories
authors: Dave Bacon
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures, typos fixed, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012340 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506023
abstract: The most general method for encoding quantum information is not to encode the information into a subspace of a Hilbert space, but to encode information into a subsystem of a Hilbert space. Recently this notion has led to a more general notion of quantum error correction known as operator quantum error correction. In standard quantum error correcting codes, one requires the ability to apply a procedure which exactly reverses on the error correcting subspace any correctable error. In contrast, for operator error correcting subsystems, the correction procedure need not undo the error which has occurred, but instead one must perform correction only modulo the subsystem structure. This does not lead to codes which differ from subspace codes, but does lead to recovery routines which explicitly make use of the subsystem structure. Here we present two examples of such operator error correcting subsystems. These examples are motivated by simple spatially local Hamiltonians on square and cubic lattices. In three dimensions we provide evidence, in the form a simple mean field theory, that our Hamiltonian gives rise to a system which is self-correcting. Such a system will be a natural high-temperature quantum memory, robust to noise without external intervening quantum error correction procedures.

id: quant-ph/0506024
title: Many worlds and the emergence of probability in quantum mechanics
authors: Robert A. Van Wesep
comments: 23 pages
journal: Annals of Physics 321 (2006) 2438-2452
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506024
abstract: The interpretation of the squared norm as probability and the apparent stochastic nature of observation in quantum mechanics are derived from the strong law of large numbers and the algebraic properties of infinite sequences of simultaneous quantum observables. It is argued that this result validates the many-worlds view of quantum reality.

id: quant-ph/0506025
title: What is the Temperature Dependence of the Casimir Effect?
authors: J. S. Hoye, I. Brevik, J. B. Aarseth, K. A. Milton
comments: 6 pages, REVTeX, final revision includes two new references and related discussion
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506025
abstract: There has been recent criticism of our approach to the Casimir force between real metallic surfaces at finite temperature, saying it is in conflict with the third law of thermodynamics and in contradiction with experiment. We show that these claims are unwarranted, and that our approach has strong theoretical support, while the experimental situation is still unclear.

id: quant-ph/0506026
title: Standard and Non-Standard Quantum Models : A Non-Commutative Version of the Classical System of SU(2) and SU(1,1) Arising from Quantum Optics
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex files, 50 pages, minor changes. Instead of the paper quantph/0502174 this will be published in the special issue of International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys.2:783,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506026
abstract: This is a challenging paper including some review and new results. Since the non-commutative version of the classical system based on the compact group SU(2) has been constructed in (quant-ph/0502174) by making use of Jaynes-Commings model and so-called Quantum Diagonalization Method in (quant-ph/0502147), we construct a non-commutative version of the classical system based on the non-compact group SU(1,1) by modifying the compact case. In this model the Hamiltonian is not hermite but pseudo hermite, which causes a big difference between two models. For example, in the classical representation theory of SU(1,1), unitary representations are infinite dimensional from the starting point. Therefore, to develop a unitary theory of non-commutative system of SU(1,1) we need an infinite number of non-commutative systems, which means a kind of {\bf second non-commutativization}. This is a very hard and interesting problem. We develop a corresponding theory though it is not always enough, and present some challenging problems concerning how classical properties can be extended to the non-commutative case. This paper is arranged for the convenience of readers as the first subsection is based on the standard model (SU(2) system) and the next one is based on the non-standard model (SU(1,1) system). This contrast may make the similarity and difference between the standard and non-standard models clear.

id: quant-ph/0506027
title: Quantum Theory Looks at Time Travel
authors: Daniel M. Greenberger, Karl Svozil
comments: This paper contains minor changes to our paper published as Chapter 4 of Quo Vadis Quantum Mechanics?, ed. by A. Elitzur, S. Dolev and N. Kolenda, Springer Verlag, Berlin (2005). It is an expanded version of D.M. Greenberger and K. Svozil, in: Between Chance and Choice, ed. by H. Atmanspacher and R. Bishop, Imprint Academic, Thorverton England (2002), pp. 293-308. Two references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506027
abstract: We introduce a quantum mechanical model of time travel which includes two figurative beam splitters in order to induce feedback to earlier times. This leads to a unique solution to the paradox where one could kill one's grandfather in that once the future has unfolded, it cannot change the past, and so the past becomes deterministic. On the other hand, looking forwards towards the future is completely probabilistic. This resolves the classical paradox in a philosophically satisfying manner.

id: quant-ph/0506028
title: Comment on "Teleportation with a uniformly accelerated partner"
authors: Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, William G. Unruh
comments: comment, 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506028
abstract: We comment on the paper "Teleportation with a uniformly accelerated partner" (quant-ph/0302179).

id: quant-ph/0506029
title: Nonclassical Moments and their Measurement
authors: E. V. Shchukin, W. Vogel
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 043808 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506029
abstract: Practically applicable criteria for the nonclassicality of quantum states are formulated in terms of different types of moments. For this purpose the moments of the creation and annihilation operators, of two quadratures, and of a quadrature and the photon number operator turn out to be useful. It is shown that all the required moments can be determined by homodyne correlation measurements. An example of a nonclassical effect that is easily characterized by our methods is amplitude-squared squeezing.

id: quant-ph/0506030
title: Cooling trapped atoms in optical resonators
authors: Stefano Zippilli, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; version published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 143001 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506030
abstract: We derive an equation for the cooling dynamics of the quantum motion of an atom trapped by an external potential inside an optical resonator. This equation has broad validity and allows us to identify novel regimes where the motion can be efficiently cooled to the potential ground state. Our result shows that the motion is critically affected by quantum correlations induced by the mechanical coupling with the resonator, which may lead to selective suppression of certain transitions for the appropriate parameters regimes, thereby increasing the cooling efficiency.

id: quant-ph/0506031
title: Trapped-ion qutrit spin molecule quantum computer
authors: D. McHugh, J. Twamley
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506031
abstract: We present a qutrit quantum computer design using trapped ions in the presence of a magnetic field gradient. The magnetic field gradient induces a "spin-spin" type coupling, similar to the J-coupling observed in molecules, between the qutrits which allows conditional quantum logic to take place. We describe in some detail, how one can execute specific one and two qutrit quantum gates, required for universal qutrit quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0506032
title: Quantum Dot Cluster State Computing with Encoded Qubits
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein, C. Stephen Hellberg, Jeremy Levy
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 72, 020304(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506032
abstract: A class of architectures is advanced for cluster state quantum computation using quantum dots. These architectures include using single and multiple dots as logical qubits. Special attention is given to the supercoherent qubits introduced by Bacon, Brown, and Whaley [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 87}, 247902 (2001)] for which we discuss the effects of various errors, and present means of error protection.

id: quant-ph/0506033
title: Variations on Quantum Oblivious Transfer
authors: Minh-Dung Dang
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506033
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author, due to the insecurity against attacks received in quant-ph/0605027v5.

id: quant-ph/0506034
title: On the missing axiom of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: Presented at the Vaxjo Workshop "Quantum Theory: Reconsiderations of foundations 3". To be published by American Institute of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506034
abstract: The debate on the nature of quantum probabilities in relation to Quantum Non Locality has elevated Quantum Mechanics to the level of an "Operational Epistemic Theory". In such context the quantum superposition principle has an extraneous non epistemic nature. This leads us to seek purely operational foundations for Quantum Mechanics, from which to derive the current mathematical axiomatization based on Hilbert spaces. In the present work I present a set of axioms of purely operational nature, based on a general definition of "the experiment", the operational/epistemic archetype of information retrieval from reality. As we will see, this starting point logically entails a series of notions [state, conditional state, local state, pure state, faithful state, instrument, propensity (i.e. "effect"), dynamical and informational equivalence, dynamical and informational compatibility, predictability, discriminability, programmability, locality, a-causality, rank of the state, maximally chaotic state, maximally entangled state, informationally complete propensity, etc. ], along with a set of rules (addition, convex combination, partial orderings, ...), which, far from being of quantum origin as often considered, instead constitute the universal "syntactic manual" of the operational/epistemic approach. The missing ingredient is, of course, the quantum superposition axiom for probability amplitudes: for this I propose some substitute candidates of purely operational/epistemic nature.

id: quant-ph/0506035
title: How to fool the GHZ and W witnesses
authors: D. Cavalcanti, M.O. Terra Cunha
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506035
abstract: In spite of the fact that there are only two classes of three-qubit genuine entanglement: W and GHZ, we show that there are three-qubit genuinely entangled states which can not be detected neither by W nor by GHZ entanglement witnesses.

id: quant-ph/0506036
title: Performance of various quantum key distribution systems using 1.55 um up-conversion single-photon detectors
authors: Eleni Diamanti, Hiroki Takesue, Toshimori Honjo, Kyo Inoue, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052311 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506036
abstract: We compare the performance of various quantum key distribution (QKD) systems using a novel single-photon detector, which combines frequency up-conversion in a periodically poled lithium niobate (PPLN) waveguide and a silicon avalanche photodiode (APD). The comparison is based on the secure communication rate as a function of distance for three QKD protocols: the Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84), the Bennett, Brassard, and Mermin 1992 (BBM92), and the coherent differential phase shift keying (DPSK). We show that the up-conversion detector allows for higher communication rates and longer communication distances than the commonly used InGaAs/InP APD for all the three QKD protocols.

id: quant-ph/0506037
title: Suppressing decoherence of quantum algorithms by jump codes
authors: Oliver Kern, Gernot Alber
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 36, 241-248 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506037
abstract: The stabilizing properties of one-error correcting jump codes are explored under realistic non-ideal conditions. For this purpose the quantum algorithm of the tent-map is decomposed into a universal set of Hamiltonian quantum gates which ensure perfect correction of spontaneous decay processes under ideal circumstances even if they occur during a gate operation. An entanglement gate is presented which is capable of entangling any two logical qubits of different one-error correcting code spaces. With the help of this gate simultaneous spontaneous decay processes affecting physical qubits of different code spaces can be corrected and decoherence can be suppressed significantly.

id: quant-ph/0506038
title: Controlling quantum systems by embedded dynamical decoupling schemes
authors: Oliver Kern, Gernot Alber
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 250501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506038
abstract: A dynamical decoupling method is presented which is based on embedding a deterministic decoupling scheme into a stochastic one. This way it is possible to combine the advantages of both methods and to increase the suppression of undesired perturbations of quantum systems significantly even for long interaction times. As a first application the stabilization of a quantum memory is discussed which is perturbed by one-and two-qubit interactions.

id: quant-ph/0506039
title: Two-way quantum communication channels
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Debbie W. Leung, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 4, No. 1 (2006) 63-83
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506039
abstract: We consider communication between two parties using a bipartite quantum operation, which constitutes the most general quantum mechanical model of two-party communication. We primarily focus on the simultaneous forward and backward communication of classical messages. For the case in which the two parties share unlimited prior entanglement, we give inner and outer bounds on the achievable rate region that generalize classical results due to Shannon. In particular, using a protocol of Bennett, Harrow, Leung, and Smolin, we give a one-shot expression in terms of the Holevo information for the entanglement-assisted one-way capacity of a two-way quantum channel. As applications, we rederive two known additivity results for one-way channel capacities: the entanglement-assisted capacity of a general one-way channel, and the unassisted capacity of an entanglement-breaking one-way channel.

id: quant-ph/0506040
title: Hidden variables in quantum mechanics: Generic models, set-theoretic forcing, and the emergence of probability
authors: Robert A. Van Wesep
comments: 67 pages. Corrected formulas for conditional and joint probabilities per comment of J. Malley
journal: Annals of Physics 321 (2006) 2453-2490
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506040
abstract: The hidden-variables premise is shown to be equivalent to the existence of generic filters for algebras of commuting propositions and for certain more general propositional systems. The significance of this equivalence is interpreted in light of the theory of generic filters and boolean-valued models in set theory (the method of forcing). The apparent stochastic nature of quantum observation is derived for these hidden-variables models.

id: quant-ph/0506041
title: Quantum-Information Theoretic Properties of Nuclei and Trapped Bose Gases
authors: Ch.C. Moustakidis, K.Ch. Chatzisavvas, C.P. Panos
comments: 24 pages, 9 figures, 1 table
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. E14 (2005) 1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506041
abstract: Fermionic (atomic nuclei) and bosonic (correlated atoms in a trap) systems are studied from an information-theoretic point of view. Shannon and Onicescu information measures are calculated for the above systems comparing correlated and uncorrelated cases as functions of the strength of short range correlations. One-body and two-body density and momentum distributions are employed. Thus the effect of short-range correlations on the information content is evaluated. The magnitude of distinguishability of the correlated and uncorrelated densities is also discussed employing suitable measures of distance of states i.e. the well known Kullback-Leibler relative entropy and the recently proposed Jensen-Shannon divergence entropy. It is seen that the same information-theoretic properties hold for quantum many-body systems obeying different statistics (fermions and bosons).

id: quant-ph/0506042
title: An Algorithmic Test for Diagonalizability of Finite-Dimensional PT-Invariant Systems
authors: Stefan Weigert
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A 39 (2006) 235
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506042
abstract: A non-Hermitean operator does not necessarily have a complete set of eigenstates, contrary to a Hermitean one. An algorithm is presented which allows one to decide whether the eigenstates of a given PT-invariant operator on a finite-dimensional space are complete or not. In other words, the algorithm checks whether a given PT-symmetric matrix is diagonalizable. The procedure neither requires to calculate any single eigenvalue nor any numerical approximation.

id: quant-ph/0506043
title: Segre variety, conifold, Hopf fibration, and separable multi-qubit states
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 9 pages
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 6 (2006) 400-409
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506043
abstract: We establish relations between Segre variety, conifold, Hopf fibration, and separable sets of pure two-qubit states. Moreover, we investigate the geometry and topology of separable sets of pure multi-qubit states based on a complex multi-projective Segre variety and higher order Hopf fibration.

id: quant-ph/0506044
title: Decoherence of Josephson charge qubit
authors: Xian-Ting Liang
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physica C 442 (2006) 79-83
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506044
abstract: In this paper we investigate decoherence time of superconducting Josephson charge qubit (JCQ). Two kinds of methods, iterative tensor multiplication (ITM) method derived from the qusiadiabatic propagator path integral (QUAPI) and Bloch equations method are used. Using the non-Markovian ITM method we correct the decoherence time predicted by Bloch equations method. By comparing the exact theoretical result with the experimental data we suggest that the Ohmic noise plays the central role to the decoherence of the JCQ.

id: quant-ph/0506045
title: Generalized quantum measurements. Part I: Information properties of soft quantum measurements
authors: Boris A. Grishanin, Victor N. Zadkov
comments: 25 pages, 3 figures, 25 refs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506045
abstract: A special class of soft quantum measurements as a physical model of the fuzzy measurements widely used in physics is introduced and its information properties are studied in detail.

id: quant-ph/0506046
title: Generalized quantum measurements. Part II: Partially-destructive quantum measurements in finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces
authors: Boris A. Grishanin, Victor N. Zadkov
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, 15 refs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506046
abstract: A concept of the generalized quantum measurement is introduced as the transformation, which establishes a correspondence between the initial states of the object system and final states of the object--measuring device (meter) system with the help of a classical informational index, unambiguously linked to the classically compatible set of states of the object--meter system. It is shown that the generalized measurement covers all the key known quantum measurement concepts--standard projective, entangling, fuzzy and the generalized measurement with the partial or complete destruction of the initial information contained in the object. A special class of partially-destructive measurements that map the continual set of the states in finite-dimensional quantum systems to that one of the infinite-dimensional quantum systems is considered. Their informational essence and some information characteristics are discussed in detail.

id: quant-ph/0506047
title: No-relationship between impossibility of faster-than-light quantum communication and distinction of ensembles with the same density matrix
authors: Chuan Wang, Gui Lu Long, Yang Sun
comments: 4 pages and 3 figures
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. (Beijing, China) 44 (2005) pp. 622-624
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506047
abstract: It has been claimed in the literature that impossibility of faster-than-light quantum communication has an origin of indistinguishability of ensembles with the same density matrix. We show that the two concepts are not related. We argue that: 1) even with an ideal single-atom-precision measurement, it is generally impossible to produce two ensembles with exactly the same density matrix; or 2) to produce ensembles with the same density matrix, classical communication is necessary. Hence the impossibility of faster-than-light communication does not imply the indistinguishability of ensembles with the same density matrix.

id: quant-ph/0506048
title: Evanescence in Coined Quantum Walks
authors: Hilary A. Carteret, Bruce Richmond, Nico Temme
comments: 32 pages AMS LaTeX, 5 figures in .eps format. Rewritten in response to referee comments, including some additional references. v3: typos fixed in equations (131), (133) and (134). v5: published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 8641-8665
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506048
abstract: In this paper we complete the analysis begun by two of the authors in a previous work on the discrete quantum walk on the line [J. Phys. A 36:8775-8795 (2003) quant-ph/0303105 ]. We obtain uniformly convergent asymptotics for the "exponential decay'' regions at the leading edges of the main peaks in the Schr{\"o}dinger (or wave-mechanics) picture. This calculation required us to generalise the method of stationary phase and we describe this extension in some detail, including self-contained proofs of all the technical lemmas required. We also rigorously establish the exact Feynman equivalence between the path-integral and wave-mechanics representations for this system using some techniques from the theory of special functions. Taken together with the previous work, we can now prove every theorem by both routes.

id: quant-ph/0506049
title: Entanglement, Purity, and Information Entropies in Continuous Variable Systems
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Alessio Serafini, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 16 pages, 5 low-res figures, OSID style. Presented at the International Conference ``Entanglement, Information and Noise'', Krzyzowa, Poland, June 14--20, 2004
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 12, 189 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506049
abstract: Quantum entanglement of pure states of a bipartite system is defined as the amount of local or marginal ({\em i.e.}referring to the subsystems) entropy. For mixed states this identification vanishes, since the global loss of information about the state makes it impossible to distinguish between quantum and classical correlations. Here we show how the joint knowledge of the global and marginal degrees of information of a quantum state, quantified by the purities or in general by information entropies, provides an accurate characterization of its entanglement. In particular, for Gaussian states of continuous variable systems, we classify the entanglement of two--mode states according to their degree of total and partial mixedness, comparing the different roles played by the purity and the generalized $p-$entropies in quantifying the mixedness and bounding the entanglement. We prove the existence of strict upper and lower bounds on the entanglement and the existence of extremally (maximally and minimally) entangled states at fixed global and marginal degrees of information. This results allow for a powerful, operative method to measure mixed-state entanglement without the full tomographic reconstruction of the state. Finally, we briefly discuss the ongoing extension of our analysis to the quantification of multipartite entanglement in highly symmetric Gaussian states of arbitrary $1 \times N$-mode partitions.

id: quant-ph/0506050
title: Simultaneous classical-quantum capacities of quantum multiple access channels
authors: Jon Yard
comments: 156 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506050
abstract: The rates at which classical and quantum information can be simultaneously transmitted from two spatially separated senders to a single receiver over an arbitrary quantum channel are characterized. Two main results are proved in detail. The first describes the region of rates at which one sender can send classical information while the other sends quantum information. The second describes those rates at which both senders can send quantum information. For each of these situations, an example of a channel is given for which the associated region admits a single-letter description. This is the author's Ph.D. dissertation, submitted to the Department of Electrical Engineering at Stanford University in March, 2005. It represents an expanded version of the paper quant-ph/0501045, containing a number of tutorial chapters which may be of independent interest for those learning about quantum Shannon theory.

id: quant-ph/0506051
title: Branch dependence in the "consistent histories" approach to quantum mechanics
authors: Thomas M¨¹ller
comments: 10 pages with 3 figures. Major rewrite of sections I and IV, exposition improved, new figure added in section III
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506051
abstract: In the consistent histories formalism one specifies a family of histories as an exhaustive set of pairwise exclusive descriptions of the dynamics of a quantum system. We define branching families of histories, which strike a middle ground between the two available mathematically precise definitions of families of histories, viz., product families and Isham's history projector operator formalism. The former are too narrow for applications, and the latter's generality comes at a certain cost, barring an intuitive reading of the ``histories''. Branching families retain the intuitiveness of product families, they allow for the interpretation of a history's weight as a probability, and they allow one to distinguish two kinds of coarse-graining, leading to reconsidering the motivation for the consistency condition.

id: quant-ph/0506052
title: Yet another additivity conjecture
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: corrections of typo, etc. minor revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506052
abstract: It is known that the additivity conjecture of Holevo capacity, output minimum entoropy, and the entanglement of formation (EoF), are equivalent with each other. Among them, the output minimum entropy is simplest, and hence many researchers are focusing on this quantity. Here, we suggest yet another entanglement measure, whose strong superadditivity and additivity are equivalent to the additivity of the quantities mentioned above. This quantity is as simple as the output minimum entropy, and in existing proofs of additivity conjecture of the output minimum entropy for the specific examples, they are essentially proving the strong superadditivity of this quantity.

id: quant-ph/0506053
title: Superballistic Diffusion of Entanglement in Disordered Spin Chains
authors: J. Fitzsimons, J. Twamley
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506053
abstract: We study the dynamics of a single excitation in an infinite XXZ spin chain, which is launched from the origin. We study the time evolution of the spread of entanglement in the spin chain and obtain an expression for the second order spatial moment of concurrence, about the origin, for both ordered and disordered chains. In this way, we show that a finite central disordered region can lead to sustained superballistic growth in the second order spatial moment of entanglement within the chain.

id: quant-ph/0506054
title: Improvement of stabilizer based entanglement distillation protocols by encoding operators
authors: Shun Watanabe, Ryutaroh Matsumoto, Tomohiko Uyematsu
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures, In version 2, we enumerate all encoding operators in the Clifford group, and fix the wrong classification of encoding operators in version 1
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General, vol.39, no.16, pp.4273--4290, March 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506054
abstract: This paper presents a method for enumerating all encoding operators in the Clifford group for a given stabilizer. Furthermore, we classify encoding operators into the equivalence classes such that EDPs (Entanglement Distillation Protocol) constructed from encoding operators in the same equivalence class have the same performance. By this classification, for a given parameter, the number of candidates for good EDPs is significantly reduced. As a result, we find the best EDP among EDPs constructed from [[4,2]] stabilizer codes. This EDP has a better performance than previously known EDPs over wide range of fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0506055
title: Universality of quantum critical dynamics in a planar OPO
authors: Peter D. Drummond, Kaled Dechoum
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506055
abstract: We analyze the critical quantum fluctuations in a coherently driven planar optical parametric oscillator. We show that the presence of transverse modes combined with quantum fluctuations changes the behavior of the `quantum image' critical point. This zero-temperature non-equilibrium quantum system has the same universality class as a finite-temperature magnetic Lifshitz transition.

id: quant-ph/0506056
title: Two-photon interference with true thermal light
authors: Yan-Hua Zhai, Xi-Hao Chen, Da Zhang, Ling-An Wu
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, PRA72, 043805 (2005)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506056
abstract: Two-photon interference and "ghost" imaging with entangled light have attracted much attention since the last century because of the novel features such as non-locality and sub-wavelength effect. Recently, it has been found that pseudo-thermal light can mimic certain effects of entangled light. We report here the first observation of two-photon interference with true thermal light.

id: quant-ph/0506057
title: Bloch Oscillators: motion of wave-packets
authors: Vincenzo Grecchi, Andrea Sacchetti
comments: 4 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506057
abstract: In this paper we review some known results on the motion of Bloch Oscillators in the crystal momentum representation. We emphasize that the acceleration theorem, as usually stated by most of the authors, is incomplete, but in the case of pure Bloch states. In fact, the exact version of the acceleration theorem should contain a phase factor depending on both the time and crystal momentum variables. As we show this phase factor plays an essential role in order to understand the motion of Bloch Oscillators in the position variable.

id: quant-ph/0506058
title: Algebraic invariants of five qubits
authors: Jean-Gabriel Luque, Jean-Yves Thibon
comments: 4 pages, revtex. Short discussion of quant-ph/0506073 included
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General 39 (2006), 371-377
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506058
abstract: The Hilbert series of the algebra of polynomial invariants of pure states of five qubits is obtained, and the simplest invariants are computed.

id: quant-ph/0506059
title: Detection and characterization of multipartite entanglement in optical lattices
authors: R.N. Palmer, C. Moura Alves, D. Jaksch
comments: 12 pages, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506059
abstract: We investigate the detection and characterization of entanglement based on the quantum network introduced in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 110501 (2004)] for different experimental scenarios. We first give a detailed discussion of the ideal scheme where no errors are present and full spatial resolution is available. Then we analyze the implementation of the network in an optical lattice. We find that even without any spatial resolution entanglement can be detected and characterized in various kinds of states including cluster states and macroscopic superposition states. We also study the effects of detection errors and imperfect dynamics on the detection network. For our scheme to be practical these errors have to be on the order of one over the number of investigated lattice sites. Finally, we consider the case of limited spatial resolution and conclude that significant improvement in entanglement detection and characterization compared to having no spatial resolution is only possible if single lattice sites can be resolved.

id: quant-ph/0506060
title: Dimensional Crossover in Bragg Scattering from an Optical Lattice
authors: S. Slama, C. von Cube, A. Ludewig, M. Kohler, C. Zimmermann, Ph.W. Courteille
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506060
abstract: We study Bragg scattering at 1D optical lattices. Cold atoms are confined by the optical dipole force at the antinodes of a standing wave generated inside a laser-driven high-finesse cavity. The atoms arrange themselves into a chain of pancake-shaped layers located at the antinodes of the standing wave. Laser light incident on this chain is partially Bragg-reflected. We observe an angular dependence of this Bragg reflection which is different to what is known from crystalline solids. In solids the scattering layers can be taken to be infinitely spread (3D limit). This is not generally true for an optical lattice consistent of a 1D linear chain of point-like scattering sites. By an explicit structure factor calculation we derive a generalized Bragg condition, which is valid in the intermediate regime. This enables us to determine the aspect ratio of the atomic lattice from the angular dependance of the Bragg scattered light.

id: quant-ph/0506061
title: A family of generalized `pretty good' measurements and the minimal-error pure-state discrimination problems for which they are optimal
authors: Carlos Mochon
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032328 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506061
abstract: Paper withdrawn. Results are similar to V. P. Belavkin, "Optimum distinction of non-orthogonal quantum signals," Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, vol. 20, June 1975, p. 39-47.

id: quant-ph/0506062
title: Determinism in the one-way model
authors: Vincent Danos, Elham Kashefi
comments: 8 figures, keywords: measurement based quantum computing, deterministic computing; Published version, including a new section on circuit decomposition
journal: Phys. Rev. A., 74, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506062
abstract: We introduce a flow condition on open graph states (graph states with inputs and outputs) which guarantees globally deterministic behavior of a class of measurement patterns defined over them. Dependent Pauli corrections are derived for all such patterns, which equalize all computation branches, and only depend on the underlying entanglement graph and its choice of inputs and outputs. The class of patterns having flow is stable under composition and tensorization, and has unitary embeddings as realizations. The restricted class of patterns having both flow and reverse flow, supports an operation of adjunction, and has all and only unitaries as realizations.

id: quant-ph/0506063
title: Rotational Properties and GHZ Contradictions in N-Qubit Systems
authors: Jay Lawrence
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506063
abstract: Rotational symmetries of N-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states directly exhibit their nonlocality and render transparent the many possible measurements that produce absolute contradictions with local realism. While N measurements fix the assumed elements of reality, an exponentially growing number of absolute contradictions occurs. Operators that represent the detector settings provide a faithful representation of the symmetry group, and demonstrate Kochen-Specker contextuality.

id: quant-ph/0506064
title: Reference potential approach to the quantum-mechanical inverse problem: I. Calculation of phase shift and Jost function
authors: Matti Selg
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506064
abstract: Elegant and mathematically rigorous methods of the quantum inverse theory are difficult to put into practice because there is always some lack of needful input information. In this situation, one may try to construct a reference potential, whose spectral characteristics would be in a reasonable agreement with the available data of the system's properties. Since the reference potential is fixed, it is always possible to calculate all its spectral characteristics, including phase shift for scattering states and Jost function, the main key to solve the inverse problem. Thereafter, one can calculate a Bargmann potential whose Jost function differs from the initial one only by a rational factor. This way it is possible, at least in principle, to construct a more reliable potential for the system. The model system investigated in this paper is diatomic xenon molecule in ground electronic state. Its reference potential is built up of several smoothly joined Morse type components, which enables to solve the related energy eigenvalue problem exactly. Moreover, the phase shift can also be calculated in part analytically, and the Jost function can be acertained very accurately in the whole range of positive energies. Full energy dependence of the phase shift has been determined and its excellent agreement with the Levinson theorem demonstrated. In addition, asymptotically exact analytic formulas for the phase shift and the Jost function, independent of each other, are obtained and their physical background elucidated.

id: quant-ph/0506065
title: Quantum Measurements and Information-Theoretical Restrictions in Observable Algebras Formalism
authors: S.Mayburov
comments: 14 pages, Latex, Submitted to Int. J. Theor. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506065
abstract: Information-Theoretical restrictions on the information transfer are applied to Quantum Measurements. For the measurement of quantum object S by information system O this restrictions are calculated in Algebraic QM formalism as the inference map to the (sub)algebra of O observables.

id: quant-ph/0506066
title: Bell's Jump Process in Discrete Time
authors: Jonathan Barrett, Matthew Leifer, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 7 pages LaTeX, no figures
journal: Europhysics Letters, 72 (5), pp. 685-690 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506066
abstract: The jump process introduced by J. S. Bell in 1986, for defining a quantum field theory without observers, presupposes that space is discrete whereas time is continuous. In this letter, our interest is to find an analogous process in discrete time. We argue that a genuine analog does not exist, but provide examples of processes in discrete time that could be used as a replacement.

id: quant-ph/0506067
title: Vacuum-stimulated cooling of single atoms in three dimensions
authors: Stefan Nussmann, Karim Murr, Markus Hijlkema, Bernhard Weber, Axel Kuhn, Gerhard Rempe
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics, 1:122, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506067
abstract: Taming quantum dynamical processes is the key to novel applications of quantum physics, e.g. in quantum information science. The control of light-matter interactions at the single-atom and single-photon level can be achieved in cavity quantum electrodynamics, in particular in the regime of strong coupling where atom and cavity form a single entity. In the optical domain, this requires permanent trapping and cooling of an atom in a micro-cavity. We have now realized three-dimensional cavity cooling and trapping for an orthogonal arrangement of cooling laser, trap laser and cavity vacuum. This leads to average single-atom trapping times exceeding 15 seconds, unprecedented for a strongly coupled atom under permanent observation.

id: quant-ph/0506068
title: Conditional probabilities and density operators in quantum modeling
authors: John M. Myers
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures, RexTeX4 format
journal: Foundations of Physics 36 (2006) 1012-1035
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506068
abstract: Based on a recent proof of free choices in linking equations to the experiments they describe, I clarify relations among some purely mathematical entities featured in quantum mechanics (probabilities, density operators, partial traces, and operator-valued measures), thereby allowing applications of these entities to the modeling of a wider variety of physical situations. Conditional probabilities associated with projection-valued measures are expressed by introducing conditional density operators, identical in some but not all cases to the usual reduced density operators. By lifting density operators to the extended Hilbert space featured in Neumark's theorem, I show an obstacle to extending conditional density operators to arbitrary positive operator-valued measures (POVMs); however, tensor products of POVMs are compatible with conditional density operators. By way of application, conditional density operators together with the free choice of probe particles allow the so-called postulate of state reductions to be replaced by a theorem. A second application demonstrates an equivalence between one form of quantum key distribution and another, allowing a formulation of individual eavesdropping attacks against transmitted-state BB84 to work also for entangled-state BB84.

id: quant-ph/0506069
title: Algebraic and information-theoretic conditions for operator quantum error-correction
authors: Michael A. Nielsen, David Poulin
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 064304(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506069
abstract: Operator quantum error-correction is a technique for robustly storing quantum information in the presence of noise. It generalizes the standard theory of quantum error-correction, and provides a unified framework for topics such as quantum error-correction, decoherence-free subspaces, and noiseless subsystems. This paper develops (a) easily applied algebraic and information-theoretic conditions which characterize when operator quantum error-correction is feasible; (b) a representation theorem for a class of noise processes which can be corrected using operator quantum error-correction; and (c) generalizations of the coherent information and quantum data processing inequality to the setting of operator quantum error-correction.

id: quant-ph/0506070
title: Distributed measurement-based quantum computation
authors: Vincent Danos, Ellie D'Hondt, Elham Kashefi, Prakash Panangaden
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506070
abstract: We develop a formal model for distributed measurement-based quantum computations, adopting an agent-based view, such that computations are described locally where possible. Because the network quantum state is in general entangled, we need to model it as a global structure, reminiscent of global memory in classical agent systems. Local quantum computations are described as measurement patterns. Since measurement-based quantum computation is inherently distributed, this allows us to extend naturally several concepts of the measurement calculus, a formal model for such computations. Our goal is to define an assembly language, i.e. we assume that computations are well-defined and we do not concern ourselves with verification techniques. The operational semantics for systems of agents is given by a probabilistic transition system, and we define operational equivalence in a way that it corresponds to the notion of bisimilarity. With this in place, we prove that teleportation is bisimilar to a direct quantum channel, and this also within the context of larger networks.

id: quant-ph/0506071
title: Teleportation via multi-qubit channels
authors: Jon Links, John Paul Barjaktarevic, Gerard J. Milburn, Ross H. McKenzie
comments: 32 pages, 2 figures, reference added, historical inaccuracy corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506071
abstract: We investigate the problem of teleporting an unknown qubit state to a recipient via a channel of $2\L$ qubits. In this procedure a protocol is employed whereby $\L$ Bell state measurements are made and information based on these measurements is sent via a classical channel to the recipient. Upon receiving this information the recipient determines a local gate which is used to recover the original state. We find that the $2^{2\L}$-dimensional Hilbert space of states available for the channel admits a decomposition into four subspaces. Every state within a given subspace is a perfect channel, and each sequence of Bell measurements projects $2\L$ qubits of the system into one of the four subspaces. As a result, only two bits of classical information need be sent to the recipient for them to determine the gate. We note some connections between these four subspaces and ground states of many-body Hamiltonian systems, and discuss the implications of these results towards understanding entanglement in multi-qubit systems.

id: quant-ph/0506072
title: Minimum error discrimination of Pauli channels
authors: Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: J. Opt. B 7, S333 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506072
abstract: We solve the problem of discriminating with minimum error probability two given Pauli channels. We show that, differently from the case of discrimination between unitary transformations, the use of entanglement with an ancillary system can strictly improve the discrimination, and any maximally entangled state allows to achieve the optimal discrimination. We also provide a simple necessary and sufficient condition in terms of the structure of the channels for which the ultimate minimum error probability can be achieved without entanglement assistance. When such a condition is satisfied, the optimal input state is simply an eigenstate of one of the Pauli matrices.

id: quant-ph/0506073
title: Entanglement monotones and maximally entangled states in multipartite qubit systems
authors: Andreas Osterloh, Jens Siewert
comments: 7 pages, revtex4. Talk presented at the Workshop on "Quantum entanglement in physical and information sciences", SNS Pisa, December 14-18, 2004
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 4, 531 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506073
abstract: We present a method to construct entanglement measures for pure states of multipartite qubit systems. The key element of our approach is an antilinear operator that we call {\em comb} in reference to the {\em hairy-ball theorem}. For qubits (or spin 1/2) the combs are automatically invariant under $SL(2,\CC)$. This implies that the {\em filters} obtained from the combs are entanglement monotones by construction. We give alternative formulae for the concurrence and the 3-tangle as expectation values of certain antilinear operators. As an application we discuss inequivalent types of genuine four-, five- and six-qubit entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0506074
title: Generation of Matrices with Specified Eigenvalues and their Diagonalization
authors: Habatwa V. Mweene
comments: 12 pages, LateX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506074
abstract: We present a prescription for forming matrices with specified eigenvalues and known eigenvectors. With this method, we can form Hermitian, anti-Hermitian, symmetric and general matrices with arbitrary eigenvalues. In addition we propose an algorithm for diagonalizing such matrices. The functions required for the realization of this are probability amplitudes connecting observables with discrete eigenvalue spectra and can be obtained from spin theory. For the example case of $5\times 5$ matrices, these functions are given.

id: quant-ph/0506075
title: Some fundamental aspects of a quantum potential
authors: Robert Carroll
comments: 5 pages, Latex 2e, some corrections made
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506075
abstract: We show that given a suitable but essentially arbitrary function Q(x,t,h) there are "generalized" quantum theories having Q as a quantum potential.

id: quant-ph/0506076
title: Maser Oscillation in a Whispering-Gallery-Mode Microwave Resonator
authors: P.-Y. Bourgeois, N. Bazin, Y. Kersale, V. Giordano, M. E. Tobar, M. Oxborrow
comments: REVTeX v.4, 3 pages, with a separate .bbl file and 3 .eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506076
abstract: We report the first observation of above-threshold maser oscillation in a whispering-gallery(WG)-mode resonator, whose quasi-transverse-magnetic, 17th azimuthal-order WG mode, at a frequency of approx. 12.038 GHz, with a loaded Q of several hundred million, is supported on a cylinder of mono-crystalline sapphire. An electron spin resonance (ESR) associated with Fe3+ ions, that are substitutively included within the sapphire at a concentration of a few parts per billion, coincides in frequency with that of the (considerably narrower) WG mode. By applying a c.w. `pump' to the resonator at a frequency of approx. 31.34 GHz, with no applied d.c. magnetic field, the WG (`signal') mode is energized through a three-level maser scheme. Preliminary measurements demonstrate a frequency stability (Allan deviation) of a few times 1e-14 for sampling intervals up to 100 s.

id: quant-ph/0506077
title: Localisation of a wave-function by superposition of different histories
authors: D.J. Dunstan
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506077
abstract: Quantum state diffusion shows how stochastic interaction with the environment may cause localisation of the wave-function, and thereby demonstrates that quantum mechanics need not invoke a separate axiom of measurement to explain the emergence of the classical world. It has not been clear whether quantum state diffusion requires some new physics. We set up an explicit numerical calculation of the evolution of the wave-function of a two-state system under interaction using only the physics explicitly contained in quantum mechanics without an axiom of measurement. The wave-function does indeed localise, as proposed by quantum state diffusion, on eigenstates of the perturbation. The mechanism appears to be the superposition of histories evolving under different Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0506078
title: Generalization of Classical Statistical Mechanics to Quantum Mechanics and Stable Property of Condensed Matter
authors: Y. C. Huang, F. C. Ma, N. Zhang
comments: 10 pages
journal: Modern Physics Letters, B18 (2004) 1367-1377
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506078
abstract: Classical statistical average values are generally generalized to average values of quantum mechanics, it is discovered that quantum mechanics is direct generalization of classical statistical mechanics, and we generally deduce both a new general continuous eigenvalue equation and a general discrete eigenvalue equation in quantum mechanics, and discover that a eigenvalue of quantum mechanics is just an extreme value of an operator in possibility distribution, the eigenvalue f is just classical observable quantity. A general classical statistical uncertain relation is further given, the general classical statistical uncertain relation is generally generalized to quantum uncertainty principle, the two lost conditions in classical uncertain relation and quantum uncertainty principle, respectively, are found. We generally expound the relations among uncertainty principle, singularity and condensed matter stability, discover that quantum uncertainty principle prevents from the appearance of singularity of the electromagnetic potential between nucleus and electrons, and give the failure conditions of quantum uncertainty principle. Finally, we discover that the classical limit of quantum mechanics is classical statistical mechanics, the classical statistical mechanics may further be degenerated to classical mechanics, and we discover that only saying that the classical limit of quantum mechanics is classical mechanics is mistake. As application examples, we deduce both Shrodinger equation and state superposition principle, deduce that there exist decoherent factor from a general mathematical representation of state superposition principle, and the consistent difficulty between statistical interpretation of quantum mechanics and determinant property of classical mechanics is overcome.

id: quant-ph/0506079
title: A treatment of the quantum partial entropies in the atom-field interaction with a class of Schrodinger cat states
authors: A.-S. F. Obada, H. A. Hessian, Mahmoud Abdel-Aty
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, Accepted for publication in International Journal of Quantum Information Jan. (2005)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506079
abstract: This communication is an enquiry into the circumstances under which entropy and subentropy methods can give an answer to the question of quantum entanglement in the composite state. Using a general quantum dynamical system we obtain the analytical solution when the atom initially starts from its excited state and the field in different initial states. Different features of the entanglement are investigated when the field is initially assumed to be in a coherent state, an even coherent state (Schrodinger cate state) and a statistical mixture of coherent states. Our results show that the setting of the initial state and the Stark shift play important role in the evolution of the sub-entropies and entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0506080
title: Entropy and Quantum Kolmogorov Complexity: A Quantum Brudno's Theorem
authors: Fabio Benatti, Tyll Krueger, Markus Mueller, Rainer Siegmund-Schultze, Arleta Szkola
comments: 26 pages, no figures. Reference to publication added: published in the Communications in Mathematical Physics (this http URL)
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, Vol. 265, No.2 / July 2006, 437-461
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506080
abstract: In classical information theory, entropy rate and Kolmogorov complexity per symbol are related by a theorem of Brudno. In this paper, we prove a quantum version of this theorem, connecting the von Neumann entropy rate and two notions of quantum Kolmogorov complexity, both based on the shortest qubit descriptions of qubit strings that, run by a universal quantum Turing machine, reproduce them as outputs.

id: quant-ph/0506081
title: Quantum optical device accelerating dynamic programming
authors: D. Grigoriev, A. Kazakov, S. Vakulenko
comments: corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506081
abstract: In this paper we discuss analogue computers based on quantum optical systems accelerating dynamic programming for some computational problems. These computers, at least in principle, can be realized by actually existing devices. We estimate an acceleration in resolving of some NP-hard problems that can be obtained in such a way versus deterministic computers

id: quant-ph/0506082
title: Between classical and quantum
authors: N.P. Landsman
comments: 100 pages, to appear in Elsevier's Handbook of the Philosophy of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506082
abstract: The relationship between classical and quantum theory is of central importance to the philosophy of physics, and any interpretation of quantum mechanics has to clarify it. Our discussion of this relationship is partly historical and conceptual, but mostly technical and mathematically rigorous, including over 500 references. On the assumption that quantum mechanics is universal and complete, we discuss three ways in which classical physics has so far been believed to emerge from quantum physics, namely in the limit h -> 0 of small Planck's constant (in a finite system), in the limit of a large system, and through decoherence and consistent histores. The first limit is closely related to modern quantization theory and microlocal analysis, whereas the second involves methods of C*-algebras and the concepts of superselection sectors and macroscopic observables. In these limits, the classical world does not emerge as a sharply defined objective reality, but rather as an approximate appearance relative to certain "classical" states and observables. Decoherence subsequently clarifies the role of such states, in that they are "einselected", i.e. robust against coupling to the environment. Furthermore, the nature of classical observables is elucidated by the fact that they typically define (approximately) consistent sets of histories. We make the point that classicality results from the elimination of certain states and observables from quantum theory. Thus the classical world is not created by observation (as Heisenberg once claimed), but rather by the lack of it.

id: quant-ph/0506083
title: On the Energy Increase in Space-Collapse Models
authors: Angelo Bassi, Emiliano Ippoliti, Bassano Vacchini
comments: 14 pages, revtex, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 8017-8038
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506083
abstract: A typical feature of spontaneous collapse models which aim at localizing wavefunctions in space is the violation of the principle of energy conservation. In the models proposed in the literature the stochastic field which is responsible for the localization mechanism causes the momentum to behave like a Brownian motion, whose larger and larger fluctuations show up as a steady increase of the energy of the system. In spite of the fact that, in all situations, such an increase is small and practically undetectable, it is an undesirable feature that the energy of physical systems is not conserved but increases constantly in time, diverging for $t \to \infty$. In this paper we show that this property of collapse models can be modified: we propose a model of spontaneous wavefunction collapse sharing all most important features of usual models but such that the energy of isolated systems reaches an asymptotic finite value instead of increasing with a steady rate.

id: quant-ph/0506084
title: Conditions for spin squeezing in a cold 87Rb ensemble
authors: S. R. de Echaniz, M. W. Mitchell, M. Kubasik, M. Koschorreck, H. Crepaz, J. Eschner, E. S. Polzik
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, submitted to J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. Proceedings of ICSSUR'05
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) S548-S552
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506084
abstract: We study the conditions for generating spin squeezing via a quantum non-demolition measurement in an ensemble of cold 87Rb atoms. By considering the interaction of atoms in the 5S_{1/2}(F=1) ground state with probe light tuned near the D2 transition, we show that, for large detunings, this system is equivalent to a spin-1/2 system when suitable Zeeman substates and quantum operators are used to define a pseudo-spin. The degree of squeezing is derived for the rubidium system in the presence of scattering causing decoherence and loss. We describe how the system can decohere and lose atoms, and predict as much as 75% spin squeezing for atomic densities typical of optical dipole traps.

id: quant-ph/0506085
title: Characterization of complex quantum dynamics with a scalable NMR information processor
authors: C.A. Ryan, J. Emerson, D. Poulin, C. Negrevergne, R. Laflamme
comments: 4pages, 3 figures, revtex4, updated with version closer to that published
journal: Physical Review Letters, 95, 250502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506085
abstract: We present experimental results on the measurement of fidelity decay under contrasting system dynamics using a nuclear magnetic resonance quantum information processor. The measurements were performed by implementing a scalable circuit in the model of deterministic quantum computation with only one quantum bit. The results show measurable differences between regular and complex behaviour and for complex dynamics are faithful to the expected theoretical decay rate. Moreover, we illustrate how the experimental method can be seen as an efficient way for either extracting coarse-grained information about the dynamics of a large system, or measuring the decoherence rate from engineered environments.

id: quant-ph/0506086
title: Holonomic quantum computation in decoherence-free subspaces
authors: L.-A. Wu, P. Zanardi, D.A. Lidar
comments: 4 pages, no figures. v2: minor changes. To appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 130501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506086
abstract: We show how to realize, by means of non-abelian quantum holonomies, a set of universal quantum gates acting on decoherence-free subspaces and subsystems. In this manner we bring together the quantum coherence stabilization virtues of decoherence-free subspaces and the fault-tolerance of all-geometric holonomic control. We discuss the implementation of this scheme in the context of quantum information processing using trapped ions and quantum dots.

id: quant-ph/0506087
title: Dissipation and decoherence in a quantum oscillator
authors: Vinay Ambegaokar
comments: To appear in the Journal of Statistical Physics (Langer-Hohenberg issue.) Accepted version with minor corrections and revisions
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 125, 1187 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506087
abstract: The time development of the reduced density matrix for a quantum oscillator damped by coupling it to an ohmic environment is calculated via an identity of the Debye-Waller form. Results obtained some years ago by Hakim and the author in the free particle limit [1] are thus recovered. The evolution of a free particle in a prepared initial state is examined, and a previously published exchange [2,3] is illuminated with figures showing no decoherence without dissipation. [1] V. Hakim and V. Ambegaokar, Phys. Rev. A 32, 423 (1985). [2] G.W. Ford and R.F. O'Connell, Phys. Rev. A 70, 026102 (2004). [3] D. Gobert, J. von Delft, and V. Ambegaokar, Phys. Rev. A 70, 0261001 (2004).

id: quant-ph/0506088
title: Nano Positioning of Single Atoms in a Micro Cavity
authors: Stefan Nussmann, Markus Hijlkema, Bernhard Weber, Felix Rohde, Gerhard Rempe, Axel Kuhn
comments: 4 pages 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 95:173602, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506088
abstract: The coupling of individual atoms to a high-finesse optical cavity is precisely controlled and adjusted using a standing-wave dipole-force trap, a challenge for strong atom-cavity coupling. Ultracold Rubidium atoms are first loaded into potential minima of the dipole trap in the center of the cavity. Then we use the trap as a conveyor belt that we set into motion perpendicular to the cavity axis. This allows us to repetitively move atoms out of and back into the cavity mode with a repositioning precision of 135 nm. This makes possible to either selectively address one atom of a string of atoms by the cavity, or to simultaneously couple two precisely separated atoms to a higher mode of the cavity.

id: quant-ph/0506089
title: Mutually Unbiased Bases and Orthogonal Decompositions of Lie Algebras
authors: P. Oscar Boykin, Meera Sitharam, Pham Huu Tiep, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506089
abstract: We establish a connection between the problem of constructing maximal collections of mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) and an open problem in the theory of Lie algebras. More precisely, we show that a collection of m MUBs in K^n gives rise to a collection of m Cartan subalgebras of the special linear Lie algebra sl_n(K) that are pairwise orthogonal with respect to the Killing form, where K=R or K=C. In particular, a complete collection of MUBs in C^n gives rise to a so-called orthogonal decomposition (OD) of sl_n(C). The converse holds if the Cartan subalgebras in the OD are also *-closed, i.e., closed under the adjoint operation. In this case, the Cartan subalgebras have unitary bases, and the above correspondence becomes equivalent to a result relating collections of MUBs to collections of maximal commuting classes of unitary error bases, i.e., orthogonal unitary matrices. It is a longstanding conjecture that ODs of sl_n(C) can only exist if n is a prime power. This corroborates further the general belief that a complete collection of MUBs can only exist in prime power dimensions. The connection to ODs of sl_n(C) potentially allows the application of known results on (partial) ODs of sl_n(C) to MUBs.

id: quant-ph/0506090
title: Chaotic Quantum Decay in Driven Biased Optical Lattices
authors: S. Mossmann, C. Schumann, H. J. Korsch
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Europhysics Lett. 72 (2005) 499
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506090
abstract: Quantum decay in an ac driven biased periodic potential modeling cold atoms in optical lattices is studied for a symmetry broken driving. For the case of fully chaotic classical dynamics the classical exponential decay is quantum mechanically suppressed for a driving frequency \omega in resonance with the Bloch frequency \omega_B, q\omega=r\omega_B with integers q and r. Asymptotically an algebraic decay ~t^{-\gamma} is observed. For r=1 the exponent \gamma agrees with $q$ as predicted by non-Hermitian random matrix theory for q decay channels. The time dependence of the survival probability can be well described by random matrix theory. The frequency dependence of the survival probability shows pronounced resonance peaks with sub-Fourier character.

id: quant-ph/0506091
title: Quantum damped oscillator II: Bateman's Hamiltonian vs. 2D Parabolic Potential Barrier
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski
comments: 15 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. 321 (2006) 840-853
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506091
abstract: We show that quantum Bateman's system which arises in the quantization of a damped harmonic oscillator is equivalent to a quantum problem with 2D parabolic potential barrier known also as 2D inverted isotropic oscillator. It turns out that this system displays the family of complex eigenvalues corresponding to the poles of analytical continuation of the resolvent operator to the complex energy plane. It is shown that this representation is more suitable than the hyperbolic one used recently by Blasone and Jizba.

id: quant-ph/0506092
title: Distillation of multipartite entanglement by complementary stabilizer measurements
authors: Akimasa Miyake, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 5 pages, 6 eps figures; final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 220501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506092
abstract: We propose a scheme of multipartite entanglement distillation driven by a complementary pair of stabilizer measurements, to distill directly a wider range of states beyond the stabilizer code states (such as the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states). We make our idea explicit by constructing a recurrence protocol for the 3-qubit W state. Noisy W states resulting from typical decoherence can be directly purified in a few steps, if their initial fidelity is larger than a threshold. For general input mixed states, we observe distillations to hierarchical fixed points, i.e., not only to the W state but also to the 2-qubit Bell pair, depending on their initial entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0506093
title: Modified Grover's Search Algorithm in O(M+logN)Steps
authors: A. S. Gupta, A. Pathak
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to some conceptual error
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506093
abstract: The present letter proposes a modification in the well known Grover's search algorithm, which searches a database of $N$ unsorted items in $O(\sqrt{N/M})$ steps, where $M$ represents the number of solutions to the search problem. Concurrency control techniques and extra registers for marking and storing the solutions are used in the modified algorithm. This requires additional space but it is shown that the use of extra register and marking techniques can reduce the time complexity to $O(M+\log N)$.

id: quant-ph/0506094
title: Application of Pseudo-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics to a PT-Symmetric Hamiltonian with a Continuum of Scattering States
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46, 102108 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506094
abstract: We extend the application of the techniques developed within the framework of the pseudo-Hermitian quantum mechanics to study a unitary quantum system described by an imaginary PT-symmetric potential v(x) having a continuous real spectrum. For this potential that has recently been used, in the context of optical potentials, for modelling the propagation of electromagnetic waves travelling in a wave guide half and half filed with gain and absorbing media, we give a perturbative construction of the physical Hilbert space, observables, localized states, and the equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian. Ignoring terms of order three or higher in the non-Hermiticity parameter zeta, we show that the equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian has the form $\frac{p^2}{2m}+\frac{\zeta^2}{2}\sum_{n=0}^\infty\{\alpha_n(x),p^{2n}\}$ with $\alpha_n(x)$ vanishing outside an interval that is three times larger than the support of $v(x)$, i.e., in 2/3 of the physical interaction region the potential $v(x)$ vanishes identically. We provide a physical interpretation for this unusual behavior and comment on the classical limit of the system.

id: quant-ph/0506095
title: Schmidt states and positivity of linear maps
authors: Aik-meng Kuah, E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506095
abstract: Using pure entangled Schmidt states, we show that m-positivity of a map is bounded by the ranks of its negative Kraus matrices. We also give an algebraic condition for a map to be m-positive. We interpret these results in the context of positive maps as entanglement witnesses, and find that only 1-positive maps are needed for testing entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0506096
title: Continuous-time Quantum Walks on a Cycle Graph
authors: Dmitry Solenov, Leonid Fedichkin
comments: Typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012313 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506096
abstract: We present analytical treatment of quantum walks on a cycle graph. The investigation is based on a realistic physical model of the graph in which decoherence is induced by continuous monitoring of each graph vertex with nearby quantum point contact. We derive the analytical expression of the probability distribution along the cycle. Upper bound estimate to mixing time is shown.

id: quant-ph/0506097
title: Fast and simple one-way Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Damien Stucki, Nicolas Brunner, Nicolas Gisin, Valerio Scarani, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 87, 194108 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506097
abstract: We present and demonstrate a new protocol for practical quantum cryptography, tailored for an implementation with weak coherent pulses to obtain a high key generation rate. The key is obtained by a simple time-of-arrival measurement on the data line; the presence of an eavesdropper is checked by an interferometer on an additional monitoring line. The setup is experimentally simple; moreover, it is tolerant to reduced interference visibility and to photon number splitting attacks, thus featuring a high efficiency in terms of distilled secret bit per qubit.

id: quant-ph/0506098
title: Measure of phonon-number moments and motional quadratures through infinitesimal-time probing of trapped ions
authors: T. Bastin, J. von Zanthier, E. Solano
comments: 10 pages. Accepted in JPhysB
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39, 685 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506098
abstract: A method for gaining information about the phonon-number moments and the generalized nonlinear and linear quadratures in the motion of trapped ions (in particular, position and momentum) is proposed, valid inside and outside the Lamb-Dicke regime. It is based on the measurement of first time derivatives of electronic populations, evaluated at the motion-probe interaction time t=0. In contrast to other state-reconstruction proposals, based on measuring Rabi oscillations or dispersive interactions, the present scheme can be performed resonantly at infinitesimal short motion-probe interaction times, remaining thus insensitive to decoherence processes.

id: quant-ph/0506099
title: Generalization of entanglement to convex operational theories: Entanglement relative to a subspace of observables
authors: Howard Barnum, Gerardo Ortiz, Rolando Somma, Lorenza Viola
comments: 19 pages, to appear in proceedings of Quantum Structures VII, Int. J. Theor. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506099
abstract: We define what it means for a state in a convex cone of states on a space of observables to be generalized-entangled relative to a subspace of the observables, in a general ordered linear spaces framework for operational theories. This extends the notion of ordinary entanglement in quantum information theory to a much more general framework. Some important special cases are described, in which the distinguished observables are subspaces of the observables of a quantum system, leading to results like the identification of generalized unentangled states with Lie-group-theoretic coherent states when the special observables form an irreducibly represented Lie algebra. Some open problems, including that of generalizing the semigroup of local operations with classical communication to the convex cones setting, are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0506100
title: A New Ontological View of the Quantum Measurement Problem
authors: Xiaolei Zhang
comments: 37 pages. US Naval Research Lab memorandum report NRL/MR/7218--05-8883, paper to be presented at the Albert Einstein Century conference, Paris, France, July 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506100
abstract: A new ontological view of the quantum measurement processes is given, which has bearings on many broader issues in the foundations of quantum mechanics as well. In this scenario a quantum measurement is a non-equilibrium phase transition in a ``resonant cavity'' formed by the entire physical universe including all of its material and energy content. A quantum measurement involves the energy and matter exchange among not only the system being measured and the measuring apparatus but also the global environment of the universe resonant cavity, which together constrain the nature of the phase transition. Strict realism, including strict energy and angular momentum conservation, is recovered in this view of the quantum measurement process beyond the limit set by the uncertainty relations, which are themselves derived from the exact commutation relations for quantum conjugate variables. Both the amplitude and the phase of the quantum mechanical wavefunction acquire substantial meanings in the new ontology, and the probabilistic element is removed from the foundations of quantum mechanics, its apparent presence in the quantum measurement being solely a result of the sensitive dependence on initial/boundary conditions of the phase transitions of a many degree-of-freedom system which is effectively the whole universe. Vacuum fluctuations are viewed as the ``left over'' fluctuations after forming the whole numbers of nonequilibrium resonant modes in the universe cavity. This new view on the quantum processes helps to clarify many puzzles in the foundations of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0506101
title: Trapping and coherent manipulation of a Rydberg atom on a microfabricated device: a proposal
authors: John Mozley, Philippe Hyafil, Gilles Nogues, Michel Brune, Jean-Michel Raimond, Serge Haroche
comments: Accepted in EPJD
journal: European Physical Journal D 35 (2005) 43
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506101
abstract: We propose to apply atom-chip techniques to the trapping of a single atom in a circular Rydberg state. The small size of microfabricated structures will allow for trap geometries with microwave cut-off frequencies high enough to inhibit the spontaneous emission of the Rydberg atom, paving the way to complete control of both external and internal degrees of freedom over very long times. Trapping is achieved using carefully designed electric fields, created by a simple pattern of electrodes. We show that it is possible to excite, and then trap, one and only one Rydberg atom from a cloud of ground state atoms confined on a magnetic atom chip, itself integrated with the Rydberg trap. Distinct internal states of the atom are simultaneously trapped, providing us with a two-level system extremely attractive for atom-surface and atom-atom interaction studies. We describe a method for reducing by three orders of magnitude dephasing due to Stark shifts, induced by the trapping field, of the internal transition frequency. This allows for, in combination with spin-echo techniques, maintenance of an internal coherence over times in the second range. This method operates via a controlled light shift rendering the two internal states' Stark shifts almost identical. We thoroughly identify and account for sources of imperfection in order to verify at each step the realism of our proposal.

id: quant-ph/0506102
title: Photon-number fluctuation and correlation of bound soliton pairs in mode-locked fiber lasers
authors: Ray-Kuang Lee, Yinchieh Lai, Boris A. Malomed
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506102
abstract: Quantum photon-number fluctuation and correlation of bound soliton pairs in mode-locked fiber lasers are studied based on the complex Ginzburg-Landau equation model. We find that, depending on their phase difference, the total photon-number noise of the bound soliton pair can be larger or smaller than that of a single soliton and the two solitons in the soliton pairs are with positive or negative photon-number correlation, correspondingly. It is predicted for the first time that out-of-phase soliton pairs can exhibit less noises due to negative correlation.

id: quant-ph/0506103
title: Matter wave pulses characteristics
authors: A. del Campo, J. G. Muga
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38, 9803 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506103
abstract: We study the properties of quantum single-particle wave pulses created by sharp-edged or apodized shutters with single or periodic openings. In particular, we examine the visibility of diffraction fringes depending on evolution time and temperature; the purity of the state depending on the opening-time window; the accuracy of a simplified description which uses ``source'' boundary conditions instead of solving an initial value problem; and the effects of apodization on the energy width.

id: quant-ph/0506104
title: Canonical quantization of nonlinear many body systems
authors: A.M. Scarfone
comments: 35 pages, RevTeX4, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 71, 051103 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506104
abstract: We study the quantization of a classical system of interacting particles obeying a recently proposed kinetic interaction principle (KIP) [G. Kaniadakis, Physica A {\bf 296}, 405 (2001)]. The KIP fixes the expression of the Fokker-Planck equation describing the kinetic evolution of the system and imposes the form of its entropy. In the framework of canonical quantization, we introduce a class of nonlinear Schr\"odinger equations (NSEs) with complex nonlinearities, describing, in the mean field approximation, a system of collectively interacting particles whose underlying kinetics is governed by the KIP. We derive the Ehrenfest relations and discuss the main constants of motion arising in this model. By means of a nonlinear gauge transformation of third kind it is shown that in the case of constant diffusion and linear drift the class of NSEs obeying the KIP is gauge-equivalent to another class of NSEs containing purely real nonlinearities depending only on the field $\rho=|\psi|^2$.

id: quant-ph/0506105
title: Modified Grover's search algorithm for the cases where the number of solutions is known
authors: A. S. Gupta, M. Gupta, A. Pathak
comments: 6 pages, No Figure, Latex 2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506105
abstract: Grover's search algorithm searches a database of $N$ unsorted items in $O(\sqrt{N/M})$ steps where $M$ represents the number of solutions to the search problem. This paper proposes a scheme for searching a database of $N$ unsorted items in $O(logN)$ steps, provided the value of $M$ is known. It is also shown that when $M$ is unknown but if we can estimate an upper bound of possible values of $M$, then an improvement in the time complexity of conventional Grover's algorithm is possible. In that case, the present scheme reduces the time complexity to $O(MlogN)$.

id: quant-ph/0506106
title: Measurement of the electric polarizability of lithium by atom interferometry
authors: Alain Miffre, Marion Jacquey, Matthias Buchner, G¨¦rard Trenec, Jacques Vigue
comments: 4 pages, 15 June 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506106
abstract: We have built an atom interferometer and, by applying an electric field on one of the two interfering beams, we have measured the static electric polarizability of lithium with a 0.66 % uncertainty. Our experiment is similar to an experiment done on sodium in 1995 by D. Pritchard and co-workers, with several improvements: the electric field can be calculated analytically and our phase measurements are very accurate. This experiment illustrates the extreme sensitivity of atom interferometry: when the atom enters the electric field, its velocity increases and the fractional change, equal to 4 x 10^(-9) for our largest field, is measured with a 10^(-3) accuracy.

id: quant-ph/0506107
title: Limits and restrictions of private quantum channel
authors: Jan Bouda, Mario Ziman
comments: 23 pages, submitted to QI&C
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506107
abstract: We study private quantum channels on a single qubit, which encrypt given set of plaintext states $P$. Specifically, we determine all achievable states $\rho^{(0)}$ (average output of encryption) and for each particular set $P$ we determine the entropy of the key necessary and sufficient to encrypt this set. It turns out that single bit of key is sufficient when the set $P$ is two dimensional. However, the necessary and sufficient entropy of the key in case of three dimensional $P$ varies continuously between 1 and 2 bits depending on the state $\rho^{(0)}$. Finally, we derive private quantum channels achieving these bounds. We show that the impossibility of universal NOT operation on qubit can be derived from the fact that one bit of key is not sufficient to encrypt qubit.

id: quant-ph/0506108
title: Squeezed Fock state by inconclusive photon subtraction
authors: Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum and Semiclass. Opt. 7, S616 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506108
abstract: We analyze in details the properties of the conditional state recently obtained by J. Wenger, et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 92}, 153601 (2004)] by means of inconclusive photon subtraction (IPS) on a squeezed vacuum state $S(r)\ket{0}$. The IPS process can be characterized by two parameters: the IPS transmissivity $\tau$ and the photodetection quantum efficiency $\eta$. We found that the conditional state approaches the squeezed Fock state $S(r)\ket{1}$ when $\tau,\eta \to 1$, i.e., in the limit of single-photon subtraction. For non-unit IPS transmissivity and efficiency, the conditioned state remains close to the target state, {\em i.e.} shows a high fidelity for a wide range of experimental parameters. The nonclassicality of the conditional state is also investigated and a nonclassicality threshold on the IPS parameters is derived.

id: quant-ph/0506109
title: Hyperspheres and control of spin chains
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: Comment: LaTeX 3 pages 2 col, a paper of 06.12.2004 + note 12.06.2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506109
abstract: Here is considered application of Spin(m) groups in theory of quantum control of chain with spin-1/2 systems. It may be also compared with m-dimensional analogues of Bloch sphere, but has nontrivial distinctions for chain with more than one spin system.

id: quant-ph/0506110
title: Optical generation of matter qubit graph states
authors: S.C. Benjamin, J. Eisert, T.M. Stace
comments: 10 pages in 2 column format, includes 4 figures. Problems with figures resolved
journal: New J. Phys. 7, 194 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506110
abstract: We present a scheme for rapidly entangling matter qubits in order to create graph states for one-way quantum computing. The qubits can be simple 3-level systems in separate cavities. Coupling involves only local fields and a static (unswitched) linear optics network. Fusion of graph state sections occurs with, in principle, zero probability of damaging the nascent graph state. We avoid the finite thresholds of other schemes by operating on two entangled pairs, so that each generates exactly one photon. We do not require the relatively slow single qubit local flips to be applied during the growth phase: growth of the graph state can then become a purely optical process. The scheme naturally generates graph states with vertices of high degree and so is easily able to construct minimal graph states, with consequent resource savings. The most efficient approach will be to create new graph state edges even as qubits elsewhere are measured, in a `just in time' approach. An error analysis indicates that the scheme is relatively robust against imperfections in the apparatus.

id: quant-ph/0506111
title: Examples of bosonic de Finetti states over finite dimensional Hilbert spaces
authors: Alex D. Gottlieb
comments: corrected version
journal: Journal of Statistical Physics, 12: 497 - 509 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506111
abstract: According to the Quantum de Finetti Theorem, locally normal infinite particle states with Bose-Einstein symmetry can be represented as mixtures of infinite tensor powers of vector states. This note presents examples of infinite-particle states with Bose-Einstein symmetry that arise as limits of Gibbs ensembles on finite dimensional spaces, and displays their de Finetti representations. We consider Gibbs ensembles for systems of bosons in a finite dimensional setting and discover limits as the number of particles tends to infinity, provided the temperature is scaled in proportion to particle number.

id: quant-ph/0506112
title: Correspondence principle for the diffusive dynamics of a quartic oscillator: deterministic aspects and the role of temperature
authors: Renato M. Angelo
comments: 10 pages, added references, changed content, accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052111 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506112
abstract: The correspondence principle is investigated in the framework of deterministic predictions for individual systems. Exact analytical results are obtained for the quantum and the Liouvillian dynamics of a nonlinear oscillator coupled to a phase-damping reservoir at a finite temperature. In this context, the time of critical wave function spreading - the Ehrenfest time - emerges as the characteristic time scale within which the concept of deterministic behavior is admissible in physics. A scenario of "quasi-determinism" may be then defined within which the motion is experimentally indistinguishable from the truly deterministic motion of Newtonian mechanics. Beyond this time scale, predictions for individual systems can be given only statistically and, in this case, it is shown that diffusive decoherence is indeed a necessary ingredient to establish the quantum-classical correspondence. Moreover, the high-temperature regime is shown to be an additional condition for the quantum-classical transition and, accordingly, a lower bound for the reservoir temperature is derived for our model.

id: quant-ph/0506113
title: Entanglement in an expanding spacetime
authors: J. L. Ball, I. Fuentes-Schuller, F. P. Schuller
comments: 4 pages, no figures; I. F-S published previously under Fuentes-Guridi
journal: Phys.Lett. A359 (2006) 550-554
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506113
abstract: We show that a dynamical spacetime generates entanglement between modes of a quantum field. Conversely, the entanglement encodes information concerning the underlying spacetime structure, which hints at the prospect of applications of this observation to cosmology. Here we illustrate this point by way of an analytically exactly soluble example, that of a scalar quantum field on a two-dimensional asymptotically flat Robertson-Walker expanding spacetime. We explicitly calculate the entanglement in the far future, for a quantum field residing in the vacuum state in the distant past. In this toy universe, it is possible to fully reconstruct the parameters of the cosmic history from the entanglement entropy.

id: quant-ph/0506114
title: Single-photon quantum error rejection and correction with linear optics
authors: Demetrios Kalamidas
comments: minor text changes
journal: Phys. Lett. A 343, p.331(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506114
abstract: We present single-photon schemes for quantum error rejection and correction with linear optics. In stark contrast to other known proposals, our schemes do not require multi-photon entangled states, are not probabilistic, and their application is not restricted to single bit-flip errors.

id: quant-ph/0506115
title: Generalizations of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Philip Pearle, Antony Valentini
comments: 15 pages. Minor changes. To be published in: Encyclopaedia of Mathematical Physics, eds. J.-P. Francoise, G. Naber and T. S. Tsun (Elsevier, 2006)
journal: 'Quantum mechanics: generalizations', in: "Encyclopaedia of Mathematical Physics", eds. J.-P. Fran\c{c}oise, G. Naber and T. S. Tsun (Elsevier, North-Holland, 2006), pp. 265--276
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506115
abstract: We review realistic models that reproduce quantum theory in some limit and yield potentially new physics outside that limit. In particular, we consider deterministic hidden-variables theories (such as the pilot-wave model) and their extension to 'quantum nonequilibrium', and we consider the continuous spontaneous localization model of wave function collapse. Other models are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0506116
title: Efficient optical quantum information processing
authors: W.J. Munro, Kae Nemoto, T.P. Spiller, S.D. Barrett, Pieter Kok, R.G. Beausoleil
comments: Accepted to the Journal of optics B special issue on optical quantum computation; References updated
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 S135 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506116
abstract: Quantum information offers the promise of being able to perform certain communication and computation tasks that cannot be done with conventional information technology (IT). Optical Quantum Information Processing (QIP) holds particular appeal, since it offers the prospect of communicating and computing with the same type of qubit. Linear optical techniques have been shown to be scalable, but the corresponding quantum computing circuits need many auxiliary resources. Here we present an alternative approach to optical QIP, based on the use of weak cross-Kerr nonlinearities and homodyne measurements. We show how this approach provides the fundamental building blocks for highly efficient non-absorbing single photon number resolving detectors, two qubit parity detectors, Bell state measurements and finally near deterministic control-not (CNOT) gates. These are essential QIP devices

id: quant-ph/0506117
title: Quantum Optics with Surface Plasmons
authors: D.E. Chang, A.S. Sorensen, P.R. Hemmer, M.D. Lukin
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506117
abstract: We describe a technique that enables strong, coherent coupling between individual optical emitters and guided plasmon excitations in conducting nano-structures at optical frequencies. We show that under realistic conditions, optical emission can be almost entirely directed into the plasmon modes. As an example, we describe an application of this technique involving efficient generation of single photons on demand, in which the plasmon is efficiently out-coupled to a dielectric waveguide.

id: quant-ph/0506118
title: Microscopic models of quantum jump super-operators
authors: A.V. Dodonov, S.S. Mizrahi, V.V. Dodonov
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 72, 023816 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506118
abstract: We discuss the quantum jump operation in an open system, and show that jump super-operators related to a system under measurement can be derived from the interaction of that system with a quantum measurement apparatus. We give two examples for the interaction of a monochromatic electromagnetic field in a cavity (the system) with 2-level atoms and with a harmonic oscillator (representing two different kinds of detectors). We show that derived quantum jump super-operators have `nonlinear' form which depends on assumptions made about the interaction between the system and the detector. A continuous transition to the standard Srinivas--Davies form of the quantum jump super-operatoris shown.

id: quant-ph/0506119
title: Weak cloning of an unknown quantum state
authors: Erik Sj?qvist, Johan ?berg
comments: Minor corrections, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Lett. A 354, 396 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506119
abstract: The impossibility to clone an unknown quantum state is a powerful principle to understand the nature of quantum mechanics, especially within the context of quantum computing and quantum information. This principle has been generalized to quantitative statements as to what extent imperfect cloning is possible. We delineate an aspect of the border between the possible and the impossible concerning quantum cloning, by putting forward an entanglement-assisted scheme for simulating perfect cloning in the context of weak measurements. This phenomenon we call weak cloning of an unknown quantum state.

id: quant-ph/0506120
title: Casimir Effect as a Test for Thermal Corrections and Hypothetical Long-Range Interactions
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, R. S. Decca, E. Fischbach, D. E. Krause, D.L¨®pez, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures, Sixth Alexander Friedmann International Seminar on Gravitation and Cosmology
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A20 (2005) 2205-2221
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506120
abstract: We have performed a precise experimental determination of the Casimir pressure between two gold-coated parallel plates by means of a micromachined oscillator. In contrast to all previous experiments on the Casimir effect, where a small relative error (varying from 1% to 15%) was achieved only at the shortest separation, our smallest experimental error ($\sim 0.5$%) is achieved over a wide separation range from 170 nm to 300 nm at 95% confidence. We have formulated a rigorous metrological procedure for the comparison of experiment and theory without resorting to the previously used root-mean-square deviation, which has been criticized in the literature. This enables us to discriminate among different competing theories of the thermal Casimir force, and to resolve a thermodynamic puzzle arising from the application of Lifshitz theory to real metals. Our results lead to a more rigorous approach for obtaining constraints on hypothetical long-range interactions predicted by extra-dimensional physics and other extensions of the Standard Model. In particular, the constraints on non-Newtonian gravity are strengthened by up to a factor of 20 in a wide interaction range at 95% confidence.

id: quant-ph/0506121
title: Comment on quant-ph/0506105: The modified Grover algorithm cannot speedup unsorted database search
authors: Gui Lu Long
comments: one page comment on quant-ph/0506105
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506121
abstract: In a recent paper (quant-ph/0506105), A S Gupta, M. Gupta and A. Pathak proposed a modified Grover algorithm that would exponentially accelerate the unsorted database search problem if the number of marked items is known. If this were true, it would represent a major fundamental breakthrough in computer science, mathematics, quantum information and other related branches of sciences. However the algorithm is not valid. We will explain it in this brief comment.

id: quant-ph/0506122
title: A Quantum-Classical Brackets from p-Mechanics
authors: Vladimir V. Kisil
comments: LaTeX, 7 pages (EPL style), no figures; v2: example of dynamics with two different Planck's constants is added, minor corrections; v3: major revion, a complete example of quantum-classic dynamics is given; v4: few grammatic corrections
journal: Europhys. Lett., 72 (6), pp. 873-?879 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506122
abstract: We provide an answer to the long standing problem of mixing quantum and classical dynamics within a single formalism. The construction is based on p-mechanical derivation (quant-ph/0212101, quant-ph/0304023) of quantum and classical dynamics from the representation theory of the Heisenberg group. To achieve a quantum-classical mixing we take the product of two copies of the Heisenberg group which represent two different Planck's constants. In comparison with earlier guesses our answer contains an extra term of analytical nature, which was not obtained before in purely algebraic setup. Keywords: Moyal brackets, Poisson brackets, commutator, Heisenberg group, orbit method, representation theory, Planck's constant, quantum-classical mixing

id: quant-ph/0506123
title: Decoherence of tripartite states - a trapped ion coupled to an optical cavity
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma, E. de Almeida
comments: Revised version, errors corrected and references added. 12 pages, 6 figures, Presented at ICSSUR May 2005, Besancon, France
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39 (2006) 695-707.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506123
abstract: We investigate the non-dissipative decoherence of three qubit system obtained by manipulating the state of a trapped two-level ion coupled to an optical cavity. Modelling the environment as a set of noninteracting harmonic oscillators, analytical expressions for the state operator of tripartite composite system, the probability of generating maximally entangled GHZ state, and the population inversion have been obtained. The pointer observable is the energy of the isolated quantum system. Coupling to environment results in exponential decay of off diagonal matrix elements of the state operator with time as well as a phase decoherence of the component states. Numerical calculations to examine the time evolution of GHZ state generation probability and population inversion for different system environment coupling strengths are performed. Using negativity as an entanglement measure and linear entropy as a measure of mixedness, the entanglement dynamics of the tripartite system in the presence of decoherence is analysed.

id: quant-ph/0506124
title: Gaussian measures of entanglement versus negativities: the ordering of two-mode Gaussian states
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures (Fig. 1 and Fig. 3 low-res due to oversizing). Stylish improvements throughout the text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032334 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506124
abstract: In this work we focus on entanglement of two--mode Gaussian states of continuous variable systems. We first review the formalism of Gaussian measures of entanglement, adopting the framework developed in [M. M. Wolf {\em et al.}, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 69}, 052320 (2004)], where the Gaussian entanglement of formation was defined. We compute Gaussian measures explicitely for two important families of nonsymmetric two--mode Gaussian states, namely the states of extremal (maximal and minimal) negativities at fixed global and local purities, introduced in [G. Adesso {\em et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 92}, 087901 (2004)]. This allows us to compare the {\em orderings} induced on the set of entangled two--mode Gaussian states by the negativities and by the Gaussian entanglement measures. We find that in a certain range of global and local purities (characterizing the covariance matrix of the corresponding extremal states), states of minimum negativity can have more Gaussian entanglement than states of maximum negativity. Thus Gaussian measures and negativities are definitely inequivalent on nonsymmetric two--mode Gaussian states (even when restricted to extremal states), while they are completely equivalent on symmetric states, where moreover the Gaussian entanglement of formation coincides with the true one. However, the inequivalence between these two families of continuous-variable entanglement measures is somehow limited. In fact we show rigorously that, at fixed negativities, the Gaussian entanglement measures are bounded from below, and we provide strong evidence that they are also bounded from above.

id: quant-ph/0506125
title: Numerical simulation of Bell inequality's violation using optical transverse modes in multimode waveguides
authors: Jian Fu, Xun Zhang
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, some typos corrected and two fig replaced
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506125
abstract: We numerically demonstrate that "mode-entangled states" based on the transverse modes of classical optical fields in multimode waveguides violate Bell's inequality. Numerically simulating the correlation measurement scheme of Bell's inequality, we obtain the normalized correlation functions of the intensity fluctuations for the two entangled classical fields. By using the correlation functions, the maximum violations of Bell's inequality are obtained. This implies that the two classical fields in the mode-entangled states, although spatially separated, present a nonlocal correlation.

id: quant-ph/0506126
title: Towards Large-Scale Quantum Computation
authors: Austin G. Fowler
comments: PhD thesis, 185 pages, 59 figures, combination of articles quant-ph/0207103, quant-ph/0306018, quant-ph/0311116, quant-ph/0402077, quant-ph/0402196, quant-ph/0411206 and other research together with additional discussion and review material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506126
abstract: This thesis deals with a series of quantum computer implementation issues from the Kane 31P in 28Si architecture to Shor's integer factoring algorithm and beyond. The discussion begins with simulations of the adiabatic Kane CNOT and readout gates, followed by linear nearest neighbor implementations of 5-qubit quantum error correction with and without fast measurement. A linear nearest neighbor circuit implementing Shor's algorithm is presented, then modified to remove the need for exponentially small rotation gates. Finally, a method of constructing optimal approximations of arbitrary single-qubit fault-tolerant gates is described and applied to the specific case of the remaining rotation gates required by Shor's algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0506127
title: The entanglement criterion of multiqubits
authors: Hyuk-jae Lee, Sung Dahm Oh, Doyeol Ahn
comments: 7 pages, No figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506127
abstract: We present an entanglement criterion for multiqubits by using the quantum correlation tensors which rely on the expectation values of the Pauli operators for a multiqubit state. Our criterion explains not only the total entanglement of the system but also the partial entanglement in subsystems. It shows that we have to consider the subsystem entanglements in order to obtain the full description for multiqubit entanglements. Furthermore, we offer an extension of the entanglement to multiqudits.

id: quant-ph/0506128
title: Mutually unbiased phase states, phase uncertainties, and Gauss sums
authors: M. Planat, H.C. Rosu
comments: 16 pages, a few typos corrected, some references updated, note acknowledging I. Shparlinski added
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 36, 133-139 (Oct. 2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506128
abstract: Mutually unbiased bases (MUBs), which are such that the inner product between two vectors in different orthogonal bases is a constant equal to 1/sqrt{d), with d the dimension of the finite Hilbert space, are becoming more and more studied for applications such as quantum tomography and cryptography, and in relation to entangled states and to the Heisenberg-Weil group of quantum optics. Complete sets of MUBs of cardinality d+1 have been derived for prime power dimensions d=p^m using the tools of abstract algebra. Presumably, for non prime dimensions the cardinality is much less. Here we reinterpret MUBs as quantum phase states, i.e. as eigenvectors of Hermitean phase operators generalizing those introduced by Pegg & Barnett in 1989. We relate MUB states to additive characters of Galois fields (in odd characteristic p) and to Galois rings (in characteristic 2). Quantum Fourier transforms of the components in vectors of the bases define a more general class of MUBs with multiplicative characters and additive ones altogether. We investigate the complementary properties of the above phase operator with respect to the number operator. We also study the phase probability distribution and variance for general pure quantum electromagnetic states and find them to be related to the Gauss sums, which are sums over all elements of the field (or of the ring) of the product of multiplicative and additive characters. Finally, we relate the concepts of mutual unbiasedness and maximal entanglement. This allows to use well studied algebraic concepts as efficient tools in the study of entanglement and its information aspects

id: quant-ph/0506129
title: A General Relativistic Generalization of Bell Inequality
authors: Vladan Pankovic
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506129
abstract: In this work a general relativistic generalization of Bell inequality is suggested. Namely,it is proved that practically in any general relativistic metric there is a generalization of Bell inequality.It can be satisfied within theories of local (subluminal) hidden variables, but it cannot be satisfied in the general case within standard quantum mechanical formalism or within theories of nonlocal (superluminal) hidden variables. It is shown too that within theories of nonlocal hidden variables but not in the standard quantum mechanical formalism a paradox appears in the situation when one of the correlated subsystems arrives at a Schwarzschild black hole. Namely, there is no way that black hole horizon obstructs superluminal influences between spin of the subsystem without horizon and spin of the subsystem within horizon,or simply speaking,there is none black hole horizon nor "no hair" theorem for subsystems with correlated spins. It implies that standard quantum mechanical formalism yields unique consistent and complete description of the quantum mechanical phenomenons.

id: quant-ph/0506130
title: Reference potential approach to the quantum-mechanical inverse problem: II. Solution of Krein equation
authors: Matti Selg
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506130
abstract: A reference potential approach to the one-dimensional quantum-mechanical inverse problem is developed. All spectral characteristics of the system, including its discrete energy spectrum, the full energy dependence of the phase shift, and the Jost function, are expected to be known. The technically most complicated task in ascertaining the potential, solution of a relevant integral equation, has been decomposed into two relatively independent problems. First, one uses Krein method to calculate an auxiliary potential with exactly the same spectral density as the initial reference potential, but with no bound states. Thereafter, using Gelfand-Levitan method, it is possible to introduce, one by one, all bound states, along with calculating another auxiliary potential of the same spectral density at each step. For the system under study (diatomic xenon molecule), the kernel of the Krein integral equation can be accurately ascertained with the help of solely analytic means. At small distances the calculated auxiliary potential with no bound states practically coincides with the initial reference potential, which is in full agreement with general theoretical considerations. Several possibilities of solving the Krein equation are proposed and the prospects of further research discussed.

id: quant-ph/0506131
title: Black-body radiation in extra dimensions
authors: H. Alnes, F. Ravndal, I. K. Wehus
comments: 9 pages
journal: J.Phys.A40:14309,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506131
abstract: The general form of the Stefan-Boltzmann law for the energy density of black-body radiation is generalized to a spacetime with extra dimensions using standard kinetic and thermodynamic arguments. From statistical mechanics one obtains an exact formula. In a field-theoretic derivation, the Maxwell field must be quantized. The notion of electric and magnetic fields is different in spacetimes with more than four dimensions. While the energy-momentum tensor for the Maxwell field is traceless in four dimensions, it is not so when there are extra dimensions. But it is shown that its thermal average is traceless and in agreement with the thermodynamic results.

id: quant-ph/0506132
title: Quantum information-flow, concretely, and axiomatically
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: Lecture notes of talks given between Summer 2003 and Spring 2004; they appeared (I guess) as conference proceedings of both QPLII (2004) and QI-SPIE-2 (2004); they also provide a physicist-friendly passage to the categorical quantum axiomatics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506132
abstract: These lecture notes survey some joint work with Samson Abramsky. Somewhat informally I will discuss the main results in a pedestrian not too technical way. These include: (1) `The logic of entanglement', that is, the identification and abstract axiomatization of the `quantum information-flow' which enables protocols such as quantum teleportation. To this means we define strongly compact closed categories which abstractly capture the behavioral properties of quantum entanglement. (2) `Postulates for an abstract quantum formalism' in which classical information-flow (e.g. token exchange) is part of the formalism. As an example, we provide a purely formal description of quantum teleportation and prove correctness in abstract generality. In this formalism types reflect kinds, contra the essentially typeless von Neumann formalism. Hence even concretely this formalism manifestly improves on the usual one. (3) `A high-level approach to quantum informatics'.

id: quant-ph/0506133
title: The cryptographic power of misaligned reference frames
authors: Aram Harrow, Roberto Oliveira, Barbara Terhal
comments: 4 pages Latex; v2 has a new reference
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032311 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506133
abstract: Suppose that Alice and Bob define their coordinate axes differently, and the change of reference frame between them is given by a probability distribution mu over SO(3). We show that this uncertainty of reference frame is of no use for bit commitment when mu is uniformly distributed over a (sub)group of SO(3), but other choices of mu can give rise to a partially or even asymptotically secure bit commitment.

id: quant-ph/0506134
title: De-linearizing Linearity: Projective Quantum Axiomatics from Strong Compact Closure
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: Essential simplification of the definitions of orthostructure and ortho-Bornian structure: the key new insights is captured by the definitions in terms of commutative diagrams on pages 13 and 14, which state that if in a category a (additive) monoidal tensor distributes over a strongly compact closed tensor, then this category is always enriched in commutative monoids
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506134
abstract: Elaborating on our joint work with Abramsky in quant-ph/0402130 we further unravel the linear structure of Hilbert spaces into several constituents. Some prove to be very crucial for particular features of quantum theory while others obstruct the passage to a formalism which is not saturated with physically insignificant global phases. First we show that the bulk of the required linear structure is purely multiplicative, and arises from the strongly compact closed tensor which, besides providing a variety of notions such as scalars, trace, unitarity, self-adjointness and bipartite projectors, also provides Hilbert-Schmidt norm, Hilbert-Schmidt inner-product, and in particular, the preparation-state agreement axiom which enables the passage from a formalism of the vector space kind to a rather projective one, as it was intended in the (in)famous Birkhoff & von Neumann paper. Next we consider additive types which distribute over the tensor, from which measurements can be build, and the correctness proofs of the protocols discussed in quant-ph/0402130 carry over to the resulting weaker setting. A full probabilistic calculus is obtained when the trace is moreover linear and satisfies the \em diagonal axiom, which brings us to a second main result, characterization of the necessary and sufficient additive structure of a both qualitatively and quantitatively effective categorical quantum formalism without redundant global phases. Along the way we show that if in a category a (additive) monoidal tensor distributes over a strongly compact closed tensor, then this category is always enriched in commutative monoids.

id: quant-ph/0506135
title: Equivalence of Quantum States under Local Unitary Transformations
authors: Shao-Ming Fei, Naihuan Jing
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 342 (2005) 77-81
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506135
abstract: In terms of the analysis of fixed point subgroup and tensor decomposability of certain matrices, we study the equivalence of of quantum bipartite mixed states under local unitary transformations. For non-degenerate case an operational criterion for the equivalence of two such mixed bipartite states under local unitary transformations is presented.

id: quant-ph/0506136
title: Concurrence of arbitrary dimensional bipartite quantum states
authors: Kai Chen, Sergio Albeverio, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 4 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 040504 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506136
abstract: We derive an analytical lower bound for the concurrence of a bipartite quantum state in arbitrary dimension. A functional relation is established relating concurrence, the Peres-Horodecki criterion and the realignment criterion. We demonstrate that our bound is exact for some mixed quantum states. The significance of our method is illustrated by giving a quantitative evaluation of entanglement for many bound entangled states, some of which fail to be identified by the usual concurrence estimation method.

id: quant-ph/0506137
title: A fast quantum search algorithm by controlled measurement and qubit comparison implying the complexity class inclusion NP in BQP
authors: Andreas de Vries
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506137
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to an apparent misunderstanding of quantum feedback control.

id: quant-ph/0506138
title: Irreversibility for all bound entangled states
authors: Dong Yang, Michal Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki, Barbara Synak-Radtke
comments: The publication version. As noted in quant-ph/0510035, the result also implies that the mathematical definition of entangled states is equivalent to the physical definition in the sense of states preparation by LOCC
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 190501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506138
abstract: We derive a new inequality for entanglement for a mixed four-partite state. Employing this inequality, we present a one-shot lower bound for entanglement cost and prove that entanglement cost is strictly larger than zero for any entangled state. We demonstrate that irreversibility occurs in the process of formation for all non-distillable entangled states. In this way we solve a long standing problem, of how "real" is entanglement of bound entangled states. Using the new inequality we also prove impossibility of local-cloning of a known entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0506139
title: Generation of Bright Two-Color Continuous Variable Entanglement
authors: A. S. Villar, L. S. Cruz, K. N. Cassemiro, M. Martinelli, P. Nussenzveig
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506139
abstract: We present the first measurement of squeezed-state entanglement between the twin beams produced in an Optical Parametric Oscillator (OPO) operating above threshold. Besides the usual squeezing in the intensity difference between the twin beams, we have measured squeezing in the sum of phase quadratures. Our scheme enables us to measure such phase anti-correlations between fields of different frequencies. In the present measurements, wavelengths differ by ~1 nm. Entanglement is demonstrated according to the Duan et al. criterion [Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 2722 (2000)] $\Delta^2\hat{p}_- +\Delta^2\hat{q}_+=1.47(2)<2$. This experiment opens the way for new potential applications such as the transfer of quantum information between different parts of the electromagnetic spectrum.

id: quant-ph/0506140
title: Phase Space Tomography of Classical and Nonclassical Vibrational States of Atoms in an Optical Lattice
authors: J.F. Kanem, S. Maneshi, S.H. Myrskog, A.M. Steinberg
comments: Submitted to Journal of Optics B: Quantum and Semiclassical Optics. Special issue in connection with the 9th International Conference on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations, to be held in Besancon, France, on 2-6 May 2005
journal: J. Opt. B. Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7, (2005) S705-S710
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506140
abstract: Atoms trapped in optical lattice have long been a system of interest in the AMO community, and in recent years much study has been devoted to both short- and long-range coherence in this system, as well as to its possible applications to quantum information processing. Here we demonstrate for the first time complete determination of the quantum phase space distributions for an ensemble of $^{85}Rb$ atoms in such a lattice, including a negative Wigner function for atoms in an inverted state.

id: quant-ph/0506141
title: Quantum mechanics and the time travel paradox
authors: David T. Pegg
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: D. T. Pegg, Times' arrows, quantum measurement and superluminal behavior (eds. D. Mugnai, A. Ranfagni and L. S. Schulman) (Consiglio Nazionale Delle Richerche, Roma, 2001) p. 113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506141
abstract: The closed causal chains arising from backward time travel do not lead to paradoxes if they are self consistent. This raises the question as to how physics ensures that only self-consistent loops are possible. We show that, for one particular case at least, the condition of self consistency is ensured by the interference of quantum mechanical amplitudes associated with the loop. If this can be applied to all loops then we have a mechanism by which inconsistent loops eliminate themselves.

id: quant-ph/0506142
title: Dephasing representation of quantum fidelity for general pure and mixed states
authors: Jiri Vanicek
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 73, 046204 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506142
abstract: General semiclassical expression for quantum fidelity (Loschmidt echo) of arbitrary pure and mixed states is derived. It expresses fidelity as an interference sum of dephasing trajectories weighed by the Wigner function of the initial state, and does not require that the initial state be localized in position or momentum. This general dephasing representation is special in that, counterintuitively, all of fidelity decay is due to dephasing and none due to the decay of classical overlaps. Surprising accuracy of the approximation is justified by invoking the shadowing theorem: twice--both for physical perturbations and for numerical errors. It is shown how the general expression reduces to the special forms for position and momentum states and for wave packets localized in position or momentum. The superiority of the general over the specialized forms is explained and supported by numerical tests for wave packets, non-local pure states, and for simple and random mixed states. The tests are done in non-universal regimes in mixed phase space where detailed features of fidelity are important. Although semiclassically motivated, present approach is valid for abstract systems with a finite Hilbert basis provided that the discrete Wigner transform is used. This makes the method applicable, via a phase space approach, e. g., to problems of quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0506143
title: Long-distance frequency dissemination with a resolution of 10-17
authors: Christophe Daussy, Olivier Lopez, Anne Amy-Klein, Andr¨¦i N. Goncharov, Mickael Guinet, Christian Chardonnet, Fran?ois Narbonneau, Michel Lours, Damien Chambon, S¨¦bastien Bize, Andr¨¦ Clairon, Georgio Santarelli, Mike E. Tobar, Andre N. Luiten
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 94 (2005) 203904
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506143
abstract: We use a new technique to disseminate microwave reference signals along ordinary optical fiber. The fractional frequency resolution of a link of 86 km in length is 10-17 for a one day integration time, a resolution higher than the stability of the best microwave or optical clocks. We use the link to compare the microwave reference and a CO2/OsO4 frequency standard that stabilizes a femtosecond laser frequency comb. This demonstrates a resolution of 3.10-14 at 1 s. An upper value of the instability introduced by the femtosecond laser-based synthesizer is estimated as 1.10-14 at 1 s.

id: quant-ph/0506144
title: Quantum storage and information transfer with superconducting qubits
authors: Y. D. Wang, Z. D. Wang, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 172507 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506144
abstract: We design theoretically a new device to realize the general quantum storage based on dcSQUID charge qubits. The distinct advantages of our scheme are analyzed in comparison with existing storage scenarios. More arrestingly, the controllable XY-model spin interaction has been realized for the first time in superconducting qubits, which may have more potential applications besides those in quantum information processing. The experimental feasibility is also elaborated.

id: quant-ph/0506145
title: Reply to Comment on ''Quantum secret sharing based on a reusable Greenberger-Horne -Zeilinger states as secure carriers''
authors: V. Karimipour
comments: 1 page, Latex, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 72, 056301 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506145
abstract: We show that the criticism of a recent comment \cite{ch2} on the insecurity of a quantum secret sharing protocol proposed in \cite{v2} is based on a misconception about the meaning of security and hence is invalid. The same misconception also appears in another comment of the authors \cite{ch1} on the security of an entangled-based quantum key distribution protocol \cite{zhang,v1}.

id: quant-ph/0506146
title: Frequency modulated laser beam with highly efficient intensity stabilisation
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Du Burck, Assia Tabet, Olivier Lopez
comments: 
journal: Electronics Letters 41 (2005) 188-190
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506146
abstract: We analyse the limitation of the amplitude modulation rejection due to the spatial modulation of the output beam of an acousto-optic modulator used in an active laser beam stabilisation system when a frequency modulation of a few megahertz is applied to this modulator. We show how to overcome this problem, using a single mode optical fibre at the output of the modulator. A residual amplitude modulation of 10-5 is achieved.

id: quant-ph/0506147
title: Slow light, superadiabaticity and shape-preserving pulses
authors: U. Leonhardt, L. C. Davila Romero
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506147
abstract: We analyze the nonlinear dynamics of atomic dark states in Lambda configuration that interact with light at exact resonance. We found a generalization of shape-preserving pulses [R. Grobe, F. T. Hioe, and J. H. Eberly, Phys. Rev. Lett. 73, 3183 (1994)] and show that the condition for adiabaticity of the atomic dynamics is never violated, as long as spontaneous emission is negligible.

id: quant-ph/0506148
title: Entanglement generation in harmonic chains: tagging by squeezing
authors: M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim, E. Park, J. Lee
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052307 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506148
abstract: We address the problem of spring-like coupling between bosons in an open chain configuration where the counter-rotating terms are explicitly included. We show that fruitful insight can be gained by decomposing the time-evolution operator of this problem into a pattern of linear-optics elements. This allows us to provide a clear picture of the effects of the counter-rotating terms in the important problem of long-haul entanglement distribution. The analytic control over the variance matrix of the state of the bosonic register allows us to track the dynamics of the entanglement. This helps in designing a global addressing scheme, complemented by a proper initialization of the register, which quantitatively improves the entanglement between the extremal oscillators in the chain, thus providing a strategy for feasible long distance entanglement distribution.

id: quant-ph/0506149
title: Distinguishing unentangled states with an unentangled measurement
authors: William K. Wootters
comments: 18 pages; in memory of Asher Peres
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506149
abstract: In a 1991 paper, Asher Peres and the author theoretically analyzed a set of unentangled bipartite quantum states that could apparently be distinguished better by a global measurement than by any sequence of local measurements on the individual subsystems. The present paper returns to the same example, and shows that the best result so far achieved can alternatively be attained by a measurement that, while still global, is "unentangled" in the sense that the operator associated with each measurement outcome is a tensor product.

id: quant-ph/0506150
title: Quantum Computing, Metrology, and Imaging
authors: Hwang Lee, Pavel Lougovski, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures; Proceedings of SPIE: Fluctuations and Noise in Photonics and Quantum Optics III (2005)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506150
abstract: Information science is entering into a new era in which certain subtleties of quantum mechanics enables large enhancements in computational efficiency and communication security. Naturally, precise control of quantum systems required for the implementation of quantum information processing protocols implies potential breakthoughs in other sciences and technologies. We discuss recent developments in quantum control in optical systems and their applications in metrology and imaging.

id: quant-ph/0506151
title: Entanglement of Formation of Rotationally Symmetric States
authors: Kiran K. Manne, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures; slight change in introduction, additional references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506151
abstract: Computing the entanglement of formation of a bipartite state is generally difficult, but special symmetries of a state can simplify the problem. For instance, this allows one to determine the entanglement of formation of Werner states and isotropic states. We consider a slightly more general class of states, rotationally symmetric states, also known as SU(2)-invariant states. These states are invariant under global rotations of both subsystems, and one can examine entanglement in cases where the subsystems have different dimensions. We derive an analytic expression for the entanglement of formation of rotationally symmetric states of a spin-$j$ particle and a spin-${1\over2}$ particle. We also give expressions for the I-concurrence, I-tangle, and convex-roof-extended negativity.

id: quant-ph/0506152
title: Range criterion and classification of true entanglement in $2\times{M}\times{N}$ system
authors: Lin Chen, Yi-Xin Chen
comments: 7 papes, no figure, Revtex. This is the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A73(2006)052310
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506152
abstract: We propose a range criterion which is a sufficient and necessary condition satisfied by two pure states transformable with each other under reversible stochastic local operations assisted with classical communication. We also provide a systematic method for seeking all kinds of true entangled states in the $2\times{M}\times{N}$ system, and can effectively distinguish them by means of the range criterion. The efficiency of the criterion and the method is exhibited by the classification of true entanglement in some types of the tripartite systems.

id: quant-ph/0506153
title: On the transfer matrix method and WKB approximation for Schr?dinger equation with position-dependent effective mass
authors: C. F. Huang, S. D. Chao, D. R. Hang, Y. C. Lee
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, and 1 table. The revised manuscript has been accepted by Chinese Journal of Physics
journal: Chinese J. Phys. 46, 231 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506153
abstract: We have obtained a set of coupled differential equations from the continuous limit of the transfer matrix method. Decoupling such a set of equations yields an extension to the Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin (WKB) approximation for the Schr\"{o}dinger equation with the position-dependent effective mass (PDEM). In the classically allowed region, the decoupling is to ignore the reflection resulting from the variations of both the potential and effective mass. By considering an infinite-well example with the PDEM, it is shown that the extended WKB approximation can provide not only an estimation to eigenenergies, but also an analytic form to approximate wavefunctions.

id: quant-ph/0506154
title: No-Flipping as a consequence of No-Signalling and Non-increase of Entanglement under LOCC
authors: Indrani Chattopadhyay, Sujit K. Choudhary, Guruprasad Kar, Samir Kunkri, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 8 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 351, 384-387 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506154
abstract: Non existence of Universal NOT gate for arbitrary quantum mechanical states is a fundamental constraint on the allowed operations performed on physical systems. The largest set of states that can be flipped by using a single NOT gate is the set of states lying on a great circle of the Bloch-sphere. In this paper, we show the impossibility of universal exact-flipping operation, first by using the fact that no faster than light communication is possible and then by using the principle of "non-increase of entanglement under LOCC". Interestingly, exact flipping of the states of any great circle does not violate these two principles, as expected.

id: quant-ph/0506155
title: Quantum Robot: Structure, Algorithms and Applications
authors: Dao-Yi Dong, Chun-Lin Chen, Chen-Bin Zhang, Zong-Hai Chen
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables
journal: Robotica 24(2006)513-521
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506155
abstract: A kind of brand-new robot, quantum robot, is proposed through fusing quantum theory with robot technology. Quantum robot is essentially a complex quantum system and it is generally composed of three fundamental parts: MQCU (multi quantum computing units), quantum controller/actuator, and information acquisition units. Corresponding to the system structure, several learning control algorithms including quantum searching algorithm and quantum reinforcement learning are presented for quantum robot. The theoretic results show that quantum robot can reduce the complexity of O(N^2) in traditional robot to O(N^(3/2)) using quantum searching algorithm, and the simulation results demonstrate that quantum robot is also superior to traditional robot in efficient learning by novel quantum reinforcement learning algorithm. Considering the advantages of quantum robot, its some potential important applications are also analyzed and prospected.

id: quant-ph/0506156
title: Quantum State Transfer Characterized by Mode Entanglement
authors: Xiao-Feng Qian, Ying Li, Yong Li, Z. Song, C. P. Sun
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 062329 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506156
abstract: We study the quantum state transfer (QST) of a class of tight-bonding Bloch electron systems with mirror symmetry by considering the mode entanglement. Some rigorous results are obtained to reveal the intrinsic relationship between the fidelity of QST and the mirror mode concurrence (MMC), which is defined to measure the mode entanglement with a certain spatial symmetry and is just the overlap of a proper wave function with its mirror image. A complementarity is discovered as the maximum fidelity is accompanied by a minimum of MMC. And at the instant, which is just half of the characteristic time required to accomplish a perfect QST, the MMC can reach its maximum value one. A large class of perfect QST models with a certain spectrum structure are discovered to support our analytical results.

id: quant-ph/0506157
title: Quantum mechanics helps in learning for more intelligent robot
authors: Dao-Yi Dong, Chun-Lin Chen, Zong-Hai Chen, Chen-Bin Zhang
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Chinese Physics Letters, 2006,23(7):1691-1694
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506157
abstract: A learning algorithm based on state superposition principle is presented. The physical implementation analysis and simulated experiment results show that quantum mechanics can give helps in learning for more intelligent robot.

id: quant-ph/0506158
title: A Continuous Non-demolition Measurement of the Cs Clock Transition Pseudo-spin
authors: Souma Chaudhury, Greg A. Smith, Kevin Schulz, Poul S. Jessen
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, ReVTeX, modified text in response to referee's comments
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 043001 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506158
abstract: We demonstrate a weak continuous measurement of the pseudo-spin associated with the clock transition in a sample of Cs atoms. Our scheme uses an optical probe tuned near the D1 transition to measure the sample birefringence, which depends on the z-component of the collective pseudospin. At certain probe frequencies the differential light shift of the clock states vanishes and the measurement is non-perturbing. In dense samples the measurement can be used to squeeze the collective clock pseudo-spin, and has potential to improve the performance of atomic clocks and interferometers.

id: quant-ph/0506159
title: Conditionalizing and commutativity: a note on Malley
authors: Allen Stairs, Jeffrey Bub
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506159
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn.

id: quant-ph/0506160
title: Mutual Information of Bipartite States and Quantum Discord in Terms of Coherence Information
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 34 pp. ps. Accepted for publ. in Int. J. Quantum Inf
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 3, No 4 (2005) 691-728.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506160
abstract: In relation of observable and quantum state, the entity $I_C$ from previous work quantifies simultaneously coherence, incompatibility and quantumness. In this article its application to quantum correlations in bipartite states is studied. It is shown that Zurek's quantum discord can always be expressed as excess coherence information (global minus local). Strong and weak zero-discord cases are distinguished and investigated in terms of necessary and sufficient and sufficient conditions respectively. A unique string of relevant subsystem observables, each a function of the next, for "interrogating" the global state about the state of the opposite subsystem is derived with detailed entropy and information gain discussion. The apparent disappearance of discord in measurement is investigated, and it is shown that it is actually shifted from between subsystems 1 and 2 to between subsystems 1 and $(2+3)$, where 3 is the measuring instrument. Finally, it is shown that the global coherence information $I_C(A_2,\rho_{12})$ is shifted into the global coherence information $I_C(A_2,\rho_{123}^f)$ in the final state $\rho_{123}^f$ of the measurement interaction.

id: quant-ph/0506161
title: Three-qubit Thermal Entanglement via Entanglement Swapping on Two-qubit Heisenberg XY chains
authors: Zi Chong Kao, Jezreel Ng, Ye Yeo
comments: 13 pages, 1 table, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506161
abstract: In this paper we consider the generation of a three-qubit GHZ-like thermal state by applying the entanglement swapping scheme of Zukowski {\it et al.} [Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci. {\bf 755}, 91 (1995)] to three pairs of two-qubit Heisenberg XY chains. The quality of the resulting three-qubit entanglement is studied by analyzing the teleportation fidelity, when it is used as a resource in the teleportation protocol of Karlsson {\it et al.}[Phys. Rev. A {\bf 58}, 4394 (1998)]. We show that even though thermal noise in the original two-qubit states is amplified by the entanglement swapping process, we are still able to achieve nonclassical fidelities for the anisotropic Heisenberg XY chains at finitely higher and higher temperatures by adjusting the strengths of an external magnetic field. This has a positive implication on the solid-state realization of a quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0506162
title: Iterative entanglement distillation for finite resources
authors: Stefan Probst-Schendzielorz, Thorsten Bschorr, Matthias Freyberger
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506162
abstract: We discuss a specific entanglement distillation scheme under the constraint of finite samples of entangled qubit pairs. It is shown that an iterative process can be explicitly formulated. The average fidelity of this process can be enhanced by introducing conditional storing of entangled qubit pairs in each step of the iteration. We investigate the corresponding limitations on the size and the initial fidelity of the sample.

id: quant-ph/0506163
title: Microcanonical distributions for quantum systems
authors: Dorje C Brody, Daniel W Hook, Lane P Hughston
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506163
abstract: The standard assumption for the equilibrium microcanonical state in quantum mechanics, that the system must be in one of the energy eigenstates, is weakened so as to allow superpositions of states. The weakened form of the microcanonical postulate thus asserts that all quantum states giving rise to the same energy expectation value must be realised with equal probability. The consequences that follow from this assertion are investigated. In particular, a closed-form expression for the density of states associated with any system having a nondegenerate energy spectrum is obtained. The result is applied to a variety of examples, for which the behaviour of the state density, as well as the relation between energy and temperature, are determined. Numerical studies indicate that the density of states converges to a distribution when the number of energy levels approaches infinity.

id: quant-ph/0506164
title: Preparing multi-partite entanglement of photons and matter qubits
authors: Pieter Kok, Sean D. Barrett, Timothy P. Spiller
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures; to appear in Journal of Optics B
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 S166 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506164
abstract: We show how to make event-ready multi-partite entanglement between qubits which may be encoded on photons or matter systems. Entangled states of matter systems, which can also act as single photon sources, can be generated using the entangling operation presented in quant-ph/0408040. We show how to entangle such sources with photon qubits, which may be encoded in the dual rail, polarization or time-bin degrees of freedom. We subsequently demonstrate how projective measurements of the matter qubits can be used to create entangled states of the photons alone. The state of the matter qubits is inherited by the generated photons. Since the entangling operation can be used to generate cluster states of matter qubits for quantum computing, our procedure enables us to create any (entangled) photonic quantum state that can be written as the outcome of a quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0506165
title: The certainty principle
authors: D. A. Arbatsky
comments: One paper, in Russian and in English, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506165
abstract: The notion of the quantum angle is introduced. The quantum angle turns out to be a metric on the set of physical states of a quantum system. Its kinematics and dynamics is studied. The certainty principle for quantum systems is formulated and proved. It turns out that the certainty principle is closely connected with the Heisenberg uncertainty principle (it presents, in some sense, an opposite point of view). But at the same time the certainty principle allows to give rigorous formulations for wider class of problems (it allows to rigorously interpret and ground the analogous inequalities for the pairs of quantities like time - energy, angle - angular momentum etc.)

id: quant-ph/0506166
title: Absolute Quantum Efficiency Measurements by Means of Conditioned Polarization Rotation
authors: Giorgio Brida, Maria Chekhova, Marco Genovese, Marco Gramegna, Leonid Krivitsky, Maria Luisa Rastello
comments: 
journal: IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INSTRUMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT, VOL. 54, NO. 2, APRIL 2005, pag. 898
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506166
abstract: We propose a new scheme for measuring the quantum efficiency of photon counting detectors by using correlated pho-tons. The measurement technique is based on a 90 rotation of the polarization of one photon member of a correlated pair produced by parametric down-conversion, conditioned on the detection of the other correlated photon after polarization selection. We present experimental results obtained with this scheme.

id: quant-ph/0506167
title: Pseudoresonance mechanism of all-optical frequency standard operation
authors: G. Kazakov, B. Matisov, I.Mazets, G.Mileti, J.Delporte
comments: revtex4, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506167
abstract: We propose a novel approach to all-optical frequency standard design, based on a counterintuitive combination of the coherent population trapping effect and signal discrimination at the maximum of absorption for the probe radiation. The short-term stability of such a standard can achieve the level of 10^-14/(\tau)^1/2. The physics beyond this approach is dark resonance splitting caused by interaction of the nuclear magnetic moment with the external magnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0506168
title: Local vs Nonlocal cloning in a noisy environment
authors: A. Ferraro, M. G. A. Paris
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Opt. B 7, 532, (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506168
abstract: We address the distribution of quantum information among many parties in the presence of noise. In particular, we consider how to optimally send to m receivers the information encoded into an unknown coherent state. On one hand, a local strategy is considered, consisting in a local cloning process followed by direct transmission. On the other hand, a telecloning protocol based on nonlocal quantum correlations is analyzed. Both the strategies are optimized to minimize the detrimental effects due to losses and thermal noise along the propagation. The comparison between the local and the nonlocal protocol shows that telecloning is more effective than local cloning for a wide range of noise parameters. Our results indicate that nonlocal strategies can be more robust against noise than local ones, thus being suitable candidates to play a major role in quantum information networks.

id: quant-ph/0506169
title: Entanglement and criticality in translational invariant harmonic lattice systems with finite-range interactions
authors: R. G. Unanyan, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 4 pages, one figure, revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506169
abstract: We discuss the relation between entanglement and criticality in translationally invariant harmonic lattice systems with non-randon, finite-range interactions. We show that the criticality of the system as well as validity or break-down of the entanglement area law are solely determined by the analytic properties of the spectral function of the oscillator system, which can easily be computed. In particular for finite-range couplings we find a one-to-one correspondence between an area-law scaling of the bi-partite entanglement and a finite correlation length. This relation is strict in the one-dimensional case and there is strog evidence for the multi-dimensional case. We also discuss generalizations to couplings with infinite range. Finally, to illustrate our results, a specific 1D example with nearest and next-nearest neighbor coupling is analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0506170
title: Bounds on Multipartite Entangled Orthogonal State Discrimination Using Local Operations and Classical Communication
authors: M. Hayashi, D. Markham, M. Murao, M. Owari, S. Virmani
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. Title changed in accordance with jounral request. Major changes to the paper. Intro rewritten to make motivation clear, and proofs rewritten to be clearer. Picture added for clarity
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96 (2006),040501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506170
abstract: We show that entanglement guarantees difficulty in the discrimination of orthogonal multipartite states locally. The number of pure states that can be discriminated by local operations and classical communication is bounded by the total dimension over the average entanglement. A similar, general condition is also shown for pure and mixed states. These results offer a rare operational interpretation for three abstractly defined distance like measures of multipartite entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0506171
title: Multiple-Access Bosonic Communications
authors: Brent J. Yen, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, corrected two figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506171
abstract: The maximum rates for reliably transmitting classical information over Bosonic multiple-access channels (MACs) are derived when the transmitters are restricted to coherent-state encodings. Inner and outer bounds for the ultimate capacity region of the Bosonic MAC are also presented. It is shown that the sum-rate upper bound is achievable with a coherent-state encoding and that the entire region is asymptotically achievable in the limit of large mean input photon numbers.

id: quant-ph/0506172
title: Controlled Flow of Spin-Entangled Electrons via Adiabatic Quantum Pumping
authors: Kunal K. Das, Sungjun Kim, Ari Mizel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 096602 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506172
abstract: We propose a method to dynamically generate and control the flow of spin-entangled electrons, each belonging to a spin-singlet, by means of adiabatic quantum pumping. The pumping cycle functions by periodic time variation of localized two-body interactions. We develop a generalized approach to adiabatic quantum pumping as traditional methods based on scattering matrix in one dimension cannot be applied here. We specifically compute the flow of spin-entangled electrons within a Hubbard-like model of quantum dots, and discuss possible implementations and identify parameters that can be used to control the singlet flow.

id: quant-ph/0506173
title: Quantum Mechanics in Multiply-Connected Spaces
authors: Detlef Duerr, Sheldon Goldstein, James Taylor, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 45 pages LaTeX, no figures; v2 some extensions
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 2997-3031
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506173
abstract: We explain why, in a configuration space that is multiply connected, i.e., whose fundamental group is nontrivial, there are several quantum theories, corresponding to different choices of topological factors. We do this in the context of Bohmian mechanics, a quantum theory without observers from which the quantum formalism can be derived. What we do can be regarded as generalizing the Bohmian dynamics on $\mathbb{R}^{3N}$ to arbitrary Riemannian manifolds, and classifying the possible dynamics that arise. This approach provides a new understanding of the topological features of quantum theory, such as the symmetrization postulate for identical particles. For our analysis we employ wave functions on the universal covering space of the configuration space.

id: quant-ph/0506174
title: Quantumness of ensemble from no-broadcasting principle
authors: M. Horodecki, P. Horodecki, R. Horodecki, M. Piani
comments: Published version: discussion on permanence added
journal: Int. J. Quantum Information 4, 105 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506174
abstract: Quantum information, though not precisely defined, is a fundamental concept of quantum information theory which predicts many fascinating phenomena and provides new physical resources. A basic problem is to recognize the features of quantum systems responsible for those phenomena. One of such important features is that non-commuting quantum states cannot be broadcast: two copies cannot be obtained out of a single copy, not even reproduced marginally on separate systems. We focus on the difference of information contents between one copy and two copies which is a basic manifestation of the gap between quantum and classical information. We show that if the chosen information measure is the Holevo quantity, the difference between the information contents of one copy and two copies is zero if and only if the states can be broadcast. We propose a new approach in defining measures of quantumness of ensembles based on the difference of information contents between the original ensemble and the ensemble of duplicated states. We comment about the permanence property of quantum states and the recently introduced superbroadcasting operation. We also provide an Appendix where we discuss the status of quantum information in quantum physics, basing on the so-called isomorphism principle.

id: quant-ph/0506175
title: Noise-free high-efficiency photon-number-resolving detectors
authors: Danna Rosenberg, Adriana E. Lita, Aaron J. Miller, Sae Woo Nam
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures Published in Physical Review A, Rapid Communications, 17 June 2005
journal: Physical Review A, 71, 061803(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506175
abstract: High-efficiency optical detectors that can determine the number of photons in a pulse of monochromatic light have applications in a variety of physics studies, including post-selection-based entanglement protocols for linear optics quantum computing and experiments that simultaneously close the detection and communication loopholes of Bell's inequalities. Here we report on our demonstration of fiber-coupled, noise-free, photon-number-resolving transition-edge sensors with 88% efficiency at 1550 nm. The efficiency of these sensors could be made even higher at any wavelength in the visible and near-infrared spectrum without resulting in a higher dark-count rate or degraded photon-number resolution.

id: quant-ph/0506176
title: Equations of Motion with Multiple Proper Time: A New Interpretation of Spin
authors: Xiaodong Chen
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506176
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to show that: when a single particle moving under 3-proper time (three-dimensional time), the trajectories of a classical particle are equivalent to a quantum field with spin. Three-proper time models are built for spinless particle, particles with integer spin and half-integer spin respectively. The models recreate the same physical behavior as quantum field theory of free particles -- by using pure classical methods with three proper time. A new interpretation of spin is given. It provides us more evident that it is possible to interpret quantum physics by using multiple dimensional time. In the last part of this paper, Bose-Einstein statistics and Fermi-Dirac statistics are derived under classical method.

id: quant-ph/0506177
title: Completely Quantized Collapse and Consequences
authors: Philip Pearle
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506177
abstract: Promotion of quantum theory from a theory of measurement to a theory of reality requires an unambiguous specification of the ensemble of realizable states (and each state's probability of realization). Although not yet achieved within the framework of standard quantum theory, it has been achieved within the framework of the Continuous Spontaneous Localization (CSL) wave function collapse model. In this paper, I consider a previously presented model, which is predictively equivalent to CSL. In this Completely Quantized Collapse (CQC) model, the classical random field which causes collapse in CSL is quantized. The ensemble of realizable states is described by a single state vector, the "ensemble vector," the sum of the direct product of an eigenstate of the quantized field and the CSL state corresponding to that eigenstate. Using this description, a long standing problem is resolved: it is shown how to define energy of the random field and its energy of interaction with particles so that total energy is conserved for the ensemble of realizable states. As a byproduct, since the random field energy spectrum is unbounded, its canonical conjugate, a self-adjoint time operator, is discussed. Finally, CSL is a phenomenological description, whose connection to, or derivation from, more conventional physics has not yet appeared. We suggest that, because CQC is fully quantized, it is a natural framework for replacement of the classical field of CSL by a quantized physical entity. Two illustrative examples are given.

id: quant-ph/0506178
title: A degenerate three-level laser with a parametric amplifier
authors: E. Alebachew, K. Fesseha
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Opt. Commun. 265, 314 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506178
abstract: The aim of this paper is to study the squeezing and statistical properties of the light produced by a degenerate three-level laser whose cavity contains a degenerate parametric amplifier. In this quantum optical system the top and bottom levels of the three-level atoms injected into the laser cavity are coupled by the pump mode emerging from the parametric amplifier. For a linear gain coefficient of 100 and for a cavity damping constant of 0.8, the maximum intracavity squeezing is found at steady state and at threshold to be 93%.

id: quant-ph/0506179
title: Velocity quantization approach of the one-dimensional dissipative harmonic oscillator
authors: Gustavo Lopez, Pablo Lopez
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506179
abstract: Given a constant of motion for the one-dimensional harmonic oscillator with linear dissipation in the velocity, the problem to get the Hamiltonian for this system is pointed out, and the quantization up to second order in the perturbation approach is used to determine the modification on the eigenvalues when dissipation is taken into consideration. This quantization is realized using the constant of motion instead of the Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0506180
title: Popescu-Rohrlich correlations as a unit of nonlocality
authors: Jonathan Barrett, Stefano Pironio
comments: 5 pages, no figures. v2: minor modifications
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 140401 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506180
abstract: A set of nonlocal correlations that have come to be known as a PR box suggest themselves as a natural unit of nonlocality, much as a singlet is a natural unit of entanglement. We present two results relevant to this idea. One is that a wide class of multipartite correlations can be simulated using local operations on PR boxes only. We show this with an explicit scheme, which has the interesting feature that the number of PR boxes required is related to the computational resources necessary to represent a function defining the multipartite box. The second result is that there are quantum multipartite correlations, arising from measurements on a cluster state, that cannot be simulated with n PR boxes, for any n.

id: quant-ph/0506181
title: Infinitesimal local operations and differential conditions for entanglement monotones
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov, Todd A. Brun
comments: 21 pages, RevTeX format, no figures, three minor corrections, including a factor of two in the differential conditions, the tracelessness of the matrix in the convexity condition, and the proof that the local purity is a monotone under local measurements. The conclusions of the paper are unaffected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 042314 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506181
abstract: Much of the theory of entanglement concerns the transformations that are possible to a state under local operations with classical communication (LOCC); however, this set of operations is complicated and difficult to describe mathematically. An idea which has proven very useful is that of the {\it entanglement monotone}: a function of the state which is invariant under local unitary transformations and always decreases (or increases) on average after any local operation. In this paper we look on LOCC as the set of operations generated by {\it infinitesimal local operations}, operations which can be performed locally and which leave the state little changed. We show that a necessary and sufficient condition for a function of the state to be an entanglement monotone under local operations that do not involve information loss is that the function be a monotone under infinitesimal local operations. We then derive necessary and sufficient differential conditions for a function of the state to be an entanglement monotone. We first derive two conditions for local operations without information loss, and then show that they can be extended to more general operations by adding the requirement of {\it convexity}. We then demonstrate that a number of known entanglement monotones satisfy these differential criteria. Finally, as an application, we use the differential conditions to construct a new polynomial entanglement monotone for three-qubit pure states. It is our hope that this approach will avoid some of the difficulties in the theory of multipartite and mixed-state entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0506182
title: Interconversion of Nonlocal Correlations
authors: Nick S. Jones, Lluis Masanes
comments: 7 pages + appendix, single column
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052312 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506182
abstract: In this paper we study the correlations that arise when two separated parties perform measurements on systems they hold locally. We restrict ourselves to those correlations with which arbitrarily fast transmission of information is impossible. These correlations are called nonsignaling. We allow the measurements to be chosen from sets of an arbitrary size, but promise that each measurement has only two possible outcomes. We find the structure of this convex set of nonsignaling correlations by characterizing its extreme points. Taking an information-theoretic view, we prove that all of these extreme correlations are interconvertible. This suggests that the simplest extremal nonlocal distribution (called a PR box) might be the basic unit of nonlocality. We also show that this unit of nonlocality is sufficient to simulate all quantum states when measured with two outcome measurements.

id: quant-ph/0506183
title: Unstable particles as open quantum systems
authors: P. Caban, J. Rembielinski, K. A. Smolinski, Z. Walczak
comments: 11 pp, 2 figs (published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 032106 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506183
abstract: We present the probability preserving description of the decaying particle within the framework of quantum mechanics of open systems taking into account the superselection rule prohibiting the superposition of the particle and vacuum. In our approach the evolution of the system is given by a family of completely positive trace preserving maps forming one-parameter dynamical semigroup. We give the Kraus representation for the general evolution of such systems which allows one to write the evolution for systems with two or more particles. Moreover, we show that the decay of the particle can be regarded as a Markov process by finding explicitly the master equation in the Lindblad form. We also show that there are remarkable restrictions on the possible strength of decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0506184
title: The Arrow of Time in Rigged Hilbert Space Quantum Mechanics
authors: Robert C. Bishop
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506184
abstract: Arno Bohm and Ilya Prigogine's Brussels-Austin Group have been working on the quantum mechanical arrow of time and irreversibility in rigged Hilbert space quantum mechanics. A crucial notion in Bohm's approach is the so-called preparation/registration arrow. An analysis of this arrow and its role in Bohm's theory of scattering is given. Similarly, the Brussels-Austin Group uses an excitation/de-excitation arrow for ordering events, which is also analyzed. The relationship between the two approaches is initially discussed focusing on their semi-group operators and time arrows. Finally a possible realist interpretation of the rigged Hilbert space formulation of quantum mechanics is considered.

id: quant-ph/0506185
title: Quantum limited velocity readout and quantum feedback cooling of a trapped ion via electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: Peter Rabl, Viktor Steixner, Peter Zoller
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 043823 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506185
abstract: We discuss continuous observation of the momentum of a single atom by employing the high velocity sensitivity of the index of refraction in a driven $\Lambda$-system based on electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). In the ideal limit of unit collection efficiency this provides a quantum limited measurement with minimal backaction on the atomic motion. A feedback loop, which drives the atom with a force proportional to measured signal, provides a cooling mechanism for the atomic motion. We derive the master equation which describes the feedback cooling and show that in the Lamb-Dicke limit the steady state energies are close to the ground state, limited only by the photon collection efficiency. Outside of the Lamb-Dicke regime the predicted temperatures are well below the Doppler limit.

id: quant-ph/0506186
title: Resonances, Unstable Systems and Irreversibility: Matter Meets Mind
authors: Robert C. Bishop
comments: 9 pages. Presented at the CFIF Workshop on TimeAsymmetric Quantum Theory: The Theory of Resonances, 23-26 July 2003, Instituto Superior Tecnico, Lisbon, Portugal; and at the Quantum Structures Association Meeting, 7-22 July 2004, University of Denver. Accepted for publication in the Internation Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506186
abstract: The fundamental time-reversal invariance of dynamical systems can be broken in various ways. One way is based on the presence of resonances and their interactions giving rise to unstable dynamical systems, leading to well-defined time arrows. Associated with these time arrows are semigroups bearing time orientations. Usually, when time symmetry is broken, two time-oriented semigroups result, one directed toward the future and one directed toward the past. If time-reversed states and evolutions are excluded due to resonances, then the status of these states and their associated backwards-in-time oriented semigroups is open to question. One possible role for these latter states and semigroups is as an abstract representation of mental systems as opposed to material systems. The beginnings of this interpretation will be sketched.

id: quant-ph/0506187
title: Quantum feedback cooling of a single trapped ion in front of a mirror
authors: V. Steixner, P. Rabl, P. Zoller
comments: 15 pages, 11 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506187
abstract: We develop a theory of quantum feedback cooling of a single ion trapped in front of a mirror. By monitoring the motional sidebands of the light emitted into the mirror mode we infer the position of the ion, and act back with an appropriate force to cool the ion. We derive a feedback master equation along the lines of the quantum feedback theory developed by Wiseman and Milburn, which provides us with cooling times and final temperatures as a function of feedback gain and various system parameters.

id: quant-ph/0506188
title: Scattering induced dynamical entanglement and the quantum-classical correspondence
authors: M. Lombardi, A. Matzkin
comments: Published version
journal: Europhys. Lett. 74, 771 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506188
abstract: The generation of entanglement produced by a local potential interaction in a bipartite system is investigated. The degree of entanglement is contrasted with the underlying classical dynamics for a Rydberg molecule (a charged particle colliding on a kicked top). Entanglement is seen to depend on the structure of classical phase-space rather than on the global dynamical regime. As a consequence regular classical dynamics can in certain circumstances be associated with higher entanglement generation than chaotic dynamics. In addition quantum effects also come into play: for example partial revivals, which are expected to persist in the semiclassical limit, affect the long time behaviour of the reduced linear entropy. These results suggest that entanglement may not be a pertinent universal signature of chaos.

id: quant-ph/0506189
title: General paradigm for distilling classical key from quantum states
authors: Karol Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: 41 pages, ReVTeX4, improved version, resubmitted to IEEE
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 55, 1898 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506189
abstract: We develop a formalism for distilling a classical key from a quantum state in a systematic way, expanding on our previous work on secure key from bound entanglement [K. Horodecki et. al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 94 (2005)]. More detailed proofs, discussion and examples are provided of the main results. Namely, we demonstrate that all quantum cryptographic protocols can be recast in a way which looks like entanglement theory, with the only change being that instead of distilling EPR pairs, the parties distill private states. The form of these general private states are given, and we show that there are a number of useful ways of expressing them. Some of the private states can be approximated by certain states which are bound entangled. Thus distillable entanglement is not a requirement for a private key. We find that such bound entangled states are useful for a cryptographic primitive we call a controlled private quantum channel. We also find a general class of states which have negative partial transpose (are NPT), but which appear to be bound entangled. The relative entropy distance is shown to be an upper bound on the rate of key. This allows us to compute the exact value of distillable key for a certain class of private states.

id: quant-ph/0506190
title: Local Conversion of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger States to Approximate W States
authors: P. Walther, K.J. Resch, A. Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 240501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506190
abstract: Genuine 3-qubit entanglement comes in two different inconvertible types represented by the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state and the W state. We describe a specific method based on local positive operator valued measures and classical communication that can convert the ideal N-qubit GHZ state to a state arbitrarily close to the ideal N-qubit W state. We then experimentally implement this scheme in the 3-qubit case and characterize the input and the final state using 3-photon quantum state tomography.

id: quant-ph/0506191
title: The noncommutative degenerate electron gas
authors: F. S. Bemfica, H. O. Girotti
comments: 11 pages, to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) L539
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506191
abstract: The quantum dynamics of nonrelativistic single particle systems involving noncommutative coordinates, usually referred to as noncommutative quantum mechanics, has lately been the object of several investigations. In this note we pursue these studies for the case of multi-particle systems. We use as a prototype the degenerate electron gas whose dynamics is well known in the commutative limit. Our central aim here is to understand qualitatively, rather than quantitatively, the main modifications induced by the presence of noncommutative coordinates. We shall first see that the noncommutativity modifies the exchange correlation energy while preserving the electric neutrality of the model. By employing time-independent perturbation theory together with the Seiberg-Witten map we show, afterwards, that the ionization potential is modified by the noncommutativity. It also turns out that the noncommutative parameter acts as a reference temperature. Hence, the noncommutativity lifts the degeneracy of the zero temperature electron gas.

id: quant-ph/0506192
title: Quantum Scattering in Quasi-1D Cylindrical Confinement
authors: J.I. Kim, J. Schmiedmayer, P. Schmelcher
comments: Extended version of quant-ph/0503196
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506192
abstract: Finite size effects alter not only the energy levels of small systems, but can also lead to new effective interactions within these systems. Here the problem of low energy quantum scattering by a spherically symmetric short range potential in the presence of a general cylindrical confinement is investigated. A Green's function formalism is developed which accounts for the full 3D nature of the scattering potential by incorporating all phase-shifts and their couplings. This quasi-1D geometry gives rise to scattering resonances and weakly localized states, whose binding energies and wavefunctions can be systematically calculated. Possible applications include e.g. impurity scattering in ballistic quasi-1D quantum wires in mesoscopic systems and in atomic matter wave guides. In the particular case of parabolic confinement, the present formalism can also be applied to pair collision processes such as two-body interactions. Weakly bound pairs and quasi-molecules induced by the confinement and having zero or higher orbital angular momentum can be predicted, such as p- and d-wave pairings.

id: quant-ph/0506193
title: Security of Continuous-variable quantum cryptography using coherent states: Decline of postselection advantage
authors: Ryo Namiki, Takuya Hirano
comments: Revtex4, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506193
abstract: We investigate the security of continuous-variable (CV) quantum key distribution (QKD) using coherent states in the presence of quadrature excess noise. We consider an eavesdropping attack which uses a linear amplifier and beam splitter. This attack makes a link between beam-splitting attack and intercept-resend attack (classical teleportation attack). We also show how postselection loses its efficiency in a realistic channel.

id: quant-ph/0506194
title: Improving the security of multiparty quantum secret sharing against Trojan horse attack
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Xi-Han Li, Hong-Yu Zhou, Zhan-jun Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; The revised version of the paper published in Phys. Rev. A 72, 044302 (2005). A bug is modified and an addendum is added
journal: Physical Review A 72, 044302 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506194
abstract: We analyzed the security of the multiparty quantum secret sharing (MQSS) protocol recently proposed by Zhang, Li and Man [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{71}, 044301 (2005)] and found that this protocol is secure for any other eavesdropper except for the agent Bob who prepares the quantum signals as he can attack the quantum communication with a Trojan horse. That is, Bob replaces the single-photon signal with a multi-photon one and the other agent Charlie cannot find this cheating as she does not measure the photons before they runs back from the boss Alice, which reveals that this MQSS protocol is not secure for Bob. Finally, we present a possible improvement of the MQSS protocol security with two single-photon measurements and six unitary operations.

id: quant-ph/0506195
title: Temporal shape manipulation of adiabatons
authors: V. G. Arkhipkin, I. V. Timofeev
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures, LaTeX, sent to Phys. Rev. A, correct indices added in fig 1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 025803 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506195
abstract: We describe how to control the temporal shape of adiabaton using peculiarities of propagation dynamics under coherent population trapping. Temporal compression is demonstrated as a special case of pulse shaping. The general case of unequal oscillator strengths of two optical transitions in atom is considered.

id: quant-ph/0506196
title: Multiplicativity of completely bounded p-norms implies a new additivity result
authors: Igor Devetak, Marius Junge, Christopher King, Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: Final version for Commun. Math. Physics. Section 5.2 of previous version deleted in view of the results in quant-ph/0601071 Other changes minor
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 266, 37-63 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506196
abstract: We prove additivity of the minimal conditional entropy associated with a quantum channel Phi, represented by a completely positive (CP), trace-preserving map, when the infimum of S(gamma_{12}) - S(gamma_1) is restricted to states of the form gamma_{12} = (I \ot Phi)(| psi >< psi |). We show that this follows from multiplicativity of the completely bounded norm of Phi considered as a map from L_1 -> L_p for L_p spaces defined by the Schatten p-norm on matrices; we also give an independent proof based on entropy inequalities. Several related multiplicativity results are discussed and proved. In particular, we show that both the usual L_1 -> L_p norm of a CP map and the corresponding completely bounded norm are achieved for positive semi-definite matrices. Physical interpretations are considered, and a new proof of strong subadditivity is presented.

id: quant-ph/0506197
title: Estimating the spectrum of a density matrix with LOCC
authors: Manuel A. Ballester
comments: 12 pages, uses iopart.cls and iopart10.clo. Improved version. v3: Reference updated, added journal reference
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 1645-1656
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506197
abstract: The problem of estimating the spectrum of a density matrix is considered. Other problems, such as bipartite pure state entanglement, can be reduced to spectrum estimation. A local operations and classical communication (LOCC) measurement strategy is shown which is asymptotically optimal. This means that, for a very large number of copies, it becomes unnecessary to perform collective measurements which should be more difficult to implement in practice.

id: quant-ph/0506198
title: Spin transport and quasi 2D architectures for donor-based quantum computing
authors: L.C.L. Hollenberg, A.D. Greentree, A.G. Fowler, C.J. Wellard
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, v2 reference added
journal: Physical Review B 74, 045311 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506198
abstract: Through the introduction of a new electron spin transport mechanism, a 2D donor electron spin quantum computer architecture is proposed. This design addresses major technical issues in the original Kane design, including spatial oscillations in the exchange coupling strength and cross-talk in gate control. It is also expected that the introduction of a degree of non-locality in qubit gates will significantly improve the scaling fault-tolerant threshold over the nearest-neighbour linear array.

id: quant-ph/0506199
title: Experimental motivation and empirical consistency in minimal no-collapse quantum mechanics
authors: Maximilian Schlosshauer
comments: 24 pages, 11 figures, final published version
journal: Ann. Phys. 321, 112-149 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506199
abstract: We analyze three important experimental domains (SQUIDs, molecular interferometry, and Bose-Einstein condensation) as well as quantum-biophysical studies of the neuronal apparatus to argue that (i) the universal validity of unitary dynamics and the superposition principle has been confirmed far into the mesoscopic and macroscopic realm in all experiments conducted thus far; (ii) all observed "restrictions" can be correctly and completely accounted for by taking into account environmental decoherence effects; (iii) no positive experimental evidence exists for physical state-vector collapse; (iv) the perception of single "outcomes" is likely to be explainable through decoherence effects in the neuronal apparatus. We also discuss recent progress in the understanding of the emergence of quantum probabilities and the objectification of observables. We conclude that it is not only viable, but moreover compelling to regard a minimal no-collapse quantum theory as a leading candidate for a physically motivated and empirically consistent interpretation of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0506200
title: Solving Satisfiability Problems by the Ground-State Quantum Computer
authors: Wenjin Mao
comments: Extended version of quant-ph/0411194. 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052316 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506200
abstract: A quantum algorithm is proposed to solve the Satisfiability problems by the ground-state quantum computer. The scale of the energy gap of the ground-state quantum computer is analyzed for the 3-bit Exact Cover problem. The time cost of this algorithm on the general SAT problems is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0506201
title: Internal Consistency of Fault-Tolerant Quantum Error Correction in Light of Rigorous Derivations of the Quantum Markovian Limit
authors: R. Alicki, D.A. Lidar, P. Zanardi
comments: 19 pages. v2: Significantly expanded version. New title. Includes a debate section in response to comments on the previous version, many of which appeared here this http URL and here this http URL Contains a new derivation of the Markovian master equation with periodic driving
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 052311 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506201
abstract: We critically examine the internal consistency of a set of minimal assumptions entering the theory of fault-tolerant quantum error correction for Markovian noise. These assumptions are: fast gates, a constant supply of fresh and cold ancillas, and a Markovian bath. We point out that these assumptions may not be mutually consistent in light of rigorous formulations of the Markovian approximation. Namely, Markovian dynamics requires either the singular coupling limit (high temperature), or the weak coupling limit (weak system-bath interaction). The former is incompatible with the assumption of a constant and fresh supply of cold ancillas, while the latter is inconsistent with fast gates. We discuss ways to resolve these inconsistencies. As part of our discussion we derive, in the weak coupling limit, a new master equation for a system subject to periodic driving.

id: quant-ph/0506202
title: Spin-projection orientations in the plane square-lattice Ising model with periodic boundary conditions
authors: You-gang Feng
comments: 7 pages,submitted to EJTP,the word"spin orientation" is substituted by the word "spin-projection orientation"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506202
abstract: The periodic boundary conditions changed the plane square-lattice Ising model to the torus-lattice system which restricts the spin-projection orientations. Only two of the three important spin-projection orientations, parallel to the x-axis or to the y-axis, are suited to the torus-lattice system. The infinitesimal difference of the free-energies of the systems between the two systems mentioned above makes their critical temperatures infinitely close to each other, but their topological fundamental groups are distinct.

id: quant-ph/0506203
title: Low dimensional bound entanglement with one-way distillable cryptographic key
authors: Karol Horodecki, Lukasz Pankowski, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki
comments: 5 pages, ReVTex4
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 54, 2621 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506203
abstract: We provide a class of bound entangled states that have positive distillable secure key rate. The smallest state of this kind is $4 \otimes 4$, which shows that peculiar security contained in bound entangled states does not need high dimensional systems. We show, that for these states a positive key rate can be obtained by {\it one-way} Devetak-Winter protocol. Subsequently the volume of bound entangled key-distillable states in arbitrary dimension is shown to be nonzero. We provide a scheme of verification of cryptographic quality of experimentally prepared state in terms of local observables. Proposed set of 7 collective settings is proven to be optimal in number of settings.

id: quant-ph/0506204
title: Bound States and Band Structure - a Unified Treatment through the Quantum Hamilton - Jacobi Approach
authors: S. Sree Ranjani, A. K. Kapoor, P. K. Panigrahi
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures.Accepted for publication in Annals of Physics
journal: Ann of phys, Vol 320, Issue 1, 164 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506204
abstract: We analyze the Scarf potential, which exhibits both discrete energy bound states and energy bands, through the quantum Hamilton-Jacobi approach. The singularity structure and the boundary conditions in the above approach, naturally isolate the bound and periodic states, once the problem is mapped to the zero energy sector of another quasi-exactly solvable quantum problem. The energy eigenvalues are obtained without having to solve for the corresponding eigenfunctions explicitly. We also demonstrate how to find the eigenfunctions through this method.

id: quant-ph/0506205
title: Distinguishing sets of quantum states
authors: Rahul Jain
comments: Ver1 : 2 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506205
abstract: Given two sets finite $S_0$ and $S_1$ of quantum states. We show necessary and sufficient conditions for distinguishing them by a measurement.

id: quant-ph/0506206
title: Single-shot measurement of quantum optical phase
authors: K. L. Pregnell, D. T. Pegg
comments: This paper was published in PRL in 2002 but, at the time, was not placed on the archive. It is included now to make accessing this paper easier
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 173601 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506206
abstract: Although the canonical phase of light, which is defined as the complement of photon number, has been described theoretically by a variety of distinct approaches, there have been no methods proposed for its measurement. Indeed doubts have been expressed about whether or not it is measurable. Here we show how it is possible, at least in principle, to perform a single-shot measurement of canonical phase using beam splitters, mirrors, phase shifters and photodetectors.

id: quant-ph/0506207
title: Comment on equivalence between quantum phase transition phenomena in radiation-matter and magnetic systems
authors: J. G. Brankov, N.S. Tonchev, V. A. Zagrebnov
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506207
abstract: In this Comment we show that the temperature-dependent effective Hamiltonian derived by Reslen {\it et al} [Europhys. Lett., {\bf 69} (2005) 8] or that one by Liberti and Zaffino [arXiv:cond-mat/0503742] for the Dicke model cannot be correct for any temperature. They both violate a rigorous result. The former is correct only in the quantum (zero-temperature) limit while the last one only in the classical (infinite temperature) limit. The fact that the Dicke model belongs to the universality class of the infinitely coordinated transverse-field XY model is known for more then 30 years.

id: quant-ph/0506208
title: Spin gases as microscopic models for non-Markovian decoherence
authors: L. Hartmann, J. Calsamiglia, W. D¨¹r, H.J. Briegel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052107 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506208
abstract: We analyze a microscopic decoherence model in which the total system is described as a spin gas. A spin gas consists of N classically moving particles with additional, interacting quantum degrees of freedom (e.g. spins). For various multipartite entangled probe states, we analyze the decoherence induced by interactions between the probe- and environmental spins in such spin gases. We can treat mesoscopic environments (10^5 particles). We present results for a lattice gas, which could be realized by neutral atoms hopping in an optical lattice, and show the effects of non-Markovian and correlated noise, as well as finite size effects.

id: quant-ph/0506209
title: Entangling power of permutation invariant quantum states
authors: Vladislav Popkov, Mario Salerno, Gunter Schuetz
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E72, 032327 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506209
abstract: We investigate the von Neumann entanglement entropy as function of the size of a subsystem for permutation invariant ground states in models with finite number of states per site, e.g., in quantum spin models. We demonstrate that the entanglement entropy of $n$ sites in a system of length $L$ generically grows as $\sigma\log_{2}[2\pi en(L-n)/L]+C$, where $\sigma$ is the on-site spin and $C$ is a function depending only on magnetization.

id: quant-ph/0506210
title: On divergence, relative entropy and the substate property
authors: Rahul Jain, Jaikumar Radhakrishnan, Pranab Sen
comments: Ver1 : 6 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506210
abstract: In this article we study relationship between three measures of distinguishability of quantum states called as divergence, relative entropy and the substate property.

id: quant-ph/0506211
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency for Lambda - like systems with a structured continuum
authors: A. Raczynski, M. Rzepecka, J. Zaremba, S. Zielinska-Kaniasty
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506211
abstract: Electric susceptibility of a laser-dressed atomic medium is calculated for a model Lambda - like system including two lower states and a continuum structured by a presence of an autoionizing state or a continuum with a laser-induced structure. Depending on the strength of a control field it is possible to obtain a significant reduction of the light velocity in a narrow frequency window in the conditions of a small absorption. A smooth transition is shown between the case of a flat continuum and that of a discrete state serving as the upper state of a Lambda system.

id: quant-ph/0506212
title: Dynamical Entanglement in Particle Scattering
authors: N. L. Harshman
comments: 6 pages, submitted to Int. J. Mod. Phys. A as part of MRST 2005 conference proceedings
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A20 (2005) 6220-6228
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506212
abstract: This paper explores the connections between particle scattering and quantum information theory in the context of the non-relativistic, elastic scattering of two spin-1/2 particles. An untangled, pure, two-particle in-state is evolved by an S-matrix that respects certain symmetries and the entanglement of the pure out-state is measured. The analysis is phrased in terms of unitary, irreducible representations (UIRs) of the symmetry group in question, either the rotation group for the spin degrees of freedom or the Galilean group for non-relativistic particles. Entanglement may occurs when multiple UIRs appear in the direct sum decomposition of the direct product in-state, but it also depends of the scattering phase shifts. \keywords{dynamical entanglement, scattering, Clebsch-Gordan methods}

id: quant-ph/0506213
title: Entanglement sharing: from qubits to Gaussian states
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 11 pages. Proceedings of the workshop "Entanglement in physical and information sciences", Centro Ennio de Giorgi, Pisa, December 2004. (v2) References updated, final version published in Int. J. Quant. Inf
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 4, No. 3 (2006) 383-393
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506213
abstract: It is a central trait of quantum information theory that there exist limitations to the free sharing of quantum correlations among multiple parties. Such 'monogamy constraints' have been introduced in a landmark paper by Coffman, Kundu and Wootters, who derived a quantitative inequality expressing a trade-off between the couplewise and the genuine tripartite entanglement for states of three qubits. Since then, a lot of efforts have been devoted to the investigation of distributed entanglement in multipartite quantum systems. In these proceedings we report, in a unifying framework, a bird's eye view of the most relevant results that have been established so far on entanglement sharing in quantum systems. We will take off from the domain of N qubits, graze qudits, and finally land in the almost unexplored territory of multimode Gaussian states of continuous variable systems.

id: quant-ph/0506214
title: Adventures of the Coupled Yang-Mills Oscillators: I. Semiclassical Expansion
authors: Sergei G. Matinyan, Berndt M¨¹ller
comments: 
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 45-60
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506214
abstract: We study the quantum mechanical motion in the $x^2y^2$ potentials with $n=2,3$, which arise in the spatially homogeneous limit of the Yang-Mills (YM) equations. These systems show strong stochasticity in the classical limit ($\hbar = 0$) and exhibit a quantum mechanical confinement feature. We calculate the partition function $Z(t)$ going beyond the Thomas-Fermi (TF) approximation by means of the semiclassical expansion using the Wigner-Kirkwood (WK) method. We derive a novel compact form of the differential equation for the WK function. After separating the motion in the channels of the equipotential surface from the motion in the central region, we show that the leading higher-order corrections to the TF term vanish up to eighth order in $\hbar$, if we treat the quantum motion in the hyperbolic channels correctly by adiabatic separation of the degrees of freedom. Finally, we obtain an asymptotic expansion of the partition function in terms of the parameter $g^2\hbar^4t^3$.

id: quant-ph/0506215
title: Atomic Quantum Memory for Photonic Qubits via Scattering in Cavity QED
authors: Hiroyuki Yamada, Katsuji Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506215
abstract: We investigate a scheme of atomic quantum memory to store photonic qubits in cavity QED. This is motivated on the recent observation that the quantum-state swapping between a single-photon pulse and a Lambda-type atom trapped in a cavity is ideally realized via scattering for some specific case in the strong coupling cavity regime [T. W. Chen, C. K. Law, and P. T. Leung, Phys. Rev. A 69, 063810 (2004)]. We derive a simple formula for calculating the fidelity of this atom-photon swapping for quantum memory. We further propose a feasible method which implements conditionally the quantum memory operation with the fidelity of almost unity even if the atom-photon coupling is not so strong. This method can also be applied to store a photonic entanglement in spatially separated atomic quantum memories.

id: quant-ph/0506216
title: Probabilistic teleportation of unknown two-particle state via POVM
authors: Fengli Yan, Hewei Ding
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: Chinese Physics Letters, 23 (2006) 17
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506216
abstract: We propose a scheme for probabilistic teleportation of unknown two-particle state with partly entangled four-particle state via POVM. In this scheme the teleportation of unknown two-particle state can be realized with certain probability by performing two Bell state measurements, a proper POVM and a unitary transformation.

id: quant-ph/0506217
title: Entanglement of pair cat states and teleportation
authors: Shang-Bin Li, Ru-Kuan Wu, Qin-Mei Wang, Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 15 page, 6 figures, Latex
journal: Phys. Lett. A 325 (3-4): 206 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506217
abstract: The entanglement of pair cat states in the phase damping channel is studied by employing the relative entropy of entanglement. It is shown that the pair cat states can always be distillable in the phase damping channel. Furthermore, we analyze the fidelity of teleportation for the pair cat states by using joint measurements of the photon-number sum and phase difference.

id: quant-ph/0506218
title: Influence of intrinsic decoherence on nonclassical properties of the output of a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Shang-Bin Li, Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, Latex
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. B 19 (1-2): 35 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506218
abstract: We investigate nonclassical properties of the output of a Bose-Einstein condensate in Milburn's model of intrinsic decoherence. It is shown that the squeezing property of the atom laser is suppressed due to decoherence. Nevertheless, if some very special conditions were satisfied, the squeezing properties of atom laser could be robust against the decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0506219
title: An Introduction to Quantum Game Theory
authors: J. Orlin Grabbe
comments: 69 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506219
abstract: This essay gives a self-contained introduction to quantum game theory, and is primarily oriented to economists with little or no acquaintance with quantum mechanics. It assumes little more than a basic knowledge of vector algebra. Quantum mechanical notation and results are introduced as needed. It is also shown that some fundamental problems of quantum mechanics can be formulated as games.

id: quant-ph/0506220
title: On recombination in strong laser fields: effect of a slow drift
authors: Jacek Matulewski, Andrzej Raczynski, Jaroslaw Zaremba
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506220
abstract: The dynamics of the recombination in ultrastrong atomic fields is studied for one-dimensional models by numerical simulations. A nonmonotonic behavior of the bound state final population as a function of the laser field amplitude is examined. An important role of a slow drift of an electron wave packet is observed.

id: quant-ph/0506221
title: Quantum Random Walks without a Coin Toss
authors: Apoorva Patel, K.S. Raghunathan, Pranaw Rungta
comments: 8 pages, RevTeX4, 5 figures. Invited lecture at the Workshop on Quantum Information, Computation and Communication (QICC-2005), IIT Kharagpur, India, February 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506221
abstract: We construct a quantum random walk algorithm, based on the Dirac operator instead of the Laplacian. The algorithm explores multiple evolutionary branches by superposition of states, and does not require the coin toss instruction of classical randomised algorithms. We use this algorithm to search for a marked vertex on a hypercubic lattice in arbitrary dimensions. Our numerical and analytical results match the scaling behaviour of earlier algorithms that use a coin toss instruction.

id: quant-ph/0506222
title: Classicality in discrete Wigner functions
authors: Cecilia Cormick, Ernesto F. Galvao, Daniel Gottesman, Juan Pablo Paz, Arthur O. Pittenger
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012301 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506222
abstract: Gibbons et al. [Phys. Rev. A 70, 062101(2004)] have recently defined a class of discrete Wigner functions W to represent quantum states in a Hilbert space with finite dimension. We show that the only pure states having non-negative W for all such functions are stabilizer states, as conjectured by one of us [Phys. Rev. A 71, 042302 (2005)]. We also show that the unitaries preserving non-negativity of W for all definitions of W form a subgroup of the Clifford group. This means pure states with non-negative W and their associated unitary dynamics are classical in the sense of admitting an efficient classical simulation scheme using the stabilizer formalism.

id: quant-ph/0506223
title: Quantum estimation of relative information
authors: Netanel H. Lindner, Petra F. Scudo, Dagmar Bruss
comments: Contribution to the Int. J. of Quant. Info. issue dedicated to the memory of Asher Peres
journal: Int. J. Quant. Info. 4, 131 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506223
abstract: We derive optimal schemes for preparation and estimation of relational degrees of freedom between two quantum systems. We specifically analyze the case of rotation parameters representing relative angles between elements of the SU(2) symmetry group. Our estimation procedure does not assume prior knowledge of the absolute spatial orientation of the systems and as such does not require information on the underlying classical reference frame in which the states are prepared.

id: quant-ph/0506224
title: State space structure and entanglement of rotationally invariant spin systems
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 9019-9037
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506224
abstract: We investigate the structure of SO(3)-invariant quantum systems which are composed of two particles with spins j_1 and j_2. The states of the composite spin system are represented by means of two complete sets of rotationally invariant operators, namely by the projections P_J onto the eigenspaces of the total angular momentum J, and by certain invariant operators Q_K which are built out of spherical tensor operators of rank K. It is shown that these representations are connected by an orthogonal matrix whose elements are expressible in terms of Wigner's 6-j symbols. The operation of the partial time reversal of the combined spin system is demonstrated to be diagonal in the Q_K-representation. These results are employed to obtain a complete characterization of spin systems with j_1 = 1 and arbitrary j_2 > 1. We prove that the Peres-Horodecki criterion of positive partial transposition (PPT) is necessary and sufficient for separability if j_2 is an integer, while for half-integer spins j_2 there always exist entangled PPT states (bound entanglement). We construct an optimal entanglement witness for the case of half-integer spins and design a protocol for the detection of entangled PPT states through measurements of the total angular momentum.

id: quant-ph/0506225
title: Optimal Bell tests do not require maximally entangled states
authors: Antonio Acin, Richard Gill, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 1 figure, REVTEX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 210402 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506225
abstract: Any Bell test consists of a sequence of measurements on a quantum state in space-like separated regions. Thus, a state is better than others for a Bell test when, for the optimal measurements and the same number of trials, the probability of existence of a local model for the observed outcomes is smaller. The maximization over states and measurements defines the optimal nonlocality proof. Numerical results show that the required optimal state does not have to be maximally entangled.

id: quant-ph/0506226
title: Qualitative aspects of the entanglement in the three-level model with photonic crystals
authors: Mahmoud Abdel-Aty
comments: 28 pages, 10 figures: Accepted in Applied Physics B: Laser and Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506226
abstract: This communication is an enquiry into the circumstances under which concurrence and phase entropy methods can give an answer to the question of quantum entanglement in the composite state when the photonic band gap is exhibited by the presence of photonic crystals in a three-level system. An analytic approach is proposed for any three-level system in the presence of photonic band gap. Using this analytic solution, we conclusively calculate the concurrence and phase entropy, focusing particularly on the entanglement phenomena. Specifically, we use concurrence as a measure of entanglement for dipole emitters situated in the thin slab region between two semi-infinite one-dimensionally periodic photonic crystals, a situation reminiscent of planar cavity laser structures. One feature of the regime considered here is that closed-form evaluation of the time evolution may be carried out in the presence of the detuning and the photonic band gap, which provides insight into the difference in the nature of the concurrence function for atom-field coupling, mode frequency and different cavity parameters. We demonstrate how fluctuations in the phase and number entropies effected by the presence of the photonic-band-gap. The outcomes are illustrated with numerical simulations applied to GaAs. Finally, we relate the obtained results to instances of any three-level system for which the entanglement cost can be calculated. Potential experimental observations in solid-state systems are discussed and found to be promising.

id: quant-ph/0506227
title: Massive Quantum Memories by Periodically Inverted Dynamic Evolutions
authors: S. M. Giampaolo, F. Illuminati, A. Di Lisi, G. Mazzarella
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. Contribution to the Proceedings of the Workshop on "Quantum entanglement in physical and information sciences", held in Pisa, December 14-18, 2004
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 4, 507 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506227
abstract: We introduce a general scheme to realize perfect quantum state reconstruction and storage in systems of interacting qubits. This novel approach is based on the idea of controlling the residual interactions by suitable external controls that, acting on the inter-qubit couplings, yield time-periodic inversions in the dynamical evolution, thus cancelling exactly the effects of quantum state diffusion. We illustrate the method for spin systems on closed rings with XY residual interactions, showing that it enables the massive storage of arbitrarily large numbers of local states, and we demonstrate its robustness against several realistic sources of noise and imperfections.

id: quant-ph/0506228
title: Quantum Relativity: Physical Laws Must be Invariant Over Quantum Systems
authors: Paul Merriam
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure, submitted to Physics Essays, added colon in title, gravity section makes sense, took out picture, fixed eq. 16d
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506228
abstract: Decoherence may not solve all of the measurement problems of quantum mechanics. It is proposed that a solution to these problems may be to allow that superpositions describe physically real systems in the following sense. Each quantum system "carries" around a local spacetime in whose terms other quantum systems may take on nonlocal states. Each quantum system forms a physically valid coordinate frame. The laws of physics should be formulated to be invariant under the group of allowed transformations among such frames. A transformation of relatively superposed spatial coordinates that allows an electron system to preserve the de Broglie Relation in describing a double-slit laboratory system-in analogy to a Minkowskian Transformation-is proposed. In general, "quantum relativity" says is invariant under transformations among quantum reference frames. Some conjectures on how this impacts gravity and gauge invariance are made.

id: quant-ph/0506229
title: Mixed State Entanglement of Assistance and the Generalized Concurrence
authors: Gilad Gour
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042318 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506229
abstract: We consider the maximum bipartite entanglement that can be distilled from a single copy of a multipartite mixed entangled state, where we focus mostly on $d\times d\times n$-dimensional tripartite mixed states. We show that this {\em assisted entanglement}, when measured in terms of the generalized concurrence (named G-concurrence) is (tightly) bounded by an entanglement monotone, which we call the G-concurrence of assistance. The G-concurrence is one of the possible generalizations of the concurrence to higher dimensions, and for pure bipartite states it measures the {\em geometric mean} of the Schmidt numbers. For a large (non-trivial) class of $d\times d$-dimensional mixed states, we are able to generalize Wootters formula for the concurrence into lower and upper bounds on the G-concurrence. Moreover, we have found an explicit formula for the G-concurrence of assistance that generalizes the expression for the concurrence of assistance for a large class of $d\times d\times n$ dimensional tripartite pure states.

id: quant-ph/0506230
title: Bell inequalities for three particles
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Chunfeng Wu, L. C. Kwek, C. H. Oh
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 78, 032107 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506230
abstract: We present tight Bell inequalities expressed by probabilities for three four- and five-dimensional systems. The tight structure of Bell inequalities for three $d$-dimensional systems (qudits) is proposed. Some interesting Bell inequalities of three qubits reduced from those of three qudits are also studied.

id: quant-ph/0506231
title: Einstein's Photon Concept Quantified by the Bohr Model of the Photon
authors: Geoffrey Hunter, Marian Kowalski, Camil Alexandrescu
comments: 8 pages: for AIP Proceedings of QTRF-3, Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations, Vaxjo, Sweden, June 6-11, 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506231
abstract: The photon is modeled as a monochromatic solution of Maxwell's equations confined as a soliton wave by the principle of causality of special relativity. The soliton travels rectilinearly at the speed of light. The solution can represent any of the known polarization (spin) states of the photon. For circularly polarized states the soliton's envelope is a circular ellipsoid whose length is the observed wavelength ($\lambda$), and whose diameter is $\lambda/\pi$; this envelope contains the electromagnetic energy of the wave ($h\nu=hc/\lambda$). The predicted size and shape is confirmed by experimental measurements: of the sub-picosecond time delay of the photo-electric effect, of the attenuation of undiffracted transmission through slits narrower than the soliton's diameter of $\lambda/\pi$, and by the threshold intensity required for the onset of multiphoton absorption in focussed laser beams. Inside the envelope the wave's amplitude increases linearly with the radial distance from the axis of propagation, being zero on the axis. Outside the envelope the wave is evanescent with an amplitude that decreases inversely with the radial distance from the axis. The evanescent wave is responsible for the observed double-slit interference phenomenon.

id: quant-ph/0506232
title: Photon Echoes Produced by Switching Electric Fields
authors: A. L. Alexander, J. J. Longdell, M. J. Sellars, N. B. Manson
comments: improved introduction, including theoretical outline of the relvant quantum memory proposal
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506232
abstract: We demonstrate photon echoes in Eu$^{3+}$:Y$_{2}$SiO$_{5}$ by controlling the inhomogeneous broadening of the Eu$^{3+}$ $^{7}$F$_{0}\leftrightarrow^{5}$D$_{0}$ optical transition. This transition has a linear Stark shift and we induce inhomogeneous broadening by applying an external electric field gradient. After optical excitation, reversing the polarity of the field rephases the ensemble, resulting in a photon echo. This is the first demonstration of such a photon echo and its application as a quantum memory is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0506233
title: Stopped light with storage times greater than one second using EIT in a solid
authors: J. J. Longdell, E. Fraval, M. J. Sellars, N. B. Manson
comments: accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506233
abstract: We report on the demonstration of light storage for times greater than a second in praseodymium doped Y$_2$SiO$_5$ using electromagnetically induced transparency. The long storage times were enabled by the long coherence times possible for the hyperfine transitions in this material. The use of a solid state system also enabled operation with the probe and coupling beam counter propagating, allowing easy separation of the two beams. The efficiency of the storage was low because of the low optical thickness of the sample, as is discussed this deficiency should be easy to rectify.

id: quant-ph/0506234
title: Microfabricated high-finesse optical cavity with open access and small volume
authors: M. Trupke, E. A. Hinds, S. Eriksson, E. A. Curtis, Z. Moktadir, E. Kukharenka, M. Kraft
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506234
abstract: We present a novel microfabricated optical cavity, which combines a very small mode volume with high finesse. In contrast to other micro-resonators, such as microspheres, the structure we have built gives atoms and molecules direct access to the high-intensity part of the field mode, enabling them to interact strongly with photons in the cavity for the purposes of detection and quantum-coherent manipulation. Light couples directly in and out of the resonator through an optical fibre, avoiding the need for sensitive coupling optics. This renders the cavity particularly attractive as a component of a lab-on-a-chip, and as a node in a quantum network.

id: quant-ph/0506235
title: NMR analogues of the quantum Zeno effect
authors: Li Xiao, Jonathan A. Jones
comments: 8 pages including 4 figures; intended as a possible answer to Malcolm Levitt's question at the 2005 Magnetic Resonanace GRC: "What is the NMR analogue of the quantum Zeno effect?". In press at Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506235
abstract: We describe Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) demonstrations of the quantum Zeno effect, and discuss briefly how these are related to similar phenomena in more conventional NMR experiments.

id: quant-ph/0506236
title: Entanglement between Collective Operators in a Linear Harmonic Chain
authors: Johannes Kofler, Vlatko Vedral, Myungshik S. Kim, Caslav Brukner
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, significantly revised version with new results, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 052107 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506236
abstract: We investigate entanglement between collective operators of two blocks of oscillators in an infinite linear harmonic chain. These operators are defined as averages over local operators (individual oscillators) in the blocks. On the one hand, this approach of "physical blocks" meets realistic experimental conditions, where measurement apparatuses do not interact with single oscillators but rather with a whole bunch of them, i.e., where in contrast to usually studied "mathematical blocks" not every possible measurement is allowed. On the other, this formalism naturally allows the generalization to blocks which may consist of several non-contiguous regions. We quantify entanglement between the collective operators by a measure based on the Peres-Horodecki criterion and show how it can be extracted and transferred to two qubits. Entanglement between two blocks is found even in the case where none of the oscillators from one block is entangled with an oscillator from the other, showing genuine bipartite entanglement between collective operators. Allowing the blocks to consist of a periodic sequence of subblocks, we verify that entanglement scales at most with the total boundary region. We also apply the approach of collective operators to scalar quantum field theory.

id: quant-ph/0506237
title: Microwave emission from a crystal of molecular magnets -- The role of a resonant cavity
authors: Mihaly G. Benedict, Peter Foldi, F. M. Peeters
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 214430 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506237
abstract: We discuss the effects caused by a resonant cavity around a sample of a magnetic molecular crystal (such as Mn${}_{12}$-Ac), when a time dependent external magnetic field is applied parallel to the easy axis of the crystal. We show that the back action of the cavity field on the sample significantly increases the possibility of microwave emission. This radiation process can be supperradiance or a maser-like effect, depending on the strength of the dephasing. Our model provides further insight to the theoretical understanding of the bursts of electromagnetic radiation observed in recent experiments accompanying the resonant quantum tunneling of magnetization. The experimental findings up to now can all be explained as being a maser effect rather than superradiance. The results of our theory scale similarly to the experimental findings, i.e., with increasing sweep rate of the external magnetic field, the emission peaks are shifted towards higher field values.

id: quant-ph/0506238
title: Large-uncertainty intelligent states for angular momentum and angle
authors: Joerg B. Goette, Roberta Zambrini, Sonja Franke-Arnold, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures, submitted to J. Opt. B special issue in connection with ICSSUR 2005 conference
journal: J. Opt. B. 7 S563-S571 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506238
abstract: The equality in the uncertainty principle for linear momentum and position is obtained for states which also minimize the uncertainty product. However, in the uncertainty relation for angular momentum and angular position both sides of the inequality are state dependent and therefore the intelligent states, which satisfy the equality, do not necessarily give a minimum for the uncertainty product. In this paper, we highlight the difference between intelligent states and minimum uncertainty states by investigating a class of intelligent states which obey the equality in the angular uncertainty relation while having an arbitrarily large uncertainty product. To develop an understanding for the uncertainties of angle and angular momentum for the large-uncertainty intelligent states we compare exact solutions with analytical approximations in two limiting cases.

id: quant-ph/0506239
title: Adventures of the Coupled Yang-Mills Oscillators: II. YM-Higgs Quantum Mechanics
authors: Sergei G. Matinyan, Berndt M¨¹ller
comments: 
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 61-72
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506239
abstract: We continue our study of the quantum mechanical motion in the $x^2y^2$ potentials for $n=2,3$, which arise in the spatially homogeneous limit of the Yang-Mills (YM) equations. In the present paper, we develop a new approach to the calculation of the partition function $Z(t)$ beyond the Thomas-Fermi (TF) approximation by adding a harmonic (Higgs) potential and taking the limit $v\to 0$, where $v$ is the vacuum expectation value of the Higgs field. Using the Wigner-Kirkwood method to calculate higher-order corrections in $\hbar$, we show that the limit $v\to 0$ leads to power-like singularities of the type $v^{-n}$, which reflect the possibility of escape of the particle along the channels in the classical limit. We show how these singularities can be eliminated by taking into account the quantum fluctuations dictated by the form of the potential.

id: quant-ph/0506240
title: Angular EPR paradox
authors: Joerg B Goette, Sonja Franke-Arnold, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures, to be published in J. Mod. Opt. special issue on quantum imaging
journal: J. Mod. Opt., 53 5-6, 627 (April 2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506240
abstract: The violation of local uncertainty relations is a valuable tool for detecting entanglement, especially in multi-dimensional systems. The orbital angular momentum of light provides such a multi-dimensional system. We study quantum correlations for the conjugate variables of orbital angular momentum and angular position. We determine an experimentally testable criterion for the demonstration of an angular version of the EPR paradox. For the interpretation of future experimental results from our proposed setup, we include a model for the indeterminacies inherent to the angular position measurement. For this measurement angular apertures are used to determine the probability density of the angle. We show that for a class of aperture functions a demonstration of an angular EPR paradox, according to our criterion, is to be expected.

id: quant-ph/0506241
title: Classification of n-qubit states with minimum orbit dimension
authors: David W. Lyons, Scott N. Walck
comments: 15 pages, latex, revision 2, conclusion added, some proofs shortened
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 2443-2456
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506241
abstract: The group of local unitary transformations acts on the space of n-qubit pure states, decomposing it into orbits. In a previous paper we proved that a product of singlet states (together with an unentangled qubit for a system with an odd number of qubits) achieves the smallest possible orbit dimension, equal to 3n/2 for n even and (3n + 1)/2 for n odd, where n is the number of qubits. In this paper we show that any state with minimum orbit dimension must be of this form, and furthermore, such states are classified up to local unitary equivalence by the sets of pairs of qubits entangled in singlets.

id: quant-ph/0506242
title: Quantum error correction of systematic errors using a quantum search framework
authors: Ben W. Reichardt, Lov K. Grover
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042326 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506242
abstract: Composite pulses are a quantum control technique for canceling out systematic control errors. We present a new composite pulse sequence inspired by quantum search. Our technique can correct a wider variety of systematic errors -- including, for example, nonlinear over-rotational errors -- than previous techniques. Concatenation of the pulse sequence can reduce a systematic error to an arbitrarily small level.

id: quant-ph/0506243
title: The de Broglie-Bohm pilot-wave interpretation of quantum theory
authors: W. Struyve
comments: Ph.D. thesis, Ghent University, October 2004, 171 pages, 3 figures, LaTex (revised, in accordance with the suggestions made by the members of the thesis committee)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506243
abstract: In this thesis we study the de Broglie-Bohm pilot-wave interpretation of quantum theory. We consider the domain of non-relativistic quantum theory, relativistic quantum theory and quantum field theory, and in each domain we consider the possibility of formulating a pilot-wave interpretation. For non-relativistic quantum theory a pilot-wave interpretation in terms of particle beables can readily be formulated. But this interpretation can in general not straightforwardly be generalized to relativistic wave equations. The problems which prevent us from devising a pilot-wave interpretation for relativistic wave equations also plague the standard quantum mechanical interpretation, where these problems led to the conception of quantum field theory. Therefore most of our attention is focussed on the construction of a pilot-wave interpretation for quantum field theory. We thereby favour the field beable approach, developed amongst others by Bohm, Hiley, Holland, Kaloyerou and Valentini. Although the field beable approach can be successfully applied to bosonic quantum field theory, it seems not straightforward to do so for fermionic quantum field theory.

id: quant-ph/0506244
title: Type-II Quantum Algorithms
authors: Peter J. Love, Bruce M. Boghosian
comments: To appear in Physica A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506244
abstract: We review and analyze the hybrid quantum-classical NMR computing methodology referred to as Type-II quantum computing. We show that all such algorithms considered so far within this paradigm are equivalent to some classical lattice-Boltzmann scheme. We derive a sufficient and necessary constraint on the unitary operator representing the quantum mechanical part of the computation which ensures that the model reproduces the Boltzmann approximation of a lattice-gas model satisfying semi-detailed balance. Models which do not satisfy this constraint represent new lattice-Boltzmann schemes which cannot be formulated as the average over some underlying lattice gas. We close the paper with some discussion of the strengths, weaknesses and possible future direction of Type-II quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0506245
title: A simple scheme of teleportation of arbitrary multipartite qubit entanglement
authors: Zai-Zhe Zhong
comments: 3 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506245
abstract: In this paper, we define a cross product operator and construct the cross Bell basis, by use this basis and Bell measurements we give a simple scheme of the teleportation of arbitrary multipartite qubit entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0506246
title: Security proof of practical quantum key distribution schemes
authors: Yodai Watanabe
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506246
abstract: This paper provides a security proof of the Bennett-Brassard (BB84) quantum key distribution protocol in practical implementation. To prove the security, it is not assumed that defects in the devices are absorbed into an adversary's attack. In fact, the only assumption in the proof is that the source is characterized. The proof is performed by lower-bounding adversary's Renyi entropy about the key before privacy amplification. The bound reveals the leading factors reducing the key generation rate.

id: quant-ph/0506247
title: Entanglement Effect on Off-diagonal Geometric Phase
authors: H. T. Cui, L. C. Wang, X. X. Yi
comments: final version; appearing in Europhys. Lett. 74, 757(2006)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506247
abstract: The effect of entanglement on off-diagonal geometric phases is investigated in the paper. Two spin-1/2 particles in magnetic fields along the $y$ direction are taken as an example. Three parameters (the purity of state $r$, the mixing angle $\theta$ and the relative phase $\beta$) are chosen to characterize the initial states. The nodal points at which the usual geometric phases disappear are calculated and illustrated as a function of the three parameters.

id: quant-ph/0506248
title: Quantum-classical correspondence in the oracle model of computation
authors: Antoni Wojcik Ravindra W. Chhajlany
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506248
abstract: The oracle model of computation is believed to allow a rigorous proof of quantum over classical computational superiority. Since quantum and classical oracles are essentially different, a correspondence principle is commonly implicitly used as a platform for comparison of oracle complexity. Here, we question the grounds on which this correspondence is based. Obviously, results on quantum speed-up depend on the chosen correspondence. So, we introduce the notion of genuine quantum speed-up which can serve as a tool for reliable comparison of quantum vs classical complexity, independently of the chosen correspondence principle.

id: quant-ph/0506249
title: Extended Jaynes-Cummings models and (quasi)-exact solvability
authors: Y.Brihaye, A. Nininahazwe
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, discussion extended, one section added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506249
abstract: The original Jaynes-Cummings model is described by a Hamiltonian which is exactly solvable. Here we extend this model by several types of interactions leading to a nonhermitian operator which doesn't satisfy the physical condition of space-time reflection symmetry (PT symmetry). However the new Hamiltonians are either exactly solvable admitting an entirely real spectrum or quasi exactly solvable with a real algebraic part of their spectrum.

id: quant-ph/0506250
title: Single-copy entanglement in critical spin chains
authors: J. Eisert, M. Cramer
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042112 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506250
abstract: We introduce the single-copy entanglement as a quantity to assess quantum correlations in the ground state in quantum many-body systems. We show for a large class of models that already on the level of single specimens of spin chains, criticality is accompanied with the possibility of distilling a maximally entangled state of arbitrary dimension from a sufficiently large block deterministically, with local operations and classical communication. These analytical results -- which refine previous results on the divergence of block entropy as the rate at which EPR pairs can be distilled from many identically prepared chains, and which apply to single systems as encountered in actual experimental situations -- are made quantitative for general isotropic translationally invariant spin chains that can be mapped onto a quasi-free fermionic system, and for the anisotropic XY model. For the XX model, we provide the asymptotic scaling of ~(1/6) log_2(L), and contrast it with the block entropy. The role of superselection rules on single-copy entanglement in systems consisting of indistinguishable particles is emphasized.

id: quant-ph/0506251
title: Superbroadcasting of mixed states
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Chiara Macchiavello, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, to appear on Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 060503 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506251
abstract: We derive the optimal universal broadcasting for mixed states of qubits. We show that the nobroadcasting theorem cannot be generalized to more than a single input copy. Moreover, for four or more input copies it is even possible to purify the input states while broadcasting. We name such purifying broadcasting superbroadcasting.

id: quant-ph/0506252
title: CHSH violation and entropy - concurrence plane
authors: L. Derkacz, L. Jakobczyk
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042321(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506252
abstract: We characterize violation of CHSH inequalities for mixed two-qubit states by their mixedness and entanglement. The class of states that have maximum degree of CHSH violation for a given linear entropy is also constructed.

id: quant-ph/0506253
title: Experimental demonstration of fractional orbital angular momentum entanglement of two photons
authors: S.S.R. Oemrawsingh, X. Ma, D. Voigt, A. Aiello, E.R. Eliel, G.W. 't Hooft, J.P. Woerdman
comments: submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506253
abstract: The singular nature of a non-integer spiral phase plate allows easy manipulation of spatial degrees of freedom of photon states. Using two such devices, we have observed very high dimensional (D > 3700) spatial entanglement of twin photons generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion.

id: quant-ph/0506254
title: Quantum dynamical entropies for discrete classical systems: a comparison
authors: Valerio Cappellini
comments: LaTeX, 36 pages. References updated
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38(31), 6893-6915 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506254
abstract: On a family of classical dynamical systems on the 2-torus, we perform a discretization procedure similar to the Anti-Wick quantization. Such a discretization is performed by using a particular class of states, fulfilling an appropriate dynamical localization property, typical of quantum Coherent States. The same set of states is involved in the construction of a quantum entropy, that we test on the discrete approximants; a correspondence with the classical metric entropy of Kolmogorov-Sinai is found only over time scales that are logarithmic in the discretization parameter.

id: quant-ph/0506255
title: Quantum Passwords
authors: Mile Gu, Christian Weedbrook
comments: Paper withdrawn to address a security loophole
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506255
abstract: A quantum password is a quantum mechanical analogue of the classical password. Our proposal is completely quantum mechanical in nature, i.e. at no point is information stored and manipulated classically. We show that, in contrast to quantum protocols that encode classical information, we are able to prevent the distribution of reusable passwords even when Alice actively cooperates with Eve. This allows us to confront and address security issues that are unavoidable in classical protocols.

id: quant-ph/0506256
title: Numerical Analysis of Coherent Many-Body Currents in a Single Atom Transistor
authors: A. J. Daley, S. R. Clark, D. Jaksch, P. Zoller
comments: 10 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 043618 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506256
abstract: We study the dynamics of many atoms in the recently proposed Single Atom Transistor setup [A. Micheli, A. J. Daley, D. Jaksch, and P. Zoller, Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 140408 (2004)] using recently developed numerical methods. In this setup, a localised spin 1/2 impurity is used to switch the transport of atoms in a 1D optical lattice: in one state the impurity is transparent to probe atoms, but in the other acts as a single atom mirror. We calculate time-dependent currents for bosons passing the impurity atom, and find interesting many body effects. These include substantially different transport properties for bosons in the strongly interacting (Tonks) regime when compared with fermions, and an unexpected decrease in the current when weakly interacting probe atoms are initially accelerated to a non-zero mean momentum. We also provide more insight into the application of our numerical methods to this system, and discuss open questions about the currents approached by the system on long timescales.

id: quant-ph/0506257
title: Rapid optimization of working parameters of microwave-driven multi-level qubits for minimal gate leakage
authors: Zhongyuan Zhou, Shih-I Chu, Siyuan Han
comments: 4pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 95, 120501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506257
abstract: We propose an effective method to optimize the working parameters (WPs) of microwave-driven quantum logical gates implemented with multi-level physical qubits. We show that by treating transitions between each pair of levels independently, intrinsic gate errors due primarily to population leakage to undesired states can be estimated accurately from spectroscopic properties of the qubits and minimized by choosing appropriate WPs. The validity and efficiency of the approach are demonstrated by applying it to optimize the WPs of two coupled rf SQUID flux qubits for controlled-NOT (CNOT) operation. The result of this independent transition approximation (ITA) is in good agreement with that of dynamic method (DM). Furthermore, the ratio of the speed of ITA to that of DM scales exponentially as 2^n when the number of qubits n increases.

id: quant-ph/0506258
title: Non-Markov dynamics and phonon decoherence of a double quantum dot charge qubit
authors: Xian-Ting Liang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review B 72, 245328 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506258
abstract: In this paper we investigate decoherence times of a double quantum dot (DQD) charge qubit due to it coupling with acoustic phonon baths. We individually consider the acoustic piezoelectric as well as deformation coupling phonon baths in the qubit environment. The decoherence times are calculated with two kinds of methods. One of them is based on the qusiadiabatic propagator path integral (QUAPI) and the other is based on Bloch equations, and two kinds of results are compared. It is shown that the theoretical decoherence times of the DQD charge qubit are shorter than the experimental reported results. It implies that the phonon couplings to the qubit play a subordinate role, resulting in the decoherence of the qubit.

id: quant-ph/0506259
title: Relaxation of Pseudo pure states : The Role of Cross-Correlations
authors: Arindam Ghosh, Anil Kumar
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures
journal: Journal of Magnetic Resonance,173,125-133 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506259
abstract: In Quantum Information Processing by NMR one of the major challenges is relaxation or decoherence. Often it is found that the equilibrium mixed state of a spin system is not suitable as an initial state for computation and a definite initial state is required to be prepared prior to the computation. As these preferred initial states are non-equilibrium states, they are not stationary and are destroyed with time as the spin system relaxes toward its equilibrium, introducing error in computation. Since it is not possible to cut off the relaxation processes completely, attempts are going on to develop alternate strategies like Quantum Error Correction Codes or Noiseless Subsystems. Here we study the relaxation behavior of various Pseudo Pure States and analyze the role of Cross terms between different relaxation processes, known as Cross-correlation. It is found that while cross-correlations accelerate the relaxation of certain pseudo pure states, they retard that of others.

id: quant-ph/0506260
title: Random subspaces for encryption based on a private shared Cartesian frame
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Patrick Hayden, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 9 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 72, 052329 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506260
abstract: A private shared Cartesian frame is a novel form of private shared correlation that allows for both private classical and quantum communication. Cryptography using a private shared Cartesian frame has the remarkable property that asymptotically, if perfect privacy is demanded, the private classical capacity is three times the private quantum capacity. We demonstrate that if the requirement for perfect privacy is relaxed, then it is possible to use the properties of random subspaces to nearly triple the private quantum capacity, almost closing the gap between the private classical and quantum capacities.

id: quant-ph/0506261
title: A unified approach to realize universal quantum gates in a coupled two-qubit system with fixed always-on coupling
authors: Zhongyuan Zhou, Shih-I Chu, Siyuan Han
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 73, 104521 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506261
abstract: We demonstrate that in a coupled two-qubit system any single-qubit gate can be decomposed into two conditional two-qubit gates and that any conditional two-qubit gate can be implemented by a manipulation analogous to that used for a controlled two-qubit gate. Based on this we present a unified approach to implement universal single-qubit and two-qubit gates in a coupled two-qubit system with fixed always-on coupling. This approach requires neither supplementary circuit or additional physical qubits to control the coupling nor extra hardware to adjust the energy level structure. The feasibility of this approach is demonstrated by numerical simulation of single-qubit gates and creation of two-qubit Bell states in rf-driven inductively coupled two SQUID flux qubits with realistic device parameters and constant always-on coupling.

id: quant-ph/0506262
title: Demonstration of a simple entangling optical gate and its use in Bell-state analysis
authors: N. K. Langford, T. J. Weinhold, R. Prevedel, K. J. Resch, A. Gilchrist, J. L. O'Brien, G. J. Pryde, A. G. White
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. v2: additional author, improved data and figures (low res), some other minor changes. Accepted for publication in PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.95:210504,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506262
abstract: We demonstrate a new architecture for an optical entangling gate that is significantly simpler than previous realisations, using partially-polarising beamsplitters so that only a single optical mode-matching condition is required. We demonstrate operation of a controlled-Z gate in both continuous-wave and pulsed regimes of operation, fully characterising it in each case using quantum process tomography. We also demonstrate a fully-resolving, nondeterministic optical Bell-state analyser based on this controlled-Z gate. This new architecture is ideally suited to guided optics implementations of optical gates.

id: quant-ph/0506263
title: Demonstration of an optical quantum controlled-NOT gate without path interference
authors: Ryo Okamoto, Holger F. Hofmann, Shigeki Takeuchi, Keiji Sasaki
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506263
abstract: We report the first experimental demonstration of an optical quantum controlled-NOT gate without any path interference, where the two interacting path interferometers of the original proposals (Phys. Rev. A {\bf 66}, 024308 (2001), Phys. Rev. A {\bf 65}, 012314 (2002)) have been replaced by three partially polarizing beam splitters with suitable polarization dependent transmittances and reflectances. The performance of the device is evaluated using a recently proposed method (Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 94}, 160504 (2005)), by which the quantum process fidelity and the entanglement capability can be estimated from the 32 measurement results of two classical truth tables, significantly less than the 256 measurement results required for full quantum tomography.

id: quant-ph/0506264
title: Quantum noise memory effect of multiple scattered light
authors: P. Lodahl
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506264
abstract: We investigate frequency correlations in multiple scattered light that are present in the quantum fluctuations. The memory effect for quantum and classical noise is compared, and found to have markedly different frequency scaling, which was confirmed in a recent experiment. Furthermore, novel mesoscopic correlations are predicted that depend on the photon statistics of the incoming light.

id: quant-ph/0506265
title: Quantum Complexity of Testing Group Commutativity
authors: Frederic Magniez, Ashwin Nayak
comments: 10 pages, requires fullpage,amsthm,amsfonts,amsmath; To appear in Algorithmica; earlier version appeared in ICALP 2005; corrects minor typos, results are unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506265
abstract: We consider the problem of testing the commutativity of a black-box group specified by its k generators. The complexity (in terms of k) of this problem was first considered by Pak, who gave a randomized algorithm involving O(k) group operations. We construct a quite optimal quantum algorithm for this problem whose complexity is in O (k^{2/3}). The algorithm uses and highlights the power of the quantization method of Szegedy. For the lower bound of Omega(k^{2/3}), we give a reduction from a special case of Element Distinctness to our problem. Along the way, we prove the optimality of the algorithm of Pak for the randomized model.

id: quant-ph/0506266
title: The Second Quantized Quantum Turing Machine and Kolmogorov Complexity
authors: Caroline Rogers, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 5 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506266
abstract: The Kolmogorov complexity of a physical state is the minimal physical resources required to reproduce that state. We define a second quantized quantum Turing machine and use it to define second quantized Kolmogorov complexity. There are two advantages to our approach - our measure of second quantized Kolmogorov complexity is closer to physical reality and unlike other quantum Kolmogorov complexities it is continuous. We give examples where second quantized and quantum Kolmogorov complexity differ.

id: quant-ph/0506267
title: Optimal estimation of group transformations using entanglement
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72 042338 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506267
abstract: We derive the optimal input states and the optimal quantum measurements for estimating the unitary action of a given symmetry group, showing how the optimal performance is obtained with a suitable use of entanglement. Optimality is defined in a Bayesian sense, as minimization of the average value of a given cost function. We introduce a class of cost functions that generalizes the Holevo class for phase estimation, and show that for states of the optimal form all functions in such a class lead to the same optimal measurement. A first application of the main result is the complete proof of the optimal efficiency in the transmission of a Cartesian reference frame. As a second application, we derive the optimal estimation of a completely unknown two-qubit maximally entangled state, provided that N copies of the state are available. In the limit of large N, the fidelity of the optimal estimation is shown to be 1-3/(4N).

id: quant-ph/0506268
title: Feedback stabilization of quantum ensembles: a global convergence analysis on complex flag manifolds
authors: Claudio Altafini
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506268
abstract: In an N-level quantum mechanical system, the problem of unitary feedback stabilization of mixed density operators to periodic orbits admits a natural Lyapunov-based time-varying feedback design. A global description of the domain of attraction of the closed-loop system can be provided based on a ``root-space''-like structure of the space of density operators. This convex set foliates as a complex flag manifold where each leaf is identified with the coadjoint orbit of the eigenvalues of the density operator. The converging conditions are time-independent but depend from the topology of the flag manifold: it is shown that the closed loop must have a number of equilibria at least equal to the Euler characteristic of the manifold, thus imposing obstructions of topological nature to global stabilizability.

id: quant-ph/0506269
title: Linear Optics C-Phase gate made simple
authors: Nikolai Kiesel, Christian Schmid, Ulrich Weber, Rupert Ursin, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506269
abstract: Linear optics quantum logic gates are the best tool to generate multi-photon entanglement. Simplifying a recent approach [Phys. Rev. A 65, 062324; Phys. Rev. A 66, 024308] we were able to implement the conditional phase gate with only one second order interference at a polarization dependent beam splitter, thereby significantly increasing its stability. The improved quality of the gate is evaluated by analysing its entangling capability and by performing full process tomography. The achieved results ensure that this device is well suited for implementation in various multi photon quantum information protocols.

id: quant-ph/0506270
title: Spin-1/2 particles moving on a 2D lattice with nearest-neighbor interactions can realize an autonomous quantum computer
authors: Dominik Janzing
comments: More detailed explanations including description of a programmable version. 44 pages, 12 figures, latex. To appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506270
abstract: What is the simplest Hamiltonian which can implement quantum computation without requiring any control operations during the computation process? In a previous paper we have constructed a 10-local finite-range interaction among qubits on a 2D lattice having this property. Here we show that pair-interactions among qutrits on a 2D lattice are sufficient, too, and can also implement an ergodic computer where the result can be read out from the time average state after some post-selection with high success probability. Two of the 3 qutrit states are given by the two levels of a spin-1/2 particle located at a specific lattice site, the third state is its absence. Usual hopping terms together with an attractive force among adjacent particles induce a coupled quantum walk where the particle spins are subjected to spatially inhomogeneous interactions implementing holonomic quantum computing. The holonomic method ensures that the implemented circuit does not depend on the time needed for the walk. Even though the implementation of the required type of spin-spin interactions is currently unclear, the model shows that quite simple Hamiltonians are powerful enough to allow for universal quantum computing in a closed physical system.

id: quant-ph/0506271
title: Some differences between Dirac's hole theory and quantum field theory
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 28 pages
journal: Can. J. Phys. 83: 257-271 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506271
abstract: Diracs hole theory (HT) and quantum field theory (QFT) are generally considered to be equivalent to each other. However, it has been recently shown by several researchers that this is not necessarily the case. When the change in the vacuum energy was calculated for a time independent perturbation HT and QFT yielded different results. In this paper we extend this discussion to include a time dependent perturbation for which the exact solution to the Dirac equation is known. It will be shown that for this case, also, HT and QFT yield different results. In addition, there will be some discussion of the problem of anomalies in QFT.

id: cond-mat/0506011
title: A non-Markovian optical signature for detecting entanglement in coupled excitonic qubits
authors: F. J. Rodriguez, L. Quiroga, N. F. Johnson
comments: 4 pages, 4 color figures. Minor changes. Accepted version to be published in Europhysics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506011
abstract: We identify an optical signature for detecting entanglement in experimental nanostructure systems comprising coupled excitonic qubits. This signature owes its strength to non-Markovian dynamical effects in the second-order temporal coherence function of the emitted radiation. We calculate autocorrelation and cross-correlation functions for both selective and collective light excitation, and prove that the coherence properties of the emitted light do indeed carry information about the entanglement of the initial multi-qubit state. We also show that this signature can survive in the presence of a noisy environment.

id: cond-mat/0506098
title: Phase diagram of spin-1 bosons on one-dimensional lattices
authors: Matteo Rizzi, Davide Rossini, Gabriele De Chiara, Simone Montangero, Rosario Fazio
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys Rev. Lett. 95, 240404 (2005)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506098
abstract: Spinor Bose condensates loaded in optical lattices have a rich phase diagram characterized by different magnetic order. Here we apply the Density Matrix Renormalization Group to accurately determine the phase diagram for spin-1 bosons loaded on a one-dimensional lattice. The Mott lobes present an even or odd asymmetry associated to the boson filling. We show that for odd fillings the insulating phase is always in a dimerized state. The results obtained in this work are also relevant for the determination of the ground state phase diagram of the S=1 Heisenberg model with biquadratic interaction.

id: cond-mat/0506196
title: Brownian motion at absolute zero
authors: Supurna Sinha, Rafael D. Sorkin
comments: Published
journal: Physical Review B, {\bf 45}, 8123 (1992)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506196
abstract: We derive a general quantum formula giving the mean-square displacement of a diffusing particle as a function of time. Near {\bf 0 K} we find a universal logarithmic behavior (valid for times longer than the relaxation time), and deviations from classical behavior can also be significant at larger values of time and temperature. Our derivation depends neither on the specific composition of the heat bath nor on the strength of the coupling between the bath and the particle. An experimental regime of microseconds and microdegrees Kelvin would elicit the pure logarithmic diffusion.

id: cond-mat/0506208
title: Measurement of the Casimir-Polder force through center-of-mass oscillations of a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: D.M. Harber, J.M. Obrecht, J.M. McGuirk, E.A. Cornell
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A72:033610,2005
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506208
abstract: We have performed a measurement of the Casimir-Polder force using a magnetically trapped 87-Rb Bose-Einstein condensate. By detecting perturbations of the frequency of center-of-mass oscillations of the condensate perpendicular to the surface, we are able to detect this force at a distance ~5 microns, significantly farther than has been previously achieved, and at a precision approaching that needed to detect the modification due to thermal radiation. Additionally, this technique provides a limit for the presence of non-Newtonian gravity forces in the ~1 micron range.

id: cond-mat/0506210
title: Shock waves in a one-dimensional Bose gas: from a Bose-Einstein condensate to a Tonks gas
authors: Bogdan Damski
comments: 10 pages, small corrections with respect to the last submission, version accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 043601 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506210
abstract: We derive and analyze shock-wave solutions of hydrodynamic equations describing repulsively interacting one dimensional Bose gas. We also use the number-conserving Bogolubov approach to verify accuracy of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation in shock wave problems. We show that quantum corrections to dynamics of shocks (dark-shock-originated solitons) in a Bose-Einstein condensate are negligible (important) for a realistic set of system parameters. We point out possible signatures of a Bose-Einstein condensate -- Tonks crossover in shock dynamics. Our findings can be directly verified in different experimental setups.

id: cond-mat/0506247
title: Chiral phase from three spin interactions in an optical lattice
authors: Christian D'Cruz, Jiannis Pachos
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures, minor revisions and explanations added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 043608 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506247
abstract: A spin-1/2 chain model that includes three spin interactions can effectively describe the dynamics of two species of bosons trapped in an optical lattice with a triangular-ladder configuration. A perturbative theoretical approach and numerical study of its ground state is performed that reveals a rich variety of phases and criticalities. We identify phases with periodicity one, two or three, as well as critical points that belong in the same universality class as the Ising or the three-state Potts model. We establish a range of parameters, corresponding to a large degeneracy present between phases with period 2 and 3, that nests a gapless incommensurate chiral phase.

id: cond-mat/0506265
title: Paramagnetism and Magnetic Singularity in Exotic Superconductivity Made Simple: Their Origin and Possible Realization
authors: Lianyi He
comments: Some colleagues told me that I just repeated their work in an equivalent way, so I apologize and withdraw my paper. I am sorry to bring trouble to you
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506265
abstract: This paper makes no sense. It only increases the entropy of our universe. It has been withdrawn by the author.

id: cond-mat/0506272
title: Confinement-induced resonances for a two-component ultracold atom gas in arbitrary quasi-one-dimensional traps
authors: V. Peano, M. Thorwart, C. Mora, R. Egger
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 7 (2005) 192
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506272
abstract: We solve the two-particle s-wave scattering problem for ultracold atom gases confined in arbitrary quasi-one-dimensional trapping potentials, allowing for two different atom species. As a consequence, the center-of-mass and relative degrees of freedom do not factorize. We derive bound-state solutions and obtain the general scattering solution, which exhibits several resonances in the 1D scattering length induced by the confinement. We apply our formalism to two experimentally relevant cases: (i) interspecies scattering in a two-species mixture, and (ii) the two-body problem for a single species in a non-parabolic trap.

id: cond-mat/0506286
title: Evaluation of Decoherence for Quantum Computing Architectures: Qubit System Subject to Time-Dependent Control
authors: Dmitry Solenov, Vladimir Privman
comments: 26 pages in PDF, 6 figures, 1 table; Typos corrected
journal: Int. J. Modern Phys. B 20, 1476-1495 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506286
abstract: We present an approach that allows quantifying decoherence processes in an open quantum system subject to external time-dependent control. Interactions with the environment are modeled by a standard bosonic heat bath. We develop two unitarity-preserving approximation schemes to calculate the reduced density matrix. One of the approximations relies on a short-time factorization of the evolution operator, while the other utilizes expansion in terms of the system-bath coupling strength. Applications are reported for two illustrative systems: an exactly solvable adiabatic model, and a model of a rotating-wave quantumcomputing gate function. The approximations are found to produce consistent results at short and intermediate times.

id: cond-mat/0506300
title: Wavepacket Dynamics, Quantum Reversibility and Random Matrix Theory
authors: M. Hiller, D. Cohen, T. Geisel, T. Kottos
comments: 46 pages, 18 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 321, 1025 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506300
abstract: We introduce and analyze the physics of "driving reversal" experiments. These are prototype wavepacket dynamics scenarios probing quantum irreversibility. Unlike the mostly hypothetical "time reversal" concept, a "driving reversal" scenario can be realized in a laboratory experiment, and is relevant to the theory of quantum dissipation. We study both the energy spreading and the survival probability in such experiments. We also introduce and study the "compensation time" (time of maximum return) in such a scenario. Extensive effort is devoted to figuring out the capability of either Linear Response Theory (LRT) or Random Matrix Theory (RMT) in order to describe specific features of the time evolution. We explain that RMT modeling leads to a strong non-perturbative response effect that differs from the semiclassical behavior.

id: cond-mat/0506322
title: Spin superradiance versus atomic superradiance
authors: V.I. Yukalov
comments: Latex file, 12 pages, no figures
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 2 (2005) 356-361
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506322
abstract: A comparative analysis is given of spin superradiance and atomic superradiance. Their similarities and distinctions are emphasized. It is shown that, despite a close analogy, these phenomena are fundamentally different. In atomic systems, superradiance is a self-organized process, in which both the initial cause, being spontaneous emission, as well as the collectivizing mechanism of their interactions through the common radiation field, are of the same physical nature. Contrary to this, in actual spin systems with dipole interactions, the latter are the major reason for spin motion. Electromagnetic spin interactions through radiation are negligible and can never produce collective effects. The possibility of realizing superradiance in molecular magnets by coupling them to a resonant circuit is discussed.

id: cond-mat/0506355
title: Global and local relaxation of a spin-chain under exact Schroedinger and master-equation dynamics
authors: Markus J. Henrich, Mathias Michel, Michael Hartmann, Guenther Mahler, Jochen Gemmer
comments: RevTeX, 8 pages, 14 figures, added DOI and forgotten references
journal: Phys. Rev. E 72, 026104 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506355
abstract: We solve the Schroedinger equation for an interacting spin-chain locally coupled to a quantum environment with a specific degeneracy structure. The reduced dynamics of the whole spin-chain as well as of single spins is analyzed. We show, that the total spin-chain relaxes to a thermal equilibrium state independently of the internal interaction strength. In contrast, the asymptotic states of each individual spin are thermal for weak but non-thermal for stronger spin-spin coupling. The transition between both scenarios is found for couplings of the order of $0.1 \times \Delta E$, with $\Delta E$ denoting the Zeeman-splitting. We compare these results with a master equation treatment; when time averaged, both approaches lead to the same asymptotic state and finally with analytical results.

id: cond-mat/0506363
title: Casimir force between two ideal-conductor walls revisited
authors: Bernard Jancovici, Ladislav Samaj
comments: 7 pages.One reference updated. Domain of validity of eq.(11) corrected
journal: Europhys.Lett. 72, 35 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506363
abstract: The high-temperature aspects of the Casimir force between two neutral conducting walls are studied. The mathematical model of "inert" ideal-conductor walls, considered in the original formulations of the Casimir effect, is based on the universal properties of the electromagnetic radiation in the vacuum between the conductors, with zero boundary conditions for the tangential components of the electric field on the walls. This formulation seems to be in agreement with experiments on metallic conductors at room temperature. At high temperatures or large distances, at least, fluctuations of the electric field are present in the bulk and at the surface of a particle system forming the walls, even in the high-density limit: "living" ideal conductors. This makes the enforcement of the inert boundary conditions inadequate. Within a hierarchy of length scales, the high-temperature Casimir force is shown to be entirely determined by the thermal fluctuations in the conducting walls, modelled microscopically by classical Coulomb fluids in the Debye-H\"{u}ckel regime. The semi-classical regime, in the framework of quantum electrodynamics, is studied in the companion letter by P.R.Buenzli and Ph.A.Martin, cond-mat/0506363, Europhys.Lett.72, 42 (2005).

id: cond-mat/0506368
title: Stability of quasi-two-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensates with dominant dipole-dipole interactions
authors: Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 4 pages of RevTex4, 3 figures; Rapid Communication in Physical Review A (to be published)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 031602(R) (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506368
abstract: We consider quasi-two-dimensional atomic/molecular Bose-Einstein condensates with both contact and dipole-dipole interactions. It is shown that, as a consequence of the dimensional reduction, and within mean-field theory, the condensates do not develop unstable excitation spectra, even when the dipole-dipole interaction completely dominates the contact interaction.

id: cond-mat/0506375
title: Quantum dissociation of an edge of a Luttinger liquid
authors: Eugene B. Kolomeisky, Michael Timmins
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 226103 (2005)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506375
abstract: In a Luttinger liquid phase of one-dimensional molecular matter the strength of zero-point motion can be characterized by dimensionless De Boer's number quantifying the interplay of quantum fluctuations and two-body interactions. Selecting the latter in the Morse form we show that dissociation of the Luttinger liquid is a process initiated at the system edge. The latter becomes unstable against quantum fluctuations at a value of De Boer's number which is smaller than that of the bulk instability which parallels the classical phenomenon of surface melting.

id: cond-mat/0506412
title: Applications of adiabatic passage in solid-state devices
authors: Jens Siewert, Tobias Brandes
comments: includes corrections to published version (Section 3)
journal: Adv. in Solid State Phys. 44, 181 (2004)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506412
abstract: Coherent population transfer by adiabatic passage is a well-known method in quantum optics. This remarkable technique which is based on simple ideas has remained largely unknown to solid-state physicists. Here we provide an introduction to the basic principles of this method and discuss also some applications in solid-state systems.

id: cond-mat/0506415
title: Cold Atom Optical Lattices as Quantum Analog Simulators for Aperiodic One-Dimensional Localization Without Disorder
authors: V.W. Scarola, S. Das Sarma
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 041609(R) (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506415
abstract: Cold atom optical lattices allow for the study of quantum localization and mobility edges in a disorder-free environment. We predict the existence of an Anderson-like insulator with sharp mobility edges in a one-dimensional nearly-periodic optical lattice. We show that the mobility edge manifests itself as the early onset of pinning in center of mass dipole oscillations in the presence of a magnetic trap which should be observable in optical lattices.

id: cond-mat/0506438
title: Anyons in an exactly solved model and beyond
authors: Alexei Kitaev
comments: 113 pages. LaTeX + 299 .eps files (see comments in hexagon.tex for known-good compilation environment). VERSION 3: some typos fixed, one reference added
journal: Annals of Physics 321 (2006) 2--111
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506438
abstract: A spin 1/2 system on a honeycomb lattice is studied. The interactions between nearest neighbors are of XX, YY or ZZ type, depending on the direction of the link; different types of interactions may differ in strength. The model is solved exactly by a reduction to free fermions in a static $\mathbb{Z}_{2}$ gauge field. A phase diagram in the parameter space is obtained. One of the phases has an energy gap and carries excitations that are Abelian anyons. The other phase is gapless, but acquires a gap in the presence of magnetic field. In the latter case excitations are non-Abelian anyons whose braiding rules coincide with those of conformal blocks for the Ising model. We also consider a general theory of free fermions with a gapped spectrum, which is characterized by a spectral Chern number $\nu$. The Abelian and non-Abelian phases of the original model correspond to $\nu=0$ and $\nu=\pm 1$, respectively. The anyonic properties of excitation depend on $\nu\bmod 16$, whereas $\nu$ itself governs edge thermal transport. The paper also provides mathematical background on anyons as well as an elementary theory of Chern number for quasidiagonal matrices.

id: cond-mat/0506439
title: Chaos, Coherence and the Double-Slit Experiment
authors: Philippe Jacquod
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures in .eps format; Final version, to appear in Physical Review E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 72, 056203 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506439
abstract: We investigate the influence that classical dynamics has on interference patterns in coherence experiments. We calculate the time-integrated probability current through an absorbing screen and the conductance through a doubly connected ballistic cavity, both in an Aharonov-Bohm geometry with forward scattering only. We show how interference fringes in the probability current generically disappear in the case of a chaotic system with small openings, and how they may persist in the case of an integrable cavity. Simultaneously, the typical, sample dependent amplitude of the flux-sensitive part $g(\phi)$ of the conductance survives in all cases, and becomes universal in the case of a chaotic cavity. In presence of dephasing by fluctuations of the electric potential in one arm of the Aharonov-Bohm loop, we find an exponential damping of the flux-dependent part of the conductance, $g(\phi) \propto \exp[-\tau_{\rm L}/\tau_\phi]$, in term of the traversal time $\tau_{\rm L}$ through the arm and the dephasing time $\tau_\phi$. This extends previous works on dephasing in ballistic systems to the case of many conducting channels.

id: cond-mat/0506472
title: Dynamical stabilization of matter-wave solitons revisited
authors: Alexander Itin, Shinichi Watanabe, Toru Morishita
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 033613 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506472
abstract: We consider dynamical stabilization of Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) by time-dependent modulation of the scattering length. The problem has been studied before by several methods: Gaussian variational approximation, the method of moments, method of modulated Townes soliton, and the direct averaging of the Gross-Pitaevskii (GP) equation. We summarize these methods and find that the numerically obtained stabilized solution has different configuration than that assumed by the theoretical methods (in particular a phase of the wavefunction is not quadratic with $r$). We show that there is presently no clear evidence for stabilization in a strict sense, because in the numerical experiments only metastable (slowly decaying) solutions have been obtained. In other words, neither numerical nor mathematical evidence for a new kind of soliton solutions have been revealed so far. The existence of the metastable solutions is nevertheless an interesting and complicated phenomenon on its own. We try some non-Gaussian variational trial functions to obtain better predictions for the critical nonlinearity $g_{cr}$ for metastabilization but other dynamical properties of the solutions remain difficult to predict.

id: cond-mat/0506489
title: Nonlinear spin relaxation in strongly nonequilibrium magnets
authors: V.I. Yukalov
comments: Latex file, 31 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 71 (2005) 184432-15
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506489
abstract: A general theory is developed for describing the nonlinear relaxation of spin systems from a strongly nonequilibrium initial state, when, in addition, the sample is coupled to a resonator. Such processes are characterized by nonlinear stochastic differential equations. This makes these strongly nonequilibrium processes principally different from the spin relaxation close to an equilibrium state, which is represented by linear differential equations. The consideration is based on a realistic microscopic Hamiltonian including the Zeeman terms, dipole interactions, exchange interactions, and a single-site anisotropy. The influence of cross correlations between several spin species is investigated. The critically important function of coupling between the spin system and a resonant electric circuit is emphasized. The role of all main relaxation rates is analyzed. The phenomenon of self-organization of transition coherence in spin motion, from the quantum chaotic stage of incoherent fluctuations, is thoroughly described. Local spin fluctuations are found to be the triggering cause for starting the spin relaxation from an incoherent nonequilibrium state. The basic regimes of collective coherent spin relaxation are studied.

id: cond-mat/0506558
title: Coherent effects in magneto-transport through Zeeman split levels
authors: S.A. Gurvitz, D. Mozyrsky, G.P. Berman
comments: 25 pages, Presentation is improved, Phys. Rev. B, in press
journal: Phys.Rev. B72, 205341 (2005).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506558
abstract: We study non-equilibrium electronic transport through a quantum dot or impurity weakly coupled to ferromagnetic leads. Based on the rate equation formalism we derive noise spectra for the transport current. We show that due to quantum interference between different spin components of the current the spectrum develops a peak or a dip at the frequency corresponding to Zeeman splitting in the quantum dot. The detailed analysis of the spectral structure of the current is carried out for noninteracting electrons as well as in the regime of Coulomb blockade.

id: cond-mat/0506559
title: Observation of Phase Defects in Quasi-2D Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Sabine Stock, Zoran Hadzibabic, Baptiste Battelier, Marc Cheneau, Jean Dalibard
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 95 (2005) 190403
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506559
abstract: We have observed phase defects in quasi-2D Bose-Einstein condensates close to the condensation temperature. Either a single or several equally spaced condensates are produced by selectively evaporating the sites of a 1D optical lattice. When several clouds are released from the lattice and allowed to overlap, dislocation lines in the interference patterns reveal nontrivial phase defects.

id: cond-mat/0506576
title: Entanglement Scaling in the One-Dimensional Hubbard Model at Criticality
authors: Daniel Larsson, Henrik Johannesson
comments: 4+ pages, 2 figures. Fig. 2 and minor typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 196406 (2005)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506576
abstract: We derive exact expressions for the local entanglement entropy E in the ground state of the one-dimensional Hubbard model at a quantum phase transition driven by a change in magnetic field h or chemical potential u. The leading divergences of dE/dh and dE/du are shown to be directly related to those of the zero-temperature spin and charge susceptibilities. Logarithmic corrections to scaling signal a change in the number of local states accessible to the system as it undergoes the transition.

id: cond-mat/0506677
title: Effect of magnetic flux and of electron momentum on the transmission amplitude in the Aharonov-Bohm ring
authors: M.V. Amaresh Kumar, Debendranath Sahoo
comments: accepted in Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506677
abstract: A characterization of the two-terminal open-ring Aharonov-Bohm interferometer is made by analyzing the phase space plots in the complex transmission amplitude plane. Two types of plots are considered: type I plot which uses the magnetic flux as the variable parameter and type II plot which uses the electron momentum as the variable parameter. In type I plot, the trajectory closes upon itself only when the ratio $R$ of the arm lengths (of the interferometer) is a rational fraction, the shape and the type of the generated flower-like pattern is sensitive to the electron momentum. For momenta corresponding to discrete eigenstates of the perfect ring (i.e. the ring without the leads), the trajectory passes through the origin a certain fixed number of times before closing upon itself, whereas for arbitrary momenta it never passes through the origin. Although the transmission coefficient is periodic in the flux with the elementary flux quantum as the basic period, the phenomenon of electron transmission is shown not to be so when analyzed via the present technique. The periodicity is seen to spread over several flux units whenever $R$ is a rational fraction whereas there is absolutely no periodicity present when $R$ is an irrational number. In type II plot, closed trajectories passing through the origin a number of times are seen for $R$ being a rational fraction. The case R=1 (i.e. a symmetric ring) with zero flux is rather pathological--it presents a closed loop surrounding the origin. For irrational $R$ values, the trajectories never close.

id: cond-mat/0506690
title: Current noise of a quantum dot p-i-n junction in a photonic crystal
authors: Y. N. Chen, D. S. Chuu, T. Brandes
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. B (2005)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 153312 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506690
abstract: The shot-noise spectrum of a quantum dot p-i-n junction embedded inside a three-dimensional photonic crystal is investigated. Radiative decay properties of quantum dot excitons can be obtained from the observation of the current noise. The characteristic of the photonic band gap is revealed in the current noise with discontinuous behavior. Applications of such a device in entanglement generation and emission of single photons are pointed out, and may be achieved with current technologies.

id: cond-mat/0506757
title: Quantum Non-Locality in Systems with Open Boundaries: Failure of the Wigner-Function Formalism
authors: Luigi Genovese, David Taj, Fausto Rossi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506757
abstract: We shall revisit the conventional treatment of open quantum devices based on the Wigner-Function formalism. Our analysis will show that the artificial spatial separation between device active region and external reservoirs -properly defined within a semiclassical simulation scheme- is intrinsically incompatible with the non-local character of quantum mechanics. More specifically, by means of an exactly-solvable semiconductor model, we shall show that the application of the conventional boundary-condition scheme to the Wigner transport equation may produce highly non-physical results, like thermal injection of coherent state superpositions and boundary-driven negative probability distributions.

id: cond-mat/0506802
title: Statistics of charge transfer in a tunnel junction coupled to an oscillator
authors: J. Wabnig, D. V. Khomitsky, J. Rammer, A. L. Shelankov
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 165347 (2005).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506802
abstract: The charge transfer statistics of a tunnel junction coupled to a quantum object is studied using the charge projection technique. The joint dynamics of the quantum object and the number of charges transferred through the junction is described by the charge specific density matrix. The method allows evaluating the joint probability distribution of the state of the quantum object and the charge state of the junction.The statistical properties of the junction current are derived from the charge transfer statistics using the master equation for the charge specific density matrix. The theory is applied to a nanoelectromechanical system, and the influence on the average current and the current noise of the junction is obtained for coupling to a harmonic oscillator.

id: cond-mat/0506809
title: d-wave resonating valence bond states of fermionic atoms in optical lattices
authors: Simon Trebst, Ulrich Schollwoeck, Matthias Troyer, Peter Zoller
comments: 4+ pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 250402 (2006).
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0506809
abstract: We study controlled generation and measurement of superfluid d-wave resonating valence bond (RVB) states of fermionic atoms in 2D optical lattices. Starting from loading spatial and spin patterns of atoms in optical superlattices as pure quantum states from a Fermi gas, we adiabatically transform this state to an RVB state by change of the lattice parameters. Results of exact time-dependent numerical studies for ladders systems are presented, suggesting generation of RVB states on timescale smaller than typical experimental decoherence times.

id: cs/0506003
title: Authentication and routing in simple Quantum Key Distribution networks
authors: Andrea Pasquinucci
comments: 12 pages, latex, 6 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0506003
abstract: We consider various issues which arise as soon as one tries to practically implement simple networks of quantum relays for QKD. In particular we discuss authentication and routing which are essential ingredients of any QKD network. This paper aims to address some gaps between quantum and networking aspects of QKD networks usually reserved to specialist in physics and computer science respectively.

id: cs/0506068
title: Quantum Arthur-Merlin Games
authors: Chris Marriott, John Watrous
comments: 22 pages
journal: Computational Complexity, 14(2): 122 - 152, 2005
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0506068
abstract: This paper studies quantum Arthur-Merlin games, which are Arthur-Merlin games in which Arthur and Merlin can perform quantum computations and Merlin can send Arthur quantum information. As in the classical case, messages from Arthur to Merlin are restricted to be strings of uniformly generated random bits. It is proved that for one-message quantum Arthur-Merlin games, which correspond to the complexity class QMA, completeness and soundness errors can be reduced exponentially without increasing the length of Merlin's message. Previous constructions for reducing error required a polynomial increase in the length of Merlin's message. Applications of this fact include a proof that logarithmic length quantum certificates yield no increase in power over BQP and a simple proof that QMA is contained in PP. Other facts that are proved include the equivalence of three (or more) message quantum Arthur-Merlin games with ordinary quantum interactive proof systems and some basic properties concerning two-message quantum Arthur-Merlin games.

id: gr-qc/0506026
title: Minkowski Vacuum Stress Tensor Fluctuations
authors: L.H. Ford, Thomas A. Roman
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures; Some additional comments added in Sect. IIB and a more compact argument given in App. C
journal: Phys.Rev. D72 (2005) 105010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0506026
abstract: We study the fluctuations of the stress tensor for a massless scalar field in two and four-dimensional Minkowski spacetime in the vacuum state. Covariant expressions for the stress tensor correlation function are obtained as sums of derivatives of a scalar function. These expressions allow one to express spacetime averages of the correlation function as finite integrals. We also study the correlation between measurements of the energy density along a worldline. We find that these measurements may be either positively correlated or anticorrelated. The anticorrelated measurements can be interpreted as telling us that if one measurement yields one sign for the averaged energy density, a successive measurement with a suitable time delay is likely to yield a result with the opposite sign.

id: gr-qc/0506039
title: The robustness of a many-body decoherence formula of Kay under changes in graininess and shape of the bodies
authors: Varqa Abyaneh, Bernard S. Kay
comments: Now 12 pages, no figures. LaTeX (includes iopart class/style files, uses amsthm.sty). Submitted to Class. Quantum Grav. Proof simplified and shortened (at expense of only slight weakening of theorem). Some more discussion and two further acknowledgments added
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0506039
abstract: In ``Decoherence of macroscopic closed systems within Newtonian quantum gravity'' (Kay B S 1998 Class. Quantum Grav. 15 L89-L98) it was argued that, given a many-body Schroedinger wave function \psi(x_1,...,x_N) for the centre-of-mass degrees of freedom of a closed system of N identical uniform-mass balls of mass M and radius R, taking account of quantum gravitational effects and then tracing over the gravitational field amounts to multiplying the position-space density matrix \rho(x_1,...,x_N; x_1',...,x_N')= \psi(x_1,...,x_N)\psi*(x_1',...,x_N') by a multiplicative factor, which, if the positions {x_1,...,x_N; x_1',...,x_N'} are all much further away from one another than R, is well-approximated by the product from 1 to N over I, J, K (I<J) of ((|x_K-x_K'|/R)(|x_I'-x_J||x_I-x_J'|/|x_I-x_J||x_I'-x_J'|))^{-24M^2}. Here we show that if each uniform-mass ball is replaced by a grainy ball or more general-shaped lump of similar size consisting of a number, n, of well-spaced small balls of mass m and radius r and, in the above formula, R is replaced by r, M by m and the products are taken over all Nn positions of all the small balls, then the result is well-approximated by replacing R in the original formula by a new value R_eff. This suggests that the original formula will apply in general to physically realistic lumps -- be they macroscopic lumps of ordinary matter with the grains atomic nuclei etc. or be they atomic nuclei themselves with their own (quantum) grainy substructure -- provided R is chosen suitably. In the case of a cubical lump consisting of n=(2L+1)^3 small balls (L > 0) of radius r with centres at the vertices of a cubic lattice of spacing a (assumed to be very much bigger than 2r) and side 2La we establish the bound e^{-1/3}(r/a)^{1/n}La < R_eff < 2\sqrt 3(r/a)^{1/n} La.

id: gr-qc/0506108
title: Dark energy from quantum wave function collapse of dark matter
authors: A. S. Majumdar, D. Home, S. Sinha
comments: 5 pages in Elsevier style to match with version published in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys.Lett.B679:167-171,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0506108
abstract: Dynamical wave function collapse models entail the continuous liberation of a specified rate of energy arising from the interaction of a fluctuating scalar field with the matter wave function. We consider the wave function collapse process for the constituents of dark matter in our universe. Beginning from a particular early era of the universe chosen from physical considerations, the rate of the associated energy liberation is integrated to yield the requisite magnitude of dark energy around the era of galaxy formation. Further, the equation of state for the liberated energy approaches $w \to -1$ asymptotically, providing a mechanism to generate the present acceleration of the universe.

id: hep-th/0506006
title: Wonderful Consequences of the Kerr Theorem
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: v.2, added the proof that solutions are exact, plenary talk at the Russian conference GR-12 (Kazan', June 2005), and talks at the workshops: SQS (Dubna, 27 July) and `Symmetry and Spin' (Prague, August 2005)
journal: Grav.Cosmol.11:301,2005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0506006
abstract: Kerr's multi-particle solution is obtained on the base of the Kerr theorem. Choosing generating function of the Kerr theorem $F$ as a product of partial functions $F_i$ for spinning particles i=1,...k, we obtain a multi-sheeted, multi-twistorial space-time over $M^4$ possessing unusual properties. Twistorial structures of the i-th and j-th particles do not feel each other, forming a type of its internal space. Gravitation and electromagnetic interaction of the particles occurs via a singular twistor line which is common for twistorial structures of interacting particles. The obtained multi-particle Kerr-Newman solution turns out to be `dressed' by singular twistor lines linked to surrounding particles. We conjecture that this structure of space-time has the relation to a stringy structure of vacuum and opens a geometrical way to quantum gravity.

id: hep-th/0506089
title: Casimir force between planes as a boundary finite size effect
authors: Z. Bajnok, L. Palla, G. Takacs
comments: 10 pages, 2 eps figures, LaTeX2e file. v2: A reference is added, some minor modifications made to clarify the text. v3: 9 pages, 3 eps figures, LaTeX2e file, revtex style. Paper throughly restructured and rewritten. Much more details are given, but essential results and conclusions are unchanged. Version accepted for publication
journal: Phys.Rev. D73 (2006) 065001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0506089
abstract: The ground state energy of a boundary quantum field theory is derived in planar geometry in D+1 dimensional spacetime. It provides a universal expression for the Casimir energy which exhibits its dependence on the boundary conditions via the reflection amplitudes of the low energy particle excitations. We demonstrate the easy and straightforward applicability of the general expression by analyzing the free scalar field with Robin boundary condition and by rederiving the most important results available in the literature for this geometry.

id: hep-th/0506121
title: Simultaneous Type A N-fold Supersymmetry with Two Different Values of N
authors: Choon-Lin Ho, Toshiaki Tanaka
comments: 12 pages, no figures; Section 3 improved, to appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys.Lett.A350:63-68,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0506121
abstract: We investigate one-dimensional quantum mechanical systems which have type A N-fold supersymmetry with two different values of N simultaneously. We find that there are essentially four inequivalent models possessing the property, one is conformal, two of them are hyperbolic (trigonometric) including Rosen-Morse type, and the other is elliptic.

id: hep-th/0506124
title: Glimmers of a pre-geometric perspective
authors: Federico Piazza
comments: 30 pages
journal: Found. Phys. 40:239-266 , 2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0506124
abstract: Space-time measurements and gravitational experiments are made by using objects, matter fields or particles and their mutual relationships. As a consequence, any operationally meaningful assertion about space-time is in fact an assertion about the degrees of freedom of the matter (\emph{i.e} non gravitational) fields; those, say for definiteness, of the Standard Model of particle physics. As for any quantum theory, the dynamics of the matter fields can be described in terms of a unitary evolution of a state vector in a Hilbert space. By writing the Hilbert space as a generic tensor product of "subsystems" we analyse the evolution of a state vector on an information theoretical basis and attempt to recover the usual space-time relations from the information exchanges between these subsystems. We consider generic interacting second quantized models with a finite number of fermionic degrees of freedom and characterize on physical grounds the tensor product structure associated with the class of "localized systems" and therefore with "position". We find that in the case of free theories no space-time relation is operationally definable. On the contrary, by applying the same procedure to the simple interacting model of a one-dimensional Heisenberg spin chain we recover the tensor product structure usually associated with "position". Finally, we discuss the possible role of gravity in this framework.

id: hep-th/0506242
title: Liouville Decoherence in a Model of Flavour Oscillations in the presence of Dark Energy
authors: Nick Mavromatos, Sarben Sarkar
comments: 27 pages latex
journal: Phys.Rev. D72 (2005) 065016
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0506242
abstract: We study in some detail the master equation, and its solution in a simplified case modelling flavour oscillations of a two-level system, stemming from the Liouville-string approach to quantum space time foam. In this framework we discuss the appearance of diffusion terms and decoherence due to the interaction of low-energy string matter with space-time defects, such as D-particles in the specific model of ``D-particle foam'', as well as dark energy contributions. We pay particular attention to contrasting the decoherent role of a cosmological constant in inducing exponential quantum damping in the evolution of low-energy observables, such as the probability of flavour oscillations, with the situation where the dark energy relaxes to zero for asymptotically large times, in which case such a damping is absent. Our findings may be of interest to (astrophysical) tests of quantum space-time foam models in the not-so-distant future.

id: math-ph/0506007
title: Finding Exponential Product Formulas of Higher Orders
authors: Naomichi Hatano, Masuo Suzuki
comments: 22 pages, 9 figures. To be published in the conference proceedings ''Quantum Annealing and Other Optimization Methods," eds. B.K.Chakrabarti and A.Das (Springer, Heidelberg)
journal: "Quantum Annealing and Other Optimization Methods," Eds. A. Das and B.K. Chakrabarti (Springer, Berlin, 2005) pp. 37-68
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0506007
abstract: In the present article, we review a continual effort on generalization of the Trotter formula to higher-order exponential product formulas. The exponential product formula is a good and useful approximant, particularly because it conserves important symmetries of the system dynamics. We focuse on two algorithms of constructing higher-order exponential product formulas. The first is the fractal decomposition, where we construct higher-order formulas recursively. The second is to make use of the quantum analysis, where we compute higher-order correction terms directly. As interludes, we also have described the decomposition of symplectic integrators, the approximation of time-ordered exponentials, and the perturbational composition.

id: math-ph/0506017
title: Remarks on the method of comparison equations (generalized WKB method) and the generalized Ermakov-Pinney equation
authors: A Kamenshchik, M Luzzi, G Venturi
comments: The collective of the authors is enlarged and the calculations in Sec. 3 are corrected
journal: Russ.Phys.J.52:1339-1351,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0506017
abstract: The connection between the method of comparison equations (generalized WKB method) and the Ermakov-Pinney equation is established. A perturbative scheme of solution of the generalized Ermakov-Pinney equation is developed and is applied to the construction of perturbative series for second-order differential equations with and without turning points.

id: math-ph/0506021
title: Third order spectral branch points in Krein space related setups: PT-symmetric matrix toy model, MHD alpha^2-dynamo, and extended Squire equation
authors: Uwe Guenther, Frank Stefani
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, Conf. Proc., 3rd International Workshop "Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics", Istanbul, Turkey, June 20-22, 2005
journal: Czech.J.Phys. 55 (2005) 1099-1106
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0506021
abstract: The spectra of self-adjoint operators in Krein spaces are known to possess real sectors as well as sectors of pair-wise complex conjugate eigenvalues. Transitions from one spectral sector to the other are a rather generic feature and they usually occur at exceptional points of square root branching type. For certain parameter configurations two or more such exceptional points may happen to coalesce and to form a higher order branch point. We study the coalescence of two square root branch points semi-analytically for a PT-symmetric 4x4 matrix toy model and illustrate numerically its occurrence in the spectrum of the 2x2 operator matrix of the magnetohydrodynamic alpha^2-dynamo and of an extended version of the hydrodynamic Squire equation.

id: math-ph/0506033
title: Anharmonic oscillator and double-well potential: approximating eigenfunctions
authors: Alexander V Turbiner
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables
journal: Lett.Math.Phys. 74 (2005) 169-180
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0506033
abstract: A simple uniform approximation of the logarithmic derivative of the ground state eigenfunction for both the quantum-mechanical anharmonic oscillator and the double-well potential given by $V= m^2 x^2+g x^4$ at arbitrary $g \geq 0$ for $m^2>0$ and $m^2<0$, respectively, is presented. It is shown that if this approximation is taken as unperturbed problem it leads to an extremely fast convergent perturbation theory.

id: math-ph/0506054
title: Solutions of the compatibility conditions for a Wigner quantum oscillator
authors: N.I. Stoilova, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 9 pages
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) 9681-9688
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0506054
abstract: We consider the compatibility conditions for a N-particle D-dimensional Wigner quantum oscillator. These conditions can be rewritten as certain triple relations involving anticommutators, so it is natural to look for solutions in terms of Lie superalgebras. In the recent classification of ``generalized quantum statistics'' for the basic classical Lie superalgebras [math-ph/0504013], each such statistics is characterized by a set of creation and annihilation operators plus a set of triple relations. In the present letter, we investigate which cases of this classification also lead to solutions of the compatibility conditions. Our analysis yields some known solutions and several classes of new solutions.

id: math-ph/0506057
title: Hjelmslev Geometry of Mutually Unbiased Bases
authors: Metod Saniga, Michel Planat
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; extended list of references, figure made more illustrative and in colour; v3 - one more figure and section added, paper made easier to follow, references updated
journal: Journal of Physics A 39 (2006) 435-440
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0506057
abstract: The basic combinatorial properties of a complete set of mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) of a q-dimensional Hilbert space H\_q, q = p^r with p being a prime and r a positive integer, are shown to be qualitatively mimicked by the configuration of points lying on a proper conic in a projective Hjelmslev plane defined over a Galois ring of characteristic p^2 and rank r. The q vectors of a basis of H\_q correspond to the q points of a (so-called) neighbour class and the q+1 MUBs answer to the total number of (pairwise disjoint) neighbour classes on the conic.

id: math/0506334
title: On the X-rays of permutations
authors: Cecilia Bebeacua, Toufik Mansour, Alexander Postnikov, Simone Severini
comments: 7 pages
journal: Electronic Notes in Discrete Mathematics, Vol. 20, 2005, pp. 193-203
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0506334
abstract: The X-ray of a permutation is defined as the sequence of antidiagonal sums in the associated permutation matrix. X-rays of permutation are interesting in the context of Discrete Tomography since many types of integral matrices can be written as linear combinations of permutation matrices. This paper is an invitation to the study of X-rays of permutations from a combinatorial point of view. We present connections between these objects and nondecreasing differences of permutations, zero-sum arrays, decomposable permutations, score sequences of tournaments, queens' problems and rooks' problems.

id: math/0506491
title: A brief introduction to operator quantum error correction
authors: David W. Kribs
comments: To appear in Proceedings of the 25th Meeting of the Great Plains Operator Theory Symposium
journal: Contemporary Mathematics, American Mathematical Society, 414 (2006), 27-34.
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0506491
abstract: We give a short introduction to operator quantum error correction. This is a new protocol for error correction in quantum computing that has brought the fundamental methods under a single umbrella, and has opened up new possibilities for protecting quantum information against undesirable noise. We describe the various conditions that characterize correction in this scheme.

id: math/0506539
title: A two-parametric deformation of U[sl(2)], its representations and complex "spin"
authors: Nguyen Anh Ky, Nguyen Thi Hong Van
comments: LaTeX, 7 pages, no figure. In v2: Minor corrections; discussions and references added; line spacing reduced
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0506539
abstract: A two-parametric deformation of U[sl(2)] and its representations are considered. This newly introduced two-parametric quantum group denoted as $U_{pq}[sl(2)]$ admits a class of infinite-dimensional representations which have no classical (non-deformed) and one-parametric deformation analogues, even at generic deformation parameters. Interestingly that finite-dimensional representations of $U_{pq}[sl(2)]$ allow arbitrary complex "spins" (i.e., not necessary they to be integral or half-integral numbers), unlike those in the classical and one-parametric deformation cases.

id: nlin/0506018
title: Quantum dynamical echo in two-level systems
authors: R. Sankaranarayanan, Jane H. Sheeba, M. Lakshmanan
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0506018
abstract: Evolution of quantum fidelity for two-level systems is studied in the context of periodic echo. From a general treatment for time independent case, we obtain a simple condition on the governing Hamiltonians under which the systems display periodic quantum echo. For a specific time dependent problem the quantum fidelity is shown to exhibit Rabi oscillation. This may be considered as a simple mechanism to generate periodic echo, except for a specific initial superpositional state in which case the fidelity remains invariant.

id: nucl-th/0506069
title: Bounding the ground-state energy of a many-body system with the differential method
authors: Amaury Mouchet
comments: version 1->2 (main revisions): subsection 2.2, equation (18), footnote 6 have been added
journal: Nucl.Phys. A765 (2006) 319-341
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0506069
abstract: This paper promotes the differential method as a new fruitful strategy for estimating a ground-state energy of a many-body system. The case of an arbitrary number of attractive Coulombian particles is specifically studied and we make some favorable comparison of the differential method to the existing approaches that rely on variational principles. A bird's-eye view of the treatment of more general interactions is also given.

id: physics/0506061
title: Simultaneous cooling of axial vibrational modes in a linear ion-trap
authors: Christof Wunderlich, Giovanna Morigi, Dirk Reiss
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 023421 (2005)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0506061
abstract: In order to use a collection of trapped ions for experiments where a well defined preparation of vibrational states is necessary, all vibrational modes have to be cooled to ensure precise and repeatable manipulation of the ions' quantum states. A method for simultaneous sideband cooling of all axial vibrational modes is proposed. By application of a magnetic field gradient the absorption spectrum of each ion is modified such that sideband resonances of different vibrational modes coincide. The ion string is then irradiated with monochromatic electromagnetic radiation, in the optical or microwave regime, for sideband excitation. This cooling scheme is investigated in detailed numerical studies. Its application for initializing ion strings for quantum information processing is extensively discussed.

id: physics/0506105
title: Photoluminescence measurements of quantum-dot-containing semiconductor microdisk resonators using optical fiber taper waveguides
authors: Kartik Srinivasan, Andreas Stintz, Sanjay Krishna, Oskar Painter
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B, Vol 72, 205318, Nov. 10 2005
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0506105
abstract: Fiber taper waveguides are used to improve the efficiency of room temperature photoluminescence measurements of AlGaAs microdisk resonant cavities with embedded self-assembled InAs quantum dots. As a near-field collection optic, the fiber taper improves the collection efficiency from microdisk lasers by a factor of ~ 15-100 times in comparison to conventional normal incidence free-space collection techniques. In addition, the fiber taper can serve as a efficient means for pumping these devices, and initial measurements employing fiber pumping and collection are presented. Implications of this work towards chip-based cavity quantum electrodynamics experiments are discussed.

id: physics/0506119
title: Time dependence of laser cooling in optical lattices
authors: Claude M. Dion, Peder Sjolund, Stefan J. H. Petra, Svante Jonsell, Anders Kastberg
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett., 72 (3), pp. 369-375 (2005)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0506119
abstract: We study the dynamics of the cooling of a gas of caesium atoms in an optical lattice, both experimentally and with 1D full-quantum Monte Carlo simulations. We find that, contrary to the standard interpretation of the Sisyphus model, the cooling process does not work by a continuous decrease of the average kinetic energy of the atoms in the lattice. Instead, we show that the momentum of the atoms follows a bimodal distribution, the atoms being gradually transferred from a hot to a cold mode. We suggest that the cooling mechanism should be depicted in terms of a rate model, describing the transfer between the two modes along with the processes occurring within each mode.

id: physics/0506150
title: Measuring the quantum efficiency of single radiating dipoles using a scanning mirror
authors: B. C. Buchler, T. Kalkbrenner, C. Hettich, V. Sandoghdar
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0506150
abstract: Using scanning probe techniques, we show the controlled manipulation of the radiation from single dipoles. In one experiment we study the modification of the fluorescence lifetime of a single molecular dipole in front of a movable silver mirror. A second experiment demonstrates the changing plasmon spectrum of a gold nanoparticle in front of a dielectric mirror. Comparison of our data with theoretical models allows determination of the quantum efficiency of each radiating dipole.

id: physics/0506179
title: Optimal molecular alignment and orientation through rotational ladder climbing
authors: Julien Salomon, Claude M. Dion, Gabriel Turinici
comments: 14 pages, 12 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 123, 144310 (2005)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0506179
abstract: We study the control by electromagnetic fields of molecular alignment and orientation, in a linear, rigid rotor model. With the help of a monotonically convergent algorithm, we find that the optimal field is in the microwave part of the spectrum and acts by resonantly exciting the rotation of the molecule progressively from the ground state, i.e., by rotational ladder climbing. This mechanism is present not only when maximizing orientation or alignment, but also when using prescribed target states that simultaneously optimize the efficiency of orientation/alignment and its duration. The extension of the optimization method to consider a finite rotational temperature is also presented.

id: physics/0506199
title: Storage and retrieval of light pulses in atomic media with "slow" and "fast" light
authors: A. Lezama, A.M. Akulshin, A.I. Sidorov, P. Hannaford
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0506199
abstract: We present experimental evidence that light storage, i.e. the controlled release of a light pulse by an atomic sample dependent on the past presence of a writing pulse, is not restricted to small group velocity media but can also occur in a negative group velocity medium. A simple physical picture applicable to both cases and previous light storage experiments is discussed.

id: physics/0506212
title: Four-photon interference: a realizable experiment to demonstrate violation of EPR postulates for perfect correlations
authors: P. Hariharan, J. Samuel, Supurna Sinha
comments: published
journal: Journal Of Optics B: Quantum and Semiclassical Optics, 1, 199 (1999)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0506212
abstract: Bell's theorem reveals contradictions between the predictions of quantum mechanics and the EPR postulates for a pair of particles only in situations involving imperfect statistical correlations. However, with three or more particles, contradictions emerge even for perfect correlations. We describe an experiment which can be realized in the laboratory, using four-photon entangled states generated by parametric down-conversion, to demonstrate this contradiction at the level of perfect correlations.

