id: quant-ph/0506039
title: Two-way quantum communication channels
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Debbie W. Leung, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 4, No. 1 (2006) 63-83
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506039
abstract: We consider communication between two parties using a bipartite quantum operation, which constitutes the most general quantum mechanical model of two-party communication. We primarily focus on the simultaneous forward and backward communication of classical messages. For the case in which the two parties share unlimited prior entanglement, we give inner and outer bounds on the achievable rate region that generalize classical results due to Shannon. In particular, using a protocol of Bennett, Harrow, Leung, and Smolin, we give a one-shot expression in terms of the Holevo information for the entanglement-assisted one-way capacity of a two-way quantum channel. As applications, we rederive two known additivity results for one-way channel capacities: the entanglement-assisted capacity of a general one-way channel, and the unassisted capacity of an entanglement-breaking one-way channel.

id: quant-ph/0506048
title: Evanescence in Coined Quantum Walks
authors: Hilary A. Carteret, Bruce Richmond, Nico Temme
comments: 32 pages AMS LaTeX, 5 figures in .eps format. Rewritten in response to referee comments, including some additional references. v3: typos fixed in equations (131), (133) and (134). v5: published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 8641-8665
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506048
abstract: In this paper we complete the analysis begun by two of the authors in a previous work on the discrete quantum walk on the line [J. Phys. A 36:8775-8795 (2003) quant-ph/0303105 ]. We obtain uniformly convergent asymptotics for the "exponential decay'' regions at the leading edges of the main peaks in the Schr{\"o}dinger (or wave-mechanics) picture. This calculation required us to generalise the method of stationary phase and we describe this extension in some detail, including self-contained proofs of all the technical lemmas required. We also rigorously establish the exact Feynman equivalence between the path-integral and wave-mechanics representations for this system using some techniques from the theory of special functions. Taken together with the previous work, we can now prove every theorem by both routes.

id: quant-ph/0506096
title: Continuous-time Quantum Walks on a Cycle Graph
authors: Dmitry Solenov, Leonid Fedichkin
comments: Typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012313 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506096
abstract: We present analytical treatment of quantum walks on a cycle graph. The investigation is based on a realistic physical model of the graph in which decoherence is induced by continuous monitoring of each graph vertex with nearby quantum point contact. We derive the analytical expression of the probability distribution along the cycle. Upper bound estimate to mixing time is shown.

id: quant-ph/0506221
title: Quantum Random Walks without a Coin Toss
authors: Apoorva Patel, K.S. Raghunathan, Pranaw Rungta
comments: 8 pages, RevTeX4, 5 figures. Invited lecture at the Workshop on Quantum Information, Computation and Communication (QICC-2005), IIT Kharagpur, India, February 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506221
abstract: We construct a quantum random walk algorithm, based on the Dirac operator instead of the Laplacian. The algorithm explores multiple evolutionary branches by superposition of states, and does not require the coin toss instruction of classical randomised algorithms. We use this algorithm to search for a marked vertex on a hypercubic lattice in arbitrary dimensions. Our numerical and analytical results match the scaling behaviour of earlier algorithms that use a coin toss instruction.

id: quant-ph/0506270
title: Spin-1/2 particles moving on a 2D lattice with nearest-neighbor interactions can realize an autonomous quantum computer
authors: Dominik Janzing
comments: More detailed explanations including description of a programmable version. 44 pages, 12 figures, latex. To appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0506270
abstract: What is the simplest Hamiltonian which can implement quantum computation without requiring any control operations during the computation process? In a previous paper we have constructed a 10-local finite-range interaction among qubits on a 2D lattice having this property. Here we show that pair-interactions among qutrits on a 2D lattice are sufficient, too, and can also implement an ergodic computer where the result can be read out from the time average state after some post-selection with high success probability. Two of the 3 qutrit states are given by the two levels of a spin-1/2 particle located at a specific lattice site, the third state is its absence. Usual hopping terms together with an attractive force among adjacent particles induce a coupled quantum walk where the particle spins are subjected to spatially inhomogeneous interactions implementing holonomic quantum computing. The holonomic method ensures that the implemented circuit does not depend on the time needed for the walk. Even though the implementation of the required type of spin-spin interactions is currently unclear, the model shows that quite simple Hamiltonians are powerful enough to allow for universal quantum computing in a closed physical system.

