id: quant-ph/0508001
title: On the entanglement concentration of three-partite states
authors: Berry Groisman, Noah Linden, Sandu Popescu
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 062322 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508001
abstract: We investigate the concentration of multi-party entanglement by focusing on simple family of three-partite pure states, superpositions of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states and singlets. Despite the simplicity of the states, we show that they cannot be reversibly concentrated by the standard entanglement concentration procedure, to which they seem ideally suited. Our results cast doubt on the idea that for each N there might be a finite set of N-party states into which any pure state can be reversibly transformed. We further relate our results to the concept of locking of entanglement of formation.

id: quant-ph/0508002
title: Eavesdropping on the "ping-pong" type quantum communication protocols with invisible photon
authors: Qing-yu Cai
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 351, 23 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508002
abstract: The crucial issue of quantum communication protocol is its security. In this paper, we show that all the deterministic and direct two-way quantum communication protocols, sometimes called ping-pong (PP) protocols, are insecure when an eavesdropper uses the invisible photon to eavesdrop on the communication. With our invisible photon eavesdropping (IPE) scheme, the eavesdropper can obtain full information of the communication with zero risk of being detected. We show that this IPE scheme can be implemented experimentally with current technology. Finally, a possible improvement of PP communication protocols security is proposed. PACS:03.67.Hk

id: quant-ph/0508003
title: Simple Minimal Informationally Complete Measurements for Qudits
authors: Stefan Weigert
comments: 10 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 20 (2006) 1942-1955
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508003
abstract: Simple minimal but informationally complete positive operator-valued measures are constructed out of the expectation-value representation for qudits. Upon suitable modification, the procedure transforms any set of d^2 linearly independent hermitean operators into such an observable. Minor changes in the construction lead to closed-form expressions for informationally complete positive measures in d-dimensional Hilbert spaces.

id: quant-ph/0508004
title: Solvable model of quantum microcanonical states
authors: Carl M Bender, Dorje C Brody, Daniel W Hook
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Journal of Physics A38, L607-L613 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508004
abstract: This letter examines the consequences of a recently proposed modification of the postulate of equal {\it a priori} probability in quantum statistical mechanics. This modification, called the {\it quantum microcanonical postulate} (QMP), asserts that for a system in microcanonical equilibrium all pure quantum states having the same energy expectation value are realised with equal probability. A simple model of a quantum system that obeys the QMP and that has a nondegenerate spectrum with equally spaced energy eigenvalues is studied. This model admits a closed-form expression for the density of states in terms of the energy eigenvalues. It is shown that in the limit as the number of energy levels approaches infinity, the expression for the density of states converges to a $\delta$ function centred at the intermediate value $(E_{\rm max}+E_{\rm min})/ 2$ of the energy. Determining this limit requires an elaborate asymptotic study of an infinite sum whose terms alternate in sign.

id: quant-ph/0508005
title: Star-quantization of an infinite wall
authors: Sergei Kryukov, Mark A. Walton
comments: 6 pages, 0 figures, submitted to Canadian Journal of Physics, special issue for the proceedings of Canada Theory 1 (6/05, UBC)
journal: Can. J. Phys.84:557-563, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508005
abstract: In deformation quantization (a.k.a. the Wigner-Weyl-Moyal formulation of quantum mechanics), we consider a single quantum particle moving freely in one dimension, except for the presence of one infinite potential wall. Dias and Prata pointed out that, surprisingly, its stationary-state Wigner function does not obey the naive equation of motion, i.e. the naive stargenvalue (*-genvalue) equation. We review our recent work on this problem, that treats the infinite wall as the limit of a Liouville potential. Also included are some new results: (i) we show explicitly that the Wigner-Weyl transform of the usual density matrix is the physical solution, (ii) we prove that an effective-mass treatment of the problem is equivalent to the Liouville one, and (iii) we point out that self-adjointness of the operator Hamiltonian requires a boundary potential, but one different from that proposed by Dias and Prata.

id: quant-ph/0508006
title: Jarlskog's Parametrization of Unitary Matrices and Qudit Theory
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Kunio Funahashi, Takayuki Kobayashi
comments: Latex, 20 pages, 2 figures, minor changes. To appear in International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys. 3(2006) 269-283
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508006
abstract: In the paper (math-ph/0504049) Jarlskog gave an interesting simple parametrization to unitary matrices, which was essentially the canonical coordinate of the second kind in the Lie group theory (math-ph/0505047). In this paper we apply the method to a quantum computation based on multi-level system (qudit theory). Namely, by considering that the parametrization gives a complete set of modules in qudit theory, we construct the generalized Pauli matrices which play a central role in the theory and also make a comment on the exchange gate of two-qudit systems. Moreover we give an explicit construction to the generalized Walsh-Hadamard matrix in the case of n=3, 4 and 5. For the case of n=5 its calculation is relatively complicated. In general, a calculation to construct it tends to become more and more complicated as n becomes large. To perform a quantum computation the generalized Walsh-Hadamard matrix must be constructed in a quick and clean manner. From our construction it may be possible to say that a qudit theory with $n\geq 5$ is not realistic. This paper is an introduction towards Quantum Engineering.

id: quant-ph/0508007
title: Rapid State-Reduction of Quantum Systems Using Feedback Control
authors: Joshua Combes, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 4 pages, revtex4, 1 eps figure. v2: improved presentation; v3: published version, some typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 010504 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508007
abstract: We consider using Hamiltonian feedback control to increase the speed at which a continuous measurement purifies (reduces) the state of a quantum system, and thus to increase the speed of the preparation of pure states. For a measurement of an observable with N equispaced eigenvalues, we show that there exists a feedback algorithm which will speed up the rate of state-reduction by at least a factor of 2(N+1)/3.

id: quant-ph/0508008
title: Quantum-Classical Transition of Photon-Carnot Engine Induced by Quantum Decoherence
authors: H.T. Quan, P. Zhang, C.P. Sun
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review E, 73, 036122 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508008
abstract: We study the physical implementation of the Photon Carnot engine (PCE) based on the cavity QED system [M. Scully et al, Science, \textbf{299}, 862 (2003)]. Here, we analyze two decoherence mechanisms for the more practical systems of PCE, the dissipation of photon field and the pure dephasing of the input atoms. As a result we find that (I) the PCE can work well to some extent even in the existence of the cavity loss (photon dissipation); and (II) the short-time atomic dephasing, which can destroy the PCE, is a fatal problem to be overcome.

id: quant-ph/0508009
title: Exact Eigenvalues and Eigenfunctions of the Hulthen Potential in the PT-Symmetry for Any Angular Momentum
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 24 pages
journal: J. of Math. Chem. 42, 461(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508009
abstract: The Schrodinger equation with the PT-symmetric Hulthen potential is solved exactly by taking into account effect of the centrifugal barrier for any l-state. Eigenfunctions are obtained in terms of the Jacobi polynomials. The Nikiforov-Uvarov method is used in the computations. Our numerical results are in good agreement with the ones obtained before. Keywords: Energy Eigenvalues and Eigenfunctions; Hulthen potential; PT-symmetry; Nikiforov-Uvarov Method.

id: quant-ph/0508010
title: Measurement of the separation between atoms beyond diffraction limit
authors: Jun-Tao Chang, Joerg Evers, Marlan O. Scully, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: v2: Revised version for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 031803(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508010
abstract: Precision measurement of small separations between two atoms or molecules has been of interest since the early days of science. Here, we discuss a scheme which yields spatial information on a system of two identical atoms placed in a standing wave laser field. The information is extracted from the collective resonance fluorescence spectrum, relying entirely on far-field imaging techniques. Both the interatomic separation and the positions of the two particles can be measured with fractional-wavelength precision over a wide range of distances from bout lambda/550 to lambda/2.

id: quant-ph/0508011
title: Twelve-spin "Schrodinger cat"
authors: Jae-Seung Lee, A. K. Khitrin
comments: Submitted to Applied Physics Letters
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 87, 204109 (2005) (3 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508011
abstract: Pseudopure "cat" state, a superposition of quantum states with all spins up and all spins down, is experimentally demonstrated for a system of twelve dipolar-coupled nuclear spins of fully 13C-labeled benzene molecule oriented in a liquid-crystalline matrix.

id: quant-ph/0508012
title: Quantum Bayesian methods and subsequent measurements
authors: Filippo Neri
comments: Expanded and corrected version. 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.A 72, 062306 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508012
abstract: After a derivation of the quantum Bayes theorem, and a discussion of the reconstruction of the unknown state of identical spin systems by repeated measurements, the main part of this paper treats the problem of determining the unknown phase difference of two coherent sources by photon measurements. While the approach of this paper is based on computing correlations of actual measurements (photon detections), it is possible to derive indirectly a probability distribution for the phase difference. In this approach, the quantum phase is not an observable, but a parameter of an unknown quantum state. Photon measurements determine a probability distribution for the phase difference. The approach used in this paper takes into account both photon statistics and the finite efficiency of the detectors.

id: quant-ph/0508013
title: Bright tripartite entanglement in triply concurrent parametric oscillation
authors: A. S. Bradley, M. K. Olsen, O. Pfister, R. C. Pooser
comments: This paper has been withdrawn since it was an inadvertant double submission. An updated version of the original submission can be found at quant-ph/0505131
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508013
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn since it was an inadvertant double submission. An updated version of the original submission can be found at quant-ph/0505131

id: quant-ph/0508014
title: Orthodox Quantum Mechanics Free from Paradoxes
authors: Rodrigo Medina
comments: 21 pages plain TeX
journal: Annales de la Fondation Louis de Broglie, Volume 24, (1999), p129
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508014
abstract: A formulation of quantum mechanics based on an operational definition of state is presented. This formulation, which includes explicitly the macroscopic systems, assumes the probabilistic interpretation and is nevertheless objective. The classical paradoxes of quantum mechanics are analyzed and their origin is found to be the fictitious properties that are usually attributed to quantum-mechanical states. The hypothesis that any mixed state can always be considered as an incoherent superposition of pure states is found to contradict quantum mechanics. A solution of EPR paradox is proposed. It is shown that entanglement of quantum states is compatible with realism and locality of events, but implies non-local encoding of information.

id: quant-ph/0508015
title: Quantum secure direct communication network with Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Xi-Han Li, Chun-Yan Li, Ping Zhou, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 7 pages, one figure
journal: Physics Letters A 359 (5) (2006) 359-365
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508015
abstract: We discuss the four requirements for a real point-to-point quantum secure direct communication (QSDC) first, and then present two efficient QSDC network schemes with an N ordered Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs. Any one of the authorized users can communicate another one on the network securely and directly.

id: quant-ph/0508016
title: General properties of Nonsignaling Theories
authors: Ll. Masanes, A. Acin, N. Gisin
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 73, 012112 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508016
abstract: This article identifies a series of properties common to all theories that do not allow for superluminal signaling and predict the violation of Bell inequalities. Intrinsic randomness, uncertainty due to the incompatibility of two observables, monogamy of correlations, impossibility of perfect cloning, privacy of correlations, bounds in the shareability of some states; all these phenomena are solely a consequence of the no-signaling principle and nonlocality. In particular, it is shown that for any distribution, the properties of (i) nonlocal, (ii) no arbitrarily shareable and (iii) positive secrecy content are equivalent.

id: quant-ph/0508017
title: A new perturbative expansion of the time evolution operator associated with a quantum system
authors: Paolo Aniello
comments: 32 pages; modified version with examples of my previous paper quant-ph/0404056; to appear on the J. of Optics B: Quantum and Semiclassical Optics, Special Issue on 'Optics and Squeeze Transformations after Einstein'
journal: J.Opt.B Quant.Semiclass.Opt. 7 (2005) S507-S522
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508017
abstract: A novel expansion of the evolution operator associated with a -- in general, time-dependent -- perturbed quantum Hamiltonian is presented. It is shown that it has a wide range of possible realizations that can be fitted according to computational convenience or to satisfy specific requirements. As a remarkable example, the quantum Hamiltonian describing a laser-driven trapped ion is studied in detail.

id: quant-ph/0508018
title: Disordered complex systems using cold gases and trapped ions
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Maciej Lewenstein, Veronica Ahufinger, Marisa Pons, Anna Sanpera
comments: 9 pages, 1 eps figure; v2: One equation corrected
journal: in ''Laser Spectroscopy: Proceedings of the XVII International Conference, Aviemore, Scotland UK, 19-24 June 2005'', eds. E.A. Hinds, A. Ferguson, E. Riis (World Scientific, Singapore 2005), pp. 158-166
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508018
abstract: We report our research on disordered complex systems using cold gases and trapped ions, and address the possibility of using complex systems for quantum information processing. Two simple paradigmatic models of disordered complex systems are revisited here. The first one corresponds to a short range disordered Ising Hamiltonian (spin glasses), which can be implemented with a Bose-Fermi (Bose-Bose) mixture in a disordered optical lattice. The second model we address here is a long range disordered Hamiltonian, characteristic of neural networks (Hopfield model), which can be implemented in a chain of trapped ions with appropriately designed interactions.

id: quant-ph/0508019
title: Schmidt Analysis of Pure-State Entanglement
authors: J.H. Eberly
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, for C.M. Bowden memorial
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508019
abstract: We examine the application of Schmidt-mode analysis to pure state entanglement. Several examples permitting exact analytic calculation of Schmidt eigenvalues and eigenfunctions are included, as well as evaluation of the associated degree of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0508020
title: Some families of density matrices for which separability is easily tested
authors: Samuel L. Braunstein, Sibasish Ghosh, Toufik Mansour, Simone Severini, Richard C. Wilson
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012320 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508020
abstract: We reconsider density matrices of graphs as defined in [quant-ph/0406165]. The density matrix of a graph is the combinatorial laplacian of the graph normalized to have unit trace. We describe a simple combinatorial condition (the "degree condition") to test separability of density matrices of graphs. The condition is directly related to the PPT-criterion. We prove that the degree condition is necessary for separability and we conjecture that it is also sufficient. We prove special cases of the conjecture involving nearest point graphs and perfect matchings. We observe that the degree condition appears to have value beyond density matrices of graphs. In fact, we point out that circulant density matrices and other matrices constructed from groups always satisfy the condition and indeed are separable with respect to any split. The paper isolates a number of problems and delineates further generalizations.

id: quant-ph/0508021
title: Robust entanglement
authors: H. Haeffner, F. Schmidt-Kaler, W. Haensel, C. F. Roos, T. Koerber, M. Chwalla, M. Riebe, J. Benhelm, U. D. Rapol, C. Becher, R. Blatt
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. B 81, 151 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508021
abstract: It is common belief among physicists that entangled states of quantum systems loose their coherence rather quickly. The reason is that any interaction with the environment which distinguishes between the entangled sub-systems collapses the quantum state. Here we investigate entangled states of two trapped Ca$^+$ ions and observe robust entanglement lasting for more than 20 seconds.

id: quant-ph/0508022
title: Improved transfer of quantum information using a local memory
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Daniel Burgarth
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; added references to homogenization and asymptotic completeness
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 030501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508022
abstract: We demonstrate that the quantum communication between two parties can be significantly improved if the receiver is allowed to store the received signals in a quantum memory before decoding them. In the limit of an infinite memory, the transfer is perfect. We prove that this scheme allows the transfer of arbitrary multipartite states along Heisenberg chains of spin-1/2 particles with random coupling strengths.

id: quant-ph/0508023
title: Lie Algebras and Suppression of Decoherence in Open Quantum Systems
authors: William Gordon Ritter
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 012305 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508023
abstract: Since there are many examples in which no decoherence-free subsystems exist (among them all cases where the error generators act irreducibly on the system Hilbert space), it is of interest to search for novel mechanisms which suppress decoherence in these more general cases. Drawing on recent work (quant-ph/0502153) we present three results which indicate decoherence suppression without the need for noiseless subsystems. There is a certain trade-off; our results do not necessarily apply to an arbitrary initial density matrix, or for completely generic noise parameters. On the other hand, our computational methods are novel and the result--suppression of decoherence in the error-algebra approach without noiseless subsystems--is an interesting new direction.

id: quant-ph/0508024
title: Homodyne detection and parametric down-conversion: a classical approach applied to proposed "loophole-free" Bell tests
authors: Caroline H Thompson
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. A. For related material see this http URL 9 pages, including 7 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508024
abstract: A classical model is presented for the features of parametric down-conversion and homodyne detection relevant to recent proposed ``loophole-free'' Bell tests. The Bell tests themselves are uncontroversial: there are no obvious loopholes that might cause bias and hence, if the world does, after all, obey local realism, no violation of a Bell inequality will be observed. Interest centres around the question of whether or not the proposed criterion for ``non-classical'' light is valid. If cit is not, then the experiments will fail in their initial concept, since both quantum theorists and local realists will agree that we are seeing a purely classical effect. The Bell test, though, is not the only criterion by which the quantum-mechanical and local realist models can be judged. If the experiments are extended by including a range of parameter values and by analysing, in addition to the proposed digitised voltage differences, the raw voltages, the models can be compared in their overall performance and plausibility.

id: quant-ph/0508025
title: Quantum control, quantum information processing, and quantum-limited metrology with trapped ions
authors: D. J. Wineland, D. Leibfried, M. D. Barrett, A. Ben-Kish, J. C. Bergquist, R. B. Blakestad, J. J. Bollinger, J. Britton, J. Chiaverini, B. Demarco, D. Hume, W. M. Itano, M. Jensen, J. D. Jost, E. Knill, J. Koelemeij, C. Langer, W. Oskay, R. Ozeri, R. Reichle, T. Rosenband, T. Schaetz, P. O. Schmidt, S. Seidelin
comments: Proceedings of the International Conference on Laser Spectroscopy (ICOLS), 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508025
abstract: We briefly discuss recent experiments on quantum information processing using trapped ions at NIST. A central theme of this work has been to increase our capabilities in terms of quantum computing protocols, but we have also applied the same concepts to improved metrology, particularly in the area of frequency standards and atomic clocks. Such work may eventually shed light on more fundamental issues, such as the quantum measurement problem.

id: quant-ph/0508026
title: From EIT photon correlations to Raman anti-correlations in coherently prepared Rb vapor
authors: Vladimir A. Sautenkov, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 4 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508026
abstract: We have experimentally observed switching between photon-photon correlations (bunching) and anti-correlations (anti-bunching) between two orthogonally polarized laser beams in an EIT configuration in Rb vapor. The bunching and anti-bunching sswitching occurs at a specific magnetic field strength.

id: quant-ph/0508027
title: Macroscopic Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs in superconducting circuits
authors: L.F. Wei, Yu-xi Liu, Markus J. Storcz, Franco Nori
comments: small changes in text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 052307 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508027
abstract: We propose an efficient approach to prepare Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) pairs in currently existing Josephson nanocircuits with capacitive couplings. In these fixed coupling circuits, two-qubit logic gates could be easily implemented while, strictly speaking, single-qubit gates cannot be easily realized. For a known two-qubit state, conditional single-qubit operation could still be designed to evolve only the selected qubit and keep the other qubit unchanged; the rotation of the selected qubit depends on the state of the other one. These conditional single-qubit operations allow to deterministically generate the well-known Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs, represented by EPR-Bell (or Bell) states. Quantum-state tomography is further proposed to experimentally confirm the generation of these states. The decays of the prepared EPR pairs are analyzed using numerical simulations. Possible application of the generated EPR pairs to test Bell's Inequality is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0508028
title: Security against the Invisible Photon Attack for the Quantum Key Distribution with Blind Polarization Bases
authors: Won-Ho Kye, M. S. Kim
comments: 2 pages. No figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508028
abstract: In this paper, we briefly show how the quantum key distribution with blind polarization bases [Kye et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 040501 (2005)] can be made secure against the invisible photon attack.

id: quant-ph/0508029
title: There is no simulation of n-qubit operations by a single Hamiltonian with 2-spin interaction
authors: Torsten Asselmeyer-Maluga, Matthias Kolbe, Helge Rose'
comments: 4 pages, ReVTeX4, twocolumn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508029
abstract: Today's devices for quantum computing are still far from implementing useful and powerful quantum algorithms. Decoherence and the wish to resist the effects of errors in a system of quantum bits incurs a lot of overhead in the number of gates and qubits. From a theoretical perspective, controlled quantum simulation raises the hope to simulate the unitary quantum operationes generated by a Hamiltonian with 3-body interaction with a suitably designed element that is constructed of only 2-body interactions. That replacement would happen without any additional gates, and its possibility would be due to the ambiguity of the unit element of the Lie group connected with the algebra of traceless hermitian matrices. We show that this hope is void, and give a general proof for this for any order of interaction.

id: quant-ph/0508030
title: Comment on "Quantum Key Distribution with the Blind Polarization Bases"
authors: Qiang Zhang, Xiang-Bin Wang, Yu-Ao Chen, Tao Yang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 2 pages 0 figures, comments are welcome!
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 078901 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508030
abstract: We show an eavesdropping scheme, by which the eavesdropper can achieve the full information of the key against the protocol [Kye et al., PRL 95 040501 (2005)] with a probability of unity and will not be discovered by the the legitimate users, even in the case that they have the perfect single-photon source and the loseless channel.

id: quant-ph/0508031
title: The Dynamics of 1D Quantum Spin Systems Can Be Approximated Efficiently
authors: Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Simplified argument
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 157202 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508031
abstract: In this Letter we show that an arbitrarily good approximation to the propagator e^{itH} for a 1D lattice of n quantum spins with hamiltonian H may be obtained with polynomial computational resources in n and the error \epsilon, and exponential resources in |t|. Our proof makes use of the finitely correlated state/matrix product state formalism exploited by numerical renormalisation group algorithms like the density matrix renormalisation group. There are two immediate consequences of this result. The first is that the Vidal's time-dependent density matrix renormalisation group will require only polynomial resources to simulate 1D quantum spin systems for logarithmic |t|. The second consequence is that continuous-time 1D quantum circuits with logarithmic |t| can be simulated efficiently on a classical computer, despite the fact that, after discretisation, such circuits are of polynomial depth.

id: quant-ph/0508032
title: The separability versus entanglement problem
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Maciej Lewenstein, Anna Sanpera
comments: 17 pages, 3 eps figures, Review
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508032
abstract: We review the problem of discriminating entangled states from separable states for bipartite systems. We formally define what entangled states are, present some important criteria to detect entanglement, and show how they can be classified according to their capability to perform some precisely defined tasks.

id: quant-ph/0508033
title: Universality in Dynamical Formation of Entanglement for Quantum Chaos
authors: Hiroto Kubotani, Mikito Toda, Satoshi Adachi
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures; submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508033
abstract: Dynamical formation of entanglement is studied for quantum chaotic bi-particle systems. We find that statistical properties of the Schmidt eigenvalues for strong chaos are well described by the random matrix theory of the Laguerre ensemble. This implies that entanglement formation for quantum chaos has universal properties, and does not depend on specific aspects of the systems.

id: quant-ph/0508034
title: An exactly solvable model of two three-dimensional harmonic oscillators interacting with the quantum electromagnetic field: the Casimir-Polder potential
authors: F. Ciccarello, E. Karpov, R. Passante
comments: 12 pages
journal: Physical Review A 72, 052106 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508034
abstract: We consider two three-dimensional isotropic harmonic oscillators interacting with the quantum electromagnetic field in the Coulomb gauge and within dipole approximation. Using a Bogoliubov-like transformation, we can obtain transformed operators such that the Hamiltonian of the system, when expressed in terms of these operators, assumes a diagonal form. We are also able to obtain an expression for the energy shift of the ground state, which is valid at all orders in the coupling constant. From this energy shift the nonperturbative Casimir-Polder potential energy between the two oscillators can be obtained. When approximated to the fourth order in the electric charge, the well-known expression of the Casimir-Polder potential in terms of the polarizabilities of the oscillators is recovered.

id: quant-ph/0508035
title: On Standards and Specifications in Quantum Cryptography
authors: A. S. Trushechkin, I. V. Volovich
comments: 18 pages; a new subsection (3.2), added remarks in subsection 2.3 and references
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 6 (2008) 347
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508035
abstract: Quantum cryptography is going to find practically useful applications. Recently some first quantum cryptographic solutions became available on the market. For clients it is important to be able to compare the quality and properties of the proposed products. To this end one needs to elaborate on specifications and standards of solutions in quantum cryptography. We propose and discuss a list of characteristics for the specification, which includes numerical evaluations of the security of solution and can be considered as a standard for quantum key distribution solutions. The list is based on the average time of key generation depending on some parameters. In the simplest case for the user the list includes three characteristics: the security degree, the length of keys and the key refresh rate.

id: quant-ph/0508036
title: Decoherence, tunneling and noise-activation in a double-potential well at high and zero temperature
authors: Nuno D. Antunes, Fernando C. Lombardo, Diana Monteoliva, Paula I. Villar
comments: Version to appear in Phys. Rev. E. 15 pages, 12 figures (low quality due to upload size limitations). Good quality figures in a pdf file can be downloaded from this http URL
journal: Phys.Rev. E73 (2006) 066105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508036
abstract: We study the effects of the environment on tunneling in an open system described by a static double-well potential. We describe the evolution of a quantum state localized in one of the minima of the potential at $t=0$, both in the limits of high and zero environment temperature. We show that the evolution of the system can be summarized in terms of three main physical phenomena, namely decoherence, quantum tunneling and noise-induced activation, and we obtain analytical estimates for the corresponding time-scales. These analytical predictions are confirmed by large-scale numerical simulations, providing a detailed picture of the main stages of the evolution and of the relevant dynamical processes.

id: quant-ph/0508037
title: Arbitrary-speed quantum gates within large ion crystals through minimum control of laser beams
authors: Shi-Liang Zhu, C. Monroe, L.-M. Duan
comments: 4 pages
journal: Europhysics Letters 73,485 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508037
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement arbitrary-speed quantum entangling gates on two trapped ions immersed in a large linear crystal of ions, with minimal control of laser beams. For gate speeds slower than the oscillation frequencies in the trap, a single appropriately-detuned laser pulse is sufficient for high-fidelity gates. For gate speeds comparable to or faster than the local ion oscillation frequency, we discover a five-pulse protocol that exploits only the local phonon modes. This points to a method for efficiently scaling the ion trap quantum computer without shuttling ions.

id: quant-ph/0508038
title: Complex Rational Numbers in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 12 pages Contribution for Proceedings, ISSUR-05, in Int. Jour. Mod. Physics, B
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B Vol 20, 1730-1741 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508038
abstract: A binary representation of complex rational numbers and their arithmetic is described that is not based on qubits. It takes account of the fact that $0s$ in a qubit string do not contribute to the value of a number. They serve only as place holders. The representation is based on the distribution of four types of systems, corresponding to $+1,-1,+i,-i,$ along an integer lattice. Complex rational numbers correspond to arbitrary products of four types of creation operators acting on the vacuum state. An occupation number representation is given for both bosons and fermions.

id: quant-ph/0508039
title: Once more on the equivalence between quantum phase transition phenomena in radiation-matter and magnetic systems
authors: J. G. Brankov, N.S. Tonchev, V. A. Zagrebnov
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508039
abstract: In answer to the replies of Reslen {\it et al} [arXiv: quant-ph/0507164 (2005)], and Liberti and Zaffino [arXiv:cond-mat/0507019, (2005)], we comment once more on the temperature-dependent effective Hamiltonians for the Dicke model derived by them in [Europhys. Lett., {\bf 69} (2005) 8] and [Eur. Phys. J., {\bf 44} (2005) 535], respectively. These approximate Hamiltonians cannot be correct for any finite nonzero temperature because they both violate a rigorous result. The fact that the Dicke model belongs to the universality class of, and its thermodynamics is described by the infinitely coordinated transverse-field XY model is known for more than 30 years.

id: quant-ph/0508040
title: Teleportation for atomic entangled state by entanglement swapping with separate measurements in cavity QED
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue, Ming Yang, You-Ming Yi, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: Opt. Commun. 258, 315 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508040
abstract: Experimentally feasible scheme for teleportation of atomic entangled state via entanglement swapping is proposed in cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) without joint Bell-state measurement (BSM). In the teleportation processes the interaction between atoms and a single-mode nonresonant cavity with the assistance of a strong classical driving field substitute the joint measurements. The discussion of the scheme indicates that it can be realized by current technologies.

id: quant-ph/0508041
title: Reversibility and Irreversibility within the Quantum Formalism
authors: Tim Jacobs, Christian Maes
comments: 16 pages
journal: Physicalia Mag. 27 (2005), 119-130
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508041
abstract: The discussion on time-reversal in quantum mechanics exists at least since Wigner's ``Uber die Operation der Zeitumkehr in der Quantenmechanik'' paper in 1932. If and how the dynamics of the quantum world is time-reversible has been the subject of many controversies. Some have seen quantum mechanics as fundamentally time-irreversible, see for example von Neumann, and some have seen in that the ultimate cause of time's arrow and second law behavior. In his best-selling book ``The Emperor's New Mind'', Roger Penrose argues similarly and concludes that ``our sought-for quantum gravity must be a time-asymmetric theory'' [p.351]. Not so long ago, we read yet about another project in Physicalia 26: to extend quantum mechanics into new fundamentally irreversible equations, thus proposing a new theory giving ``... une description fondamentale irreversible de tout systeme physique''.

id: quant-ph/0508042
title: A limit on nonlocality in any world in which communication complexity is not trivial
authors: Gilles Brassard, Harry Buhrman, Noah Linden, Andre A. Methot, Alain Tapp, Falk Unger
comments: 13 pages, no figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 96: 250401, 2006.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508042
abstract: Bell proved that quantum entanglement enables two space-like separated parties to exhibit classically impossible correlations. Even though these correlations are stronger than anything classically achievable, they cannot be harnessed to make instantaneous (faster than light) communication possible. Yet, Popescu and Rohrlich have shown that even stronger correlations can be defined, under which instantaneous communication remains impossible. This raises the question: Why are the correlations achievable by quantum mechanics not maximal among those that preserve causality? We give a partial answer to this question by showing that slightly stronger correlations would result in a world in which communication complexity becomes trivial.

id: quant-ph/0508043
title: Optimal Entanglement Witnesses for Qubits and Qutrits
authors: Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Katharina Durstberger, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr, Philipp Krammer
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052331 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508043
abstract: We study the connection between the Hilbert-Schmidt measure of entanglement (that is the minimal distance of an entangled state to the set of separable states) and entanglement witness in terms of a generalized Bell inequality which distinguishes between entangled and separable states. A method for checking the nearest separable state to a given entangled one is presented. We illustrate the general results by considering isotropic states, in particular 2-qubit and 2-qutrit states -- and their generalizations to arbitrary dimensions -- where we calculate the optimal entanglement witnesses explicitly.

id: quant-ph/0508044
title: Dirac quantization of free motion on curved surfaces
authors: Alexey V. Golovnev
comments: 16 pages
journal: International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics, Vol. 3, No. 4 (2006) 655-666
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508044
abstract: We give an explicit operator realization of Dirac quantization of free particle motion on a surface of codimension 1. It is shown that the Dirac recipe is ambiguous and a natural way of fixing this problem is proposed. We also introduce a modification of Dirac procedure which yields zero quantum potential. Some problems of abelian conversion quantization are pointed out.

id: quant-ph/0508045
title: Negativity and Concurrence as complete entanglement measures for two arbitrary qudits
authors: Suranjana Rai, Jagdish R. Luthra
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508045
abstract: Two measures of entanglement, negativity and concurrence are studied for two arbitrary qudits. We obtain negativity as an expectation value of an operator. The differences of the squares of negativity and concurrence are invariants of multilevel entanglement. Explicit results for qutrits and quadrits are obtained.

id: quant-ph/0508046
title: Proper Time for Spin 1/2 Particles
authors: Shoju Kudaka, Shuichi Matsumoto
comments: 15 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508046
abstract: We find a quantum mechanical formulation of proper time for spin 1/2 particles within the framework of the Dirac theory. It is shown that the rate of proper time can be represented by an operator called the ` ` tempo operator'', and that the proper time itself be given by the integral of the expectation value of the operator. The tempo operator has some terms involving the Pauli spin matrices, and the evolution of the proper time is influenced by the spin state via these terms. The relation between the tempo operator and the metric tensor is elucidated.

id: quant-ph/0508047
title: Quantum and classical correlations of intense beams of light via joint photodetection
authors: A. Agliati, M. Bondani, A. Andreoni, G. De Cillis, M. G. A. Paris
comments: 20 Pages, 16 Low Resolution Figs. Full Res version at this http URL To appear on J. Opt. B
journal: J. Opt. B 7, 652 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508047
abstract: We address joint photodetection as a method to discriminate between the classical correlations of a thermal beam divided by a beam splitter and the quantum entanglement of a twin-beam obtained by parametric downconversion. We show that for intense beams of light the detection of the difference photocurrent may be used, in principle, in order to reveal entanglement, while the simple measurement of the correlation coefficient is not sufficient. We have experimentally measured the correlation coefficient and the variance of the difference photocurrent on several classical and quantum states. Results are in good agreement with theoretical predictions taking into account the extra noise in the generated fields that is due to the pump-laser fluctuations.

id: quant-ph/0508048
title: Measuring the parity of an $N$-qubit state
authors: B. Zeng, D. L. Zhou, L. You
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508048
abstract: We present a scheme for a projective measurement of the parity operator $P_z=\prod_{i=1}^N \sigma_z^{(i)}$ of $N$-qubits. Our protocol uses a single ancillary qubit, or a probe qubit, and involves manipulations of the total spin of the $N$ qubits without requiring individual addressing. We illustrate our protocol in terms of an experimental implementation with atomic ions in a two-zone linear Paul trap, and further discuss its extensions to several more general cases.

id: quant-ph/0508049
title: Introduction to relativistic quantum information
authors: Daniel R. Terno
comments: Lecture notes for NATO ASI Quantum Computation and Quantum Information, Chania, Crete 2005
journal: Quantum Information Processing: From Theory to Experiment, edited D.G. Angelakis et al., (IOP Press, 2006) p. 61
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508049
abstract: I discuss the role that relativistic considerations play in quantum information processing. First I describe how the causality requirements limit possible multi-partite measurements. Then the Lorentz transformations of quantum states are introduced, and their implications on physical qubits are described. This is used to describe relativistic effects in communication and entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0508050
title: Theory for Raman superradiance in atomic gases
authors: Tun Wang, S. F. Yelin
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, to be published in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508050
abstract: A mean field theory for Raman superradiance (SR) with recoil is presented, where the typical SR signatures are recovered, such as quadratic dependence of the intensity on the number of atoms and inverse proportionality of the time scale to the number of atoms. A comparison with recent experiments and theories on Rayleigh SR and collective atomic recoil lasing (CARL) are included. The role of recoil is shown to be in the decay of atomic coherence and breaking of the symmetry of the SR end-fire modes.

id: quant-ph/0508051
title: Attacking quantum key distribution with single-photon two-qubit quantum logic
authors: Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Franco N. C. Wong
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures; references added, 1 new figure, appendix expanded; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508051
abstract: The Fuchs-Peres-Brandt (FPB) probe realizes the most powerful individual attack on Bennett-Brassard 1984 quantum key distribution (BB84 QKD) by means of a single controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate. This paper describes a complete physical simulation of the FPB-probe attack on polarization-based BB84 QKD using a deterministic CNOT constructed from single-photon two-qubit quantum logic. Adding polarization-preserving quantum nondemolition measurements of photon number to this configuration converts the physical simulation into a true deterministic realization of the FPB attack.

id: quant-ph/0508052
title: Resurrection of Schrodinger Cat
authors: Jae-Seung Lee, A. K. Khitrin
comments: 16 pages including 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 144 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508052
abstract: Quantum decoherence is the major obstacle in using the potential of engineered quantum dynamics to revolutionize high-precision measurements, sensitive detection, or information processing. Here we experimentally demonstrate that quantum state of a system can be recovered after the state is destroyed by uncontrollable natural decoherence. Physical system is a cluster of seven dipolar-coupled nuclear spins of single-labeled 13C-benzene in liquid crystal. 13C spin plays a role of a device for measuring protons' "cat" state, a superposition of states with six spins up (alive) and six spins down (dead). Information about the state, stored in the 13C spin, is used to bring the protons' subsystem into the alive state, while the excess entropy produced by decoherence is transferred to the "measuring device", the 13C spin.

id: quant-ph/0508053
title: High fidelity one-qubit operations under random telegraph noise
authors: Mikko Mottonen, Rogerio de Sousa, Jun Zhang, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 022332 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508053
abstract: We address the problem of implementing high fidelity one-qubit operations subject to time dependent noise in the qubit energy splitting. We show with explicit numerical results that high fidelity bit flips and one-qubit NOT gates may be generated by imposing bounded control fields. For noise correlation times shorter than the time for a pi-pulse, the time optimal pi-pulse yields the highest fidelity. For very long correlation times, fidelity loss is approximately due to systematic error, which is efficiently tackled by compensation for off-resonance with a pulse sequence (CORPSE). For intermediate ranges of the noise correlation time we find that short CORPSE, which is less accurate than CORPSE in correcting systematic errors, yields higher fidelities. Numerical optimization of the pulse sequences using gradient ascent pulse engineering results in noticeable improvement of the fidelities for the bit flip and marginal improvement for the NOT gate.

id: quant-ph/0508054
title: Implementation of non-local operations for arbitrary high-dimensional systems with qubit quantum channel
authors: Hao-Sheng Zeng, Yong-Guang Shan, Jian-Jun Nie, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508054
abstract: We propose a method to implement a kind of non-local operations between spatially separated two systems with arbitrary high-dimensions by using only low-dimensional qubit quantum channels and classical bit communications. The result may be generalized straightforwardly to apply for multiple systems, each of them with arbitrary dimensions. Compared with existed approaches, our method can economize classical resources and the needed low-dimensional quantum channels may be more easily established in practice. We also show the construction of the non-local quantum XOR gate for qutrit systems in terms of the obtained non-local operations as well as some single qutrit local gates.

id: quant-ph/0508055
title: Separating the classical and quantum information via quantum cloning
authors: M. Ricci, F. Sciarrino, N.J. Cerf, R. Filip, J. Fiurasek, F. De Martini
comments: 4 pages, 2figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 090504 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508055
abstract: An application of quantum cloning to optimally interface a quantum system with a classical observer is presented, in particular we describe a procedure to perform a minimal disturbance measurement on a single qubit by adopting a 1->2 cloning machine followed by a generalized measurement on a single clone and the anti-clone or on the two clones. Such scheme has been applied to enhance the transmission fidelity over a lossy quantum channel.

id: quant-ph/0508056
title: Quantum state reconstruction with binary detectors
authors: D. Mogilevtsev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508056
abstract: I present a simple and robust method of quantum state reconstruction using non-ideal detectors able to distinguish only between presence and absence of photons. Using the scheme, one is able to determine a value of Wigner function in any given point on the phase plane using expectation-maximization estimation technique.

id: quant-ph/0508057
title: Semiclassical propagator of the Wigner function
authors: Thomas Dittrich, Luis Sandoval, Carlos Viviescas
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 070403 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508057
abstract: Propagation of the Wigner function is studied on two levels of semiclassical propagation, one based on the van-Vleck propagator, the other on phase-space path integration. Leading quantum corrections to the classical Liouville propagator take the form of a time-dependent quantum spot. Its oscillatory structure depends on whether the underlying classical flow is elliptic or hyperbolic. It can be interpreted as the result of interference of a \emph{pair} of classical trajectories, indicating how quantum coherences are to be propagated semiclassically in phase space. The phase-space path-integral approach allows for a finer resolution of the quantum spot in terms of Airy functions.

id: quant-ph/0508058
title: Shape of the spatial mode function of photons generated in noncollinear spontaneous parametric downconversion
authors: Gabriel Molina-Terriza, Stefano Minardi, Yana Deyanova, Clara I. Osorio, Martin Hendrych, Juan P. Torres
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508058
abstract: We show experimentally how noncollinear geometries in spontaneous parametric downconversion induce ellipticity of the shape of the spatial mode function. The degree of ellipticity depends on the pump beam width, especially for highly focused beams. We also discuss the ellipticity induced by the spectrum of the pump beam.

id: quant-ph/0508059
title: Logical Structure of Physical Probability Assertions
authors: Joseph F. Johnson
comments: cf. this http URL this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508059
abstract: A modification and generalisation of von Plato's fix of the frequency theory of probability is presented. It is thermodynamic in nature. Von Plato already fixed the logical circle in the frequency theory, we generalise his results to not necessarily ergodic systems of classical and quantum mechanics. This turns out to be precisely what is needed for the problem of Quantum Measurement and the problem of induction.

id: quant-ph/0508060
title: Higher order antibunching is not a rare phenomenon
authors: Prakash Gupta, Pratap Narayan Pandey, Anirban Pathak
comments: 6 pages, no figure, Latex 2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508060
abstract: Since the introduction of higher order nonclassical effects, higher order squeezing has been reported in a number of different physical systems but higher order antibunching is predicted only in three particular cases. In the present work, we have shown that the higher order antibunching is not a rare phenomenon rather it can be seen in many simple optical processes. To establish our claim, we have shown it in six wave mixing process, four wave mixing process and in second harmonic generation process.

id: quant-ph/0508061
title: Polarization Requirements for Ensemble Implementations of Quantum Algorithms with a Single Bit Output
authors: Brandon M. Anderson, David Collins
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508061
abstract: We compare the failure probabilities of ensemble implementations of quantum algorithms which use pseudo-pure initial states, quantified by their polarization, to those of competing classical probabilistic algorithms. Specifically we consider a class algorithms which require only one bit to output the solution to problems. For large ensemble sizes, we present a general scheme to determine a critical polarization beneath which the quantum algorithm fails with greater probability than its classical competitor. We apply this to the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm and show that the critical polarization is 86.6%.

id: quant-ph/0508062
title: Quantum-Relay-Assisted Key Distribution over High Photon Loss Channels
authors: An-Ning Zhang, Yu-Ao Chen, Chao-Yang Lu, Xiao-Qi Zhou, Zhi Zhao, Qiang Zhang, Tao Yang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 12 pages (with appendix), 3 figures, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508062
abstract: The maximum distance of quantum communication is limited due to the photon loss and detector noise. Exploiting entanglement swapping, quantum relay could offer ways to extend the achievable distance by increasing the signal to noise ratio. In this letter we present an experimental simulation of long distance quantum communication, in which the superiority of quantum relay is demonstrated. Assisted by quantum relay, we greatly extend the distance limit of unconditional secure quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0508063
title: Optimal measurements in quantum mechanics
authors: T. Heinonen
comments: minor corrections
journal: Phys. Lett. A 346 (2005) 77-86.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508063
abstract: Four common optimality criteria for measurements are formulated using relations in the set of observables, and their connections are clarified. As case studies, 1-0 observables, localization observables, and photon counting observables are considered.

id: quant-ph/0508064
title: Circular Polarization and Quantum Spin: A Unified Real-Space Picture of Photons and Electrons
authors: Alan M. Kadin
comments: 14 pages, 2 tables, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508064
abstract: A classical circularly polarized electromagnetic wave carries angular momentum, and represents the classical limit of a photon, which carries quantized spin. It is shown that a very similar picture of a circularly polarized coherent wave can account for both the spin of an electron and its quantum wave function, in a Lorentz-invariant fashion. The photon-electron interaction occurs through the usual electromagnetic potentials, modulating the frequency and wavevector (energy and momentum) of this rotating spin field. Other quantum particles can also be represented either as rotating spin fields, or as composites of such fields. Taken together, this picture suggests an alternative interpretation of quantum mechanics based solely on coherent wave packets, with no point particles present.

id: quant-ph/0508065
title: Security of the Quantum Key Distribution with Blind Polarization Bases against Impersonation Attack
authors: Won-Ho Kye, M. S. Kim
comments: Published version; 2 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 96, 078902 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508065
abstract: In this paper, we briefly show how the quantum key distribution with blind polarization bases [Kye et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 040501 (2005)] can be made secure against the impersonation attack.

id: quant-ph/0508066
title: General formula for finding Mexican hat wavelets by virtue of Dirac's representation theory and coherent state
authors: Hong-Yi Fan, Hai-Liang Lu
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508066
abstract: The admissibility condition of a mother wavelet is explored in the context of quantum optics theory. By virtue of Dirac's representation theory and the coherent state' property we derive a general formula for finding Mexican hat wavelets.

id: quant-ph/0508067
title: New Scheme of Quantum Teleportation
authors: A.Kossakowski, M.Ohya
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508067
abstract: A new scheme for quantum teleportation is presented, in which the complete teleportation can be occurred even when an entangled state between Alice and Bob is not maximal.

id: quant-ph/0508068
title: Nonlocal impedances and the Casimir entropy at low temperatures
authors: V. Svetovoy, R. Esquivel-Sirvent
comments: Accepted in Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508068
abstract: The problem with the temperature dependence of the Casimir force is investigated. Specifically, the entropy behavior in the low temperature limit, which caused debates in the literature, is analyzed. It is stressed that the behavior of the relaxation frequency in the $T\to0$ limit does not play a physical role since the anomalous skin effect dominates in this range. In contrast with the previous works, where the approximate Leontovich impedance was used for analysis of nonlocal effects, we give description of the problem in terms of exact nonlocal impedances. It is found that the Casimir entropy is going to zero at $T\to0$ only in the case when $s$ polarization does not contribute to the classical part of the Casimir force. However, the entropy approaching zero from the negative side that, in our opinion, cannot be considered as thermodynamically satisfactory. The resolution of the negative entropy problem proposed in the literature is analyzed and it is shown that it cannot be considered as complete. The crisis with the thermal Casimir effect is stressed.

id: quant-ph/0508069
title: Experimental Fault-Tolerant Quantum Cryptography in a Decoherence-Free Subspace
authors: Q. Zhang, J. Yin, T. -Y. Chen, S. Lu, J. Zhang, X. -Q. Li, T. Yang, X. -B. Wang, J. -W. Pan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, Add new references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 020301(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508069
abstract: we experimentally implement a fault-tolerant quantum key distribution protocol with two photons in a decoherence-free subspace (DFS). It is demonstrated that our protocol can yield good key rate even with large bit-flip error rate caused by collective rotation, while the usual realization of BB84 protocol cannot produce any secure final key given the same channel. Since the experiment is performed in polarization space and does not need the calibration of reference frame, important applications in free-space quantum communication are expected. Moreover, our method can also be used to robustly transmit an arbitrary two-level quantum state in a type of DFS.

id: quant-ph/0508070
title: Nonbinary stabilizer codes over finite fields
authors: Avanti Ketkar, Andreas Klappenecker, Santosh Kumar, Pradeep Kiran Sarvepalli
comments: 58 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508070
abstract: One formidable difficulty in quantum communication and computation is to protect information-carrying quantum states against undesired interactions with the environment. In past years, many good quantum error-correcting codes had been derived as binary stabilizer codes. Fault-tolerant quantum computation prompted the study of nonbinary quantum codes, but the theory of such codes is not as advanced as that of binary quantum codes. This paper describes the basic theory of stabilizer codes over finite fields. The relation between stabilizer codes and general quantum codes is clarified by introducing a Galois theory for these objects. A characterization of nonbinary stabilizer codes over GF(q) in terms of classical codes over GF(q^2) is provided that generalizes the well-known notion of additive codes over GF(4) of the binary case. This paper derives lower and upper bounds on the minimum distance of stabilizer codes, gives several code constructions, and derives numerous families of stabilizer codes, including quantum Hamming codes, quadratic residue codes, quantum Melas codes, quantum BCH codes, and quantum character codes. The puncturing theory by Rains is generalized to additive codes that are not necessarily pure. Bounds on the maximal length of maximum distance separable stabilizer codes are given. A discussion of open problems concludes this paper.

id: quant-ph/0508071
title: All entangled states are useful for information processing
authors: Ll. Masanes
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 150501 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508071
abstract: The question whether all entangled states can be used as a nonclassical resource has remained open so far. Here we provide a conclusive answer to this problem for the case of systems shared by two parties. We show that any entangled state $\sigma$ can enhance the teleportation power of some other state. This holds even if the state $\sigma$ is bound entangled.

id: quant-ph/0508072
title: Generic Security Proof of Quantum Key Exchange using Squeezed States
authors: Karin Poels, Pim Tuyls, Berry Schoenmakers
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures, accepted at IEEE ISIT 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508072
abstract: Recently, a Quantum Key Exchange protocol that uses squeezed states was presented by Gottesman and Preskill. In this paper we give a generic security proof for this protocol. The method used for this generic security proof is based on recent work by Christiandl, Renner and Ekert.

id: quant-ph/0508073
title: Pseudo-Hermiticity and some consequences of a generalized quantum condition
authors: B. Bagchi, C. Quesne, R. Roychoudhury
comments: 10 pages, no figure
journal: J.Phys. A38 (2005) L647-L652
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508073
abstract: We exploit the hidden symmetry structure of a recently proposed non-Hermitian Hamiltonian and of its Hermitian equivalent one. This sheds new light on the pseudo-Hermitian character of the former and allows access to a generalized quantum condition. Special cases lead to hyperbolic and Morse-like potentials in the framework of a coordinate-dependent mass model.

id: quant-ph/0508074
title: Self-organization of atoms in a cavity field: threshold, bistability and scaling laws
authors: J. K. Asboth, P. Domokos, H. Ritsch, A. Vukics
comments: submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 05341 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508074
abstract: We present a detailed study of the spatial self-organization of laser-driven atoms in an optical cavity, an effect predicted on the basis of numerical simulations [P. Domokos and H. Ritsch, Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 253003 (2002)] and observed experimentally [A. T. Black et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 203001 (2003)]. Above a threshold in the driving laser intensity, from a uniform distribution the atoms evolve into one of two stable patterns that produce superradiant scattering into the cavity. We derive analytic formulas for the threshold and critical exponent of this phase transition from a mean-field approach. Numerical simulations of the microscopic dynamics reveal that, on laboratory timescale, a hysteresis masks the mean-field behaviour. Simple physical arguments explain this phenomenon and provide analytical expressions for the observable threshold. Above a certain density of the atoms a limited number of ``defects'' appear in the organized phase, and influence the statistical properties of the system. The scaling of the cavity cooling mechanism and the phase space density with the atom number is also studied.

id: quant-ph/0508075
title: Mechanical effects of optical resonators on driven trapped atoms: Ground state cooling in a high finesse cavity
authors: Stefano Zippilli, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 053408 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508075
abstract: We investigate theoretically the mechanical effects of light on atoms trapped by an external potential, whose dipole transition couples to the mode of an optical resonator and is driven by a laser. We derive an analytical expression for the quantum center-of-mass dynamics, which is valid in presence of a tight external potential. This equation has broad validity and allows for a transparent interpretation of the individual scattering processes leading to cooling. We show that the dynamics are a competition of the mechanical effects of the cavity and of the laser photons, which may mutually interfere. We focus onto the good-cavity limit and identify novel cooling schemes, which are based on quantum interference effects and lead to efficient ground state cooling in experimentally accessible parameter regimes.

id: quant-ph/0508076
title: Quantum Puzzles in the Set Theoretic Metaworld of Heisenberg, Clauser, and Horne
authors: Ian T. Durham
comments: 10 pages, recently posted to pitt-philsci-archive
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508076
abstract: This paper follows up on a recent pre-print (Durham [2005]) by first deriving a set theoretic relationship between the generalized uncertainty relations and the Clauser-Horne inequalities. The physical, metaphysical, and metamathematical implications and problems are then explored. The discussion builds on previous work by Pitowsky [1994] and suggests that there is a fundamental problem in quantum correlation that could potentially lead to a paradox. It leaves open the question of whether the problem is in experiment, theory, or phenomena.

id: quant-ph/0508077
title: EPR, Bell, GHZ, and Hardy theorems, and quantum mechanics
authors: Miguel Socolovsky
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508077
abstract: We review the theorems of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR), Bell, Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ), and Hardy, and present arguments supporting the idea that quantum mechanics is a complete, causal, non local, and non separable theory.

id: quant-ph/0508078
title: On Fermion Entanglement
authors: T. A. Kaplan
comments: 
journal: Fluctuation and Noise Letters 5, C15 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508078
abstract: Under the historical definition of entanglement, namely that encountered in Einstein--Podolski--Rosen (EPR)--type experiments, it is shown that a particular Slater determinant is entangled. Thus a definition which holds that any Slater determinant is unentangled, found in the literature, is inconsistent with the historical definition. A generalization of the historical definition that embodies its meaning as quantum correlation of observables, in the spirit of the work of many others, but is much simpler and more physically transparent, is presented.

id: quant-ph/0508079
title: Fluid Clocks: Emergence of quantum theory from sub-quantum dynamics
authors: Gerhard Groessing
comments: 
journal: R. Stadler and M. Stoeltzner (eds.), Proceedings of the 28th Int'l. Wittgenstein Symposion on "Time and History", Kirchberg (2005), 92
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508079
abstract: It is argued that any operational measure of time is inseparably bound to the presence of a periodic process in some medium. Since, as first formulated by Einstein's (1905) equation for the energy, all "particles" (neutrons, electrons, photons, etc.) are each characterized by a specific "frequency", the inverse of this frequency is the smallest operational unit of time available in principle. With a corresponding "coarse graining" of an otherwise practically idealized, continuous time (i.e., with the latter then holding on time scales much larger than the coarse grained one), one can show that the basic features of quantum theory can be derived from a minimal set of assumptions. In particular, it is shown here how the Schroedinger equation can be derived from classical physics modified only by said assumption of a coarse grained time and the presence of so-called "zero-point fluctuations". The latter relate to the dynamics of a "fluid" vacuum, which is today known to be a far cry from just being "empty space". Consequently, it is shown that time and matter, when discussed from a physical point of view, must by necessity be considered in one common framework.

id: quant-ph/0508080
title: Pulse Control of Decoherence with Population Decay
authors: Takahiro Murakami, Yositake Takane
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508080
abstract: The pulse control of decoherence in a qubit interacting with a quantum environment is studied with focus on a general case where decoherence is induced by both pure dephasing and population decay. To observe how the decoherence is suppressed by periodic pi pulses, we present a simple method to calculate the time evolution of a qubit under arbitrary pulse sequences consisting of bit-flips and/or phase-flips. We examine the effectiveness of the two typical sequences: bb sequence consisting of only bit-flips, and bp sequence consisting of both bit- and phase-flips. It is shown that the effectiveness of the pulse sequences depends on a relative strength of the two decoherence processes especially when a pulse interval is slightly shorter than qubit-environment correlation times. In the short-interval limit, however, the bp sequence is always more effective than, or at least as effective as, the bb sequence.

id: quant-ph/0508081
title: Grover like Operator Using Only Single-Qubit Gates
authors: Go Kato
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure: to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508081
abstract: We propose a new quantum circuit for the quantum search problem. The quantum circuit is superior to Grover's algorithm in some realistic cases. The reasons for the superiority are in short as follows: In the quantum circuit proposed in this paper, all the operators except for the oracle can be written as direct products of single-qubit gates. Such separable operators can be executed much faster than multi-particle operators, such as c-NOT gates and Toffoli gates, in many realistic systems. The idea of this quantum circuit is inspired by the Hamiltonian used in the adiabatic quantum computer. In addition, the scaling of the number of oracle calls for this circuit is the same as that for Grover's algorithm, i.e. $O(2^{n/2})$.

id: quant-ph/0508082
title: High Resolution Rydberg Spectroscopy of ultracold Rubidium Atoms
authors: Axel Grabowski, Rolf Heidemann, Robert L?w, Jrgen Stuhler, Tilman Pfau
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508082
abstract: We present experiments on two-photon excitation of ${\rm ^{87}}$Rb atoms to Rydberg states. For this purpose, two continuous-wave (cw)-laser systems for both 780 nm and 480 nm have been set up. These systems are optimized to a small linewidth (well below 1 MHz) to get both an efficient excitation process and good spectroscopic resolution. To test the performance of our laser system, we investigated the Stark splitting of Rydberg states. For n=40 we were able to see the hyperfine levels splitting in the electrical field for different finestructure states. To show the ability of spatially selective excitation to Rydberg states, we excited rubidium atoms in an electrical field gradient and investigated both linewidths and lineshifts. Furthermore we were able to excite the atoms selectively from the two hyperfine ground states to Rydberg states. Finally, we investigated the Autler-Townes splitting of the 5S$_{1/2}$$\to$5P$_{3/2}$ transition via a Rydberg state to determine the Rabi frequency of this excitation step.

id: quant-ph/0508083
title: Deletion of imperfect cloned copies
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari, Binayak.S.Choudhury
comments: 10 Pages
journal: J. Phys. A 37 (2004) 1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508083
abstract: In this work, we design a deleting machine and shown that for some given condition on machine parameters, it gives slightly better result than P-B deleting machine [5,6]. Also it is shown that for some particular values of the machine parameters it acts like Pati-Braunstein deleting machine. We also study the combined effect of cloning and deleting machine, where at first the cloning is done by some standard cloning machines such as Wootters-Zurek [1] and Buzek-Hillery [2] cloning machine and then the copy mode is deleted by Pati-Braunstein deleting machine or our prescribed deleting machine. After that we examine the distortion of the input state and the fidelity of deletion .

id: quant-ph/0508084
title: Optimal reflection-free complex absorbing potentials for quantum propagation of wave packets
authors: Oded Shemer, Daria Brisker, Nimrod Moiseyev
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 032716 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508084
abstract: The conditions for optimal reflection-free complex-absorbing potentials (CAPs) are discussed. It is shown that the CAPs as derived from the smooth-exterior-scaling transformation of the Hamiltonian,[J. Phys. B. 31, 1431 (1998)], serve as optimal reflection-free CAPs (RF-CAPs) in wave-packet propagation calculations of open systems. The initial wave packet, can be located in the interaction region (as in half collision experiments) where the CAPs have vanished or in the asymptote where the absorbing potential non zero. As we show the optimal CAPs can be introduced also in the region where the physical potential has not vanished. The un-avoided reflections due to the use of finite number of grid points (or basis functions) are discussed. A simple way to reduce the "edge grid" reflection effect is described.

id: quant-ph/0508085
title: Many-region vacuum entanglement: Distilling a W state
authors: J. Silman, B. Reznik
comments: Supersedes quant-ph/0501028
journal: Phys. Rev. A 71, 054301 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508085
abstract: We investigate the correlations between any number of arbitrarily far-apart regions of the vacuum of the free Klein-Gordon field by means of its finite duration coupling to an equal number of localized detectors. We show that the correlations between any N such regions enable us to distill an N-partite W state, and therefore exhibit true $N$-fold entanglement. Furthermore, we show that for N=3, the correlations cannot be reproduced by a hybrid local-nonlocal hidden-variable model. For N >= 4 the issue remains open.

id: quant-ph/0508086
title: Physical limits on self-replication processes
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508086
abstract: Using few very general axioms which should be satisfied by any reasonable theory consistent with general physical principles and some more recent results concerning "broadcasting" of quantum states we show that: a) only classical information can self-replicate perfectly, b) "parent" and "offspring" must be strongly correlated, c) "separation of species" is possible only in a non-homogeneous environment. To illustrate the existence of theoretical schemes which possess both classical and quantum features, we present a model based on the classical probability but with overlapping pure states and "entangled states" for composite systems.

id: quant-ph/0508087
title: Evolution in Time of Moving Unstable Systems
authors: M. I. Shirokov
comments: 14 pages, no figures, .tex file, sects 2, 3, 4 revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508087
abstract: Relativistic quantum theory shows that the known Einstein time dilation (ED) approximately holds for the decay law of the unstable particle having definite momentum p (DP). I use a different definition of the moving particle as the state with definite velocity v (DV). It is shown that in this case the decay law is not dilated. On the contrary, it is contracted as compared with the decay law of the particle at rest. It is demonstrated that ED fails in both DP and DV cases for time evolution of the simple unstable system of the kind of oscillating neutrino. Experiments are known which show that ED holds for mesons. The used theory may explain the fact by supposing that the measured mesons are in DP state.

id: quant-ph/0508088
title: Retrodictive quantum state engineering
authors: K. L. Pregnell
comments: Ph.D thesis. Submitted April 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508088
abstract: This thesis is concerned with retrodiction and measurement in quantum optics. The latter of these two concepts is studied in particular form with a general optical multiport device, consisting of an arbitrary array of beam-splitters and phase-shifters. I show how such an apparatus generalizes the original projection synthesis technique, introduced as an in principle technique to measure the canonical phase distribution. Just as for the original projection synthesis, it is found that such a generalised device can synthesize any general projection onto a state in a finite dimensional Hilbert space. One of the important findings of this thesis is that, unlike the original projection synthesis technique, the general apparatus described here only requires a classical, that is a coherent, reference field at the input of the device. Such an apparatus lends itself much more readily to practical implementation and would find applications in measurement and predictive state engineering. If we relax the above condition to allow for just a single non-classical reference field, we show that the apparatus is capable of producing a single-shot measure of canonical phase. That is, the apparatus can project onto any one of an arbitrarily large subset of phase eigenstates, with a probability proportional to the overlap of the phase state and the input field. Unlike the original projection synthesis proposal, this proposal requires a binomial reference state as opposed to a reciprocal binomial state. We find that such a reference state can be obtained, to an excellent approximation, from a suitably squeezed state. The analysis of these measurement apparatuses is performed in the less usual, but completely rigorous, retrodictive formalism of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0508089
title: Generic Short-Time Propagation of Sharp-Boundaries Wave Packets
authors: Er'el Granot, Avi Marchewka
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett., 72 (3), pp. 341-347 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508089
abstract: A general solution to the "shutter" problem is presented. The propagation of an arbitrary initially bounded wavefunction is investigated, and the general solution for any such function is formulated. It is shown that the exact solution can be written as an expression that depends only on the values of the function (and its derivatives) at the boundaries. In particular, it is shown that at short times ($t\ll2mx^2/\hbar$, where $x$ is the distance to the boundaries) the wavefunction propagation depends only on the wavefunction's values (or its derivatives) at the boundaries of the region. Finally, we generalize these findings to a non-singular wavefunction (i.e., for wavepackets with finite-width boundaries) and suggest an experimental verification.

id: quant-ph/0508090
title: Scheme for generating entangled states of two field modes in a cavity
authors: Jonas Larson
comments: Accepted in J. Mod. Opt.; 12 pages; Replaced with revised version. Extended discussion of experimental realizations, earlier studies in the field and on the frequency dependence in the adiabatic elimination
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508090
abstract: This paper considers a two-level atom interacting with two cavity modes with equal frequencies. Applying a unitary transformation, the system reduces to the analytically solvable Jaynes-Cummings model. For some particular field states, coherent and squeezed states, the transformation between the two bare basis's, related by the unitary transformation, becomes particularly simple. It is shown how to generate, the highly non-classical, entangled coherent states of the two modes, both in the zero and large detuning cases. An advantage with the zero detuning case is that the preparation is deterministic and no atomic measurement is needed. For the large detuning situation a measurement is required, leaving the field in either of two orthogonal entangled coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0508091
title: Complementarity and Afshar's experiment
authors: Aurelien Drezet
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508091
abstract: In this article we criticize the experiment realized by S. Afshar [Proc. SPIE 5866, 229-244 (July 2005)]. We analyze Bohr's complementarity and show that the interpretation proposed by Afshar is misleading.

id: quant-ph/0508092
title: Assumptions that imply quantum dynamics is linear
authors: Thomas F. Jordan
comments: 10 pages. Added references. Improved discussion of equations of motion for mean values. Expanded Introduction
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 022101 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508092
abstract: A basic linearity of quantum dynamics, that density matrices are mapped linearly to density matrices, is proved very simply for a system that does not interact with anything else. It is assumed that at each time the physical quantities and states are described by the usual linear structures of quantum mechanics. Beyond that, the proof assumes only that the dynamics does not depend on anything outside the system but must allow the system to be described as part of a larger system. The basic linearity is linked with previously established results to complete a simple derivation of the linear Schrodinger equation. For this it is assumed that density matrices are mapped one-to-one onto density matrices. An alternative is to assume that pure states are mapped one-to-one onto pure states and that entropy does not decrease.

id: quant-ph/0508093
title: Sub-Planck phase-space structures and Heisenberg-limited measurements
authors: F. Toscano, D.A.R. Dalvit, L. Davidovich, W.H. Zurek
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 023803 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508093
abstract: We show how sub-Planck phase-space structures in the Wigner function can be used to achieve Heisenberg-limited sensitivity in weak force measurements. Nonclassical states of harmonic oscillators, consisting of superpositions of coherent states, are shown to be useful for the measurement of weak forces that cause translations or rotations in phase space, which is done by entangling the quantum oscillator with a two-level system. Implementations of this strategy in cavity QED and ion traps are described.

id: quant-ph/0508094
title: Single-photon excitation of a coherent state: catching the elementary step of stimulated light emission
authors: Alessandro Zavatta, Silvia Viciani, Marco Bellini
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 023820 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508094
abstract: When a single quantum of electromagnetic field excitation is added to the same spatio-temporal mode of a coherent state, a new field state is generated that exhibits intermediate properties between those of the two parents. Such a single-photon-added coherent state is obtained by the action of the photon creation operator on a coherent state and can thus be regarded as the result of the most elementary excitation process of a classical light field. Here we present and describe in depth the experimental realization of such states and their complete analysis by means of a novel ultrafast, time-domain, quantum homodyne tomography technique clearly revealing their non-classical character.

id: quant-ph/0508095
title: Thoughts on Noise and Quantum Computation
authors: Gil Kalai
comments: 41 pages, latex file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508095
abstract: We will try to explore, primarily from the complexity-theoretic point of view, limitations of error-correction and fault-tolerant quantum computation. We consider stochastic models of quantum computation on $n$ qubits subject to noise operators that are obtained as products of tiny noise operators acting on a small number of qubits. We conjecture that for realistic random noise operators of this kind there will be substantial dependencies between the noise on individual qubits and, in addition, we propose that the dependence structure of the noise acting on individual qubits will necessarily depend (systematically) on the dependence structure of the qubits themselves. We point out that the majority function can repair, in the classical case, some forms of stochastic noise of this kind and conjecture that this healing power of majority has no quantum analog. The main hypothesis of this paper is that these properties of noise are sufficient to reduce quantum computation to probabilistic classical computation. Some potentially relevant mathematical issues and problems will be described. Our line of thought appears to be related to that of physicists Alicki, Horodecki, Horodecki and Horodecki [AHHH].

id: quant-ph/0508096
title: Relativistic quantum walks
authors: Frederick W. Strauch
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, published and corrected version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 054302 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508096
abstract: By pursuing the deep relation between the one-dimensional Dirac equation and quantum walks, the physical role of quantum interference in the latter is explained. It is shown that the time evolution of the probability density of a quantum walker, initially localized on a lattice, is directly analogous to relativistic wave-packet spreading. Analytic wave-packet solutions reveal a striking connection between the discrete and continuous time quantum walks.

id: quant-ph/0508097
title: T-junction ion trap array for two-dimensional ion shuttling, storage and manipulation
authors: W. K. Hensinger, S. Olmschenk, D. Stick, D. Hucul, M. Yeo, M. Acton, L. Deslauriers, J. Rabchuk, C. Monroe
comments: 3 pages, 5 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters 88, 034101 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508097
abstract: We demonstrate a two-dimensional 11-zone ion trap array, where individual laser-cooled atomic ions are stored, separated, shuttled, and swapped. The trap geometry consists of two linear rf ion trap sections that are joined at a 90 degree angle to form a T-shaped structure. We shuttle a single ion around the corners of the T-junction and swap the positions of two crystallized ions using voltage sequences designed to accommodate the nontrivial electrical potential near the junction. Full two-dimensional control of multiple ions demonstrated in this system may be crucial for the realization of scalable ion trap quantum computation and the implementation of quantum networks.

id: quant-ph/0508098
title: Scheme for implementing quantum information sharing via tripartite entangled state in cavity QED
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue, You-Min Yi, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: Final version to appear in Physica A
journal: Physica A 374, 119 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508098
abstract: We investigate economic protocol to securely distribute and reconstruct a single-qubit quantum state between two users via a tripartite entangled state in cavity QED. Our scheme is insensitive to both the cavity decay and the thermal field.

id: quant-ph/0508099
title: Photon-number-solving Decoy State Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Qing-yu Cai, Yong-gang Tan
comments: This is a detailed and extended version of quant-ph/0504221. In this paper, a detailed discussion of photon-number-resolving QKD scheme is presented. Moreover, the detailed discussion of coherent multiphoton pulse attack (CMP) is presented. 2 figures and some discussions are added. A detailed cauculation of the "new" upper bound 'is presented
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032305 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508099
abstract: In this paper, a photon-number-resolving decoy state quantum key distribution scheme is presented based on recent experimental advancements. A new upper bound on the fraction of counts caused by multiphoton pulses is given. This upper bound is independent of intensity of the decoy source, so that both the signal pulses and the decoy pulses can be used to generate the raw key after verified the security of the communication. This upper bound is also the lower bound on the fraction of counts caused by multiphoton pulses as long as faint coherent sources and high lossy channels are used. We show that Eve's coherent multiphoton pulse (CMP) attack is more efficient than symmetric individual (SI) attack when quantum bit error rate is small, so that CMP attack should be considered to ensure the security of the final key. finally, optimal intensity of laser source is presented which provides 23.9 km increase in the transmission distance. 03.67.Dd

id: quant-ph/0508100
title: Notes on Quantum Mechanics and Consciousness
authors: Elemer E Rosinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508100
abstract: There have lately been a variety of attempts to connect, or even explain, if not in fact, reduce human consciousness to quantum mechanical processes. Such attempts tend to draw a sharp and fundamental distinction between the role of consciousness in classical mechanics, and on the other hand, in quantum mechanics, with an insistence on the assumed exceptional character of the latter. What is strangely missed, however, is the role of human consciousness as such in the very discovery or creation of both of these physical theories. And this a priori role is far more important than all the possible a posteriori interplays between consciousness and the mentioned two theories of physics, interplays which may happen during one or another specific experiment, measurement, and so on. In this regard it is suggested that the specific features human consciousness may exhibit during interactions with quantum mechanical systems may as well have other explanations which do not appear to be less plausible, or less well founded.

id: quant-ph/0508101
title: Qdensity - a Mathematica Quantum Computer Simulation
authors: B. Juli-Daz, J. M. Burdis, F. Tabakin
comments: The Mathematica 5+ package is available at: this http URL Minor corrections, accepted in Computer Physics Communications
journal: Computer Physics Communications 174 (2006) 914\^A?"934
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508101
abstract: This Mathematica 5.2 package~\footnote{QDENSITY is available at this http URL} is a simulation of a Quantum Computer. The program provides a modular, instructive approach for generating the basic elements that make up a quantum circuit. The main emphasis is on using the density matrix, although an approach using state vectors is also implemented in the package. The package commands are defined in {\it Qdensity.m} which contains the tools needed in quantum circuits, e.g. multiqubit kets, projectors, gates, etc. Selected examples of the basic commands are presented here and a tutorial notebook, {\it Tutorial.nb} is provided with the package (available on our website) that serves as a full guide to the package. Finally, application is made to a variety of relevant cases, including Teleportation, Quantum Fourier transform, Grover's search and Shor's algorithm, in separate notebooks: {\it QFT.nb}, {\it Teleportation.nb}, {\it Grover.nb} and {\it Shor.nb} where each algorithm is explained in detail. Finally, two examples of the construction and manipulation of cluster states, which are part of ``one way computing" ideas, are included as an additional tool in the notebook {\it Cluster.nb}. A Mathematica palette containing most commands in QDENSITY is also included: {\it QDENSpalette.nb} .

id: quant-ph/0508102
title: A Transactional Analysis of Interaction Free Measurements
authors: John G. Cramer
comments: Accepted for publication in Foundations of Physics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508102
abstract: The transactional interpretation of quantum mechanics is applied to the "interaction-free" measurement scenario of Elitzur and Vaidman and to the Quantum Zeno Effect version of the measurement scenario by Kwiat, et al. It is shown that the non-classical information provided by the measurement scheme is supplied by the probing of the intervening object by incomplete offer and confirmation waves that do not form complete transactions or lead to real interactions.

id: quant-ph/0508103
title: On relational time and energy decoherence
authors: J. Finkelstein
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX, no figures. v2: Added paragraph re Bartlett, Rudolph and Spekkens (quant-ph/0507214)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508103
abstract: Students Alice and Bob take an examination in their quantum mechanics class, and thereby illustrate some aspects of energy decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0508104
title: On the geometric potential derived from Hermitian momenta on a curved surface
authors: M. Encinosa
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508104
abstract: A geometric potential $V_C$ depending on the mean and Gaussian curvatures of a surface $\Sigma$ arises when confining a particle initially in a three-dimensional space $\Omega$ onto $\Sigma$ when the particle Hamiltonian $H_\Omega$ is taken proportional to the Laplacian $L$ on $\Omega$. In this work rather than assume $H_\Omega \propto L$, momenta $P_\eta$ Hermitian over $\Omega$ are constructed and used to derive an alternate Hamiltonian $H_\eta$. The procedure leading to $V_C$, when performed with $H_\eta$, is shown to yield $V_C = 0$. To obtain a measure of the difference between the two approaches, numerical results are presented for a toroidal model.

id: quant-ph/0508105
title: Playing games in quantum mechanical settings: A necessary and sufficient condition
authors: Junichi Shimamura, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508105
abstract: A number of recent studies have focused on novel features in game theory when the games are played using quantum mechanical toolbox (entanglement, unitary operators, measurement). Researchers have concentrated in two-player-two strategy, 2x2, dilemma containing classical games, and transferred them into quantum realm showing that in quantum pure strategies dilemmas in such games can be resolved if entanglement is distributed between the players armed with quantum operations. Moreover, it became clear that the players receive the highest sum of payoffs available in the game, which are otherwise impossible in classical pure strategies. Encouraged by the observation of rich dynamics of physical systems with many interacting parties and the power of entanglement in quantum versions of 2x2 games, it became generally accepted that quantum versions can be easily extended to N-player situations by simply allowing N-partite entangled states. In this article, however, we show that this is not generally true because the reproducibility of classical tasks in quantum domain imposes limitations on the type of entanglement and quantum operators. We propose a benchmark for the evaluation of quantum and classical versions of games, and derive the necessary and sufficient conditions for a physical realization. We give examples of entangled states that can and cannot be used, and the characteristics of quantum operators used as strategies.

id: quant-ph/0508106
title: Concurrence vs. purity: Influence of local channels on Bell states of two qubits
authors: Mario Ziman, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508106
abstract: We analyze how a maximally entangled state of two-qubits (e.g., the singlet $\psi_s$) is affected by action of local channels described by completely positive maps $\cE$ . We analyze the concurrence and the purity of states $\varrho_\cE=\cE\otimes\cI[\psi_s]$.Using the concurrence-{\it vs}-purity phase diagram we characterize local channels $\cE$ by their action on the singlet state $\psi_s$. We specify a region of the concurrence-{\it vs.}-purity diagram that is achievable from the singlet state via the action of unital channels. We show that even most general (including non-unital) local channels acting just on a single qubit of the original singlet state cannot generate the maximally entangled mixed states (MEMS). We study in detail various time evolutions of the original singlet state induced by local Markovian semigroups. We show that the decoherence process is represented in the concurrence-{\it vs.}-purity diagram by a line that forms the lower bound of the achievable region for unital maps. On the other hand, the depolarization process is represented by a line that forms the upper bound of the region of maps induced by unital maps.

id: quant-ph/0508107
title: Quantum electromdynamics in a linear absorbing dielectric medium
authors: F. Kheirandish, M. Amooshahi
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508107
abstract: The eletromagnetic field in a linear absorptive dielectric medium, is quantized in the framework of the damped polarization model. A Hamiltonian containing a reservoir with continuous degrees of freedom, is proposed. The reservoir minimally interacts with the dielectric polarization and the electromagnetic field. The Lagevin-Schrodinger equation is obtained as the equation of motion of the polarization field. The radiation reaction electromagnetic field is considered. For a homogeneous medium, the equations of motion are solved using the Laplace transformation method.

id: quant-ph/0508108
title: The Groverian Measure of Entanglement for Mixed States
authors: Daniel Shapira, Yishai Shimoni, Ofer Biham
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev A. 73, 044301 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508108
abstract: The Groverian entanglement measure introduced earlier for pure quantum states [O. Biham, M.A. Nielsen and T. Osborne, Phys. Rev. A 65, 062312 (2002)] is generalized to the case of mixed states, in a way that maintains its operational interpretation. The Groverian measure of a mixed state of n qubits is obtained by a purification procedure into a pure state of 2n qubits, followed by an optimization process based on Uhlmann's theorem, before the resulting state is fed into Grover's search algorithm. The Groverian measure, expressed in terms of the maximal success probability of the algorithm, provides an operational measure of entanglement of both pure and mixed quantum states of multiple qubits. These results may provide further insight into the role of entanglement in making quantum algorithms powerful.

id: quant-ph/0508109
title: The Analogue of Bohm-Bell Processes on a Graph
authors: Roderich Tumulka
comments: 15 pages LaTeX, 1 figure; v2 minor corrections
journal: Physics Letters A 348 (2005) 126-134
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508109
abstract: Bohm-Bell processes, of interest in the foundations of quantum field theory, form a class of Markov processes $Q_t$ generalizing in a natural way both Bohm's dynamical system in configuration space for nonrelativistic quantum mechanics and Bell's jump process for lattice quantum field theories. They are such that at any time $t$ the distribution of $Q_t$ is $|\psi_t|^2$ with $\psi$ the wave function of quantum theory. We extend this class here by introducing the analogous Markov process for quantum mechanics on a graph (also called a network, i.e., a space consisting of line segments glued together at their ends). It is a piecewise deterministic process whose innovations occur only when it passes through a vertex.

id: quant-ph/0508110
title: The Role of Doppler Broadening in Electromagnetically Induced Transparency and Autler-Townes Splitting in Open Molecular Systems
authors: A. Lazoudis, E. Ahmed, L. Li, T. Kirova, P. Qi, A. Hansson, J. Magnes, F.C. Spano, A.M. Lyyra
comments: 4 pages 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508110
abstract: We describe in this Letter how inhomogeneous line broadening affects the Autler-Townes (AT) splitting in a three level open molecular cascade system. For moderate Rabi frequencies in the range of 300 to 500 MHz the fluorescence line shape from the uppermost level |3> in this system depends strongly on the frequency ratio of the two laser fields. However, the fluorescence spectrum of the intermediate level |2> appears as expected. We provide a description of the conditions for optimally resolved AT splitting in terms of the probe laser/coupling field frequency ratio and laser propagation geometry based on our theoretical analysis of the Doppler integral. This is important for applications such as molecular angular momentum alignment as well as for the measurement of the transition dipole moment matrix element.

id: quant-ph/0508111
title: Thin layer quantization in higher dimensions and codimensions
authors: Alexey V. Golovnev
comments: 14 pages; minor clarifications
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, Vol. 47, No. 8, 082105 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508111
abstract: We consider the thin layer quantization with use of only the most elementary notions of differential geometry. We consider this method in higher dimensions and get an explicit formula for quantum potential. For codimension 1 surfaces the quantum potential is presented in terms of principal curvatures, and equivalence with Prokhorov quantization method is proved. It is shown that, in contrast with original da Costa method, Prokhorov quantization can be generalized directly to higher codimensions.

id: quant-ph/0508112
title: Security of differential phase shift quantum key distribution against individual attacks
authors: Edo Waks, Hiroki Takesue, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508112
abstract: We derive a proof of security for the Differential Phase Shift Quantum Key Distribution (DPSQKD) protocol under the assumption that Eve is restricted to individual attacks. The security proof is derived by bounding the average collision probability, which leads directly to a bound on Eve's mutual information on the final key. The security proof applies to realistic sources based on pulsed coherent light. We then compare individual attacks to sequential attacks and show that individual attacks are more powerful.

id: quant-ph/0508113
title: High-fidelity linear optical quantum computing with polarization encoding
authors: Federico M. Spedalieri, Hwang Lee, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures. Improved construction of high-fidelity entangled ancilla; references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508113
abstract: We show that the KLM scheme [Knill, Laflamme and Milburn, Nature {\bf 409}, 46] can be implemented using polarization encoding, thus reducing the number of path modes required by half. One of the main advantages of this new implementation is that it naturally incorporates a loss detection mechanism that makes the probability of a gate introducing a non-detected error, when non-ideal detectors are considered, dependent only on the detector dark-count rate and independent of its efficiency. Since very low dark-count rate detectors are currently available, a high-fidelity gate (probability of error of order $10^{-6}$ conditional on the gate being successful) can be implemented using polarization encoding. The detector efficiency determines the overall success probability of the gate but does not affect its fidelity. This can be applied to the efficient construction of optical cluster states with very high fidelity for quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0508114
title: Entanglement dynamics under decoherence: from qubits to qudits
authors: Andr R. R. Carvalho, Florian Mintert, Stefan Palzer, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508114
abstract: We investigate the time evolution of entanglement for bipartite systems of arbitrary dimensions under the influence of decoherence. For qubits, we determine the precise entanglement decay rates under different system-environment couplings, including finite temperature effects. For qudits, we show how to obtain upper bounds for the decay rates and also present exact solutions for various classes of states.

id: quant-ph/0508115
title: Entanglement and quantum phase transition in quantum mixed spin chains
authors: Shang-Bin Li, Zhao-Xing Xu, Jian-Hui Dai, Jing-Bo Xu
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, RevTex4, A minor correction is added into the figure caption
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 184411 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508115
abstract: The ground entanglement and thermal entanglement in quantum mixed spin chains consisting of two integer spins 1 and two half integer spins 1/2 arrayed as ${1/2}-{1/2}-1-1$ in a unit cell with antiferromagnetic nearest-neighbor couplings $J_1$($J_2$) between the spins of equal (different) magnitudes, are investigated by adopting the log-negativity. The ground entanglement transition found here is closely related with the valence bond state transition, and the thermal entanglement near the critical point is calculated and shown that two distinct behaviors exist in the nearest neighbor same kind of spins and different kind of spins, respectively. The potential application of our results on the quantum information processing is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0508116
title: A probabilistic branching bisimulation for quantum processes
authors: Marie Lalire
comments: 25 pages, 3 figures, submitted to a special issue of MSCS
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Programming Languages (cs.PL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508116
abstract: Full formal descriptions of algorithms making use of quantum principles must take into account both quantum and classical computing components and assemble them so that they communicate and cooperate.Moreover, to model concurrent and distributed quantum computations, as well as quantum communication protocols, quantum to quantum communications which move qubits physically from one place to another must also be taken into account. Inspired by classical process algebras, which provide a framework for modeling cooperating computations, a process algebraic notation is defined, which provides a homogeneous style to formal descriptions of concurrent and distributed computations comprising both quantum and classical parts.Based upon an operational semantics which makes sure that quantum objects, operations and communications operate according to the postulates of quantum mechanics, a probabilistic branching bisimulation is defined among processes considered as having the same behavior.

id: quant-ph/0508117
title: Reflectionless Potentials and PT Symmetry
authors: Zafar Ahmed, Carl M. Bender, M. V. Berry
comments: 4 Pages
journal: J.Phys.A38:L627-L630,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508117
abstract: Large families of Hamiltonians that are non-Hermitian in the conventional sense have been found to have all eigenvalues real, a fact attributed to an unbroken PT symmetry. The corresponding quantum theories possess an unconventional scalar product. The eigenvalues are determined by differential equations with boundary conditions imposed in wedges in the complex plane. For a special class of such systems, it is possible to impose the PT-symmetric boundary conditions on the real axis, which lies on the edges of the wedges. The PT-symmetric spectrum can then be obtained by imposing the more transparent requirement that the potential be reflectionless.

id: quant-ph/0508118
title: Multiparty quantum secret splitting and quantum state sharing
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Xi-Han Li, Chun-Yan Li, Ping Zhou, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. The revision of the manuscript appeared in PLA. Some procedures for detecting cheat have been added. Then the security loophole in the original manuscript has been eliminated
journal: Physics Letters A 354 (3), 190-195 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508118
abstract: A protocol for multiparty quantum secret splitting is proposed with an ordered $N$ EPR pairs and Bell state measurements. It is secure and has the high intrinsic efficiency and source capacity as almost all the instances are useful and each EPR pair carries two bits of message securely. Moreover, we modify it for multiparty quantum state sharing of an arbitrary $m$-particle entangled state based on quantum teleportation with only Bell state measurements and local unitary operations which make this protocol more convenient in a practical application than others.

id: quant-ph/0508119
title: Controlled photon emission and Raman transition experiments with a single trapped atom
authors: M. P. A. Jones, B. Darquie, J. Beugnon, J. Dingjan, S. Bergamini, Y. Sortais, G. Messin, A. Browaeys, P. Grangier
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, proceedings of the ICOLS05 conference, replacement corrects numerical error in Rabi frequency (Section 4)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508119
abstract: We present recent results on the coherent control of an optical transition in a single rubidium atom, trapped in an optical tweezer. We excite the atom using resonant light pulses that are short (4 ns) compared with the lifetime of the excited state (26 ns). By varying the intensity of the laser pulses, we can observe an adjustable number of Rabi oscillations, followed by free decay once the light is switched off. To generate the pulses we have developed a novel laser system based on frequency doubling a telecoms laser diode at 1560 nm. By setting the laser intensity to make a pi-pulse, we use this coherent control to make a high quality triggered source of single photons. We obtain an average single photon rate of 9600 s-1 at the detector. Measurements of the second-order temporal correlation function show almost perfect antibunching at zero delay. In addition, we present preliminary results on the use of Raman transitions to couple the two hyperfine levels of the ground state of our trapped atom. This will allow us to prepare and control a qubit formed by two hyperfine sub-levels.

id: quant-ph/0508120
title: Entanglement swapping for generalized non-local correlations
authors: Tony Short, Sandu Popescu, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508120
abstract: We consider an analogue of entanglement-swapping for a set of black boxes with the most general non-local correlations consistent with relativity (including correlations which are stronger than any attainable in quantum theory). In an attempt to incorporate this phenomenon, we consider expanding the space of objects to include not only correlated boxes, but `couplers', which are an analogue for boxes of measurements with entangled eigenstates in quantum theory. Surprisingly, we find that no couplers exist for two binary-input/binary-output boxes, and hence that there is no analogue of entanglement-swapping for such boxes.

id: quant-ph/0508121
title: Decoherence induced by a composite environment
authors: Fernando C. Lombardo, Paula I. Villar
comments: 4 pages, one figure. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508121
abstract: We study the decoherence induced by the environment over a composite quantum system, comprising two coupled subsystems A and B, which may be a harmonic or an upside-down oscillators. We analyze the case in which the B-subsystem is in direct interaction with a thermal bath, while the other remains isolated from the huge reservoir. We compare the results concerning the decoherence suffered by the A-subsystem.

id: quant-ph/0508122
title: Quantum theory of light and noise polarization in nonlinear optics
authors: Stefan Scheel, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508122
abstract: We present a consistent quantum theory of the electromagnetic field in nonlinearly responding causal media, with special emphasis on $\chi^{(2)}$ media. Starting from QED in linearly responding causal media, we develop a method to construct the nonlinear Hamiltonian expressed in terms of the complex nonlinear susceptibility in a quantum mechanically consistent way. In particular we show that the method yields the nonlinear noise polarization, which together with the linear one is responsible for intrinsic quantum decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0508123
title: Entanglement of Trapped-Ion Clock States
authors: P. C. Haljan, P. J. Lee, K.-A. Brickman, M. Acton, L. Deslauriers, C. Monroe
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508123
abstract: A M{\o}lmer-S{\o}rensen entangling gate is realized for pairs of trapped $^{111}$Cd$^+$ ions using magnetic-field insensitive "clock" states and an implementation offering reduced sensitivity to optical phase drifts. The gate is used to generate the complete set of four entangled states, which are reconstructed and evaluated with quantum-state tomography. An average target-state fidelity of 0.79 is achieved, limited by available laser power and technical noise. The tomographic reconstruction of entangled states demonstrates universal quantum control of two ion-qubits, which through multiplexing can provide a route to scalable architectures for trapped-ion quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0508124
title: An introduction to measurement based quantum computation
authors: Richard Jozsa
comments: 22 pages, 15 figures. Section 6.2 replaced
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508124
abstract: In the formalism of measurement based quantum computation we start with a given fixed entangled state of many qubits and perform computation by applying a sequence of measurements to designated qubits in designated bases. The choice of basis for later measurements may depend on earlier measurement outcomes and the final result of the computation is determined from the classical data of all the measurement outcomes. This is in contrast to the more familiar gate array model in which computational steps are unitary operations, developing a large entangled state prior to some final measurements for the output. Two principal schemes of measurement based computation are teleportation quantum computation (TQC) and the so-called cluster model or one-way quantum computer (1WQC). We will describe these schemes and show how they are able to perform universal quantum computation. We will outline various possible relationships between the models which serve to clarify their workings. We will also discuss possible novel computational benefits of the measurement based models compared to the gate array model, especially issues of parallelisability of algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0508125
title: A Physical Axiomatic Approach to Schrodinger's Equation
authors: Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: Extended version. 14 pages
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 45 (2006) 1901-1913
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508125
abstract: The Schrodinger equation for non-relativistic quantum systems is derived from some classical physics axioms within an ensemble hamiltonian framework. Such an approach enables one to understand the structure of the equation, in particular its linearity, in intuitive terms. Furthermore it allows for a physically motivated and systematic investigation of potential generalisations which are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0508126
title: Scalable Quantum Computing with "Enhancement" Quantum Dots
authors: Y. B. Lyanda-Geller, M. J. Yang, C. H. Yang
comments: 38 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508126
abstract: We propose a novel scheme of solid state realization of a quantum computer based on single spin "enhancement mode" quantum dots as building blocks. In the enhancement quantum dots, just one electron can be brought into initially empty dot, in contrast to depletion mode dots based on expelling of electrons from multi-electron dots by gates. The quantum computer architectures based on depletion dots are confronted by several challenges making scalability difficult. These challenges can be successfully met by the approach based on ehnancement mode, capable of producing square array of dots with versatile functionalities. These functionalities allow transportation of qubits, including teleportation, and error correction based on straightforward one- and two-qubit operations. We describe physical properties and demonstrate experimental characteristics of enhancement quantum dots and single-electron transistors based on InAs/GaSb composite quantum wells. We discuss the materials aspects of quantum dot quantum computing, including the materials with large spin splitting such as InAs, as well as perspectives of enhancement mode approach in materials such as Si.

id: quant-ph/0508127
title: Quantum State Reconstruction of Many Body System Based on Complete Set of Quantum Correlations Reduced by Symmetry
authors: X.F.Liu, C.P.Sun
comments: 10 pages, n figures, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508127
abstract: We propose and study a universal approach for the reconstruction of quantum states of many body systems from symmetry analysis. The concept of minimal complete set of quantum correlation functions (MCSQCF) is introduced to describe the state reconstruction. As an experimentally feasible physical object, the MCSQCF is mathematically defined through the minimal complete subspace of observables determined by the symmetry of quantum states under consideration. An example with broken symmetry is analyzed in detail to illustrate the idea.

id: quant-ph/0508128
title: Experimental Analysis of a 4-Qubit Cluster State
authors: Nikolai Kiesel, Christian Schmid, Ulrich Weber, Otfried Guehne, Geza Toth, Rupert Ursin, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 210502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508128
abstract: Linear optics quantum logic operations enabled the observation of a four-photon cluster state. We prove genuine four-partite entanglement and study its persistency, demonstrating remarkable differences to the usual GHZ state. Efficient analysis tools are introduced in the experiment, which will be of great importance in further studies on multi-particle entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0508129
title: On the structure of the sets of mutually unbiased bases for N qubits
authors: J. L. Romero, G. Bjork, A. B. Klimov, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 16 pages, 10 tables, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508129
abstract: For a system of N qubits, spanning a Hilbert space of dimension d=2^N, it is known that there exists d+1 mutually unbiased bases. Different construction algorithms exist, and it is remarkable that different methods lead to sets of bases with different properties as far as separability is concerned. Here we derive the four sets of nine bases for three qubits, and show how they are unitarily related. We also briefly discuss the four-qubit case, give the entanglement structure of sixteen sets of bases,and show some of them, and their interrelations, as examples. The extension of the method to the general case of N qubits is outlined.

id: quant-ph/0508130
title: Quantum Kaleidoscopes and Bell's theorem
authors: P.K.Aravind
comments: Two new references (No. 21 and 22) to related work have been added
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 20, 1711-1729 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508130
abstract: A quantum kaleidoscope is defined as a set of observables, or states, consisting of many different subsets that provide closely related proofs of the Bell-Kochen-Specker (BKS) and Bell nonlocality theorems. The kaleidoscopes prove the BKS theorem through a simple parity argument, which also doubles as a proof of Bell's nonlocality theorem if use is made of the right sort of entanglement. Three closely related kaleidoscopes are introduced and discussed in this paper: a 15-observable kaleidoscope, a 24-state kaleidoscope and a 60-state kaleidoscope. The close relationship of these kaleidoscopes to a configuration of 12 points and 16 lines known as Reye's configuration is pointed out. The "rotations" needed to make each kaleidoscope yield all its apparitions are laid out. The 60-state kaleidoscope, whose underlying geometrical structure is that of ten interlinked Reye's configurations (together with their duals), possesses a total of 1120 apparitions that provide proofs of the two Bell theorems. Some applications of these kaleidoscopes to problems in quantum tomography and quantum state estimation are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0508131
title: Stabilizer Formalism for Operator Quantum Error Correction
authors: David Poulin
comments: Corrected claim based on exhaustive search
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95 230504 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508131
abstract: Operator quantum error correction is a recently developed theory that provides a generalized framework for active error correction and passive error avoiding schemes. In this paper, we describe these codes in the stabilizer formalism of standard quantum error correction theory. This is achieved by adding a "gauge" group to the standard stabilizer definition of a code that defines an equivalence class between encoded states. Gauge transformations leave the encoded information unchanged; their effect is absorbed by virtual gauge qubits that do not carry useful information. We illustrate the construction by identifying a gauge symmetry in Shor's 9-qubit code that allows us to remove 4 of its 8 stabilizer generators, leading to a simpler decoding procedure and a wider class of logical operations without affecting its essential properties. This opens the path to possible improvements of the error threshold of fault-tolerant quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0508132
title: Inseparability criteria for bipartite quantum states
authors: E. Shchukin, W. Vogel
comments: 4 pages, no figures. Small misprints were corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 230502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508132
abstract: We provide necessary and sufficient conditions for the partial transposition of bipartite harmonic quantum states to be nonnegative. The conditions are formulated as an infinite series of inequalities for the moments of the state under study. The violation of any inequality of this series is a sufficient condition for entanglement. Previously known entanglement conditions are shown to be special cases of our approach.

id: quant-ph/0508133
title: Geodesics and the best measurement for distinguishing quantum states
authors: Asa Ericsson
comments: 3 pages, replaced by published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) L725-L730
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508133
abstract: From statistical distinguishability of probability distributions, one can define distinguishability of quantum states. A corresponding measurement to perform, optimal in a definite sense, for distinguishing between two given states rho_A and rho_B, has been derived by Fuchs and Caves. We show that the Bures-Uhlmann geodesic through the two states singles out this measurement. The geodesic `bounces' at the boundary of the set of quantum states. Whenever the geodesic hits the boundary, the state orthogonal to that boundary state is one of the basis states for the measurement.

id: quant-ph/0508134
title: Effects of random localizing events on matter waves: formalism and examples
authors: Julio Gea-Banacloche
comments: v3; a few corrections, especially in Sections IV and V
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508134
abstract: A formalism is introduced to describe a number of physical processes that may break down the coherence of a matter wave over a characteristic length scale l. In a second-quantized description, an appropriate master equation for a set of bosonic "modes" (such as atoms in a lattice, in a tight-binding approximation) is derived. Two kinds of "localizing processes" are discussed in some detail and shown to lead to master equations of this general form: spontaneous emission (more precisely, light scattering), and modulation by external random potentials. Some of the dynamical consequences of these processes are considered: in particular, it is shown that they generically lead to a damping of the motion of the matter-wave currents, and may also cause a "flattening" of the density distribution of a trapped condensate at rest.

id: quant-ph/0508135
title: Superradiance in ultracold Rydberg gases
authors: Tun Wang, S. F. Yelin, R. Cote, E. E. Eyler, S. M. Farooqi, P. L. Gould, M. Kostrun, D. Tong, D. Vrinceanu
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508135
abstract: Experiments in dense, ultracold gases of rubidium Rydberg atoms show a considerable decrease of the radiative excited state lifetimes compared to dilute gases. This accelerated decay is explained by collective and cooperative effects, leading to superradiance. A novel formalism to calculate effective decay times in a dense Rydberg gas shows that for these atoms the decay into nearby levels increases by up to three orders of magnitude. Excellent agreement between theory and experiment follows from this treatment of Rydberg decay behavior.

id: quant-ph/0508136
title: Thermodynamics of a quantized electromagnetic field in rectangular cavities with perfectly conducting walls
authors: R. Jauregui, C. Villarreal, S. Hacyan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508136
abstract: The thermodynamical properties of a quantized electromagnetic field inside a box with perfectly conducting walls are studied using a regularization scheme that permits to obtain finite expressions for the thermodynamic potentials. The source of ultraviolet divergences is directly isolated in the expression for the density of modes, and the logarithmic infrared divergences are regularized imposing the uniqueness of vacuum and, consequently, the vanishing of the entropy in the limit of zero temperature. We thus obtain corrections to the Casimir energy and pressures, and to the specific heat that are due to temperature effects; these results suggest effects that could be tested experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0508137
title: Remote which-way-choice scheme: proposed foundations experiments
authors: Artur Szczepanski
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508137
abstract: Twin photons from spontaneous parametric down-conversion with preselected polarization are used as spatially disjoint subsystems. One photon is subject to an interference measurement, while a projective measurement of the second photon induces the way-choice of the first photon. This would be an example of way-choice free of direct action on the interfering photon. Two further applications of the proposed scheme are considered: a new method of quantum information speed measurement, and a test of commutation of space-like remote measurements.

id: quant-ph/0508138
title: Jensen-Shannon divergence as a measure of distinguishability between mixed quantum states
authors: A. P. Majtey, P. W. Lamberti, D. P. Prato
comments: 14 pages, corrected equation 16
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508138
abstract: We discuss an alternative to relative entropy as a measure of distance between mixed quantum states. The proposed quantity is an extension to the realm of quantum theory of the Jensen-Shannon divergence (JSD) between probability distributions. The JSD has several interesting properties. It arises in information theory and, unlike the Kullback-Leibler divergence, it is symmetric, always well defined and bounded. We show that the quantum JSD (QJSD) shares with the relative entropy most of the physically relevant properties, in particular those required for a "good" quantum distinguishability measure. We relate it to other known quantum distances and we suggest possible applications in the field of the quantum information theory.

id: quant-ph/0508139
title: Efficient quantum algorithms for simulating sparse Hamiltonians
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Graeme Ahokas, Richard Cleve, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, substantial revisions
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics 270, 359 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508139
abstract: We present an efficient quantum algorithm for simulating the evolution of a sparse Hamiltonian H for a given time t in terms of a procedure for computing the matrix entries of H. In particular, when H acts on n qubits, has at most a constant number of nonzero entries in each row/column, and |H| is bounded by a constant, we may select any positive integer $k$ such that the simulation requires O((\log^*n)t^{1+1/2k}) accesses to matrix entries of H. We show that the temporal scaling cannot be significantly improved beyond this, because sublinear time scaling is not possible.

id: quant-ph/0508140
title: The harmonic oscillator with dissipation within the theory of open quantum systems
authors: A. Isar
comments: 14 pages
journal: Helv. Phys. Acta 67 (1994) 436-449
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508140
abstract: Time evolution of the expectation values of various dynamical operators of the harmonic oscillator with dissipation is analitically obtained within the framework of the Lindblad theory for open quantum systems. We deduce the density matrix of the damped harmonic oscillator from the solution of the Fokker-Planck equation for the coherent state representation, obtained from the master equation for the density operator. The Fokker-Planck equation for the Wigner distribution function, subject to either the Gaussian type or the $\delta$-function type of initial conditions, is also solved by using the Wang-Uhlenbeck method. The obtained Wigner functions are two-dimensional Gaussians with different widths.

id: quant-ph/0508141
title: Density operator and entropy of the damped quantum harmonic oscillator
authors: A. Isar
comments: 10 pages
journal: Helv. Phys. Acta 68 (1995) 225-234
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508141
abstract: The expression for the density operator of the damped harmonic oscillator is derived from the master equation in the framework of the Lindblad theory for open quantum systems. Then the von Neumann entropy and effective temperature of the system are obtained. The entropy for a state characterized by a Wigner distribution function which is Gaussian in form is found to depend only on the variance of the distribution function.

id: quant-ph/0508142
title: Quantum search algorithm as an open system
authors: A. Romanelli, A. Auyuanet, R. Donangelo
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508142
abstract: We study the quantum search algorithm as an open system. More specifically, we analyze the responses of that algorithm to an external monochromatic field, and to the decoherences introduced by the measurement process. We find that the search algorithm is robust with respect to many external interactions.

id: quant-ph/0508143
title: Direct Observation of Sub-Poissonian Number Statistics in a Degenerate Bose Gas
authors: C.-S. Chuu, F. Schreck, T. P. Meyrath, J. L. Hanssen, G. N. Price, M. G. Raizen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 260403 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508143
abstract: We report the direct observation of sub-Poissonian number fluctuation for a degenerate Bose gas confined in an optical trap. Reduction of number fluctuations below the Poissonian limit is observed for average numbers that range from 300 to 60 atoms.

id: quant-ph/0508144
title: Quantum measurement of a mesoscopic spin ensemble
authors: G. Giedke, J. M. Taylor, D. D'Alessandro, M. D. Lukin, A. Imamoglu
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures; minor changes, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 032316 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508144
abstract: We describe a method for precise estimation of the polarization of a mesoscopic spin ensemble by using its coupling to a single two-level system. Our approach requires a minimal number of measurements on the two-level system for a given measurement precision. We consider the application of this method to the case of nuclear spin ensemble defined by a single electron-charged quantum dot: we show that decreasing the electron spin dephasing due to nuclei and increasing the fidelity of nuclear-spin-based quantum memory could be within the reach of present day experiments.

id: quant-ph/0508145
title: Certainty relations between local and nonlocal observables
authors: R. Garcia Diaz, J. L. Romero, G. Bjork, M. Bourennane
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: New J. Opt., vol. 7, pp. 256, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508145
abstract: We demonstrate that for an arbitrary number of identical particles, each defined on a Hilbert-space of arbitrary dimension, there exists a whole ladder of relations of complementarity between local, and every conceivable kind of joint (or nonlocal) measurements. E.g., the more accurate we can know (by a measurement) some joint property of three qubits (projecting the state onto a tripartite entangled state), the less accurate some other property, local to the three qubits, become. We also show that the corresponding complementarity relations are particularly tight for particles defined on prime dimensional Hilbert spaces.

id: quant-ph/0508146
title: Witnessing Entanglement of EPR States With Second-Order Interference
authors: Magdalena Stobiska, Krzysztof Wdkiewicz
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B 20, 1504, (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508146
abstract: The separability of the continuous-variable EPR state can be tested with Hanbury-Brown and Twiss type interference. The second-order visibility of such interference can provide an experimental test of entanglement. It is shown that time-resolved interference leads to the Hong, Ou and Mandel deep, that provides a signature of quantum non-separability for pure and mixed EPR states. A Hanbury-Brown and Twiss type witness operator can be constructed to test the quantum nature of the EPR entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0508147
title: Fault Models for Quantum Mechanical Switching Networks
authors: Jacob Biamonte, Jeff S. Allen, Marek A. Perkowski
comments: (almost) Forgotten rewrite from 2005
journal: Journal of Electronic Testing: Theory and Applications, 26(5):499-511, (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508147
abstract: The difference between faults and errors is that, unlike faults, errors can be corrected using control codes. In classical test and verification one develops a test set separating a correct circuit from a circuit containing any considered fault. Classical faults are modelled at the logical level by fault models that act on classical states. The stuck fault model, thought of as a lead connected to a power rail or to a ground, is most typically considered. A classical test set complete for the stuck fault model propagates both binary basis states, 0 and 1, through all nodes in a network and is known to detect many physical faults. A classical test set complete for the stuck fault model allows all circuit nodes to be completely tested and verifies the function of many gates. It is natural to ask if one may adapt any of the known classical methods to test quantum circuits. Of course, classical fault models do not capture all the logical failures found in quantum circuits. The first obstacle faced when using methods from classical test is developing a set of realistic quantum-logical fault models. Developing fault models to abstract the test problem away from the device level motivated our study. Several results are established. First, we describe typical modes of failure present in the physical design of quantum circuits. From this we develop fault models for quantum binary circuits that enable testing at the logical level. The application of these fault models is shown by adapting the classical test set generation technique known as constructing a fault table to generate quantum test sets. A test set developed using this method is shown to detect each of the considered faults.

id: quant-ph/0508148
title: Precision frequency measurements with entangled states
authors: C. F. Roos
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508148
abstract: We demonstrate how quantum entanglement can be used for precision frequency measurements with trapped ions. In particular, we show how to suppress linear Zeeman shifts in optical frequency measurements by using maximally entangled states of two ions even if the individual ions do not have any field-independent transition. In addition, this technique allows for an accurate measurement of small external field frequency shifts such as the electric quadrupole shift which are important for ion clock experiments.

id: quant-ph/0508149
title: Variable Bias Coin Tossing
authors: Roger Colbeck, Adrian Kent
comments: 14 pages, minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032320 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508149
abstract: Alice is a charismatic quantum cryptographer who believes her parties are unmissable; Bob is a (relatively) glamorous string theorist who believes he is an indispensable guest. To prevent possibly traumatic collisions of self-perception and reality, their social code requires that decisions about invitation or acceptance be made via a cryptographically secure variable bias coin toss (VBCT). This generates a shared random bit by the toss of a coin whose bias is secretly chosen, within a stipulated range, by one of the parties; the other party learns only the random bit. Thus one party can secretly influence the outcome, while both can save face by blaming any negative decisions on bad luck. We describe here some cryptographic VBCT protocols whose security is guaranteed by quantum theory and the impossibility of superluminal signalling, setting our results in the context of a general discussion of secure two-party computation. We also briefly discuss other cryptographic applications of VBCT.

id: quant-ph/0508150
title: Controlling Entanglement Generation in External Quantum Fields
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini
comments: 12 pages, to appear in J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508150
abstract: Two, non-interacting two-level atoms immersed in a common bath can become mutually entangled when evolving with a Markovian, completely positive dynamics. For an environment made of external quantum fields, this phenomenon can be studied in detail: one finds that entanglement production can be controlled by varying the bath temperature and the distance between the atoms. Remarkably, in certain circumstances, the quantum correlations can persist in the asymptotic long-time regime.

id: quant-ph/0508151
title: Raman Adiabatic Transfer of Optical States
authors: Juergen Appel, K.-P. Marzlin, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 73, 013804 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508151
abstract: We analyze electromagnetically induced transparency and light storage in an ensemble of atoms with multiple excited levels (multi-Lambda configuration) which are coupled to one of the ground states by quantized signal fields and to the other one via classical control fields. We present a basis transformation of atomic and optical states which reduces the analysis of the system to that of EIT in a regular 3-level configuration. We demonstrate the existence of dark state polaritons and propose a protocol to transfer quantum information from one optical mode to another by an adiabatic control of the control fields.

id: quant-ph/0508152
title: Impact of entanglement on the game-theoretical concept of evolutionary stability
authors: Azhar Iqbal
comments: 7 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508152
abstract: An example of a quantum game is presented that explicitly shows the impact of entanglement on the game-theoretical concept of evolutionary stability.

id: quant-ph/0508153
title: On the Role of Hadamard Gates in Quantum Circuits
authors: Dan Shepherd
comments: 16 pages, last section clarified, typos corrected, references added, minor rewording
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508153
abstract: We study a reduced quantum circuit computation paradigm in which the only allowable gates either permute the computational basis states or else apply a "global Hadamard operation", i.e. apply a Hadamard operation to every qubit simultaneously. In this model, we discuss complexity bounds (lower-bounding the number of global Hadamard operations) for common quantum algorithms : we illustrate upper bounds for Shor's Algorithm, and prove lower bounds for Grover's Algorithm. We also use our formalism to display a gate that is neither quantum-universal nor classically simulable, on the assumption that Integer Factoring is not in BPP.

id: quant-ph/0508154
title: A detector for continuous measurement of ultra-cold atoms in real time
authors: C. Figl, L. Longchambon, M. Jeppesen, M. Kruger, H. A. Bachor, N. P. Robins, J. D. Close
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures, submitted to optics letters
journal: Appl. Opt. 45, 3415 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508154
abstract: We present the first detector capable of recording high-bandwidth real time atom number density measurements of a Bose Einstein condensate. Based on a two-color Mach-Zehnder interferometer, our detector has a response time that is six orders of magnitude faster than current detectors based on CCD cameras while still operating at the shot-noise limit. With this minimally destructive system it may be possible to implement feedback to stabilize a Bose-Einstein condensate or an atom laser.

id: quant-ph/0508155
title: A two reservoir model of quantum error correction
authors: James P. Clemens, Julio Gea-Banacloche
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508155
abstract: We consider a two reservoir model of quantum error correction with a hot bath causing errors in the qubits and a cold bath cooling the ancilla qubits to a fiducial state. We consider error correction protocols both with and without measurement of the ancilla state. The error correction acts as a kind of refrigeration process to maintain the data qubits in a low entropy state by periodically moving the entropy to the ancilla qubits and then to the cold reservoir. We quantify the performance of the error correction as a function of the reservoir temperatures and cooling rate by means of the fidelity and the residual entropy of the data qubits. We also make a comparison with the continuous quantum error correction model of Sarovar and Milburn [Phys. Rev. A 72 012306].

id: quant-ph/0508156
title: Using Quantum Mechanics to Cope with Liars
authors: Stefano Mancini, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX file, revised version
journal: Int. J. of Quant. Inf. Vol.3, No.4, pp.729-733 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508156
abstract: We propose the use of a quantum algorithm to deal with the problem of searching with errors in the framework of two-person games. Specifically, we present a solution to the Ulam's problem that polynomially reduces its query complexity and makes it independent from the dimension of the search space.

id: quant-ph/0508157
title: Decoherence induced by a fluctuating Aharonov-Casher phase
authors: Fernando C. Lombardo, Francisco D. Mazzitelli, Paula I. Villar
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508157
abstract: Dipoles interference is studied when atomic systems are coupled to classical electromagnetic fields. The interaction between the dipoles and the classical fields induces a time-varying Aharonov-Casher phase. Averaging over the phase generates a suppression of fringe visibility in the interference pattern. We show that, for suitable experimental conditions, the loss of contrast for dipoles can be observable and almost as large as the corresponding one for coherent electrons. We analyze different trajectories in order to show the dependence of the decoherence factor with the velocity of the particles.

id: quant-ph/0508158
title: Mach Zehnder Interferometry with NOON Quantum States
authors: L. Pezze', A. Smerzi
comments: the paper has been withdrawn by the authors. See newer and expanded version quant-ph/0606221, published in Europhysics Letters 78, 30004 (2007)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508158
abstract: The paper has been withdrawn by the authors. See newer and expanded version quant-ph/0606221, published in Europhysics Letters 78, 30004 (2007).

id: quant-ph/0508159
title: Robust state preparation of a single trapped ion by adiabatic passage
authors: Chr. Wunderlich, Th. Hannemann, T. Koerber, H. Haeffner, Ch. Roos, W. Haensel, R. Blatt, F. Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, Volume 54, Issue 11 July 2007 , pages 1541 - 1549
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508159
abstract: We report adiabatic passage experiments with a single trapped $^{40}$Ca$^+$ ion. By applying a frequency chirped laser pulse with a Gaussian amplitude envelope we reach a transfer efficiency of 0.990(10) on an optical transition from the electronic ground state S$_{1/2}$ to the metastable state D$_{5/2}$. This transfer method is shown to be insensitive to the accurate setting of laser parameters, and therefore is suitable as a robust tool for ion based quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0508160
title: Entanglement in bosonic systems
authors: Stein Olav Skr?vseth
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 062305 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508160
abstract: We present a technique to resolve a Gaussian density matrix and its time evolution through known expectation values in position and momentum. Further we find the full spectrum of this density matrix and apply the technique to a chain of harmonic oscillators to find agreement with conformal field theory in this domain. We also observe that a non-conformal state has a divergent entanglement entropy.

id: quant-ph/0508161
title: The second law, Maxwell's daemon and work derivable from quantum heat engines
authors: Tien D. Kieu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93 (2004) 140403
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508161
abstract: With a class of quantum heat engines which consists of two-energy-eigenstate systems undergoing, respectively, quantum adiabatic processes and energy exchanges with heat baths at different stages of a cycle, we are able to clarify some important aspects of the second law of thermodynamics. The quantum heat engines also offer a practical way, as an alternative to Szilard's engine, to physically realise Maxwell's daemon. While respecting the second law on the average, they are also capable of extracting more work from the heat baths than is otherwise possible in thermal equilibrium.

id: quant-ph/0508162
title: Phase transitions and quantum measurements
authors: Armen E. Allahverdyan, Roger Balian, Theo M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508162
abstract: In a quantum measurement, a coupling $g$ between the system S and the apparatus A triggers the establishment of correlations, which provide statistical information about S. Robust registration requires A to be macroscopic, and a dynamical symmetry breaking of A governed by S allows the absence of any bias. Phase transitions are thus a paradigm for quantum measurement apparatuses, with the order parameter as pointer variable. The coupling $g$ behaves as the source of symmetry breaking. The exact solution of a model where S is a single spin and A a magnetic dot (consisting of $N$ interacting spins and a phonon thermal bath) exhibits the reduction of the state as a relaxation process of the off-diagonal elements of S+A, rapid due to the large size of $N$. The registration of the diagonal elements involves a slower relaxation from the initial paramagnetic state of A to either one of its ferromagnetic states. If $g$ is too weak, the measurement fails due to a ``Buridan's ass'' effect. The probability distribution for the magnetization then develops not one but two narrow peaks at the ferromagnetic values. During its evolution it goes through wide shapes extending between these values.

id: quant-ph/0508163
title: Conditions for separability in generalized Laplacian matrices and nonnegative matrices as density matrices
authors: Chai Wah Wu
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Expanded version in Physics Letters A, 251 (1-2), pp. 18-22, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508163
abstract: Recently, Laplacian matrices of graphs are studied as density matrices in quantum mechanics. We continue this study and give conditions for separability of generalized Laplacian matrices of weighted graphs with unit trace. In particular, we show that the Peres-Horodecki positive partial transpose separability condition is necessary and sufficient for separability in ${\mathbb C}^2\otimes {\mathbb C}^q$. In addition, we present a sufficient condition for separability of generalized Laplacian matrices and diagonally dominant nonnegative matrices.

id: quant-ph/0508164
title: Models of Quantum Cellular Automata
authors: Carlos A. Perez-Delgado, Donny Cheung
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508164
abstract: In this paper we present a systematic view of Quantum Cellular Automata (QCA), a mathematical formalism of quantum computation. First we give a general mathematical framework with which to study QCA models. Then we present four different QCA models, and compare them. One model we discuss is the traditional QCA, similar to those introduced by Shumacher and Werner, Watrous, and Van Dam. We discuss also Margolus QCA, also discussed by Schumacher and Werner. We introduce two new models, Coloured QCA, and Continuous-Time QCA. We also compare our models with the established models. We give proofs of computational equivalence for several of these models. We show the strengths of each model, and provide examples of how our models can be useful to come up with algorithms, and implement them in real-world physical devices.

id: quant-ph/0508165
title: A Processor Core Model for Quantum Computing
authors: Man-Hong Yung, Simon C. Benjamin, Sougato Bose
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; improved some arguments as suggested by a referee
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 220501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508165
abstract: We describe an architecture based on a processing 'core' where multiple qubits interact perpetually, and a separate 'store' where qubits exist in isolation. Computation consists of single qubit operations, swaps between the store and the core, and free evolution of the core. This enables computation using physical systems where the entangling interactions are 'always on'. Alternatively, for switchable systems our model constitutes a prescription for optimizing many-qubit gates. We discuss implementations of the quantum Fourier transform, Hamiltonian simulation, and quantum error correction.

id: quant-ph/0508166
title: Binomial states and the phase distribution measurement of weak optical fields
authors: K. L. Pregnell, D. T. Pegg
comments: 8 Pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 67, 063814 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508166
abstract: We show that the eight-port interferometer used by Noh, Foug\`{e}res, and Mandel [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 71}, 2579 (1993)] to measure their operational phase distribution of light can also be used to measure the canonical phase distribution of weak optical fields, where canonical phase is defined as the complement of photon number. A binomial reference state is required for this purpose, which we show can be obtained to an excellent degree of approximation from a suitably squeezed state. The proposed method requires only photodetectors that can distinguish among zero, one and more than one photons and is not particularly sensitive to photodetector imperfections.

id: quant-ph/0508167
title: The VIP Experiment
authors: S. Bartalucci, S. Bertolucci, M. Bragadireanu, C. Bucci, M. Cargnelli, M. Catitti, C. Curceanu, S. Di Matteo, J.-P. Egger, N. Ferrari, H. Fuhrmann, C. Guaraldo, M. Iliescu, T. Ishiwatari, M. Laubenstein, J. Marton, E. Milotti, D. Pietreanu, T. Ponta, D. Sirghi, F. Sirghi, L. Sperandio, E.Widmann, J. Zmeskal
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, PDF only, presented by Edoardo Milotti to the conference "Quantum Theory: reconsideration of foundations-3", Vaxjo (Sweden), June, 6-11 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508167
abstract: The Pauli Exclusion Principle (PEP) is a basic principle of Quantum Mechanics, and its validity has never been seriously challenged. However, given its importance, it is very important to check it as thoroughly as possible. Here we describe the VIP (Violation of PEP) experiment, an improved version of the Ramberg and Snow experiment (Ramberg and Snow, Phys. Lett. B238 (1990) 438); VIP shall be performed at the Gran Sasso underground laboratories, and aims to test the Pauli Exclusion Principle for electrons with unprecedented accuracy, down to $\frac{\beta^2}{2} \sim 10^{-30}$

id: quant-ph/0508168
title: Robustness of two-way quantum communication protocols against Trojan horse attack
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Ping Zhou, Xi-Han Li, Chun-Yan Li, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 3 pages, no figure. Comments and helps are welcome to fgdeng@bnu.edu.cn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508168
abstract: We discuss the robustness of two-way quantum communication protocols against Trojan horse attack and introduce a novel attack, delay-photon Trojan horse attack. Moreover, we present a practical way for two-way quantum communication protocols to prevent the eavesdropper from stealing the information transmitted with Trojan horse attacks. It means that two-way quantum communication protocols is also secure in a practical application.

id: quant-ph/0508169
title: Coherent State Quantum Key Distribution Without Random Basis Switching
authors: Christian Weedbrook, Andrew M. Lance, Warwick P. Bowen, Thomas Symul, Timothy C. Ralph, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, submitted
journal: Published, Phys. Rev. A 73, 022316 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508169
abstract: The random switching of measurement bases is commonly assumed to be a necessary step of quantum key distribution protocols. In this paper we show that switching is not required for coherent state continuous variable quantum key distribution. We show this via the no-switching protocol which results in higher information rates and a simpler experimental setup. We propose an optimal eavesdropping attack against this protocol, for individual Gaussian attacks, and we investigate and compare the no-switching protocol applied to the original BB84 scheme.

id: quant-ph/0508170
title: Lossless Quantum Compression
authors: Caroline Rogers, Rajagopal Nagarajan
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508170
abstract: We describe lossless quantum compression of unknown mixtures (of non-orthogonal states) and give an expression of the optimal rate of compression.

id: quant-ph/0508171
title: Addendum to "Quantum secret sharing between multiparty and multiparty without entanglement"
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Feng-Li Yan, Xi-Han Li, Chun-Yan Li, Hong-Yu Zhou, Ting Gao
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508171
abstract: Recently, Yan and Gao proposed a quantum secret sharing protocol between multiparty ($m$ members in group 1) and multiparty ($n$ members in group 2) using a sequence of single photons (Phys. Rev. A \textbf{72}, 012304 (2005)). We find that it is secure if the quantum signal transmitted is only a single photon but insecure with a multi-photon signal as some agents can get the information about the others' message if they attack the communication with a Trojan horse. However, security against this attack can be attained with a simple modification.

id: quant-ph/0508172
title: Cold atom dynamics in a quantum optical lattice potential
authors: Christoph Maschler, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, corrected typos
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 260401 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508172
abstract: We study a generalized cold atom Bose Hubbard model, where the periodic optical potential is formed by a cavity field with quantum properties. On the one hand the common coupling of all atoms to the same mode introduces cavity mediated long range atom-atom interactions and on the other hand atomic backaction on the field introduces atom-field entanglement. This modifies the properties of the associated quantum phase transitions and allows for new correlated atom-field states including superposition of different atomic quantum phases. After deriving an approximative Hamiltonian including the new long range interaction terms we exhibit central physical phenomena at generic configurations of few atoms in few wells. We find strong modifications of population fluctuations and next-nearest neighbor correlations near the phase transition point.

id: quant-ph/0508173
title: Field-free two-direction alignment alternation of linear molecules by elliptic laser pulses
authors: D. Daems, S. Gurin, E. Hertz, H. R. Jauslin, B. Lavorel, O. Faucher
comments: 5 pages, 4 color figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 063005 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508173
abstract: We show that a linear molecule subjected to a short specific elliptically polarized laser field yields postpulse revivals exhibiting alignment alternatively located along the orthogonal axis and the major axis of the ellipse. The effect is experimentally demonstrated by measuring the optical Kerr effect along two different axes. The conditions ensuring an optimal field-free alternation of high alignments along both directions are derived.

id: quant-ph/0508174
title: Structure of the Phase in Pure Two-Mode Gaussian States
authors: R. W. Rendell, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508174
abstract: The two-mode relative phase associated with Gaussian states plays an important role in quantum information processes in optical, atomic and electronic systems. In this work, the origin and structure of the two-mode relative phase in pure Gaussian states is studied in terms of its dependences on the quadratures of the modes. This is done by constructing local canonical transformations to an associated two-mode squeezed state. The results are illustrated by studying the time dependence of the phase under a nonlocal unitary model evolution containing correlations between the modes. In a more general context, this approach may allow the two-mode phase to be studied in situations sensitive to different physical parameters within experimental configurations relevant to quantum information processing tasks.

id: quant-ph/0508175
title: The quantum world is not built up from correlations
authors: Michael Seevinck
comments: Published version. Title changed
journal: Foundations of Physics, vol. 36, 1573-1586 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508175
abstract: It is known that the global state of a composite quantum system can be completely determined by specifying correlations between measurements performed on subsystems only. Despite the fact that the quantum correlations thus suffice to reconstruct the quantum state, we show, using a Bell inequality argument, that they cannot be regarded as objective local properties of the composite system in question. It is well known since the work of J.S. Bell, that one cannot have locally preexistent values for all physical quantities, whether they are deterministic or stochastic. The Bell inequality argument we present here shows this is also impossible for correlations among subsystems of an individual isolated composite system. Neither of them can be used to build up a world consisting of some local realistic structure. As a corrolary to the result we argue that entanglement cannot be considered ontologically robust. The argument has an important advantage over others because it does not need perfect correlations but only statistical correlations. It can therefore easily be tested in currently feasible experiments using four particle entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0508176
title: A flow-map model for analyzing pseudothresholds in fault-tolerant quantum computing
authors: K. M. Svore, A. W. Cross, I. L. Chuang, A. V. Aho
comments: 20 pages, 16 figures, to appear in QIC
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. Vol. 6, No. 3, pp. 193-212 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508176
abstract: An arbitrarily reliable quantum computer can be efficiently constructed from noisy components using a recursive simulation procedure, provided that those components fail with probability less than the fault-tolerance threshold. Recent estimates of the threshold are near some experimentally achieved gate fidelities. However, the landscape of threshold estimates includes pseudothresholds, threshold estimates based on a subset of components and a low level of recursion. In this paper, we observe that pseudothresholds are a generic phenomenon in fault-tolerant computation. We define pseudothresholds and present classical and quantum fault-tolerant circuits exhibiting pseudothresholds that differ by a factor of 4 from fault-tolerance thresholds for typical relationships between component failure rates. We develop tools for visualizing how reliability is influenced by recursive simulation in order to determine the asymptotic threshold. Finally, we conjecture that refinements of these methods may establish upper bounds on the fault-tolerance threshold for particular codes and noise models.

id: quant-ph/0508177
title: Geometric Phase Based Quantum Computation Applied to an NP-Complete Problem
authors: David R. Mitchell
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508177
abstract: We present a new approach to quantum computation involving the geometric phase. In this approach, an entire computation is performed by adiabatically evolving a suitably chosen quantum system in a closed circuit in parameter space. The problem solved is the determination of the solubility of a 3-SAT Boolean Satisfiability problem. The problem of non-adiabatic transitions to higher levels is addressed in several ways. The avoided level crossings are well defined and the interpolation can be slowed in this region, the Hamiltonian can be scaled with problem dimension resulting in a constant gap size and location, and the prescription here is sufficiently general as to allow for other suitably chosen Hamiltonians. Finally, we show that with $n$ applications of this approach, the geometric phase based quantum computation method may be used to find the solution to the 3-SAT problem in $n$ variables, a member of the NP-complete complexity class.

id: quant-ph/0508178
title: Experimental purification of coherent states
authors: Ulrik L. Andersen, Radim Filip, Jaromir Fiurasek, Vincent Josse, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 060301 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508178
abstract: We propose a scheme for optimal Gaussian purification of coherent states from several imperfect copies. The proposal is experimentally demonstrated for the case of two copies of a coherent state sent through independent noisy channels. Our purification protocol relies on only linear optics and an ancilla vacuum state, rendering this approach an interesting alternative to the more complex protocols of entanglement distillation and quantum error correction.

id: quant-ph/0508179
title: Parametric down-conversion in photonic crystal waveguides
authors: Gregor Weihs
comments: Due to a miscommunication the unrevised version of this paper was published instead of this one. v2 has quite some modifications and corrections. 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 20, 1543-1550 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508179
abstract: Photonic crystals create dramatic new possibilities for nonlinear optics. Line defects are shown to support modes suitable for the production of pairs of photons by the material's second order nonlinearity even if the phase-matching conditions cannot be satisfied in the bulk. These structures offer the flexibility to achieve specific dispersion characteristics and potentially very high brightness. In this work, two phase matching schemes are identified and analyzed regarding their dispersive properties.

id: quant-ph/0508180
title: Secret parameters in quantum bit commitment
authors: Chi-Yee Cheung
comments: 4 pages, 0 figure, RevTeX4; typos corrected, a new corollary added. Proceedings "ERATO Conference on Quantum Information Science 2005" (Tokyo, 26-30 August 2005)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508180
abstract: The no-go theorem of unconditionally secure quantum bit commitment depends crucially on the assumption that Alice knows in detail all the probability distributions generated by Bob. We show that if a protocol is concealing, then the cheating unitary transformation is independent of any parameters (including probability distributions) secretly chosen by Bob, so that Alice can calculate it without knowing Bob's secret choices. Otherwise the protocol cannot be concealing. Our result shows that the original impossibility proof was based on an incorrect assumption, despite the fact that its conclusion remains valid within the adopted framework. Furthermore, our result eliminates a potential loophole in the no-go theorem.

id: quant-ph/0508181
title: Controlled Quantum Secret Sharing
authors: Chi-Yee Cheung
comments: 6 pages, 0 figure, RevTeX4; published version with minor changes
journal: Phys. Scr. 74 (2006) 459-463
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508181
abstract: We present a new protocol in which a secret multiqubit quantum state $\ket{\Psi}$ is shared by $n$ players and $m$ controllers, where $\ket{\Psi}$ is the encoding state of a quantum secret sharing scheme. The players may be considered as field agents responsible for carrying out a task, using the secret information encrypted in $\ket{\Psi}$, while the controllers are superiors who decide if and when the task should be carried out and who to do it. Our protocol only requires ancillary Bell states and Bell-basis measurements.

id: quant-ph/0508182
title: Inertia of Intrinsic Spin
authors: Bahram Mashhoon, Helmut Kaiser
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure, contribution to Festschrift honoring Samuel A. Werner; v2: slightly expanded version accepted for publication in Proc. Int. Conf. Neutron Scattering 2005 (scheduled for publication in the regular edition of Physica B, July 2006)
journal: Physica B385 (2006) 1381-1383
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508182
abstract: The state of a particle in space and time is characterized by its mass and spin, which therefore determine the inertial properties of the particle. The coupling of intrinsic spin with rotation is examined and the corresponding inertial effects of intrinsic spin are studied. An experiment to measure directly the spin-rotation coupling via neutron interferometry is analyzed in detail.

id: quant-ph/0508183
title: Experimental Entangled Entanglement
authors: Philip Walther, Kevin J. Resch, Caslav Brukner, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 020501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508183
abstract: All previous tests of local realism have studied correlations between single-particle measurements. In the present experiment, we have performed a Bell experiment on three particles in which one of the measurements corresponds to a projection onto a maximally-entangled state. We show theoretically and experimentally, that correlations between these entangled measurements and single-particle measurements are too strong for any local-realistic theory and are experimentally exploited to violate a CHSH-Bell inequality by more than 5 standard deviations. We refer to this possibility as "entangled entanglement".

id: quant-ph/0508184
title: Decoherence from spin environments
authors: F. M. Cucchietti, J.P. Paz, W. H. Zurek
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052113 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508184
abstract: We examine two exactly solvable models of decoherence -- a central spin-system, (i) with and (ii) without a self--Hamiltonian, interacting with a collection of environment spins. In the absence of a self--Hamiltonian we show that in this model (introduced some time ago to illustrate environment--induced superselection) generic assumptions about the coupling strengths can lead to a universal (Gaussian) suppression of coherence between pointer states. On the other hand, we show that when the dynamics of the central spin is dominant a different regime emerges, which is characterized by a non--Gaussian decay and a dramatically different set of pointer states. We explore the regimes of validity of the Gaussian--decay and discuss its relation to the spectral features of the environment and to the Loschmidt echo (or fidelity).

id: quant-ph/0508185
title: Dynamic response of interacting one-dimensional fermions in the harmonic atom trap: Phase response and the inhomogeneous mobility
authors: W. Wonneberger
comments: 16 pages, LaTex, changed content
journal: Physics Letters A 356 (2006) 272-276
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508185
abstract: The problem of the Kohn mode in bosonized theories of one-dimensional interacting fermions in the harmonic trap is investigated and a suitable modification of the interaction is proposed which preserves the Kohn mode. The modified theory is used to calculate exactly the inhomogeneous linear mobility at position z in response to a spatial force pulse at another position. It is found the inhomogeneous particle mobility exhibits resonances not only at the trap frequency but also at multiples of a new renormalized collective mode frequency which depends on the strength of the interaction. In contrast, the local response obtained by averaging over the pulse position remains that of the non-interacting system.

id: quant-ph/0508186
title: Atomic density of an harmonically trapped ideal gas near Bose-Einstein transition temperature
authors: Rodolphe Hoppeler, Jose Viana Gomes, Denis Boiron
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 41 (2007) 157
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508186
abstract: We have studied the atomic density of a cloud confined in an isotropic harmonic trap at the vicinity of the Bose-Einstein transition temperature. We show that, for a non-interacting gas and near this temperature, the ground-state density has the same order of magnitude as the excited states density at the centre of the trap. This holds in a range of temperatures where the ground-state population is negligible compared to the total atom number. We compare the exact calculations, available in a harmonic trap, to semi-classical approximations. We show that these latter should include the ground-state contribution to be accurate..

id: quant-ph/0508187
title: Relative states, quantum axes and quantum references
authors: E. Bagan, S. Iblisdir, R. Munoz-Tapia
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 022341 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508187
abstract: We address the problem of measuring the relative angle between two "quantum axes" made out of N1 and N2 spins. Closed forms of our fidelity-like figure of merit are obtained for an arbitrary number of parallel spins. The asymptotic regimes of large N1 and/or N2 are discussed in detail. The extension of the concept "quantum axis" to more general situations is addressed. We give optimal strategies when the first quantum axis is made out of parallel spins whereas the second is a general state made out of two spins.

id: quant-ph/0508188
title: Entanglement induced by a two-mode thermal field
authors: E.K.Bashkirov
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508188
abstract: The entanglement between two identical two-level atoms interacting with two mode thermal field through a nondegenerate two-photon process has been suggested. It has been shown that for some atomic initial state the entanglement induced by nondegenerate two-photon interaction is larger than that induced by one-photon and degenerate two-photon processes.

id: quant-ph/0508189
title: Lower bounds on the absorption probability of beam splitters
authors: Stefan Scheel
comments: 4 pages, 2 eps figures, typeset using RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508189
abstract: We derive a lower limit to the amount of absorptive loss present in passive linear optical devices such as a beam splitter. We choose a particularly simple beam splitter geometry, a single planar slab surrounded by vacuum, which already reveals the important features of the theory. It is shown that, using general causality requirements and statistical arguments, the lower bound depends on the frequency of the incident light and the transverse resonance frequency of a suitably chosen single-resonance model only. For symmetric beam splitters and reasonable assumptions on the resonance frequency $\omega_T$, the lower absorption bound is $p_{\min}\approx 10^{-6}(\omega/\omega_T)^4$.

id: quant-ph/0508190
title: Phase space contraction and quantum operations
authors: Ignacio Garcia-Mata, Marcos Saraceno, Maria Elena Spina, Gabriel Carlo
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. Changes added according to refferee sugestions. (To appear in PRA)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 062315 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508190
abstract: We give a criterion to differentiate between dissipative and diffusive quantum operations. It is based on the classical idea that dissipative processes contract volumes in phase space. We define a quantity that can be regarded as ``quantum phase space contraction rate'' and which is related to a fundamental property of quantum channels: non-unitality. We relate it to other properties of the channel and also show a simple example of dissipative noise composed with a chaotic map. The emergence of attaractor-like structures is displayed.

id: quant-ph/0508191
title: Factorizations and Physical Representations
authors: M. Revzen, F. C. Khanna, A. Mann, J. Zak
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508191
abstract: A Hilbert space in M dimensions is shown explicitly to accommodate representations that reflect the prime numbers decomposition of M. Representations that exhibit the factorization of M into two relatively prime numbers: the kq representation (J. Zak, Phys. Today, {\bf 23} (2), 51 (1970)), and related representations termed $q_{1}q_{2}$ representations (together with their conjugates) are analysed, as well as a representation that exhibits the complete factorization of M. In this latter representation each quantum number varies in a subspace that is associated with one of the prime numbers that make up M.

id: quant-ph/0508192
title: Global Optical Control of a Quantum Spin Chain
authors: Brendon W. Lovett
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 8 69 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508192
abstract: Quantum processors which combine the long decoherence times of spin qubits together with fast optical manipulation of excitons have recently been the subject of several proposals. I show here that arbitrary single- and entangling two-qubit gates can be performed in a chain of perpetually coupled spin qubits solely by using laser pulses to excite higher lying states. It is also demonstrated that universal quantum computing is possible even if these pulses are applied {\it globally} to a chain; by employing a repeating pattern of four distinct qubit units the need for individual qubit addressing is removed. Some current experimental qubit systems would lend themselves to implementing this idea.

id: quant-ph/0508193
title: Heat Capacity as A Witness of Entanglement
authors: Marcin Wiesniak, Vlatko Vedral, Caslav Brukner
comments: 8 pages, 3 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 064108 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508193
abstract: We demonstrate that the presence of entanglement in macroscopic bodies (e.g. solids) in thermodynamical equilibrium could be revealed by measuring heat-capacity. The idea is that if the system were in a separable state, then for certain Hamiltonians heat capacity would not tend asymptotically to zero as the temperature approaches absolute zero. Since this would contradict the third law of thermodynamics, one concludes that the system must contain entanglement. The separable bounds are obtained by minimization of the heat capacity over separable states and using its universal low-temperature behavior. Our results open up a possibility to use standard experimental techniques of solid state physics -- namely, heat capacity measurements -- to detect entanglement in macroscopic samples.

id: quant-ph/0508194
title: From Pure Schroedingerian to Statistical Dynamics
authors: Jochen Gemmer, Mathias Michel
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, accepted for publication in Physica E
journal: Physica E, 29, 136-144 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508194
abstract: Many processes in nature seem to be entirely controlled by transition rates and the corresponding statistical dynamics. Some of them are in essence quantum, like the decay of excited states, the tunneling through barriers or the decay of unstable nuclei. Thus, starting from first principles, those systems should be analyzed on the basis of the Schroedinger equation. In the present paper we consider a two level system coupled to an environment which is basically described by an two-band energy scheme. For appropriately tuned environment parameters, the excitation probability of the two level system exhibits statistical dynamics, while the full system follows the coherent, unitary pure state evolution generated by the Schroedinger equation.

id: quant-ph/0508195
title: Metric Operator in Pseudo-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics and the Imaginary Cubic Potential
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 23 pages, 1 figure, slightly revised (published) version
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 10171-10188
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508195
abstract: We present a systematic perturbative construction of the most general metric operator (and positive-definite inner product) for quasi-Hermitian Hamiltonians of the standard form, H= p^2/2 + v(x), in one dimension. We show that this problem is equivalent to solving an infinite system of iteratively decoupled hyperbolic partial differential equations in (1+1)-dimensions. For the case that v(x) is purely imaginary, the latter have the form of a nonhomogeneous wave equation which admits an exact solution. We apply our general method to obtain the most general metric operator for the imaginary cubic potential, v(x)=i \epsilon x^3. This reveals an infinite class of previously unknown CPT- as well as non-CPT-inner products. We compute the physical observables of the corresponding unitary quantum system and determine the underlying classical system. Our results for the imaginary cubic potential show that, unlike the quantum system, the corresponding classical system is not sensitive to the choice of the metric operator. As another application of our method we give a complete characterization of the pseudo-Hermitian canonical quantization of a free particle moving in real line that is consistent with the usual choice for the quantum Hamiltonian. Finally we discuss subtleties involved with higher dimensions and systems having a fixed length scale.

id: quant-ph/0508196
title: Realization of a Decoherence-free, Optimally Distinguishable Mesoscopic Quantum Superposition
authors: Francesco De Martini, Fabio Sciarrino, Veronica Secondi
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 240401 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508196
abstract: We report the realization of an entangled quantum superposition of M=12 photons by a high gain, quantum-injected optical parametric amplification. The system is found so highly resilient against decoherence to exhibit directly accessible mesoscopic interference effects at normal temperature. By modern tomographic methods the non-separability and the quantum superposition are demonstrated for the overall mesoscopic output state of the dynamic ''closed system''. The device realizes the condition conceived by Erwin Schroedinger with his 1935 paradigmatic ''Cat'' apologue, a fundamental landmark in quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0508197
title: Information transmission via entangled quantum states in Gaussian channels with memory
authors: Nicolas J. Cerf, Julien Clavareau, Jrmie Roland, Chiara Macchiavello
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, Workshop on Quantum entanglement in physical and information sciences, Pisa, December 14-18, 2004
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, 4(3):439-452, 2006.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508197
abstract: Gaussian quantum channels have recently attracted a growing interest, since they may lead to a tractable approach to the generally hard problem of evaluating quantum channel capacities. However, the analysis performed so far has always been restricted to memoryless channels. Here, we consider the case of a bosonic Gaussian channel with memory, and show that the classical capacity can be significantly enhanced by employing entangled input symbols instead of product symbols.

id: quant-ph/0508198
title: Entanglement, Teleportation, And Single Photon Storage Using Two Level Atoms Inside An Optical Parametric Oscillator
authors: Perry R. Rice
comments: 10 pages, 3 figres
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 22, 1561 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508198
abstract: I consider several interesting aspects of a new light source, a two-level atom, or N two-level atoms inside an Optical Parametric Oscillator. We find that in the weak driving limit, detection of a transmitted or fluorescent photon generates a highly entangled state of the atom and the cavity. This entanglement can be used with beamsplitters to create more complex quantum states and implement teleportation protocols. Also, one can store a single photon in the atoms, along the lines of recent slow and stopped light proposals and experiments.

id: quant-ph/0508199
title: Mechanical similarity as a generalization of scale symmetry
authors: E. Gozzi, D. Mauro
comments: 9 pages, Latex, a new section added
journal: J.Phys.A39:3411-3424,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508199
abstract: In this paper we study the symmetry known as mechanical similarity (LMS) and present for any monomial potential. We analyze it in the framework of the Koopman-von Neumann formulation of classical mechanics and prove that in this framework the LMS can be given a canonical implementation. We also show that the LMS is a generalization of the scale symmetry which is present only for the inverse square potential. Finally we study the main obstructions which one encounters in implementing the LMS at the quantum mechanical level.

id: quant-ph/0508200
title: A new quantum lower bound method, with an application to strong direct product theorem for quantum search
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 20 pages, v2 typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508200
abstract: We present a new method for proving lower bounds on quantum query algorithms. The new method is an extension of adversary method, by analyzing the eigenspace structure of the problem. Using the new method, we prove a strong direct product theorem for quantum search. This result was previously proven by Klauck, Spalek and de Wolf (quant-ph/0402123) using polynomials method. No proof using adversary method was known before.

id: quant-ph/0508201
title: Entanglement in Interactive Proof Systems with Binary Answers
authors: Stephanie Wehner
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX, To appear at STACS 2006
journal: Proc. of 23rd STACS, 2006, LNCS 3884, pages 162-171.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508201
abstract: If two classical provers share an entangled state, the resulting interactive proof system is significantly weakened [quant-ph/0404076]. We show that for the case where the verifier computes the XOR of two binary answers, the resulting proof system is in fact no more powerful than a system based on a single quantum prover: +MIP*[2] is contained in QIP(2). This also implies that +MIP*[2] is contained in EXP which was previously shown using a different method [Presentation of Cleve et al. at CCC'04]. This contrasts with an interactive proof system where the two provers do not share entanglement. In that case, +MIP[2] = NEXP for certain soundness and completeness parameters [quant-ph/0404076].

id: quant-ph/0508202
title: Photon wave function
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula
comments: 52 pages, review paper
journal: Progress in Optics, Vol. 36, E. Wolf, Editor, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1996
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508202
abstract: Photon wave function is a controversial concept. Controversies stem from the fact that photon wave functions can not have all the properties of the Schroedinger wave functions of nonrelativistic wave mechanics. Insistence on those properties that, owing to peculiarities of photon dynamics, cannot be rendered, led some physicists to the extreme opinion that the photon wave function does not exist. I reject such a fundamentalist point of view in favor of a more pragmatic approach. In my view, the photon wave function exists as long as it can be precisely defined and made useful.

id: quant-ph/0508203
title: Note on the 8$_{18}$-Knot
authors: A. Kwang-Hua Chu
comments: One Table and Two Figures; 1999-Feb. completed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508203
abstract: We define some physical variables associated with the traversing sequences of electrons along the orbit which is a 2D projection of 8$_{18}$-knot. The configuration is regular but the resulting contributions, which are related to the physical variable, of those combinations from all the possible states to the fixed spatial sites show certain irregular behavior near the over- or under-crossing points of this knot. The possible explanation for this kind of direct geometric consequences is made to linked to the physical insight.

id: quant-ph/0508204
title: Resonant States of Wave Propagation in Disordered System of Bosonic Particles
authors: A. Kwang-Hua Chu
comments: 7 Figures; 2004-March completed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508204
abstract: We demonstrate the effects of an induced disorder (or a free-orientation : $\theta$ which is related to the relative direction of scattering of particles w.r.t. to the normal of the propagating plane-wave front) upon the possible resonance of the plane (sound) wave propagating in Bose gases by using the quantum kinetic equations. We firstly present the diverse dispersion relations obtained by the relevant Pauli-blocking parameter $B$ (which describes the Bose particles when $B$ is positive) and the free-orientation $\theta$ and then, based on the acoustic analog, address the possible resonant states.

id: quant-ph/0508205
title: Quantum Algorithms for Matching and Network Flows
authors: Andris Ambainis, Robert Spalek
comments: 13 pages, v2: added an Omega(n^2) lower bound for network flows
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508205
abstract: We present quantum algorithms for the following graph problems: finding a maximal bipartite matching in time O(n sqrt{m+n} log n), finding a maximal non-bipartite matching in time O(n^2 (sqrt{m/n} + log n) log n), and finding a maximal flow in an integer network in time O(min(n^{7/6} sqrt m * U^{1/3}, sqrt{n U} m) log n), where n is the number of vertices, m is the number of edges, and U <= n^{1/4} is an upper bound on the capacity of an edge.

id: quant-ph/0508206
title: Modified Bennett-Brassard 1984 Quantum Key Distribution With Two-way Classical Communications
authors: Kai Wen, Gui Lu Long
comments: 5 pages. To appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508206
abstract: The quantum key distribution protocol without public announcement of bases is equipped with a two-way classical communication symmetric entanglement purification protocol. This modified key distribution protocol is unconditionally secure and has a higher tolerable error rate of 20%, which is higher than previous scheme without public announcement of bases.

id: quant-ph/0508207
title: Density Matrix in Quantum Mechanics and Distinctness of Ensembles Having the Same Compressed Density Matrix
authors: Gui Lu Long, Yi-Fan Zhou, Jia-Qi Jin, Yang Sun, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: 26 pages. To appear in Foundations of Physics, 36 (8), 2006
journal: Foundations of Physics, 36 (8) 1217-1243 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508207
abstract: We clarify different definitions of the density matrix by proposing the use of different names, the full density matrix for a single-closed quantum system, the compressed density matrix for the averaged single molecule state from an ensemble of molecules, and the reduced density matrix for a part of an entangled quantum system, respectively. We show that ensembles with the same compressed density matrix can be physically distinguished by observing fluctuations of various observables. This is in contrast to a general belief that ensembles with the same compressed density matrix are identical. Explicit expression for the fluctuation of an observable in a specified ensemble is given. We have discussed the nature of nuclear magnetic resonance quantum computing. We show that the conclusion that there is no quantum entanglement in the current nuclear magnetic resonance quantum computing experiment is based on the unjustified belief that ensembles having the same compressed density matrix are identical physically. Related issues in quantum communication are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0508208
title: Entanglement properties in (1/2,1) mixed-spin Heisenberg systems
authors: Zhe Sun, XiaoGuang Wang, AnZi Hu, You-Quan Li
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: Physica A: Statistical and Theoretical Physics, Volume 370, Issue 2, Pages 483-500 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508208
abstract: By using the concept of negativity, we investigate entanglement in (1/2,1) mixed-spin Heisenberg systems. We obtain the analytical results of entanglement in small isotropic Heisenberg clusters with only nearest-neighbor (NN) interactions up to four spins and in the four-spin Heisenberg model with both NN and next-nearest-neighbor (NNN) interactions. For more spins, we numerically study effects of temperature, magnetic fields, and NNN interactions on entanglement. We study in detail the threshold value of the temperature, after which the negativity vanishes.

id: quant-ph/0508209
title: Simultaneous amplitude and phase damping of a kind of Gaussian states and their separability
authors: Xiao-Yu Chen
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 73, 022307 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508209
abstract: We give out the time evolution solution of simultaneous amplitude and phase damping for any continuous variable state. For the simultaneous amplitude and phase damping of a wide class of two- mode entangled Gaussian states, two analytical conditions of the separability are given. One is the sufficient condition of separability. The other is the condition of PPT separability where the Peres-Horodecki criterion is applied. Between the two conditions there may exist bound entanglement. The simplest example is the simultaneous amplitude and phase damping of a two-mode squeezed vacuum state. The damped state is non-Gaussian.

id: quant-ph/0508210
title: Bell inequalities stronger than the CHSH inequality for 3-level isotropic states
authors: Tsuyoshi Ito, Hiroshi Imai, David Avis
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure. v2: organization improved; less references to the cut polytope to make the main results clear; references added; typos corrected; typesetting style changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508210
abstract: We show that some two-party Bell inequalities with two-valued observables are stronger than the CHSH inequality for 3 \otimes 3 isotropic states in the sense that they are violated by some isotropic states in the 3 \otimes 3 system that do not violate the CHSH inequality. These Bell inequalities are obtained by applying triangular elimination to the list of known facet inequalities of the cut polytope on nine points. This gives a partial solution to an open problem posed by Collins and Gisin. The results of numerical optimization suggest that they are candidates for being stronger than the I_3322 Bell inequality for 3 \otimes 3 isotropic states. On the other hand, we found no Bell inequalities stronger than the CHSH inequality for 2 \otimes 2 isotropic states. In addition, we illustrate an inclusion relation among some Bell inequalities derived by triangular elimination.

id: quant-ph/0508211
title: Information processing in generalized probabilistic theories
authors: Jonathan Barrett
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures. v2 Complete rewrite, lots of new results, references added, title changed. v3 A new measurement-disturbance theorem. Cloning discussion simplified. Many small changes and a few references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508211
abstract: I introduce a framework in which a variety of probabilistic theories can be defined, including classical and quantum theories, and many others. From two simple assumptions, a tensor product rule for combining separate systems can be derived. Certain features, usually thought of as specifically quantum, turn out to be generic in this framework, meaning that they are present in all except classical theories. These include the non-unique decomposition of a mixed state into pure states, a theorem involving disturbance of a system on measurement (suggesting that the possibility of secure key distribution is generic), and a no-cloning theorem. Two particular theories are then investigated in detail, for the sake of comparison with the classical and quantum cases. One of these includes states that can give rise to arbitrary non-signalling correlations, including the super-quantum correlations that have become known in the literature as Nonlocal Machines or Popescu-Rohrlich boxes. By investigating these correlations in the context of a theory with well-defined dynamics, I hope to make further progress with a question raised by Popescu and Rohrlich, which is, why does quantum theory not allow these strongly nonlocal correlations? The existence of such correlations forces much of the dynamics in this theory to be, in a certain sense, classical, with consequences for teleportation, cryptography and computation. I also investigate another theory in which all states are local. Finally, I raise the question of what further axiom(s) could be added to the framework in order uniquely to identify quantum theory, and hypothesize that quantum theory is optimal for computation.

id: quant-ph/0508212
title: Comment on "Quantum Physics from A to Z"
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: A comment on quant-ph/0505187 v4, 8 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508212
abstract: This is a comment on a collection of statements gathered on the occasion of the Quantum Physics of Nature meeting in Vienna.

id: quant-ph/0508213
title: Localization for free ultrametric quantum particle
authors: A.Yu. Khrennikov, S.V. Kozyrev
comments: 6 pages, LaTeX
journal: Dokl.Math.74:906-909,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508213
abstract: Free evolution for quantum particle in general ultrametric space is considered. We find that if mean zero wave packet is localized in some ball in the ultrametric space then its evolution remains localized in the same ball.

id: quant-ph/0508214
title: Pseudo-Hermiticity, PT-symmetry, and the Metric Operator
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 5 pages, Contributed to the Proceedings of the 3rd International Workshop on Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics, June 20-22, 2005, Koc University, Istanbul, Turkey
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508214
abstract: The main achievements of Pseudo-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics and its distinction with the indefinite-metric quantum theories are reviewed. The issue of the non-uniqueness of the metric operator and its consequences for defining the observables are discussed. A systematic perturbative expression for the most general metric operator is offered and its application for a toy model is outlined.

id: quant-ph/0508215
title: Generation of 1.5-um band time-bin entanglement using spontaneous fiber four-wave mixing and planar lightwave circuit interferometers
authors: Hiroki Takesue, Kyo Inoue
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 041804(R) (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508215
abstract: This paper reports 1.5-um band time-bin entanglement generation. We employed a spontaneous four-wave mixing process in a dispersion shifted fiber, with which correlated photon pairs with very narrow bandwidths were generated efficiently. To observe two-photon interference, we used planar lightwave circuit based interferometers that were operated stably without feedback control. As a result, we obtained coincidence fringes with 99 % visibilities after subtracting accidental coincidences, and successfully distributed entangled photons over 20-km standard single-mode fiber without any deterioration in the quantum correlation.

id: quant-ph/0508216
title: First-order intertwining operators and position-dependent mass Schrodinger equations in d dimensions
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 25 pages, no figure, 1 paragraph added in section 4, 1 additional reference
journal: Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) 321 (2006) 1221-1239
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508216
abstract: The problem of d-dimensional Schrodinger equations with a position-dependent mass is analyzed in the framework of first-order intertwining operators. With the pair (H, H_1) of intertwined Hamiltonians one can associate another pair of second-order partial differential operators (R, R_1), related to the same intertwining operator and such that H (resp. H_1) commutes with R (resp. R_1). This property is interpreted in superalgebraic terms in the context of supersymmetric quantum mechanics (SUSYQM). In the two-dimensional case, a solution to the resulting system of partial differential equations is obtained and used to build a physically-relevant model depicting a particle moving in a semi-infinite layer. Such a model is solved by employing either the commutativity of H with some second-order partial differential operator L and the resulting separability of the Schrodinger equation or that of H and R together with SUSYQM and shape-invariance techniques. The relation between both approaches is also studied.

id: quant-ph/0508217
title: Quantum noise and stochastic reduction
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Lane P. Hughston
comments: 50 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A39, 833-876 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508217
abstract: In standard nonrelativistic quantum mechanics the expectation of the energy is a conserved quantity. It is possible to extend the dynamical law associated with the evolution of a quantum state consistently to include a nonlinear stochastic component, while respecting the conservation law. According to the dynamics thus obtained, referred to as the energy-based stochastic Schrodinger equation, an arbitrary initial state collapses spontaneously to one of the energy eigenstates, thus describing the phenomenon of quantum state reduction. In this article, two such models are investigated: one that achieves state reduction in infinite time, and the other in finite time. The properties of the associated energy expectation process and the energy variance process are worked out in detail. By use of a novel application of a nonlinear filtering method, closed-form solutions--algebraic in character and involving no integration--are obtained for both these models. In each case, the solution is expressed in terms of a random variable representing the terminal energy of the system, and an independent noise process. With these solutions at hand it is possible to simulate explicitly the dynamics of the quantum states of complicated physical systems.

id: quant-ph/0508218
title: Repeat-Until-Success quantum computing using stationary and flying qubits
authors: Yuan Liang Lim, Sean D. Barrett, Almut Beige, Pieter Kok, Leong Chuan Kwek
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, minor changes, references and a discussion on the effect of photon dark counts added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012304 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508218
abstract: We introduce an architecture for robust and scalable quantum computation using both stationary qubits (e.g. single photon sources made out of trapped atoms, molecules, ions, quantum dots, or defect centers in solids) and flying qubits (e.g. photons). Our scheme solves some of the most pressing problems in existing non-hybrid proposals, which include the difficulty of scaling conventional stationary qubit approaches, and the lack of practical means for storing single photons in linear optics setups. We combine elements of two previous proposals for distributed quantum computing, namely the efficient photon-loss tolerant build up of cluster states by Barrett and Kok [Phys. Rev. A 71, 060310(R) (2005)] with the idea of Repeat-Until-Success (RUS) quantum computing by Lim et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 030505 (2005)]. This idea can be used to perform eventually deterministic two-qubit logic gates on spatially separated stationary qubits via photon pair measurements. Under non-ideal conditions, where photon loss is a possibility, the resulting gates can still be used to build graph states for one-way quantum computing. In this paper, we describe the RUS method, present possible experimental realizations, and analyse the generation of graph states.

id: quant-ph/0508219
title: A Representation of Real and Complex Numbers in Quantum Theory
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 35 pages, no figures. Paper extensively revised to help in understanding subject matter
journal: Int.J.PureAppl.Math.39:297-339,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508219
abstract: A quantum theoretic representation of real and complex numbers is described here as equivalence classes of Cauchy sequences of quantum states of finite strings of qubits. There are 4 types of qubits each with associated single qubit annihilation creation (a-c) operators that give the state and location of each qubit type on a 2 dimensional integer lattice. The string states, defined as finite products of creation operators acting on the qubit vacuum state correspond to complex rational numbers with real and imaginary components. These states span a Fock space. Arithmetic relations and operations are defined for the string states. Cauchy sequences of these states are defined, and the arithmetic relations and operations lifted to apply to these sequences. Based on these, equivalence classes of these sequences are seen to have the requisite properties of real and complex numbers. The representations have some interesting aspects. Quantum equivalence classes are larger than their corresponding classical classes, but no new classes are created. There exist Cauchy sequences such that each state in the sequence is an entangled superposition of the real and imaginary components, yet the sequence is a real number. Also, except for coefficients of superposition states, the construction is done with no reference to the real and complex number base, R and C, of the Fock space.

id: quant-ph/0508220
title: Observation of polarization quantum noise of laser radiation in Rb vapor cell
authors: Alexander S. Zibrov, Irina Novikova
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. Translated from Russian by I. Novikova
journal: Pis'ma v ZhETF 82, 124-128 (2005); JEPT Lett. 82, 110-114 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508220
abstract: We present experimental study of polarization quantum noise of laser radiation passed through optically think vapor of Rb87. We observe a step-like noise spectrum. We discuss various factor which may result in such noise spectrum and prevent observation of squeezing of quantum fluctuations predicted in Matsko et al. PRA 63, 043814 (2001).

id: quant-ph/0508221
title: Implications of Qudit Superselection rules for the Theory of Decoherence-free Subsystems
authors: Mark S. Byrd
comments: 13 pages, 1 figures, Version 2: Typos corrected, references fixed and new ones added, also includes referees suggested changes and a new example
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032330 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508221
abstract: The use of d-state systems, or qudits, in quantum information processing is discussed. Three-state and higher dimensional quantum systems are known to have very different properties from two-state systems, i.e., qubits. In particular there exist qudit states which are not equivalent under local unitary transformations unless a selection rule is violated. This observation is shown to be an important factor in the theory of decoherence-free, or noiseless, subsystems. Experimentally observable consequences and methods for distinguishing these states are also provided, including the explicit construction of new decoherence-free or noiseless subsystems from qutrits. Implications for simulating quantum systems with quantum systems are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0508222
title: Cryptography In the Bounded Quantum-Storage Model
authors: Ivan Damgaard, Serge Fehr, Louis Salvail, Christian Schaffner
comments: 26 pages, full version of a paper appeared in 46th Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS), pages 449-458, 2005
journal: Proceedings of the 46th IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science - FOCS 2005, pages 449-458
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508222
abstract: We initiate the study of two-party cryptographic primitives with unconditional security, assuming that the adversary's quantum memory is of bounded size. We show that oblivious transfer and bit commitment can be implemented in this model using protocols where honest parties need no quantum memory, whereas an adversarial player needs quantum memory of size at least n/2 in order to break the protocol, where n is the number of qubits transmitted. This is in sharp contrast to the classical bounded-memory model, where we can only tolerate adversaries with memory of size quadratic in honest players' memory size. Our protocols are efficient, non-interactive and can be implemented using today's technology. On the technical side, a new entropic uncertainty relation involving min-entropy is established.

id: quant-ph/0508223
title: A multi-mode model of a non-classical atom laser produced by outcoupling from a Bose-Einstein condensate with squeezed light
authors: S. A. Haine, J. J. Hope
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Accepted to Laser physics letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508223
abstract: We examine the properties of an atom laser produced by outcoupling from a Bose-Einstein condensate with squeezed light. We introduce a method which allows us to model the full multimode dynamics of the squeezed optical field and the outcoupled atoms. We show that for experimentally reasonable parameters that the quantum statistics of the optical field are almost completely transferred to the outcoupled atoms, and investigate the robustness to the coupling strength and the two-photon detuning.

id: quant-ph/0508224
title: On the evaluation of the ac-Stark shift and Kramers-Heisenberg dispersion formula
authors: R. Radhakrishnan, Ramesh Babu Thayyullathil
comments: 6 pages, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508224
abstract: We describe a unified approach for the determination of ac-Stark correction and Kramers-Heisenberg dispersion formula. In both cases the contribution from infinite intermediate summation appearing in the expression for the corresponding matrix elements are evaluated exactly in the dipole approximation for the ground state of hydrogen atom using a variation of the Dalgarno-Lewis method. The analytical expressions obtained can be efficiently used for the numerical evaluation of matrix element for all values of incident photon energy and comparison is made with results obtained by different methods.

id: quant-ph/0508225
title: A Topos Perspective on State-Vector Reduction
authors: C.J.Isham
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508225
abstract: A preliminary investigation is made of possible applications in quantum theory of the topos formed by the collection of all $M$-sets, where $M$ is a monoid. Earlier results on topos aspects of quantum theory can be rederived in this way. However, the formalism also suggests a new way of constructing a `neo-realist' interpretation of quantum theory in which the truth values of propositions are determined by the actions of the monoid of strings of finite projection operators. By these means, a novel topos perspective is gained on the concept of state-vector reduction.

id: quant-ph/0508226
title: Approximations by graphs and emergence of global structures
authors: Pavel Exner, Pavel Hejcik, Petr Seba
comments: 6 pages, RevTeX with 5 ps figures
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 57 (2006), 445-455
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508226
abstract: We study approximations of billiard systems by lattice graphs. It is demonstrated that under natural assumptions the graph wavefunctions approximate solutions of the Schroedinger equation with energy rescaled by the billiard dimension. As an example, we analyze a Sinai billiard with attached leads. The results illustrate emergence of global structures in large quantum graphs and offer interesting comparisons with patterns observed in complex networks of a different nature.

id: quant-ph/0508227
title: Hilbert-Schmidt Geometry of n-Level Jakobczyk-Siennicki Two-Dimensional Quantum Systems
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 45 pages, moderate rewriting
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508227
abstract: Jakobczyk and Siennicki studied two-dimensional sections of a set of (generalized) Bloch vectors corresponding to n x n density matrices of two-qubit systems (that is, the case n = 4). They found essentially five different types of (nontrivial) separability regimes. We compute the Euclidean/Hilbert-Schmidt (HS) separability probabilities assigned to these regimes, and conduct parallel two-dimensional sectional analyses for the higher-level cases n=6,8,9 and 10. Making use of the newly-introduced capability for integration over implicitly defined regions of version 5.1 of Mathematica -- also fruitfully used in our n=4 three-parameter entropy-maximization-based study quant-ph/0507203 -- we obtain a wide-ranging variety of exact HS-probabilities. For n>6, the probabilities are those of having a partial positive transpose (PPT). For the n=6 case, we also obtain biseparability probabilities; in the n=8,9 instances, bi-PPT probabilities; and for n=8, tri-PPT probabilities. By far, the most frequently recorded probability for n>4 is \pi/4 = 0.785398. We also conduct a number of related analyses, pertaining to the (one-dimensional) boundaries (both exterior and interior) of the separability and PPT domains, and attempt (with limited success) some exact calculations pertaining to the 9-dimensional (real) and 15-dimensional (complex) convex sets of two-qubit density matrices -- for which HS-separability probabilities have been conjectured, but not verified.

id: quant-ph/0508228
title: Decoherence by Correlated Noise and Quantum Error Correction
authors: E. Novais, Harold U. Baranger
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, Phys. Rev. Lett. in press
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 040501 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508228
abstract: We study the decoherence of a quantum computer in an environment which is inherently correlated in time and space. We first derive the nonunitary time evolution of the computer and environment in the presence of a stabilizer error correction code, providing a general way to quantify decoherence for a quantum computer. The general theory is then applied to the spin-boson model. Our results demonstrate that effects of long-range correlations can be systematically reduced by small changes in the error correction codes.

id: quant-ph/0508229
title: Precision characterisation of two-qubit Hamiltonians via entanglement mapping
authors: Jared H. Cole, Simon J. Devitt, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 6 Pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 14649-14658, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508229
abstract: We show that the general Heisenberg Hamiltonian with non-uniform couplings can be characterised by mapping the entanglement it generates as a function of time. Identification of the Hamiltonian in this way is possible as the coefficients of each operator control the oscillation frequencies of the entanglement function. The number of measurements required to achieve a given precision in the Hamiltonian parameters is determined and an efficient measurement strategy designed. We derive the relationship between the number of measurements, the resulting precision and the ultimate discrete error probability generated by a systematic mis-characterisation, when implementing two-qubit gates for quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0508230
title: On Spontaneous Wave Function Collapse and Quantum Field Theory
authors: Roderich Tumulka
comments: 14 pages LaTeX, no figures; v2 minor improvements
journal: Proc.Roy.Soc.Lond. A462 (2006) 1897-1908
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508230
abstract: One way of obtaining a version of quantum mechanics without observers, and thus of solving the paradoxes of quantum mechanics, is to modify the Schroedinger evolution by implementing spontaneous collapses of the wave function. An explicit model of this kind was proposed in 1986 by Ghirardi, Rimini, and Weber (GRW), involving a nonlinear, stochastic evolution of the wave function. We point out how, by focussing on the essential mathematical structure of the GRW model and a clear ontology, it can be generalized to (regularized) quantum field theories in a simple and natural way.

id: quant-ph/0508231
title: Detecting multimode entanglement by symplectic uncertainty relations
authors: Alessio Serafini
comments: 8 pages, no figures but one little lemma; more general inequalities derived, GHZ-like states considered; accepted for publication on JOSA B
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 24, 347-354 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508231
abstract: A hierarchy of multimode uncertainty relations on the second moments of n pairs of canonical operators is derived in terms of quantities invariant under linear canonical (i.e. symplectic) transformations. Conditions for the separability of multimode continuous variable states are derived from the uncertainty relations, generalizing the inequalities obtained in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 110402 (2006)] to states with some transposed symplectic eigenvalues equal to 1. Finally, to illustrate the methodology proposed for the detection of continuous variable entanglement, the separability of multimode noisy GHZ-like states is analysed in detail with the presented techniques, deriving a necessary and sufficient condition for the separability of such states under an `even' bipartition of the modes.

id: quant-ph/0508232
title: High fidelity measurement and quantum feedback control in circuit QED
authors: Mohan Sarovar, Hsi-Sheng Goan, T. P. Spiller, G. J. Milburn
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures. Typos fixed. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 72, 062327 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508232
abstract: Circuit QED is a promising solid-state quantum computing architecture. It also has excellent potential as a platform for quantum control -- especially quantum feedback control -- experiments. However, the current scheme for measurement in circuit QED is low efficiency and has low signal-to-noise ratio for single shot measurements. The low quality of this measurement makes the implementation of feedback difficult, and here we propose two schemes for measurement in circuit QED architectures that can significantly improve signal-to-noise, and potentially achieve quantum limited measurement. Such measurements would enable the implementation of quantum feedback protocols and we illustrate this with a simple entanglement stabilization scheme.

id: quant-ph/0508233
title: Bit Commitment from Weak Non-Locality
authors: Stefan Wolf, Juerg Wullschleger
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors. Superseded by arXiv:0811.3589
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508233
abstract: So-called non-local boxes, which have been introduced as an idealization-in different respects-of the behavior of entangled quantum states, have been known to allow for unconditional bit commitment between the two involved parties. We show that, actually, any possible non-local correlation which produces random bits on both sides can be used to implement bit commitment, and that this holds even when the parties are allowed to delay their inputs to the box. Since a particular example is the behavior of an EPR pair, this resource allows for implementing unconditionally secure bit commitment as long as the parties cannot entangle their Qbits with any other system.

id: quant-ph/0508234
title: Description of Quantum Entanglement with Nilpotent Polynomials
authors: A. Mandilara, V. M. Akulin, A. V. Smilga, L. Viola
comments: 40 pages, 7 figures, 1 table, submitted for publication. v2: section II.E has been changed and the Appendix on "Four qubit sl-entanglement measure" has been removed. There are changes in the notation of section IV. Typos and language mistakes has been corrected. A figure has been added and a figure has been replaced. The references have been updated
journal: Phys.Rev.A74:002331,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508234
abstract: We propose a general method for introducing extensive characteristics of quantum entanglement. The method relies on polynomials of nilpotent raising operators that create entangled states acting on a reference vacuum state. By introducing the notion of tanglemeter, the logarithm of the state vector represented in a special canonical form and expressed via polynomials of nilpotent variables, we show how this description provides a simple criterion for entanglement as well as a universal method for constructing the invariants characterizing entanglement. We compare the existing measures and classes of entanglement with those emerging from our approach. We derive the equation of motion for the tanglemeter and, in representative examples of up to four-qubit systems, show how the known classes appear in a natural way within our framework. We extend our approach to qutrits and higher-dimensional systems, and make contact with the recently introduced idea of generalized entanglement. Possible future developments and applications of the method are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0508235
title: Local uncertainty relations serving as measures of entanglement in a bipartite two-level system
authors: Simon Samuelsson, Gunnar Bj?rk
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508235
abstract: We comment on the recent suggestion to use a family of local uncertainty relations as a standard way of quantifying entanglement in two-qubit systems. Some statements made on the applicability of the proposed "measures" are overly optimistic. We exemplify how these specific "measures" fall short, and present a minor modification of the general theory which uses the same experimentally gathered information, but in a slightly different, better way.

id: quant-ph/0508236
title: Local Measures of Entanglement and Critical Exponents at Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: L. Campos Venuti, C. Degli Esposti Boschi, G. Morandi, M. Roncaglia, A. Scaramucci
comments: 5 pages, 2 eps figures. Abstract replaced, minor changes in the text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 010303(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508236
abstract: We discuss on general grounds some local indicators of entanglement, that have been proposed recently for the study and classification of quantum phase transitions. In particular, we focus on the capability of entanglement in detecting quantum critical points and related exponents. We show that the singularities observed in all local measures of entanglement are a consequence of the scaling hypothesis. In particular, as every non-trivial local observable is expected to be singular at criticality, we single out the most relevant one (in the renormalization group sense) as the best-suited for finite-size scaling analysis. The proposed method is checked on a couple of one-dimensional spin systems. The present analysis shows that the singular behaviour of local measures of entanglement is fully encompassed in the usual statistical mechanics framework.

id: quant-ph/0508237
title: Quantum Pattern Matching
authors: P. Mateus, Y. Omar
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508237
abstract: We propose a quantum algorithm for closest pattern matching which allows us to search for as many distinct patterns as we wish in a given string (database), requiring a query function per symbol of the pattern alphabet. This represents a significant practical advantage when compared to Grover's search algorithm as well as to other quantum pattern matching methods, which rely on building specific queries for particular patterns. Our method makes arbitrary searches on long static databases much more realistic and implementable. Our algorithm, inspired by Grover's, returns the position of the closest substring to a given pattern of size $M$ with non-negligible probability in $O(\sqrt{N})$ queries, where $N$ is the size of the string. Furthermore, we give the full recipe to implement our algorithm (together with its total circuit complexity), thus offering an oracle-based quantum algorithm ready to be implemented.

id: quant-ph/0508238
title: Correlations in Entangled States
authors: B. C. Sanctuary
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0508238
abstract: Entangled EPR spin pairs can be treated using the statistical ensemble interpretation of quantum mechanics. As such the singlet state results from an ensemble of spin pairs each with its own specific axis of quantization. This axis acts like a quantum mechanical hidden variable. If the spins lose coherence they disentangle into a mixed state that contains classical correlations. In this paper an infinitesimal phase decoherence is introduced to the singlet state in order to reveal more clearly some of the correlations. It is shown that a singlet state has no classical correlations.

id: cond-mat/0508008
title: Commutability between Semiclassical Limit and Adiabatic Limit
authors: Biao Wu, Jie Liu
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96 (2006) 020405
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0508008
abstract: We study the semiclassical limit and the adiabatic limit with a second-quantized two-mode model, which describes a many-boson interacting system. When its mean-field interaction is small, these two limits are commutable. However, when the interaction is strong and over a critical value, the two limits become incommutable. This change of commutability is associated with a topological change in the structure of the energy bands. These results reveal that nonlinear mean-field theories, such as Gross-Pitaevskii equations for Bose-Einstein condensates, can be invalid in the adiabatic limit.

id: cond-mat/0508156
title: Landau-Zener transitions in qubits controlled by electromagnetic fields
authors: Martijn Wubs, Keiji Saito, Sigmund Kohler, Yosuke Kayanuma, Peter Hanggi
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 7 (2005) 218. Online at www.njp.org
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0508156
abstract: We investigate the influence of a dipole interaction with a classical radiation field on a qubit during a continuous change of a control parameter. In particular, we explore the non-adiabatic transitions that occur when the qubit is swept with linear speed through resonances with the time-dependent interaction. Two classical problems come together in this model: the Landau-Zener and the Rabi problem. The probability of Landau-Zener transitions now depends sensitively on the amplitude, the frequency and the phase of the Rabi interaction. The influence of the static phase turns out to be particularly strong, since this parameter controls the time-reversal symmetry of the Hamiltonian. In the limits of large and small frequencies, analytical results obtained within a rotating-wave approximation compare favourably with a numerically exact solution. Some physical realizations of the model are discussed, both in microwave optics and in magnetic systems.

id: cond-mat/0508176
title: Detecting a true quantum pump effect
authors: Colin Benjamin
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, accepted for publication in European Physical Journal B
journal: European Physical Journal B 52, 403 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0508176
abstract: Even though quantum pumping is a very promising field, it has unfortunately not been unambiguously experimentally detected. The reason being that in the experiments the rectification effect overshadows the pumped current. One of the better known ways to detect it is by using the magnetic field symmetry properties of the rectified and pumped currents. The rectified currents are symmetric with respect to magnetic field reversal while the pumped currents do not possess any definite symmetry with respect to field reversal. This feature has been exploited in some recent works. In this work we look beyond this magnetic field symmetry properties and provide examples wherein the nature or magnitudes of the pumped and rectified currents are exactly opposite enabling an effective distinction between the two.

id: cond-mat/0508185
title: Generation of maximally entangled charge-qubit arrays via a cavity mode
authors: Alexandre Guillaume, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: RevTex4, 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0508185
abstract: We describe an assembly of N Cooper-pair boxes (CPB) contained in a single mode cavity. In the dispersive regime, the correlation between the cavity field and each Cooper-pair box results in an effective interaction between CPBs that can be used to dynamically generate maximally entangled states. With only collective manipulations, we show how to create maximally entangled quantum states and how to use these states to reach the Heisenberg limit in the determination of a spectroscopy frequency. This scheme can be applied to other types of superconducting qubits.

id: cond-mat/0508215
title: Dynamical Selection in Emergent Fermionic Pairing
authors: R. A. Barankov, L. S. Levitov
comments: 15 pgs, 9 fgs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 033614 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0508215
abstract: We consider evolution of a Fermi gas in the presence of a time-dependent BCS interaction. The pairing amplitude in the emergent BCS state is found to be an oscillatory function of time with predictable characteristics. The interplay of linear instability of the unpaired state and nonlinear interactions selects periodic soliton trains of a specific form, described by the Jacobi elliptic function dn. While the parameters of the soliton train, such as the period, amplitude, and time lag, fluctuate among different realizations, the elliptic function form remains robust. The parameter variation is accounted for by the fluctuations of particle distribution in the initial unpaired state.

id: cond-mat/0508353
title: Mapping local Hamiltonians of fermions to local Hamiltonians of spins
authors: F. Verstraete, J.I. Cirac
comments: Added explicit mapping
journal: J.Stat.Mech.0509:P09012,2005
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0508353
abstract: We show how to map local fermionic problems onto local spin problems on a lattice in any dimension. The main idea is to introduce auxiliary degrees of freedom, represented by Majorana fermions, which allow us to extend the Jordan-Wigner transformation to dimensions higher than one. We also discuss the implications of our results in the numerical investigation of fermionic systems.

id: cond-mat/0508399
title: Multiparticle Interference, GHZ Entanglement, and Full Counting Statistics
authors: H.-S. Sim, E. V. Sukhorukov
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 020407 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0508399
abstract: We investigate the quantum transport in a generalized N-particle Hanbury Brown--Twiss setup enclosing magnetic flux, and demonstrate that the Nth-order cumulant of current cross correlations exhibits Aharonov-Bohm oscillations, while there is no such oscillation in all the lower-order cumulants. The multiparticle interference results from the orbital Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger entanglement of N indistinguishable particles. For sufficiently strong Aharonov-Bohm oscillations the generalized Bell inequalities may be violated, proving the N-particle quantum nonlocality.

id: cond-mat/0508428
title: Lower Bound for the Ground-State Energy Density of a 1D Quantum Spin System
authors: Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 3 pages, 1 colour eps figure, added references
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0508428
abstract: We present a simple method to calculate systematic lower bounds for the ground-state energy density of a 1D quantum spin system.

id: cond-mat/0508439
title: Correlations and Counting Statistics of an Atom Laser
authors: Anton ?ttl, Stephan Ritter, Michael K?hl, Tilman Esslinger
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 090404 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0508439
abstract: We demonstrate time-resolved counting of single atoms extracted from a weakly interacting Bose-Einstein condensate of $^{87}$Rb atoms. The atoms are detected with a high-finesse optical cavity and single atom transits are identified. An atom laser beam is formed by continuously output coupling atoms from the Bose-Einstein condensate. We investigate the full counting statistics of this beam and measure its second order correlation function $g^{(2)}(\tau)$ in a Hanbury Brown and Twiss type experiment. For the monoenergetic atom laser we observe a constant correlation function $g^{(2)}(\tau)=1.00\pm0.01$ and an atom number distribution close to a Poissonian statistics. A pseudo-thermal atomic beam shows a bunching behavior and a Bose distributed counting statistics.

id: cond-mat/0508488
title: Electron-hole entanglement in the Fermi sea
authors: C.W.J. Beenakker
comments: 24 pages, 23 figures; review of published work with one new result: the critical temperature beyond which the entanglement vanishes; final version -- new sections I.B, VI, X
journal: Proc. Int. School Phys. E. Fermi, Vol. 162 (IOS Press, Amsterdam, 2006).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0508488
abstract: I. Introduction (Preface, Exciton entanglers, Photon entanglers) II. Entanglement basics (Quantum versus classical correlations, Bell inequality, Entanglement measures for pure states, Entanglement measures for mixed states, Particle conservation, Phase reference) III. How to entangle free particles (Free bosons, Free fermions) IV. Spin versus orbital entanglement V. Entanglement detection by noise measurements (Tunneling regime, Beyond the tunneling regime, Full counting statistics) VI. Loss of entanglement by dephasing VII. Quantum entanglement pump VIII. Teleportation by electron-hole annihilation IX. Three-qubit entanglement X. The experimental challenge

id: cond-mat/0508578
title: Optimizing photon indistinguishability in the emission from incoherently-excited semiconductor quantum dots
authors: F. Troiani, J. I. Perea, C. Tejedor
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 35316 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0508578
abstract: Most optical quantum devices require deterministic single-photon emitters. Schemes so far demonstrated in the solid state imply an energy relaxation which tends to spoil the coherent nature of the time evolution, and with it the photon indistinguishability. We focus our theoretical investigation on semiconductor quantum dots embedded in microcavities. Simple and general relations are identified between the photon indistinguishability and the collection efficiency. The identification of the key parameters and of their interplay provides clear indications for the device optimization.

id: cond-mat/0508647
title: Quantum control of donor electrons at the Si-SiO2 interface
authors: M.J. Calderon, Belita Koiller, Xuedong Hu, S. Das Sarma
comments: Version accepted for publication in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 096802 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0508647
abstract: Prospects for the quantum control of electrons in the silicon quantum computer architecture are considered theoretically. In particular, we investigate the feasibility of shuttling donor-bound electrons between the impurity in the bulk and the Si-SiO2 interface by tuning an external electric field. We calculate the shuttling time to range from sub-picoseconds to nanoseconds depending on the distance (~ 10-50 nm) of the donor from the interface. Our results establish that quantum control in such nanostructure architectures could, in principle, be achieved.

id: cond-mat/0508745
title: Effective Hamiltonian for fermions in an optical lattice across Feshbach resonance
authors: L.-M. Duan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 243202 (2005).
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0508745
abstract: We derive the Hamiltonian for cold fermionic atoms in an optical lattice across a broad Feshbach resonance, taking into account of both multiband occupations and neighboring-site collisions. Under typical configurations, the resulting Hamiltonian can be dramatically simplified to an effective single-band model, which describes a new type of resonance between the local dressed molecules and the valence bond states of fermionic atoms at neighboring sites. On different sides of such a resonance, the effective Hamiltonian is reduced to either a t-J model for the fermionic atoms or an XXZ model for the dressed molecules. The parameters in these models are experimentally tunable in the full range, which allows for observation of various phase transitions.

id: cs/0508031
title: Capacity Theorems for Quantum Multiple Access Channels
authors: Jon Yard, Igor Devetak, Patrick Hayden
comments: 5 pages. Conference version of quant-ph/0501045, to appear in the proceedings of the IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, Adelaide, Australia, 2005
journal: Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Theory, Adelaide, pp. 884-888, 2005
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0508031
abstract: We consider quantum channels with two senders and one receiver. For an arbitrary such channel, we give multi-letter characterizations of two different two-dimensional capacity regions. The first region characterizes the rates at which it is possible for one sender to send classical information while the other sends quantum information. The second region gives the rates at which each sender can send quantum information. We give an example of a channel for which each region has a single-letter description, concluding with a characterization of the rates at which each user can simultaneously send classical and quantum information.

id: gr-qc/0508001
title: Excess Baggage
authors: James B. Hartle
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, revtex4
journal: Elementary Particles and the Universe, ed. by J. Schwarz, Cambridge U. Press, 1991
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0508001
abstract: Many advances in physics have in common that some idea which was previously accepted as fundamental, general, and inescapable was subsequently seen to be consequent, special, and dispensable. The idea was not truly a general feature of the world, but only perceived to be general because of our special place in the universe and the limited range of our experience. It was excess baggage which had to be jettisoned to reach a more a more general perspective. This article discusses excess baggage from the perspective of quantum cosmology which aims at a theory of the universe's quantum initial state. We seek to answer the question `Which features of our current theoretical framework are fundamental and which reflect our special position in the universe or its special initial condition?' Past instances of cosmological excess baggage are reviewed such as the idea that the Earth was at the center of the universe or that the second law of thermodynamics was fundamental. Examples of excess baggage in our current understanding of quantum cosmology are the notion that measurement is central to formulating quantum mechanics, a fundamental quantum mechanical arrow of time, and the idea that a preferred time is needed to formulate quantum theory. We speculate on candidates for future excess baggage. (This article appeared in 1991 but is posted here for accessibility and possible current interest.)

id: gr-qc/0508077
title: The spacetime metric in particle QED
authors: Charles Francis
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0508077
abstract: A small time delay between interactions, which has previously been shown to remove divergences from QED, is used to show that, if spacetime geometry is emergent from particle interactions in the manner suggested by Bondi, then Minkowski metric, which appears in the Schroedinger equation as a requirement of the probability interpretation, is perturbed in physical measurement, leading to curved spacetime in accordance with Einstein's equation.

id: gr-qc/0508085
title: Quantum Black Holes: Entropy and Entanglement on the Horizon
authors: Etera R. Livine, Daniel R. Terno
comments: Revtex4, 25 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nucl.Phys.B741:131-161,2006
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0508085
abstract: We are interested in black holes in Loop Quantum Gravity (LQG). We study the simple model of static black holes: the horizon is made of a given number of identical elementary surfaces and these small surfaces all behaves as a spin-s system accordingly to LQG. The chosen spin-s defines the area unit or area resolution, which the observer uses to probe the space(time) geometry. For s=1/2, we are actually dealing with the qubit model, where the horizon is made of a certain number of qubits. In this context, we compute the black hole entropy and show that the factor in front of the logarithmic correction to the entropy formula is independent of the unit s. We also compute the entanglement between parts of the horizon. We show that these correlations between parts of the horizon are directly responsible for the asymptotic logarithmic corrections. This leads us to speculate on a relation between the evaporation process and the entanglement between a pair of qubits and the rest of the horizon. Finally, we introduce a concept of renormalisation of areas in LQG.

id: gr-qc/0508100
title: On the quantum origin of the seeds of cosmic structure
authors: Alejandro Perez, Hanno Sahlmann, Daniel Sudarsky
comments: replacement with final version to appear in Classical and Quantum Gravity
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 23 (2006) 2317-2354
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0508100
abstract: The current understanding of the quantum origin of cosmic structure is discussed critically. We point out that in the existing treatments a transition from a symmetric quantum state to an (essentially classical) non-symmetric state is implicitly assumed, but not specified or analyzed in any detail. In facing the issue we are led to conclude that new physics is required to explain the apparent predictive power of the usual schemes. Furthermore we show that the novel way of looking at the relevant issues opens new windows from where relevant information might be extracted regarding cosmological issues and perhaps even clues about aspects of quantum gravity.

id: gr-qc/0508102
title: Frequency-Dependent Squeeze Amplitude Attenuation and Squeeze Angle Rotation by Electromagnetically Induced Transparency for Gravitational Wave Interferometers
authors: Eugeniy E. Mikhailov, Keisuke Goda, Thomas Corbitt, Nergis Mavalvala
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev. A73 (2006) 053810
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0508102
abstract: We study the effects of frequency-dependent squeeze amplitude attenuation and squeeze angle rotation by electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) on gravitational wave (GW) interferometers. We propose the use of low-pass, band-pass, and high-pass EIT filters, an S-shaped EIT filter, and an intra-cavity EIT filter to generate frequency-dependent squeezing for injection into the antisymmetric port of GW interferometers. We find that the EIT filters have several advantages over the previous filter designs with regard to optical losses, compactness, and the tunability of the filter linewidth.

id: gr-qc/0508104
title: Towards a fully consistent relativistic quantum mechanics and a change of perspective on quantum gravity
authors: Johan Noldus
comments: 17 pages, no figures, entire subsection added. submitted to CQG
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0508104
abstract: This paper can be seen as an exercise in how to adapt quantum mechanics from a strict relativistic perspective while being respectful and critical towards the experimental achievements of the contemporary theory. The result is a fully observer independent relativistic quantum mechanics for N particle systems without tachyonic solutions. A remaining worry for the moment is Bell's theorem.

id: gr-qc/0508121
title: Probing spacetime foam with extragalactic sources
authors: W.A. Christiansen, Y. Jack Ng, H. van Dam
comments: LaTeX, 11 pages, 1 figure; version submitted to PRL; several references added; very useful comments and suggestions by Eric Perlman incorporated
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 96 (2006) 051301
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0508121
abstract: Due to quantum fluctuations, spacetime is probably ``foamy'' on very small scales. We propose to detect this texture of spacetime foam by looking for core-halo structures in the images of distant quasars. We find that the Very Large Telescope interferometer will be on the verge of being able to probe the fabric of spacetime when it reaches its design performance. Our method also allows us to use spacetime foam physics and physics of computation to infer the existence of dark energy/matter, independent of the evidence from recent cosmological observations.

id: hep-ph/0508017
title: Some comments on the divergence of perturbation series in Quantum Eletrodynamics
authors: Mofazzal Azam
comments: Final Version, To appear in Modern Physics Letters A
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A21:1161-1166,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0508017
abstract: It has been argued by Dyson that the perturbation series in coupling constant in QED can not be convergent. We find that similiar albeit slightly different arguments lead to the divergence of the series of $1/N_f$ expansion in QED.

id: hep-ph/0508042
title: Searching for effects of Spatial Noncommutativity via a Penning Trap
authors: Jian-Zu Zhang
comments: 10 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0508042
abstract: The possibility of testing spatial noncommutativity via a Penning trap is explored. The case of both space-space and momentum-momentum noncommuting is considered. Spatial noncommutativity leads to the spectrum of the orbital angular momentum of a Penning trap possessing fractional values, and in the limits of vanishing kinetic energy and subsequent vanishing magnetic field, this system has non-trivial dynamics. The dominant value of the lowest orbital angular momentum is $\hbar/4$, which is a clear signal of spatial noncommutativity. An experimental verification of this prediction by a Stern-Gerlach-type experiment is suggested.

id: hep-ph/0508131
title: Einstein's contributions to quantum theory
authors: Norbert Straumann
comments: Invited talk at the Hadron Collider Physics Symposium (HCP2005) July 4-9 2005, Les Diablerets, Switzerland, 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0508131
abstract: Einstein's revolutionary light quantum hypothesis of 1905 and his further contributions to quantum theory are reviewed.

id: hep-th/0508001
title: Local Casimir Energies for a Thin Spherical Shell
authors: Ines Cavero-Pelaez, Kimball A. Milton, Jeffrey Wagner
comments: 16 pages, revtex 4, no figures. Major additions, clarifications, and corections, references added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0508001
abstract: The local Casimir energy density for a massless scalar field associated with step-function potentials in a 3+1 dimensional spherical geometry is considered. The potential is chosen to be zero except in a shell of thickness $\delta$, where it has height $h$, with the constraint $h\delta=1$. In the limit of zero thickness, an ideal $\delta$-function shell is recovered. The behavior of the energy density as the surface of the shell is approached is studied in both the strong and weak coupling regimes. The former case corresponds to the well-known Dirichlet shell limit. New results, which shed light on the nature of surface divergences and on the energy contained within the shell, are obtained in the weak coupling limit, and for a shell of finite thickness. In the case of zero thickness, the energy has a contribution not only from the local energy density, but from an energy term residing entirely on the surface. It is shown that the latter coincides with the integrated local energy density within the shell. We also study the dependence of local and global quantities on the conformal parameter. In particular new insight is provided on the reason for the divergence in the global Casimir energy in third order in the coupling.

id: hep-th/0508002
title: Spin and Statistics on the Groenewold-Moyal Plane: Pauli-Forbidden Levels and Transitions
authors: A.P. Balachandran, G. Mangano, A. Pinzul, S. Vaidya
comments: 18 pages, LaTex. References added and typos corrected
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A21:3111-3126,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0508002
abstract: The Groenewold-Moyal plane is the algebra A_\theta(R^(d+1)) of functions on R^(d+1) with the star-product as the multiplication law, and the commutator [x_\mu,x_\nu] =i \theta_{\mu \nu} between the coordinate functions. Chaichian et al. and Aschieri et al. have proved that the Poincare group acts as automorphisms on A_\theta(R^(d+1))$ if the coproduct is deformed. (See also the prior work of Majid, Oeckl and Grosse et al). In fact, the diffeomorphism group with a deformed coproduct also does so according to the results of Aschieri et al. In this paper we show that for this new action, the Bose and Fermi commutation relations are deformed as well. Their potential applications to the quantum Hall effect are pointed out. Very striking consequences of these deformations are the occurrence of Pauli-forbidden energy levels and transitions. Such new effects are discussed in simple cases.

id: hep-th/0508038
title: Wightman function and vacuum fluctuations in higher dimensional brane models
authors: Aram A. Saharian
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures, discussion added, accepted for publication in Phys.Rev.D
journal: Phys.Rev. D73 (2006) 044012
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0508038
abstract: Wightman function and vacuum expectation value of the field square are evaluated for a massive scalar field with general curvature coupling parameter subject to Robin boundary conditions on two codimension one parallel branes located on $(D+1)$-dimensional background spacetime $AdS_{D_1+1}\times \Sigma $ with a warped internal space $\Sigma $. The general case of different Robin coefficients on separate branes is considered. The application of the generalized Abel-Plana formula for the series over zeros of combinations of cylinder functions allows us to extract manifestly the part due to the bulk without boundaries. Unlike to the purely AdS bulk, the vacuum expectation value of the field square induced by a single brane, in addition to the distance from the brane, depends also on the position of the brane in the bulk. The brane induced part in this expectation value vanishes when the brane position tends to the AdS horizon or AdS boundary. The asymptotic behavior of the vacuum densities near the branes and at large distances is investigated. The contribution of Kaluza-Klein modes along $\Sigma $ is discussed in various limiting cases. As an example the case $\Sigma =S^1$ is considered, corresponding to the $AdS_{D+1}$ bulk with one compactified dimension. An application to the higher dimensional generalization of the Randall-Sundrum brane model with arbitrary mass terms on the branes is discussed.

id: hep-th/0508039
title: Is Hilbert space discrete?
authors: R. Buniy, S. Hsu, A. Zee
comments: 4 pages, revtex, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Lett. B630 (2005) 68-72
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0508039
abstract: We show that discretization of spacetime naturally suggests discretization of Hilbert space itself. Specifically, in a universe with a minimal length (for example, due to quantum gravity), no experiment can exclude the possibility that Hilbert space is discrete. We give some simple examples involving qubits and the Schrodinger wavefunction, and discuss implications for quantum information and quantum gravity.

id: hep-th/0508062
title: Oscillator potential for the four-dimensional Hall effect
authors: Levon Mardoyan, Armen Nersessian
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev. B72 (2005) 233303
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0508062
abstract: We suggest the exactly solvable model of oscillator on the four-dimensional sphere interacting with the SU(2) Yang monopole. We show, that the properties of the model essentially depend on the monopole charge.

id: hep-th/0508105
title: Dual PT-Symmetric Quantum Field Theories
authors: Carl M. Bender, H. F. Jones, R. J. Rivers
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Lett. B625 (2005) 333-340
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0508105
abstract: Some quantum field theories described by non-Hermitian Hamiltonians are investigated. It is shown that for the case of a free fermion field theory with a $\gamma_5$ mass term the Hamiltonian is $\cal PT$-symmetric. Depending on the mass parameter this symmetry may be either broken or unbroken. When the $\cal PT$ symmetry is unbroken, the spectrum of the quantum field theory is real. For the $\cal PT$-symmetric version of the massive Thirring model in two-dimensional space-time, which is dual to the $\cal PT$-symmetric scalar Sine-Gordon model, an exact construction of the $\cal C$ operator is given. It is shown that the $\cal PT$-symmetric massive Thirring and Sine-Gordon models are equivalent to the conventional Hermitian massive Thirring and Sine-Gordon models with appropriately shifted masses.

id: hep-th/0508185
title: Bulk Casimir densities and vacuum interaction forces in higher dimensional brane models
authors: Aram A. Saharian
comments: 24 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D73:064019,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0508185
abstract: Vacuum expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor and the vacuum interaction forces are evaluated for a massive scalar field with general curvature coupling parameter satisfying Robin boundary conditions on two codimension one parallel branes embedded in background spacetime $AdS_{D_1+1}\times \Sigma $ with a warped internal space $\Sigma $. The vacuum energy-momentum tensor is presented as a sum of boundary-free, single brane induced, and interference parts. The latter is finite everywhere including the points on the branes and is exponentially small for large interbrane distances. Unlike to the purely AdS bulk, the part induced by a single brane, in addition to the distance from the brane, depends also on the position of the brane in the bulk. The asymptotic behavior of this part is investigated for the points near the brane and for the position of the brane close to the AdS horizon and AdS boundary. The vacuum forces acting on the branes are presented as a sum of the self-action and interaction terms. The interaction forces between the branes are finite for all nonzero interbrane distances and are investigated as functions of the brane positions and the length scale of the internal space. As an example the case $\Sigma =S^{D_2}$ is considered. An application to the higher dimensional generalization of the Randall-Sundrum brane model with arbitrary mass terms on the branes is discussed.

id: hep-th/0508223
title: On hidden broken nonlinear superconformal symmetry of conformal mechanics and nature of double nonlinear superconformal symmetry
authors: Francisco Correa, Mariano A. del Olmo, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 8 pages; typos corrected
journal: Phys.Lett. B628 (2005) 157-164
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0508223
abstract: We show that for positive integer values $l$ of the parameter in the conformal mechanics model the system possesses a hidden nonlinear superconformal symmetry, in which reflection plays a role of the grading operator. In addition to the even $so(1,2)\oplus u(1)$-generators, the superalgebra includes $2l+1$ odd integrals, which form the pair of spin-$(l+{1/2})$ representations of the bosonic subalgebra and anticommute for order $2l+1$ polynomials of the even generators. This hidden symmetry, however, is broken at the level of the states in such a way that the action of the odd generators violates the boundary condition at the origin. In the earlier observed double nonlinear superconformal symmetry, arising in the superconformal mechanics for certain values of the boson-fermion coupling constant, the higher order symmetry is of the same, broken nature.

id: math-ph/0508006
title: Quantum filtering: a reference probability approach
authors: Luc Bouten, Ramon van Handel
comments: 28 pages; see also math-ph/0511021 and math.OC/0601741
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0508006
abstract: These notes are intended as an introduction to noncommutative (quantum) filtering theory. An introduction to quantum probability theory is given, focusing on the spectral theorem and the conditional expectation as the least squares estimate, and culminating in the construction of Wiener and Poisson processes on the Fock space. Next we describe the Hudson-Parthasarathy quantum Ito calculus and its use in the modelling of physical systems. Finally, we use a reference probability method to obtain quantum filtering equations, in the Belavkin-Zakai (unnormalized) form, for several system-observation models from quantum optics. The normalized (Belavkin-Kushner-Stratonovich) form is obtained through a noncommutative analogue of the Kallianpur-Striebel formula.

id: math-ph/0508021
title: On supersymmetries in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics
authors: J. Beckers, N. Debergh, A.G. Nikitin
comments: 13 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys., 1992, V. 33, N 1, 152-160
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0508021
abstract: One-dimensional nonrelativistic systems are studied when time-independent potential interactions are involved. Their supersymmetries are determined and their closed subsets generating kinematical invariance Lie superalgebras are pointed out. The study of even supersymmetries is particularly enlightened through the already known symmetries of the corresponding Schr\"odinger equation. Three tables collect the even, odd, and total supersymmetries as well as the invariance (super)algebras.

id: math-ph/0508030
title: Friedel Sum Rule as a Trace Formula
authors: Mahito Kohmoto, Tohru Koma
comments: 12 pages, no figures, v2: major revision, the argument about the integrality of the excess charge deleted, title changed
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0508030
abstract: We examine the Friedel sum rule which states that the "excess charge" due to a single impurity potential in a metal is equal to a sum of phase shifts for scatterings of electrons by the impurity. For finite volume, the ``excess charge" is given by the difference between total numbers of levels in the Fermi sea with and without the impurity potential. However, a sequence of the "excess charge" for finite volume is not necessarily bounded in the infinite volume limit, as was pointed out by Kirsch. In order to circumvent this difficulty, we define "excess charge" directly for the infinite volume. The Friedel sum rule is proven to hold for the "excess charge" thus defined.

id: math-ph/0508046
title: Approximations of permutation-symmetric vertex couplings in quantum graphs
authors: Pavel Exner, Ondrej Turek
comments: 12 pages, AMSTeX, written for proceedings of the conference "Quantum Graphs and Their Applications", Snowbird 2005
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0508046
abstract: We consider boundary conditions at the vertex of a star graph which make Schroedinger operators on the graph self-adjoint, in particular, the two-parameter family of such conditions invariant with respect to permutations of graph edges. It is proved that the corresponding operators can be approximated in the norm-resolvent sense by elements of another Schroedinger operator family on the same graph in which the delta coupling is imposed at the vertex and an additional point interaction is placed at each edge provided the coupling parameters are properly chosen.

id: math-ph/0508060
title: Inequalities for means of chords, with application to isoperimetric problems
authors: Pavel Exner, Evans M. Harrell, Michael Loss
comments: LaTeX2e, 11 pages
journal: Lett. Math. Phys. 75 (2006), 225-233 ; addendum 75 (2006), 219
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0508060
abstract: We consider a pair of isoperimetric problems arising in physics. The first concerns a Schr\"odinger operator in $L^2(\mathbb{R}^2)$ with an attractive interaction supported on a closed curve $\Gamma$, formally given by $-\Delta-\alpha \delta(x-\Gamma)$; we ask which curve of a given length maximizes the ground state energy. In the second problem we have a loop-shaped thread $\Gamma$ in $\mathbb{R}^3$, homogeneously charged but not conducting, and we ask about the (renormalized) potential-energy minimizer. Both problems reduce to purely geometric questions about inequalities for mean values of chords of $\Gamma$. We prove an isoperimetric theorem for $p$-means of chords of curves when $p \leq 2$, which implies in particular that the global extrema for the physical problems are always attained when $\Gamma$ is a circle. The article finishes with a discussion of the $p$--means of chords when $p > 2$.

id: math-ph/0508061
title: Necklaces with interacting beads: isoperimetric problems
authors: Pavel Exner
comments: AMSTeX, 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0508061
abstract: We discuss a pair of isoperimetric problems which at a glance seem to be unrelated. The first one is classical: one places $N$ identical point charges at a closed curve $\Gamma$ at the same arc-length distances and asks about the energy minimum, i.e. which shape does the loop take if left by itself. The second problem comes from quantum mechanics: we take a Schr\"odinger operator in $L^2(\mathbb{R}^d), d=2,3,$ with $N$ identical point interaction placed at a loop in the described way, and ask about the configuration which \emph{maximizes} the ground state energy. We reduce both of them to geometric inequalities which involve chords of $\Gamma$; it will be shown that a sharp local extremum is in both cases reached by $\Gamma$ in the form of a regular (planar) polygon and that such a $\Gamma$ solves the two problems also globally.

id: math/0508525
title: Absolute continuity of the spectrum for periodically modulated leaky wires in $\mathbb{R}^3$
authors: Pavel Exner, Rupert L. Frank
comments: AMSTeX, 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0508525
abstract: We consider a model of leaky quantum wire in three dimensions. The Hamiltonian is a singular perturbation of the Laplacian supported by a line with the coupling which is bounded and periodically modulated along the line. We demonstrate that such a system has a purely absolutely continuous spectrum and its negative part has band structure with an at most finite number of gaps. This result is extended also to the situation when there is an infinite number of the lines supporting the perturbations arranged periodically in one direction.

id: nlin/0508035
title: Quantum spectrum as a time series : Fluctuation measures
authors: M. S. Santhanam, Jayendra N. Bandyopadhyay, Dilip Angom
comments: 4+ pages. 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 73, 015201(R) (2006)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0508035
abstract: The fluctuations in the quantum spectrum could be treated like a time series. In this framework, we explore the statistical self-similarity in the quantum spectrum using the detrended fluctuation analysis (DFA) and random matrix theory (RMT). We calculate the Hausdorff measure for the spectra of atoms and Gaussian ensembles and study their self-affine properties. We show that DFA is equivalent to $\Delta_3$ statistics of RMT, unifying two different approaches.We exploit this connection to obtain theoretical estimates for the Hausdorff measure.

id: physics/0508048
title: A High Efficiency Ultra High Vacuum Compatible Flat Field Spectrometer for EUV Wavelengths
authors: B. Blagojevic, Eric-Olivier Le Bigot, K. Fahy, A. Aguilar, K. Makonyi, E. Takcs, J. N. Tan, J. M. Pomeroy, J. H. Burnett, J. D. Gillaspy, J. R. Roberts
comments: 
journal: Review of Scientific Instruments 76 (2005) 083102
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0508048
abstract: A custom, flat field, extreme ultraviolet EUV spectrometer built specifically for use with low power light sources that operate under ultrahigh vacuum conditions is reported. The spectral range of the spectrometer extends from 4 nm to 40 nm. The instrument optimizes the light gathering power and signal to noise ratio while achieving good resolution. A detailed description of the spectrometer and design considerations are presented, as well as a novel procedure that could be used to obtain a synthetic wavelength calibration with the aid of only a single known spectral feature. This synthetic wavelength calibration is compared to a standard wavelength calibration obtained from previously reported spectral lines of Xe, Ar and Ne ions recorded with this spectrometer.

id: physics/0508090
title: Making ultracold molecules in a two color pump-dump photoassociation scheme using chirped pulses
authors: Christiane P. Koch, Eliane Luc-Koenig, Fran?oise Masnou-Seeuws
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 033408 (2006)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0508090
abstract: This theoretical paper investigates the formation of ground state molecules from ultracold cesium atoms in a two-color scheme. Following previous work on photoassociation with chirped picosecond pulses [Luc-Koenig et al., Phys. Rev. A {\bf 70}, 033414 (2004)], we investigate stabilization by a second (dump) pulse. By appropriately choosing the dump pulse parameters and time delay with respect to the photoassociation pulse, we show that a large number of deeply bound molecules are created in the ground triplet state. We discuss (i) broad-bandwidth dump pulses which maximize the probability to form molecules while creating a broad vibrational distribution as well as (ii) narrow-bandwidth pulses populating a single vibrational ground state level, bound by 113 cm$^{-1}$. The use of chirped pulses makes the two-color scheme robust, simple and efficient.

id: physics/0508093
title: Conservation of Angular Momentum, Transverse Shift, and Spin Hall Effect in Reflection and Refraction of Electromagnetic Wave Packet
authors: Konstantin Yu. Bliokh, Yury P. Bliokh
comments: 5 pages, 2 pictures, note regarding experimental observation of the spin Hall effect of light is added, which is absent in the journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 073903 (2006)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0508093
abstract: We present a solution to the problem of reflection/refraction of a polarized Gaussian beam on the interface between two transparent media. The transverse shifts of the beams' centers of gravity are calculated. They always satisfy the total angular momentum conservation law for beams, however, in general, do not satisfy the conservation laws for individual photons in consequence of the lack of the ``which path'' information in a two-channel wave scattering. The field structure for the reflected/refracted beam is analyzed. In the scattering of a linearly-polarized beam, photons of opposite helicities are accumulated at the opposite edges of the beam: this is the spin Hall effect for photons, which can be registered in the cross-polarized component of the scattered beam.

id: physics/0508123
title: The importance of the observer in science
authors: Russell K. Standish
comments: In Proceedings The Two Cultures: Reconsidering the division between the Sciences and Humanities, UNSW, July 2005
journal: 
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0508123
abstract: The concept of {\em complexity} (as a quantity) has been plagued by numerous contradictory and confusing definitions. By explicitly recognising a role for the observer of a system, an observer that attaches meaning to data about the system, these contradictions can be resolved, and the numerous complexity measures that have been proposed can be seen as cases where different observers are relevant, and/or being proxy measures that loosely scale with complexity, but are easy to compute from the available data. Much of the epistemic confusion in the subject can be squarely placed at science's tradition of removing the observer from the description in order to guarantee {\em objectivity}. Explicitly acknowledging the role of the observer helps untangle other confused subject areas. {\em Emergence} is a topic about which much ink has been spilt, but it can be understand easily as an irreducibility between description space and meaning space. Quantum Mechanics can also be understood as a theory of observation. The success in explaining quantum mechanics, leads one to conjecture that all of physics may be reducible to properties of the observer. And indeed, what are the necessary (as opposed to contingent) properties of an observer? This requires a full theory of consciousness, from which we are a long way from obtaining. However where progress does appear to have been made, e.g. Daniel Dennett's {\em Consciousness Explained}, a recurring theme of self-observation is a crucial ingredient.

id: physics/0508128
title: Enhanced dispersion interaction in confined geometry
authors: Michal Marcovitch, Haim Diamant
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 223203 (2005)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0508128
abstract: The dispersion interaction between two point-like particles confined in a dielectric slab between two plates of another dielectric medium is studied within a continuum (Lifshitz) theory. The retarded (Casimir-Polder) interaction at large inter-particle distances is found to be strongly enhanced as the mismatch between the dielectric permittivities of the two media is increased. The large-distance interaction is multiplied due to confinement by a factor of $(33\gamma^{5/2}+13\gamma^{-3/2})/46$ at zero temperature, and by $(5\gamma^2+\gamma^{-2})/6$ at finite temperature, $\gamma=\ein(0)/\eout(0)$ being the ratio between the static dielectric permittivities of the inner and outer media. This confinement-induced amplification of the dispersion interaction can reach several orders of magnitude.

id: physics/0508135
title: Stealth Communication: Zero-Power Classical Communication, Zero-Quantum Quantum Communication and Environmental-Noise Communication
authors: Laszlo B. Kish
comments: Applied Physics Letters, in press
journal: Applied Physics Lett. 87 (2005) 234109
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0508135
abstract: An alternative physical way of communication, communication by the inherent background noise, is proposed which does not need net energy transfer in the information channel. The communicator devices do dissipate energy; however, they do not emit net energy into the channel, instead of that, they modulate the parameters of inherent spontaneous fluctuations in the channel. The method can use two different mechanisms, thermal noise (Johnson-Nyquist noise) for classical communication, and vacuum fluctuations/zero point energy (quantum uncertainty noise) for quantum communication. The strongest advantage of the method that this is apparently the most hidden (stealth) way of communication, because it is using the inherent background noise for communication, therefore it is extremely difficult or impossible to discover its presence. With proper wave-based arrangements and specific conditions, the sender and the receiver can easily detect eavesdropper activities, so that the eavesdropper is detected as soon as she extracts a single bit of information, thus the security of the method is comparable to the security of quantum communication/quantum key distribution schemes. Finally, concerning practical applications, environmental noise, out of the fundamental/inherent fluctuations, can also be used for this kind of communication provided that is sufficiently stationary.

