id: quant-ph/0509001
title: Locally observable conditions for the successful implementation of entangling multi-qubit quantum gates
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Ryo Okamoto, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 3 pages, contribution to the proceedings of the ISQM`05 conference held August 21st to 25th 2005 near Tokyo
journal: Proceedings of the 8th international symposium on Foundations of Quantum Mechanics in the Light of New Technology, edited by S. Ishioka and K. Fujikawa, World Scientific 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509001
abstract: The information obtained from the operation of a quantum gate on only two complementary sets of input states is sufficient to estimate the quantum process fidelity of the gate. In the case of entangling gates, these conditions can be used to predict the multi qubit entanglement capability from the fidelities of two non-entangling local operations. It is then possible to predict highly non-classical features of the gate such as violations of local realism from the fidelities of two completely classical input-output relations, without generating any actual entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0509002
title: On single-copy entanglement
authors: Ingo Peschel, Jize Zhao
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, note added, typo corrected
journal: JSTAT P11002 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509002
abstract: The largest eigenvalue of the reduced density matrix for quantum chains is shown to have a simple physical interpretation and power-law behaviour in critical systems. This is verified numerically for XXZ spin chains.

id: quant-ph/0509003
title: Entanglement in resonant photon scattering
authors: Rui Guo, Hong Guo
comments: 7 Pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509003
abstract: Single--photon which is initially uncorrelated with atom, will evolve to be entangled with the atom on their continuous kinetic variables in the process of resonant scattering. We find the relations between the entanglement and their physical control parameters, which indicates that high entanglement can be reached by broadening the scale of the atomic wave or squeezing the linewidth of the incident single--photon pulse.

id: quant-ph/0509004
title: A perturbative treatment for the exponential-cosine-screened Coulomb potential
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509004
abstract: An alternative approximation scheme has been used in solving the Schroedinger equation for the exponential-cosine-screened Coulomb potential. The bound state energies for various eigenstates and the corresponding wave functions are obtained analytically up to the second perturbation term.

id: quant-ph/0509005
title: Generation of Atomic Cluster States through the Cavity Input-Output Process
authors: Jaeyoon Cho, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 160501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509005
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement a two-qubit controlled-phase gate for single atomic qubits, which works in principle with nearly ideal success probability and fidelity. Our scheme is based on the cavity input-output process and the single photon polarization measurement. We show that, even with the practical imperfections such as atomic spontaneous emission, weak atom-cavity coupling, violation of the Lamb-Dicke condition, cavity photon loss, and detection inefficiency, the proposed gate is feasible for generation of a cluster state in that it meets the scalability criterion and it operates in a conclusive manner. We demonstrate a simple and efficient process to generate a cluster state with our high probabilistic entangling gate.

id: quant-ph/0509006
title: Partial scaling transform of multiqubit states as a criterion of separability
authors: C. Lupo, V. Man'ko, G. Marmo, E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, submitted to J. Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 10377-10391
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509006
abstract: The partial scaling transform of the density matrix for multiqubit states is introduced to detect entanglement of quantum states. The transform contains partial transposition as a special case. The scaling transform corresponds to partial time scaling of subsystem (or partial Planck's constant scaling) which was used to formulate recently separability criterion for continous variables.A measure of entanglement which is a generalization of negativity measure is introduced being based on tomographic probability description of spin states.

id: quant-ph/0509007
title: Decay of Loschmidt Echo Enhanced by Quantum Criticality
authors: H.T. Quan, Z. Song, X.F. Liu, P. Zanardi, C.P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 140604 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509007
abstract: We study the transition of a quantum system $S $ from a pure state to a mixed one, which is induced by the quantum criticality of the surrounding system $E$ coupled to it. To characterize this transition quantitatively, we carefully examine the behavior of the Loschmidt echo (LE) of $E$ modelled as an Ising model in a transverse field, which behaves as a measuring apparatus in quantum measurement. It is found that the quantum critical behavior of $E$ strongly affects its capability of enhancing the decay of LE: near the critical value of the transverse field entailing the happening of quantum phase transition, the off-diagonal elements of the reduced density matrix describing $S$ vanish sharply.

id: quant-ph/0509008
title: On the structure of the body of states with positive partial transpose
authors: Stanislaw Szarek, Ingemar Bengtsson, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure; ver. 2 - minor changes, new proof of lemma 3
journal: J. Phys. A 39 L119-L126 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509008
abstract: We show that the convex set of separable mixed states of the 2 x 2 system is a body of constant height. This fact is used to prove that the probability to find a random state to be separable equals 2 times the probability to find a random boundary state to be separable, provided the random states are generated uniformly with respect to the Hilbert-Schmidt (Euclidean) distance. An analogous property holds for the set of positive-partial-transpose states for an arbitrary bipartite system.

id: quant-ph/0509009
title: Thermal entanglement in a two-qubit Heisenberg XXZ spin chain under an inhomogeneous magnetic field
authors: Guo-Feng Zhang
comments: 5 EPS figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 034302 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509009
abstract: The thermal entanglement in a two-qubit Heisenberg \emph{XXZ} spin chain is investigated under an inhomogeneous magnetic field \emph{b}. We show that the ground-state entanglement is independent of the interaction of \emph{z}-component $J_{z}$. The thermal entanglement at the fixed temperature can be enhanced when $J_{z}$ increases. We strictly show that for any temperature \emph{T} and $J_{z}$ the entanglement is symmetric with respect to zero inhomogeneous magnetic field, and the critical inhomogeneous magnetic field $b_{c}$ is independent of $J_{z}$. The critical magnetic field $B_{c}$ increases with the increasing $|b|$ but the maximum entanglement value that the system can arrive becomes smaller.

id: quant-ph/0509010
title: A microscopic derivation of the quantum mechanical formal scattering cross section
authors: D. D¨¹rr, S. Goldstein, T. Moser, N. Zangh¨¬
comments: 28 pages, v2: Typos corrected, layout improved, v3: Typos corrected. Accepted for publication in Comm. Math. Phys
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 266 (2006), no. 3, 665-697
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509010
abstract: We prove that the empirical distribution of crossings of a "detector'' surface by scattered particles converges in appropriate limits to the scattering cross section computed by stationary scattering theory. Our result, which is based on Bohmian mechanics and the flux-across-surfaces theorem, is the first derivation of the cross section starting from first microscopic principles.

id: quant-ph/0509011
title: A photonic quantum information interface
authors: Sebastien Tanzilli, Wolfgang Tittel, Matthaeus Halder, Olivier Alibart, Pascal Baldi, Nicolas Gisin, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature 437, 1st september 2005, pp. 116-120
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509011
abstract: Quantum communication is the art of transferring quantum states, or quantum bits of information (qubits), from one place to another. On the fundamental side, this allows one to distribute entanglement and demonstrate quantum nonlocality over significant distances. On the more applied side, quantum cryptography offers, for the first time in human history, a provably secure way to establish a confidential key between distant partners. Photons represent the natural flying qubit carriers for quantum communication, and the presence of telecom optical fibres makes the wavelengths of 1310 and 1550 nm particulary suitable for distribution over long distances. However, to store and process quantum information, qubits could be encoded into alkaline atoms that absorb and emit at around 800 nm wavelength. Hence, future quantum information networks made of telecom channels and alkaline memories will demand interfaces able to achieve qubit transfers between these useful wavelengths while preserving quantum coherence and entanglement. Here we report on a qubit transfer between photons at 1310 and 710 nm via a nonlinear up-conversion process with a success probability greater than 5%. In the event of a successful qubit transfer, we observe strong two-photon interference between the 710 nm photon and a third photon at 1550 nm, initially entangled with the 1310 nm photon, although they never directly interacted. The corresponding fidelity is higher than 98%.

id: quant-ph/0509012
title: Quantum Localization
authors: Richard A. Mould
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509012
abstract: The auxiliary q-rules of quantum mechanics developed in other papers are applied to the problem of the location of material objects, both macroscopic and microscopic. All objects tend to expand in space due to the uncertainty in their momentum. The q-rules are found to oppose this perpetual expansion with a collapse mechanism that insures the dependable localization of objects in ordinary human experience.

id: quant-ph/0509013
title: Limits on entanglement in rotationally-invariant scattering of spin systems
authors: N.L. Harshman
comments: 6 pages, no figures; v.2: sections added, edited for clarity, conclusions and calculation unchanged, typos corrected; v.3: new abstrct, revised first two sections, added references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062326 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509013
abstract: This paper investigates the dynamical generation of entanglement in scattering systems, in particular two spin systems that interact via rotationally-invariant scattering. The spin degrees of freedom of the in-states are assumed to be in unentangled, pure states, as defined by the entropy of entanglement. Because of the restriction of rotationally-symmetric interactions, perfectly-entangling S-matrices, i.e. those that lead to a maximally entangled out-state, only exist for a certain class of separable in-states. Using Clebsch-Gordan coefficients for the rotation group, the scattering phases that determine the S-matrix are determined for the case of spin systems with $\sigma = 1/2$, 1, and 3/2.

id: quant-ph/0509014
title: Thermal entanglement in a two-spin-qutrit system under a nonuniform external magnetic field
authors: Guo-Feng Zhang, Shu-Shen Li
comments: 2 eps figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 37,123-127 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509014
abstract: The thermal entanglement in a two-spin-qutrit system with two spins coupled by exchange interaction under a magnetic field in an arbitrary direction is investigated. Negativity, the measurement of entanglement, is calculated. We find that for any temperature the evolvement of negativity is symmetric with respect to magnetic field. The behavior of negativity is presented for four different cases. The results show that for different temperature, different magnetic field give maximum entanglement. Both the parallel and antiparallel magnetic field cases are investigated qualitatively (not quantitatively) in detail, we find that the entanglement may be enhanced under an antiparallel magnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0509015
title: Non-local properties of a symmetric two-qubit system
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, M. S. Uma, R. Prabhu, Sudha
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7, S740 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509015
abstract: Non-local properties of symmetric two-qubit states are quantified in terms of a complete set of entanglement invariants. We prove that negative values of some of the invariants are signatures of quantum entanglement. This leads us to identify sufficient conditions for non-separability in terms of entanglement invariants. Non-local properties of two-qubit states extracted from (i) Dicke state (ii) state generated by one-axis twisting Hamiltonian, and (iii) one-dimensional Ising chain with nearest neighbour interaction are analyzed in terms of the invariants characterizing them.

id: quant-ph/0509016
title: A dynamical model for quantum memory channels
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures; minor correction added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 10989 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509016
abstract: A dynamical model for quantum channel is introduced which allows one to pass continuously from the memoryless case to the case in which memory effects are present. The quantum and classical communication rates of the model are defined and explicit expression are provided in some limiting case. In this context we introduce noise attenuation strategies where part of the signals are sacrificed to modify the channel environment. The case of qubit channel with phase damping noise is analyzed in details.

id: quant-ph/0509017
title: Geometrical Statistics--Classical and Quantum
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: Talk at the third Vaxjo conference on Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of foundations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509017
abstract: This is a review of the ideas behind the Fisher--Rao metric on classical probability distributions, and how they generalize to metrics on density matrices. As is well known, the unique Fisher--Rao metric then becomes a large family of monotone metrics. Finally I focus on the Bures--Uhlmann metric, and discuss a recent result that connects the geometric operator mean to a geodesic billiard on the set of density matrices.

id: quant-ph/0509018
title: Optimal phase measurements with pure Gaussian states
authors: Alex Monras
comments: 9 pages. Revised version: two new sections added, revised conclusions. Corrected prose. Corrected references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 033821 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509018
abstract: We analyze the Heisenberg limit on phase estimation for Gaussian states. In the analysis, no reference to a phase operator is made. We prove that the squeezed vacuum state is the most sensitive for a given average photon number. We provide two adaptive local measurement schemes that attain the Heisenberg limit asymptotically. One of them is described by a positive operator-valued measure and its efficiency is exhaustively explored. We also study Gaussian measurement schemes based on phase quadrature measurements. We show that homodyne tomography of the appropriate quadrature attains the Heisenberg limit for large samples. This proves that this limit can be attained with local projective Von Neuman measurements.

id: quant-ph/0509019
title: Classical Vs Quantum Probability in Sequential Measurements
authors: Charis Anastopoulos
comments: 56 pages, latex; revised and restructured. Version to appear in Found. Phys
journal: Found. Phys. 36, 1601 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509019
abstract: We demonstrate in this paper that the probabilities for sequential measurements have features very different from those of single-time measurements. First, they cannot be modelled by a classical stochastic process. Second, they are contextual, namely they depend strongly on the specific measurement scheme through which they are determined. We construct Positive-Operator-Valued measures (POVM) that provide such probabilities. For observables with continuous spectrum, the constructed POVMs depend strongly on the resolution of the measurement device, a conclusion that persists even if we consider a quantum mechanical measurement device or the presence of an environment. We then examine the same issues in alternative interpretations of quantum theory. We first show that multi-time probabilities cannot be naturally defined in terms of a frequency operator. We next prove that local hidden variable theories cannot reproduce the predictions of quantum theory for sequential measurements, even when the degrees of freedom of the measuring apparatus are taken into account. Bohmian mechanics, however, does not fall in this category. We finally examine an alternative proposal that sequential measurements can be modelled by a process that does not satisfy the Kolmogorov axioms of probability. This removes contextuality without introducing non-locality, but implies that the empirical probabilities cannot be always defined (the event frequencies do not converge). We argue that the predictions of this hypothesis are not ruled out by existing experimental results (examining in particular the "which way" experiments); they are, however, distinguishable in principle.

id: quant-ph/0509020
title: Time-of-arrival probabilities and quantum measurements
authors: Charis Anastopoulos, Ntina Savvidou
comments: 40 pages, 1 fig.--expanded argumentation, version to appear in JMP
journal: J. Math. Phys. 47, 122106 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509020
abstract: We study the construction of probability densities for time-of-arrival in quantum mechanics. Our treatment is based upon the facts that (i) time appears in quantum theory as an external parameter to the system, and (ii) propositions about the time-of-arrival appear naturally when one considers histories. The definition of time-of-arrival probabilities is straightforward in stochastic processes. The difficulties that arise in quantum theory are due to the fact that the time parameter of Schr\"odinger's equation does not naturally define a probability density at the continuum limit, but also because the procedure one follows is sensitive on the interpretation of the reduction procedure. We consider the issue in Copenhagen quantum mechanics and in history-based schemes like consistent histories. The benefit of the latter is that it allows a proper passage to the continuous limit--there are however problems related to the quantum Zeno effect and decoherence. We finally employ the histories-based description to construct Positive-Operator-Valued-Measures (POVMs) for the time-of-arrival, which are valid for a general Hamiltonian. These POVMs typically depend on the resolution of the measurement device; for a free particle, however, this dependence cancels in the physically relevant regime and the POVM coincides with that of Kijowski.

id: quant-ph/0509021
title: Dynamics of momentum entanglement in lowest-order QED
authors: L. Lamata, J. Leon, E. Solano
comments: 10 pages and 7 figures. Accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012335 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509021
abstract: We study the dynamics of momentum entanglement generated in the lowest-order QED interaction between two massive spin-1/2 charged particles, which grows in time as the two fermions exchange virtual photons. We observe that the degree of generated entanglement between interacting particles with initial well-defined momentum can be infinite. We explain this divergence in the context of entanglement theory for continuous variables, and show how to circumvent this apparent paradox. Finally, we discuss two different possibilities of transforming momentum into spin entanglement, through dynamical operations or through Lorentz boosts.

id: quant-ph/0509022
title: Renormalization scheme for a multi-qubit-network
authors: Alexandra Olaya-Castro, Chiu Fan Lee, Neil F. Johnson
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhysics Letters 74, 208-214 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509022
abstract: We present a renormalization scheme which simplifies the dynamics of an important class of interacting multi-qubit systems. We show that a wide class of M+1 qubit systems can be reduced to an equivalent n+1 qubit system with n equal to, or greater than, 2, for any M. Our renormalization scheme faithfully reproduces the overall dynamics of the original system including the entanglement properties. In addition to its direct application to atom-cavity and nanostructure systems, the formalism offers insight into a variety of situations ranging from decoherence due to a spin-bath with its own internal entanglement, through to energy transfer processes in organic systems such as biological photosynthetic units.

id: quant-ph/0509023
title: Half the entanglement in critical systems is distillable from a single specimen
authors: R. Orus, J.I. Latorre, J. Eisert, M. Cramer
comments: 4 pages RevTeX, 1 figure, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 060303(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509023
abstract: We establish that the leading critical scaling of the single-copy entanglement is exactly one half of the entropy of entanglement of a block in critical infinite spin chains in a general setting, using methods of conformal field theory. Conformal symmetry imposes that the single-copy entanglement for critical many-body systems scales as E_1(\rho_L)=(c/6) \log L- (c/6) (\pi^2/\log L) + O(1/L), where L is the number of constituents in a block of an infinite chain and c corresponds to the central charge. This proves that from a single specimen of a critical chain, already half the entanglement can be distilled compared to the rate that is asymptotically available. The result is substantiated by a quantitative analysis for all translationally invariant quantum spin chains corresponding to general isotropic quasi-free fermionic models. An analytic example of the XY model shows that away from criticality the above simple relation is only maintained near the quantum phase transition point.

id: quant-ph/0509024
title: Mechanisms in Adaptive Feedback Control: Photoisomerization in a Liquid
authors: Kunihito Hoki, Paul Brumer
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509024
abstract: The underlying mechanism for Adaptive Feedback Control in the experimental photoisomerization of NK88 in methanol is exposed theoretically. With given laboratory limitations on laser output, the complicated electric fields are shown to achieve their targets in qualitatively simple ways. Further, control over the cis population without laser limitations reveals an incoherent pump-dump scenario as the optimal isomerization strategy. In neither case are there substantial contributions from quantum multiple-path interference or from nuclear wavepacket coherence. Environmentally induced decoherence is shown to justify the use of a simplified theoretical model.

id: quant-ph/0509025
title: Experimental Study of the Role of Atomic Interactions on Quantum Transport
authors: K. Henderson, H. Kelkar, B. Gutierrez-Medina, T. C. Li, M. G. Raizen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 150401 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509025
abstract: We report an experimental study of quantum transport for atoms confined in a periodic potential and compare between thermal and BEC initial conditions. We observe ballistic transport for all values of well depth and initial conditions, and the measured expansion velocity for thermal atoms is in excellent agreement with a single-particle model. For weak wells, the expansion of the BEC is also in excellent agreement with single-particle theory, using an effective temperature. We observe a crossover to a new regime for the BEC case as the well depth is increased, indicating the importance of interactions on quantum transport.

id: quant-ph/0509026
title: Particle dynamics in a relativistic invariant stochastic medium
authors: Alejandro Cabo-Bizet, Alejandro Cabo Montes de Oca
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509026
abstract: The dynamics of particles moving in a medium defined by its relativistically invariant stochastic properties is investigated. For this aim, the force exerted on the particles by the medium is defined by a stationary random variable as a function of the proper time of the particles. The equations of motion for a single one-dimensional particle are obtained and numerically solved. A conservation law for the drift momentum of the particle during its random motion is shown. Moreover, the conservation of the mean value of the total linear momentum for two particles repelling each other according with the Coulomb interaction is also following. Therefore, the results indicate the realization of a kind of stochastic Noether theorem in the system under study. Possible applications to the stochastic representation of Quantum Mechanics are advanced.

id: quant-ph/0509027
title: Bell's inequalities with realistic noise for polarization-entangled photons
authors: Adan Cabello, Alvaro Feito, Antia Lamas-Linares
comments: REVTeX4, 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72 (2005) 052112
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509027
abstract: Contrary to the usual assumption that the experimental preparation of pure entangled states can be described by mixed states due to white noise, a more realistic description for polarization-entangled states produced by parametric down-conversion is that they are mixed states due to decoherence in a preferred polarization basis. This distinction between white and colored noise is crucial when we look for maximal violations of Bell's inequalities for two-qubit and two-qutrit entangled states. We find that violations of Bell's inequalities with realistic noise for polarization-entangled photons are extremely robust for colored noise, whereas this is not the case for white noise. In addition, we study the difference between white and colored noise for maximal violations of Bell's inequalities for three and four-qubit entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0509028
title: Experimental test for violation of duality on a photon beam
authors: Daniel Mirell, Stuart Mirell
comments: A shortened version is submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509028
abstract: We test for evidence violating the duality invariant ratio of photon beam irradiance and wave intensity. Split beams from a 633 nm HeNe laser are intersected at a diffraction grating complementary to the resultant interference pattern. An output beam from the grating, depleted in irradiance relative to wave intensity from the perspective of local realism, is transiently intersected with a beam from an independent HeNe laser and measured irradiance is amplified by ~4% in conflict with quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0509029
title: Quantum state sharing of an arbitrary two-qubit state with two-photon entanglements and Bell-state measurements
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Xi-Han Li, Chun-Yan Li, Ping Zhou, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures; It is a supplement for quant-ph/0504158 and simplify the measurements in the latter. Moreover, it reduecs the quantum resource largely when the number of the agents is large, compared with quant-ph/0504158
journal: The European Physical Journal D 39, 459-464 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509029
abstract: Two schemes for sharing an arbitrary two-qubit state based on entanglement swapping are proposed with Bell-state measurements and local unitary operations. One is based on the quantum channel with four Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) pairs shared in advance. The other is based on a circular topological structure, i.e., each user shares an EPR pair with his neighboring one. The advantage of the former is that the construction of the quantum channel between the agents is controlled by the sender Alice, which will improve the security of the scheme. The circular scheme reduces the quantum resource largely when the number of the agents is large. Both of those schemes have the property of high efficiency as almost all the instances can be used to split the quantum information. They are more convenient in application than the other schemes existing as they require only two-qubit entanglements and two-qubit joint measurements for sharing an arbitrary two-qubit state.

id: quant-ph/0509030
title: Numerical investigation of photon creation in a three-dimensional resonantly vibrating cavity: TE-modes
authors: Marcus Ruser
comments: 14 pages, 18 figures, revised version, typos corrected, references added, title changed with respect to older version, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A73 (2006) 043811
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509030
abstract: The creation of TE-mode photons in a three-dimensional perfectly conducting cavity with one resonantly vibrating wall is studied numerically. We show that the creation of TE-mode photons in a rectangular cavity is related to the production of massive scalar particles on a time-dependent interval. The equations of motion are solved numerically which allows to take into account the intermode coupling. We compare the numerical results with analytical predictions and discuss the effects of the intermode coupling in detail. The numerical simulations reveal that photon creation in a three-dimensional resonantly vibrating cavity can be maximized by arranging the size of the cavity such that certain conditions are realized. In particular, the creation of TE-mode photons in the lowest frequency mode $(1,1,1)$ is most efficient in a non-cubic cavity where the size of the non-dynamical dimensions is roughly 11 times larger than the size of the dynamical dimension. We discuss this effect and its relation to the intermode coupling in detail.

id: quant-ph/0509031
title: Generalized boson algebra and its entangled bipartite coherent states
authors: N. Aizawa, R. Chakrabaarti, J. Segar
comments: 15pages, no figure
journal: J. Phys. A:Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 9007-9018
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509031
abstract: Starting with a given generalized boson algebra U_<q>(h(1)) known as the bosonized version of the quantum super-Hopf U_q[osp(1/2)] algebra, we employ the Hopf duality arguments to provide the dually conjugate function algebra Fun_<q>(H(1)). Both the Hopf algebras being finitely generated, we produce a closed form expression of the universal T matrix that caps the duality and generalizes the familiar exponential map relating a Lie algebra with its corresponding group. Subsequently, using an inverse Mellin transform approach, the coherent states of single-node systems subject to the U_<q>(h(1)) symmetry are found to be complete with a positive-definite integration measure. Nonclassical coalgebraic structure of the U_<q>(h(1)) algebra is found to generate naturally entangled coherent states in bipartite composite systems.

id: quant-ph/0509032
title: Interference of mesoscopic particles: quantum--classical transition
authors: P. Facchi, S. Pascazio, T. Yoneda
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Open Systems and Information Dynamics 14, 139 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509032
abstract: We analyze the double slit interference of a mesoscopic particle. We calculate the visibility of the interference pattern, introduce a characteristic temperature that defines the onset to decoherence and scrutinize the conditions that must be satisfied for an interference experiment to be possible.

id: quant-ph/0509033
title: A Simultaneous Quantum Secure Direct Communication Scheme between the Central Party and Other M Parties
authors: Ting Gao, Feng-Li Yan, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: Chinese Physics Letters, Vol.22, No. 10 (2005) 2473-2476
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509033
abstract: We propose a simultaneous quantum secure direct communication scheme between one party and other three parties via four-particle GHZ states and swapping quantum entanglement. In the scheme, three spatially separated senders, Alice, Bob and Charlie, transmit their secret messages to a remote receiver Diana by performing a series local operations on their respective particles according to the quadripartite stipulation. From Alice, Bob, Charlie and Diana's Bell measurement results, Diana can infer the secret messages. If a perfect quantum channel is used, the secret messages are faithfully transmitted from Alice, Bob and Charlie to Diana via initially shared pairs of four-particle GHZ states without revealing any information to a potential eavesdropper. As there is no transmission of the qubits carrying the secret message in the public channel, it is completely secure for the direct secret communication. This scheme can be considered as a network of communication parties where each party wants to communicate secretly with a central party or server.

id: quant-ph/0509034
title: Semiclassical analysis of a complex quartic Hamiltonian
authors: Carl M. Bender, Dorje C. Brody, Hugh F. Jones
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.D73:025002,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509034
abstract: It is necessary to calculate the C operator for the non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Hamiltonian H=\half p^2+\half\mu^2x^2-\lambda x^4 in order to demonstrate that H defines a consistent unitary theory of quantum mechanics. However, the C operator cannot be obtained by using perturbative methods. Including a small imaginary cubic term gives the Hamiltonian H=\half p^2+\half \mu^2x^2+igx^3-\lambda x^4, whose C operator can be obtained perturbatively. In the semiclassical limit all terms in the perturbation series can be calculated in closed form and the perturbation series can be summed exactly. The result is a closed-form expression for C having a nontrivial dependence on the dynamical variables x and p and on the parameter \lambda.

id: quant-ph/0509035
title: Fractional Supersymmetry as a Superposition of Ordinary Supersymmetry
authors: M. Daoud, M. Kibler
comments: Paper written from a communication by M. Kibler at the Xth International Conference on Symmetry Methods in Physics (Yerevan, Armenia, 13 - 19 August 2003). To be published in Phys. Atom. Nuclei (Yadernaya fizika)
journal: Physics of Atomic Nuclei 68 (2005) 1654-1656
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509035
abstract: It is shown how to derive fractional supersymmetric quantum mechanics of order k as a superposition of k-1 copies of ordinary supersymmetric quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0509036
title: Sharing Polarization within Quantum Subspaces
authors: M. S. Anwar, J. A. Jones, S. B. Duckett
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 022322 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509036
abstract: Given an ensemble of n spins, at least some of which are partially polarized, we investigate the sharing of this polarization within a subspace of k spins. We assume that the sharing results in a pseudopure state, characterized by a single purity parameter which we call the bias. As a concrete example we consider ensembles of spin-1/2 nuclei in liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) systems. The shared bias levels are compared with some current entanglement bounds to determine whether the reduced subspaces can give rise to entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0509037
title: Quantum correlations in (1+1)-dimensional systems
authors: E. Rico
comments: PhD thesis. No figure. Complete version at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509037
abstract: Contents: 1.- Introduction 2.- Scaling of entanglement in (1+1)-dimensional systems 3.- Entanglement and RG-flows 4.- Matrix Product States Appendix A.- Entanglement and order relations B.- Hilbert space in a conformal theory

id: quant-ph/0509038
title: Stochastic mean-field dynamics for fermions in the weak coupling limit
authors: Denis Lacroix
comments: Enlarged version, 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. C73 (2006) 044311
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509038
abstract: Assuming that the effect of the residual interaction beyond mean-field is weak and has a short memory time, two approximate treatments of correlation in fermionic systems by means of Markovian quantum jump are presented. A simplified scenario for the introduction of fluctuations beyond mean-field is first presented. In this theory, part of the quantum correlations between the residual interaction and the one-body density matrix are neglected and jumps occur between many-body densities formed of pairs of states $D=| \Phi_a > < \Phi_b |/< \Phi_b . |\Phi_a >$ where $| \Phi_a >$ and $| \Phi_b >$ are antisymmetrized products of single-particle states. The underlying Stochastic Mean-Field (SMF) theory is discussed and applied to the monopole vibration of a spherical $^{40}$Ca nucleus under the influence of a statistical ensemble of two-body contact interaction. This framework is however too simplistic to account for both fluctuation and dissipation. In the second part of this work, an alternative quantum jump method is obtained without making the approximation on quantum correlations. Restricting to two particles-two holes residual interaction, the evolution of the one-body density matrix of a correlated system is transformed into a Lindblad equation. The associated dissipative dynamics can be simulated by quantum jumps between densities written as $D = | \Phi >< \Phi |$ where $| \Phi >$ is a normalized Slater determinant. The associated stochastic Schroedinger equation for single-particle wave-functions is given.

id: quant-ph/0509039
title: Feedback cooling of atomic motion in cavity QED
authors: Daniel A. Steck, Kurt Jacobs, Hideo Mabuchi, Salman Habib, Tanmoy Bhattacharya
comments: 22 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 012322 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509039
abstract: We consider the problem of controlling the motion of an atom trapped in an optical cavity using continuous feedback. In order to realize such a scheme experimentally, one must be able to perform state estimation of the atomic motion in real time. While in theory this estimate may be provided by a stochastic master equation describing the full dynamics of the observed system, integrating this equation in real time is impractical. Here we derive an approximate estimation equation for this purpose, and use it as a drive in a feedback algorithm designed to cool the motion of the atom. We examine the effectiveness of such a procedure using full simulations of the cavity QED system, including the quantized motion of the atom in one dimension.

id: quant-ph/0509040
title: A Quantum Field Theory Twist to Photon Angular Momentum
authors: G. F. Calvo, A. Picon, E. Bagan
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509040
abstract: A quantum field theory approach is put forward to generalize the concept of classical spatial light beams carrying orbital angular momentum to the single-photon level. This quantization framework is carried out both in the paraxial and nonparaxial regimes. Upon extension to the optical phase space, closed-form expressions are found for a photon Wigner representation describing transformations on the orbital Poincare sphere of unitarily related families of paraxial spatial modes.

id: quant-ph/0509041
title: Impact of positivity and complete positivity on accessibility of Markovian dynamics
authors: Raffaele Romano
comments: 11 pages, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 9105-9114
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509041
abstract: We consider a two-dimensional quantum control system evolving under an entropy-increasing irreversible dynamics in the semigroup form. Considering a phenomenological approach to the dynamics, we show that the accessibility property of the system depends on whether its evolution is assumed to be positive or completely positive. In particular, we characterize the family of maps having different accessibility and show the impact of that property on observable quantities by means of a simple physical model.

id: quant-ph/0509042
title: Does consciousness really collapse the wave function? A possible objective biophysical resolution of the measurement problem
authors: Fred H. Thaheld
comments: 36 pages, 5 figures, Comment and references added to Sec. 4 regarding whether Spontaneous Localization or decoherence can lead to a single subjective outcome in the visual cortex
journal: BioSystems 81 (2005) 113-124
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509042
abstract: An analysis has been performed of the theories and postulates advanced by von Neumann, London and Bauer, and Wigner, concerning the role that consciousness might play in the collapse of the wave function, which has become known as the measurement problem. This reveals that an error may have been made by them in the area of biology and its interface with quantum mechanics, when they called for the reduction of any superposition states in the brain through the mind or consciousness. Many years later Wigner changed his mind to reflect a simpler and more realistic objective position, expanded upon by Shimony, which appears to offer a way to resolve this issue. The argument is therefore made that the wave function of any superposed photon state or states is always objectively changed within the complex architecture of the eye in a continuous linear process initially for most of the superposed photons, followed by a discontinuous nonlinear collapse process later for any remaining superposed photons, thereby guaranteeing that only final, measured information is presented to the brain, mind or consciousness. An experiment to be conducted in the near future may enable us to simultaneously resolve the measurement problem and also determine if the linear nature of quantum mechanics is violated by the perceptual process.

id: quant-ph/0509043
title: Coulomb entangler and entanglement testing network for waveguide qubits
authors: Linda E. Reichl, Michael G. Snyder
comments: 12 pages of text plus 7 figures: total 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509043
abstract: We present a small network for the testing of the entanglement of two ballistic electron waveguide qubits. The network produces different output conditional on the presence or absence of entanglement. The structure of the network allows for the determination of successful entanglement operations through the measurement of the output of a single qubit. We also present a simple model of a dynamic coulomb-like interaction and use it to describe some characteristics of a proposed scheme for the entanglement of qubits in ballistic electron waveguides.

id: quant-ph/0509044
title: Real-Valued Charged Fields and Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: A. M. Akhmeteli
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Int.J.Quant.Inf.9:S17-S26,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509044
abstract: Schroedinger (Nature, v.169, p.538 (1952)) demonstrated that, contrary to the widespread belief, charged particles may be described by real fields. Therefore the sets of solutions with real-valued charged fields are considered in the present work for some versions of (non-second-quantized) quantum electrodynamics (for Dirac spinors "real-valued" is understood as "satisfying the Majorana condition"). In some of the versions any solution may be obtained from a solution from those sets by a gauge transform. The solutions from those sets have common features suggesting a natural interpretation along the lines of the Bohm interpretation, but no quantum potentials arise, and it is the electromagnetic field, not the wave function, that plays the role of the guiding field.

id: quant-ph/0509045
title: Heisenberg's wave packet reconsidered
authors: J. Orlin Grabbe
comments: 10 pages, minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509045
abstract: This note shows that Heisenberg's choice for a wave function in his original paper on the uncertainty principle is simply a renormalized characteristic function of a stable distribution with certain restrictions on the parameters. Relaxing Heisenberg's restrictions leads to a more general formulation of the uncertainty principle. This reformulation shows quantum uncertainty can exist at a macroscopic level. These modifications also give rise to a new form of Schrodinger's wave equation as the equation of a vibrating string. Although a heat equation version can also be given, the latter shows the traditional formulation of Schrodinger's equation involves a hidden Cauchy amplitude assumption.

id: quant-ph/0509046
title: NMR Quantum Information Processing with Para-Hydrogen
authors: M. S. Anwar
comments: D.Phil. Thesis, University of Oxford, UK, December 2004. This is a condensed version (several figures, sections and all appendices have been removed to save space). For a complete version visit this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509046
abstract: This thesis addresses the problems of initialization and separability in liquid state NMR based quantum information processors. We prepare pure quantum states lying above the entanglement threshold. Our pure state quantum computer derives its purity from the highly polarized nuclear spin states in the para-hydrogen molecule. The thesis begins with a critique of conventional NMR based quantum information processing outlining the major strengths and weaknesses of the technology. We describe the enhanced magnetic ordering of the nuclear spin states in para-hydrogen and an initialization experiment exploiting this effect to achieve pure, entangled states. These states can indeed be used as initial states in implementing quantum algorithms: we describe mplementations of the Deutsch and the Grover quantum algorithms. The "twirl" operation converts a completely arbitrary input state to a Werner singlet. The NMR implementation of this operation is taken up. We also analyze the possibility of sharing the purity of some highly polarized qubits in a quantum computer onto quantum subspaces of arbitrary dimensions, and whether these sharing operations increase or decrease the likelihood of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0509047
title: A quantum protocol to win the graph colouring game on all Hadamard graphs
authors: David Avis, Jun Hasegawa, Yosuke Kikuchi, Yuuya Sasaki
comments: 5page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509047
abstract: This paper deals with graph colouring games, an example of pseudo-telepathy, in which two provers can convince a verifier that a graph $G$ is $c$-colourable where $c$ is less than the chromatic number of the graph. They win the game if they convince the verifier. It is known that the players cannot win if they share only classical information, but they can win in some cases by sharing entanglement. The smallest known graph where the players win in the quantum setting, but not in the classical setting, was found by Galliard, Tapp and Wolf and has 32,768 vertices. It is a connected component of the Hadamard graph $G_N$ with $N=c=16$. Their protocol applies only to Hadamard graphs where $N$ is a power of 2. We propose a protocol that applies to all Hadamard graphs. Combined with a result of Frankl, this shows that the players can win on any induced subgraph of $G_{12}$ having 1609 vertices, with $c=12$. Combined with a result of Frankl and Rodl, our result shows that all sufficiently large Hadamard graphs yield pseudo-telepathy games.

id: quant-ph/0509048
title: The Grammar of Teleportation
authors: Christopher G. Timpson
comments: 29 pages, 1 figure, LaTeX; to appear in The British Journal for the Philosophy of Science
journal: British Journal for the Philosophy of Science 57:587-621 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509048
abstract: Whilst a straightforward consequence of the formalism of non-relativistic quantum mechanics, the phenomenon of quantum teleportation has given rise to considerable puzzlement. In this paper, the teleportation protocol is reviewed and these puzzles dispelled. It is suggested that they arise from two primary sources: 1) the familiar error of hypostatizing an abstract noun (in this case, `information') and 2) failure to differentiate interpretation dependent from interpretation independent features of quantum mechanics. A subsidiary source of error, the simulation fallacy, is also identified. The resolution presented of the puzzles of teleportation illustrates the benefits of paying due attention to the logical status of `information' as an abstract noun.

id: quant-ph/0509049
title: Entanglement as a quantum order parameter
authors: Fernando Guadalupe Santos Lins Brandao
comments: 5 pages. No figures. Revised version. References added
journal: New J. Phys. 7, 254 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509049
abstract: We show that the quantum order parameters (QOP) associated with the transitions between a normal conductor and a superconductor in the BCS and eta-pairing models and between a Mott-insulator and a superfluid in the Bose-Hubbard model are directly related to the amount of entanglement existent in the ground state of each system. This gives a physical meaningful interpretation to these QOP, which shows the intrinsically quantum nature of the phase transitions considered.

id: quant-ph/0509050
title: Discrete Wigner distribution for two qubits: a characterization of entanglement properties
authors: R. Franco, V. Penna
comments: 15 pages, 6 tables
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 5907-5919
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509050
abstract: We study the properties of the discrete Wigner distribution for two qubits introduced by Wotters. In particular, we analyze the entanglement properties within the Wigner distribution picture by considering the negativity of the Wigner function (WF) and the correlations of the marginal distribution. We show that a state is entangled if at least one among the values assumed by the corresponding discrete WF is smaller than a certain critical (negative) value. Then, based on the Partial Transposition criterion, we establish the relation between the separability of a density matrix and the non-negativity of the WF's relevant both to such a density matrix and to the partially transposed thereof. Finally, we derive a simple inequality --involving the covariance-matrix elements of a given WF-- which appears to provide a separability criterion stronger than the one based on the Local Uncertainty Relations.

id: quant-ph/0509051
title: A Quantum Logic Array Microarchitecture: Scalable Quantum Data Movement and Computation
authors: Tzvetan S. Metodi, Darshan D. Thaker, Andrew W. Cross, Frederic T. Chong, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures, 2 tables. To appear in the 2005 International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO-38)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509051
abstract: Recent experimental advances have demonstrated technologies capable of supporting scalable quantum computation. A critical next step is how to put those technologies together into a scalable, fault-tolerant system that is also feasible. We propose a Quantum Logic Array (QLA) microarchitecture that forms the foundation of such a system. The QLA focuses on the communication resources necessary to efficiently support fault-tolerant computations. We leverage the extensive groundwork in quantum error correction theory and provide analysis that shows that our system is both asymptotically and empirically fault tolerant. Specifically, we use the QLA to implement a hierarchical, array-based design and a logarithmic expense quantum-teleportation communication protocol. Our goal is to overcome the primary scalability challenges of reliability, communication, and quantum resource distribution that plague current proposals for large-scale quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0509052
title: Implications of the Luders Postulate for Quantum Algorithms
authors: Bernhard K. Meister
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509052
abstract: The Luders postulate is reviewed and implications for quantum algorithms are discussed. A search algorithm for an unstructured database is described.

id: quant-ph/0509053
title: Absolute frequency measurement of an SF6 two-photon line using a femtosecond optical comb and sum-frequency generation
authors: Anne Amy-Klein, Andrei Goncharov, Mickael Guinet, Christophe Daussy, Olivier Lopez, Alexander Shelkovnikov, Christian Chardonnet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509053
abstract: We demonstrate a new simple technique to measure IR frequencies near 30 THz using a femtosecond (fs) laser optical comb and sum-frequency generation. The optical frequency is directly compared to the distance between two modes of the fs laser, and the resulting beat note is used to control this distance which depends only on the repetition rate fr of the fs laser. The absolute frequency of a CO2 laser stabilized onto an SF6 two-photon line has been measured for the first time. This line is an attractive alternative to the usual saturated absorption OsO4 resonances used for the stabilization of CO2 lasers. First results demonstrate a fractional Allan deviation of 3.10-14 at 1 s.

id: quant-ph/0509054
title: Further results on the observability of quantum systems under general measurement
authors: D. D'Alessandro, R. Romano
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509054
abstract: In this paper, we present a collection of results on the observability of quantum mechanical systems, in the case the output is the result of a discrete nonselective measurement. By defining an effective observable we extend previous results, on the Lie algebraic characterization of observable systems, to general measurements. Further results include the characterization of a `best probe' (i.e. a minimally disturbing probe) in indirect measurement and a study of the relation between disturbance and observability in this case. We also discuss how the observability properties of a quantum system relate to the problem of state reconstruction. Extensions of the formalism to the case of selective measurements are also given.

id: quant-ph/0509055
title: The Trigonometric Rosen-Morse Potential in the Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics and its Exact Solutions
authors: C. B. Compean, M. Kirchbach
comments: 16 pages 7 figures 1 table
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 547-558
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509055
abstract: The analytic solutions of the one-dimensional Schroedinger equation for the trigonometric Rosen-Morse potential reported in the literature rely upon the Jacobi polynomials with complex indices and complex arguments. We first draw attention to the fact that the complex Jacobi polynomials have non-trivial orthogonality properties which make them uncomfortable for physics applications. Instead we here solve above equation in terms of real orthogonal polynomials. The new solutions are used in the construction of the quantum-mechanic superpotential.

id: quant-ph/0509056
title: Local Invariants and Pairwise Entanglement in Symmetric Multi-qubit System
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, M. S. Uma, R. Prabhu, Sudha
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, REVTEX, Replaced with a published version
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, Vol. 20, (2006) 1917-1933
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509056
abstract: Pairwise entanglement properties of a symmetric multi-qubit system are analyzed through a complete set of two-qubit local invariants. Collective features of entanglement, such as spin squeezing, are expressed in terms of invariants and a classifcation scheme for pairwise entanglement is proposed. The invariant criteria given here are shown to be related to the recently proposed (Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 120502 (2005)) generalized spin squeezing inequalities for pairwise entanglement in symmetric multi-qubit states.

id: quant-ph/0509057
title: Remote Implementation of Quantum Operations
authors: Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio, Guo-Yong Xiang, Jian Li}and Guang-Can Guo
comments: To be published in JOPB special issue on Quantum Control
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) S384-S391
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509057
abstract: Shared entanglement allows, under certain conditions, the remote implementation of quantum operations. We revise and extend recent theoretical results on the remote control of quantum systems as well as experimental results on the remote manipulation of photonic qubits via linear optical elements.

id: quant-ph/0509058
title: Fluctuations and Noise: A General Model with Applications
authors: R. F. O'Connell
comments: Presented at the SPIE International Symposium on Fluctuations and Noise in Photonics and Quantum Optics (Austin, May 2005)
journal: Proc. of SPIE, Vol. 5842, 206 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509058
abstract: A wide variety of dissipative and fluctuation problems involving a quantum system in a heat bath can be described by the independent-oscillator (IO) model Hamiltonian. Using Heisenberg equations of motion, this leads to a generalized quantum Langevin equation (QLE) for the quantum system involving two quantities which encapsulate the properties of the heat bath. Applications include: atomic energy shifts in a blackbody radiation heat bath; solution of the problem of runaway solutions in QED; electrical circuits (resistively shunted Josephson barrier, microscopic tunnel junction, etc.); conductivity calculations (since the QLE gives a natural separation between dissipative and fluctuation forces); dissipative quantum tunneling; noise effects in gravitational wave detectors; anomalous diffusion; strongly driven quantum systems; decoherence phenomena; analysis of Unruh radiation and entropy for a dissipative system.

id: quant-ph/0509059
title: Mixing of Quantum Walk on Circulant Bunkbeds
authors: P. Lo, S. Rajaram, D. Schepens, D. Sullivan, C. Tamon, J. Ward
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 6, No. 4&5 (2006), pages 370-381.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509059
abstract: We give new observations on the mixing dynamics of a continuous-time quantum walk on circulants and their bunkbed extensions. These bunkbeds are defined through two standard graph operators: the join G + H and the Cartesian product of graphs G and H.Our results include the following: 1. The quantum walk is average uniform mixing on circulants with bounded eigenvalue multiplicity. This extends a known fact about the cycles. 2. Explicit analysis of the probability distribution of the quantum walk on the join of circulants. This explains why complete partite graphs are not average uniform mixing, using the fact the complete n-vertex graph is the join of a 1-vertex graph and the (n-1)-vertex complete graph, and that the complete m-partite graph, where each partition has size n, is the m-fold join of the empty n-vertex graph. 3. The quantum walk on the Cartesian product of a m-vertex path P and a circulant G, is average uniform mixing if G is. This highlights a difference between circulants and the hypercubes. Our proofs employ purely elementary arguments based on the spectra of the graphs.

id: quant-ph/0509060
title: Noise thresholds for optical quantum computers
authors: Christopher M. Dawson, Henry L. Haselgrove, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 020501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509060
abstract: In this paper we numerically investigate the fault-tolerant threshold for optical cluster-state quantum computing. We allow both photon loss noise and depolarizing noise (as a general proxy for all local noise), and obtain a threshold region of allowed pairs of values for the two types of noise. Roughly speaking, our results show that scalable optical quantum computing is possible for photon loss probabilities less than 0.003, and for depolarization probabilities less than 0.0001.

id: quant-ph/0509061
title: From Einstein's Theorem to Bell's Theorem: A History of Quantum Nonlocality
authors: H. M. Wiseman
comments: 18 pages. To be published in Contemporary Physics. (Minor changes; references and author info added)
journal: Contemporary Physics {\bf 47}, 79-88 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509061
abstract: In this Einstein Year of Physics it seems appropriate to look at an important aspect of Einstein's work that is often down-played: his contribution to the debate on the interpretation of quantum mechanics. Contrary to popular opinion, Bohr had no defence against Einstein's 1935 attack (the EPR paper) on the claimed completeness of orthodox quantum mechanics. I suggest that Einstein's argument, as stated most clearly in 1946, could justly be called Einstein's reality-locality-completeness theorem, since it proves that one of these three must be false. Einstein's instinct was that completeness of orthodox quantum mechanics was the falsehood, but he failed in his quest to find a more complete theory that respected reality and locality. Einstein's theorem, and possibly Einstein's failure, inspired John Bell in 1964 to prove his reality-locality theorem. This strengthened Einstein's theorem (but showed the futility of his quest) by demonstrating that either reality or locality is a falsehood. This revealed the full nonlocality of the quantum world for the first time.

id: quant-ph/0509062
title: Local copying and local discrimination as a study for non-locality of a set
authors: Masaki Owari, Masahito Hayashi
comments: This is an extended version of quant-ph/0411143
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 032108 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509062
abstract: We focus on the non-locality concerning local copying and local discrimination, especially for a set of orthogonal maximally entangled states in prime dimensional systems, as a study of non-locality of a set of states. As a result, for such a set, we completely characterize deterministic local copiability and show that local copying is more difficult than local discrimination. From these result, we can conclude that lack algebraic symmetry causes extra non-locality of a set.

id: quant-ph/0509063
title: Aspects of Cosmic Inflation in Expanding Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Michael Uhlmann, Yan Xu, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 17 pages
journal: New J.Phys. 7 (2005) 248
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509063
abstract: Phonons in expanding Bose-Einstein condensates with wavelengths much larger than the healing length behave in the same way as quantum fields within a universe undergoing an accelerated expansion. This analogy facilitates the application of many tools and concepts known from general relativity (such as horizons) and the prediction of the corresponding effects such as the freezing of modes after horizon crossing and the associated amplification of quantum fluctuations. Basically the same amplification mechanism is (according to our standard model of cosmology) supposed to be responsible for the generation of the initial inhomogeneities -- and hence the seeds for the formation of structures such as our galaxy -- during cosmic inflation (i.e., a very early epoch in the evolution of our universe). After a general discussion of the analogy (\emph{analogue cosmology}), we calculate the frozen and amplified density-density fluctuations for quasi-two dimensional (Q2D) and three dimensional (3D) condensates which undergo a free expansion after switching off the (longitudinal) trap. PACS: 03.75.Kk, 04.62.+v.

id: quant-ph/0509064
title: A Software Package to Construct Polynomial Sets over Z_2 for Determining the Output of Quantum Computations
authors: Vladimir P. Gerdt, Vasily M. Severyanov
comments: 5 pages, 4 Postscript figures, report presented on ACAT 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509064
abstract: A C# package is presented that allows a user for an input quantum circuit to generate a set of multivariate polynomials over the finite field Z_2 whose total number of solutions in Z_2 determines the output of the quantum computation defined by the circuit. The generated polynomial system can further be converted to the canonical Groebner basis form which provides a universal algorithmic tool for counting the number of common roots of the polynomials.

id: quant-ph/0509065
title: Perfect State Transfer: Beyond Nearest-Neighbor Couplings
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. Reorganised, more detailed derivations provided and section on rate of information transfer added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032306 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509065
abstract: In this paper we build on the ideas presented in previous works for perfectly transferring a quantum state between opposite ends of a spin chain using a fixed Hamiltonian. While all previous studies have concentrated on nearest-neighbor couplings, we demonstrate how to incorporate additional terms in the Hamiltonian by solving an Inverse Eigenvalue Problem. We also explore issues relating to the choice of the eigenvalue spectrum of the Hamiltonian, such as the tolerance to errors and the rate of information transfer.

id: quant-ph/0509066
title: Hybrid cluster state proposal for a quantum game
authors: M. Paternostro, M. S. Tame, M. S. Kim
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX 4
journal: New J. Phys. 7, 226 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509066
abstract: We propose an experimental implementation of a quantum game algorithm in a hybrid scheme combining the quantum circuit approach and the cluster state model. An economical cluster configuration is suggested to embody a quantum version of the Prisoners' Dilemma. Our proposal is shown to be within the experimental state-of-art and can be realized with existing technology. The effects of relevant experimental imperfections are also carefully examined.

id: quant-ph/0509067
title: Tight adversary bounds for composite functions
authors: Peter Hoyer, Troy Lee, Robert Spalek
comments: 10 pages, v2: simplified the proof and added an application, v3: fixed a proof
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509067
abstract: The quantum adversary method is a versatile method for proving lower bounds on quantum algorithms. It yields tight bounds for many computational problems, is robust in having many equivalent formulations, and has natural connections to classical lower bounds. A further nice property of the adversary method is that it behaves very well with respect to composition of functions. We generalize the adversary method to include costs--each bit of the input can be given an arbitrary positive cost representing the difficulty of querying that bit. We use this generalization to exactly capture the adversary bound of a composite function in terms of the adversary bounds of its component functions. Our results generalize and unify previously known composition properties of adversary methods, and yield as a simple corollary the Omega(sqrt{n}) bound of Barnum and Saks on the quantum query complexity of read-once functions.

id: quant-ph/0509068
title: Subwavelength atom localization via amplitude and phase control of the absorption spectrum-II
authors: Kishore T. Kapale, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509068
abstract: Interaction of the internal states of an atom with spatially dependent standing-wave cavity field can impart position information of the atom passing through it leading to subwavelength atom localization. We recently demonstrated a new regime of atom localization [Sahrai {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 72}, 013820 (2005)], namely sub-half-wavelength localization through phase control of electromagnetically induced transparency. This regime corresponds to extreme localization of atoms within a chosen half-wavelength region of the standing-wave cavity field. Here we present further investigation of the simplified model considered earlier and show interesting features of the proposal. We show how the model can be used to simulate variety of energy level schemes. Furthermore, the dressed-state analysis is employed to explain the emergence and suppression of the localization peaks, and the peak positions and widths. The range of parameters for obtaining clean sub-half-wavelength localization is identified.

id: quant-ph/0509069
title: Generation of GHZ-type and \emph{W}-type entangled coherent states of three-cavity fields
authors: Chun-Hua Yuan, Yong-Cheng Ou, Zhi-Ming Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 23 (7), 1695 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509069
abstract: We present experimental schemes to prepare the three-cavity GHZ-type and \emph{W}-type entangled coherent states in the context of dispersive cavity quantum electrodynamics. The schemes can be easily generalized to prepare the GHZ-type and \emph{W}-type entangled coherent states of $n$-cavity fields. The discussion of our schemes indicates that it can be realized by current technologies.

id: quant-ph/0509070
title: Local Entanglement and quantum phase transition in spin models
authors: Shi-Jian Gu, Guang-Shan Tian, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Shi-Jian Gu, Guang-Shan Tian, Hai-Qing Lin, New Journal of Physics 8, 61 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509070
abstract: Due to the phase interference of electromagnetic wave, one can recover the total image of one object from a small piece of holograph, which records the interference pattern of two laser light reflected from it. Similarly, the quantum superposition principle allows us to derive the global phase diagram of quantum spin models by investigating a proper local measurement. In the present paper, we study the two-site entanglement in the antifferomagnetic spin models with both spin-1/2 and 1. We show that its behaviors reveal some important information on the global properties and the quantum phase transition of these systems.

id: quant-ph/0509071
title: Attractive Casimir Forces in a Closed Geometry
authors: M. P. Hertzberg, R. L. Jaffe, M. Kardar, A. Scardicchio
comments: An updated version to coincide with the one published December 2005 in PRL. 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.95:250402,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509071
abstract: We study the Casimir force acting on a conducting piston with arbitrary cross section. We find the exact solution for a rectangular cross section and the first three terms in the asymptotic expansion for small height to width ratio when the cross section is arbitrary. Though weakened by the presence of the walls, the Casimir force turns out to be always attractive. Claims of repulsive Casimir forces for related configurations, like the cube, are invalidated by cutoff dependence.

id: quant-ph/0509072
title: Note on the Zero-Energy-Limit Solution for the Modified Gross-Pitaevskii Equation
authors: A. Kwang-Hua Chu
comments: 4 pages in total; 2002-May completed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509072
abstract: The modified Gross-Pitaevskii equation was derived and solved to obtain the 1D solution in the zero-energy limit. This stationary solution could account for the dominated contributions due to the kinetic effect as well as the chemical potential in inhomogeneous Bose gases.

id: quant-ph/0509073
title: Quantitative conditions do not guarantee the validity of the adiabatic approximation
authors: D. M. Tong, K. Singh, L. C. Kwek, C. H. Oh
comments: corrected typos. Eq. (32) is corrected. No other changes
journal: Physical Review Letters 95(2005)110407
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509073
abstract: In this letter, we point out that the widely used quantitative conditions in the adiabatic theorem are insufficient in that they do not guarantee the validity of the adiabatic approximation. We also reexamine the inconsistency issue raised by Marzlin and Sanders (Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 160408, 2004) and elucidate the underlying cause.

id: quant-ph/0509074
title: On the connection between the Schrodinger and the Heisenberg pictures for unbounded operators
authors: R. de la Madrid
comments: 5 pages; contribution to the XXV group theory colloquium, Cocoyoc (Mexico), August 2004
journal: Inst. Phys. Conf. Ser. No 185 (2005) 217-221
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509074
abstract: It is well known that the unboundedness of operators in Hilbert space entails domain troubles. It is also well known that most domain troubles can be surmounted by extending the Hilbert space to a rigged Hilbert space. In this note, we point out another of such troubles, namely the correspondence between the Schrodinger and the Heisenberg pictures for unbounded operators, and sketch the solution of this problem within the rigged Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0509075
title: Feed-forward and its role in conditional linear optical quantum dynamics
authors: S. Scheel, W.J. Munro, J. Eisert, K. Nemoto, P. Kok
comments: 4 pages, 3 eps figures, typeset using RevTex4, problems with figures resolved
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 034301 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509075
abstract: Nonlinear optical quantum gates can be created probabilistically using only single photon sources, linear optical elements and photon-number resolving detectors. These gates are heralded but operate with probabilities much less than one. There is currently a large gap between the performance of the known circuits and the established upper bounds on their success probabilities. One possibility for increasing the probability of success of such gates is feed-forward, where one attempts to correct certain failure events that occurred in the gate's operation. In this brief report we examine the role of feed-forward in improving the success probability. In particular, for the non-linear sign shift gate, we find that in a three-mode implementation with a single round of feed-forward the optimal average probability of success is approximately given by p= 0.272. This value is only slightly larger than the general optimal success probability without feed-forward, P= 0.25.

id: quant-ph/0509076
title: Quantum Key Distribution with Vacua or Dim Pulses as Decoy States
authors: Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: This Abstract was published in June 2004 as a conference proceeding of IEEE ISIT 2004. Here, we proposed for the first time the idea of using a vacua or weak coherent states as decoy states. We also noted, for the first time, that decoy state QKD are unconditionally secure because of the GLLP (Gottesman, Lo, Lutkenhaus, Preskill) result
journal: Proceedings of IEEE ISIT(International Symposium on Information Theory) 2004, p. 137 (IEEE Press. 2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509076
abstract: Recently, Hwang has proposed a decoy state method in quantum key distribution (QKD). In Hwang's proposal, the average photon number of the decoy state is about two. Here, we propose a new decoy state scheme using vacua or very weak coherent states as decoy states and discuss its advantages.

id: quant-ph/0509077
title: Nonorthogonal decoy-state Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Jing-Bo Li, Xi-Ming Fang
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; Revtex4, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509077
abstract: In practical quantum key distribution (QKD), weak coherent states as the photon sources have a limit in secure key rate and transmission distance because of the existence of multiphoton pulses and heavy loss in transmission line. Decoy states method and nonorthogonal encoding protocol are two important weapons to combat these effects. Here, we combine these two methods and propose a efficient method that can substantially improve the performance of QKD. We find a 79 km increase in transmission distance over the prior record using decoy states method.

id: quant-ph/0509078
title: Non-Unitary Quantum Walks on Hyper-Cycles
authors: Dmitry Solenov, Leonid Fedichkin
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures; upper-bound to mixing time has been improved
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012308 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509078
abstract: We present analytical treatment of quantum walks on multidimensional hyper-cycle graphs. We derive the analytical expression of the probability distribution for strong and weak decoherence regimes. Upper bound to mixing time is obtained.

id: quant-ph/0509079
title: Construction of $3\otimes 3$ entangled edge states with positive partial transposes
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: 14 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 9039-9050
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509079
abstract: We construct a class of $3\otimes 3$ entangled edge states with positive partial transposes using indecomposable positive linear maps. This class contains several new types of entangled edge states with respect to the range dimensions of themselves and their partial transposes.

id: quant-ph/0509080
title: Squeezing in Multivariate Spin Systems
authors: Swarnamala Sirsi
comments: 13 pages, 1 Table, Presented at ICSSUR-05, France
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509080
abstract: In contrast to the canonically conjugate variates $q$,$p$ representing the position and momentum of a particle in the phase space distributions, the three Cartesian components, $J_{x}$,$J_{y}$, $J_{z}$ of a spin-$j$ system constitute the mutually non-commuting variates in the quasi-probabilistic spin distributions. It can be shown that a univariate spin distribution is never squeezed and one needs to look into either bivariate or trivariate distributions for signatures of squeezing. Several such distributions result if one considers different characteristic functions or moments based on various correspondence rules. As an example, discrete probability distribution for an arbitrary spin-1 assembly is constructed using Wigner-Weyl and Margenau-Hill correspondence rules. It is also shown that a trivariate spin-1 assembly resulting from the exposure of nucleus with non-zero quadrupole moment to combined electric quadrupole field and dipole magnetic field exhibits squeezing in cerain cases.

id: quant-ph/0509081
title: Radiation of the blackbody in the external field
authors: Miroslav Pardy
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509081
abstract: The blackbody is considered in the external general field. The additional coefficients of stimulated emission and absorption are introduced into the Einstein mechanism. Then, the generalized Planck formula is derived. The Einstein and Debye formula for the specific heat is possible to generalize. The application of the theory to the sonoluminescence, the relic radiation and solar spectrum is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0509082
title: Angular spectrum of quantized light beams
authors: A. Aiello, J. Visser, G. Nienhuis, J. P. Woerdman
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 31, No. 4, February 15, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509082
abstract: We introduce a generalized angular spectrum representation for quantized light beams. By using our formalism, we are able to derive simple expressions for the electromagnetic vector potential operator in the case of: {a)} time-independent paraxial fields, {b)} time-dependent paraxial fields, and {c)} non-paraxial fields. For the first case, the well known paraxial results are fully recovered.

id: quant-ph/0509083
title: Condition for the adiabatic approximation
authors: Ming-Yong Ye, Xiang-Fa Zhou, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: We give a sufficient condition for the quantum adiabatic approximation, which can be used to resolve the recent criticism on it. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509083
abstract: We give a sufficient condition for the quantum adiabatic approximation, which is quantitative and can be used to estimate error caused by this approximation. We also discuss when the traditional condition is sufficient.

id: quant-ph/0509084
title: A review on the decoy-state method for practical quantum key distribution
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509084
abstract: We present a review on the historic development of the decoy state method, including the background, principles, methods, results and development. We also clarify some delicate concepts. Given an imperfect source and a very lossy channel, the photon-number-splitting (PNS) attack can make the quantum key distribution (QKD) in practice totally insecure. Given the result of ILM-GLLP, one knows how to distill the secure final key if he knows the fraction of tagged bits. The purpose of decoy state method is to do a tight verification of the the fraction of tagged bits. The main idea of decoy-state method is changing the intensities of source light and one can verify the fraction of tagged bits of certain intensity by watching the the counting rates of pulses of different intensities. Since the counting rates are small quantities, the effect of statistical fluctuation is very important. It has been shown that 3-state decoy-state method in practice can work even with the fluctuations and other errors.

id: quant-ph/0509085
title: Improving the purity of one- and two-qubit gates by AC fields
authors: Sigmund Kohler, Peter H?nggi
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures, style file included
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 54, 804 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509085
abstract: We investigate the influence of AC driving fields on the coherence properties of one- and two-qubit gate operations. In both cases, we find that for suitable driving parameters, the gate purity improves significantly. A mapping of the time-dependent system-bath model to an effective static model provides analytical results. The resulting purity loss compares favorably with numerical results.

id: quant-ph/0509086
title: Structure of high-order quantum adiabatic approximation
authors: Alexei A. Mailybaev
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to new references information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509086
abstract: The paper studies the structure of high-order adiabatic approximation of a wave function for slowly changing Hamiltonians. A constructive technique for explicit separation of fast and slow components of the wave function is developed. The fast components are determined by dynamic phases, while the slow components are given by asymptotic series evaluated by means of an explicit recurrent procedure. It is shown that the slow components represent quasiadiabatic states, which play conceptually the same role as energy levels in stationary systems or Floquet states in time-periodic systems. As an application, we derive high-order asymptotic expressions for quasienergies of periodic Hamiltonians. As examples, a two-state (spin-1/2) system in periodically changing magnetic filed, and a particle in moving square potential well are studied.

id: quant-ph/0509087
title: Purity estimation with separable measurements
authors: E. Bagan, M. A. Ballester, R. Munoz-Tapia, O. Romero-Isart
comments: Abridged version of quant-ph/0505083, to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 95, 110504 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509087
abstract: Given a large number N of copies of a qubit state of which we wish to estimate its purity, we prove that separable-measurement protocols can be as efficient as the optimal joint-measurement one if classical communication is used. This shows that the optimal estimation of the entanglement of a two-qubit state can also be achieved asymptotically with fully separable measurements. Thus, quantum memories provide no advantage in this situation. The relationship between our global Bayesian approach and the quantum Cramer-Rao bound is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0509088
title: Conclusive Entangling Probe
authors: Howard E. Brandt
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509088
abstract: A design is given for an optimized entangling probe attacking the BB84 (Bennett-Brassard 1984) protocol of quantum key distribution and yielding maximum information to the probe for a full range of induced error rates. Probe photon polarization states become optimally entangled with the signal states on their way between the legitimate transmitter and receiver. Although standard von-Neumann projective measurements of the probe yield maximum information on the pre-privacy amplified key, if instead the probe measurements are performed with a certain positive operator valued measure, then the measurement results are conclusive, at least some of the time, for a full range of inconclusive rates.

id: quant-ph/0509089
title: Copenhagen Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics Is Incorrect
authors: Guang-Liang Li, Victor O. K. Li
comments: A point-by-point response to a comment (quant-ph/0509130) on our paper (quant-ph/0509089) is added as Appendix C
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509089
abstract: (A point-by-point response to a comment (quant-ph/0509130) on our paper (quant-ph/0509089) is added as Appendix C. We find the comment incorrect.) Einstein's criticism of the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics is an important part of his legacy. Although most physicists consider Einstein's criticism technically unfounded, we show that the Copenhagen interpretation is actually incorrect, since Born's probability explanation of the wave function is incorrect due to a false assumption on "continuous probabilities" in modern probability theory. "Continuous probability" means a "probability measure" that can take every value in a subinterval of the unit interval (0, 1). We prove that such "continuous probabilities" are invalid. Since Bell's inequality also assumes "continuous probabilities", the result of the experimental test of Bell's inequality is not evidence supporting the Copenhagen interpretation. Although successful applications of quantum mechanics and explanation of quantum phenomena do not necessarily rely on the Copenhagen interpretation, the question asked by Einstein 70 years ago, i.e., whether a complete description of reality exists, still remains open.

id: quant-ph/0509090
title: The Symmetric Stable L¨¦vy Flights and the Feynman Path Integral
authors: Agapitos Hatzinikitas
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509090
abstract: We determine the solution of the fractional spatial diffusion equation in n-dimensional Euclidean space for a "free" particle by computing the corresponding propagator. We employ both the Hamiltonian and Lagrangian approaches which produce exact results for the case of jumps governed by symmetric stable L\'{e}vy flights.

id: quant-ph/0509091
title: On the security of AlphaEta: Response to `Some attacks on quantum-based cryptographic protocols'
authors: Horace P. Yuen, Ranjith Nair, Eric Corndorf, Gregory S. Kanter, Prem Kumar
comments: Accepted for publication in QIC; Reset in Journal format; some minor typos and language changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509091
abstract: Lo and Ko in [1] have developed some attacks on the cryptosystem called AlphaEta [2], claiming that these attacks undermine the security of AlphaEta for both direct encryption and key generation. In this paper, we show that their arguments fail in many different ways. In particular, the first attack in [1] requires channel loss or length of known-plaintext that is exponential in the key length and is unrealistic even for moderate key lengths. The second attack is a Grover search attack based on `asymptotic orthogonality' and was not analyzed quantitatively in [1]. We explain why it is not logically possible to ``pull back'' an argument valid only at n=infinity into a limit statement, let alone one valid for a finite number of transmissions n. We illustrate this by a `proof' using a similar asymptotic orthogonality argument that coherent-state BB84 is insecure for any value of loss. Even if a limit statement is true, this attack is a priori irrelevant as it requires an indefinitely large amount of known-plaintext, resources and processing. We also explain why the attacks in [1] on AlphaEta as a key-generation system are based on misinterpretations of [2]. Some misunderstandings in [1] regarding certain issues in cryptography and optical communications are also pointed out. Short of providing a security proof for AlphaEta, we provide a description of relevant results in standard cryptography and in the design of AlphaEta to put the above issues in the proper framework and to elucidate some security features of this new approach to quantum cryptography.

id: quant-ph/0509092
title: Reply to: 'Reply to: "Comment on: `How much security does Y-00 protocol provide us?` " '
authors: Ranjith Nair, Horace P. Yuen, Eric Corndorf, Prem Kumar
comments: Submitted to Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509092
abstract: Nishioka et al claim in [1], elaborating on their earlier paper [2], that the direct encryption scheme called Y-00 [3,4] is equivalent to a classical non-random additive stream cipher, and thus offers no more security than the latter. In this paper, we show that this claim is false and that Y-00 may be considered equivalent to a \emph{random} cipher. We explain why a random cipher provides additional security compared to its nonrandom counterpart. Some criticisms in [1] on the use of Y-00 for key generation are also briefly responded to.

id: quant-ph/0509093
title: Conditional quantum distinguishability and pure quantum communication
authors: Tian-Hai Zeng
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509093
abstract: I design a simple way of distinguishing non-orthogonal quantum states with perfect reliability using only quantum control-not gates in one condition. In this way, we can implement pure quantum communication in directly sending classical information, Ekert quantum cryptography and quantum teleportation without the help of classical communications channel.

id: quant-ph/0509094
title: Single-cell atomic quantum memory for light
authors: Tomas Opatrny
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509094
abstract: Recent experiments demonstrating atomic quantum memory for light [B. Julsgaard et al., Nature 432, 482 (2004)] involve two macroscopic samples of atoms, each with opposite spin polarization. It is shown here that a single atomic cell is enough for the memory function if the atoms are optically pumped with suitable linearly polarized light, and quadratic Zeeman shift and/or ac Stark shift are used to manipulate rotations of the quadratures. This should enhance the performance of our quantum memory devices since less resources are needed and losses of light in crossing different media boundaries are avoided.

id: quant-ph/0509095
title: Entanglement reciprocation between qubits and continuous variables
authors: Jinhyoung Lee, M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim, S. Bose
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 080501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509095
abstract: We investigate how entanglement can be transferred between qubits and continuous variable (CV) systems. We find that one ebit borne in maximally entangled qubits can be fully transferred to two CV systems which are initially prepared in pure separable Gaussian field with high excitation. We show that it is possible, though not straightforward, to retrieve the entanglement back to qubits from the entangled CV systems. The possibility of deposition of multiple ebits from qubits to the initially unentangled CV systems is also pointed out.

id: quant-ph/0509096
title: Potential Errors in a Scheme of Universal Quantum Gates in Kane's Model
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Shuji Mikami, Ichiro Ohba
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures; improved with typos corrected; Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032321 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509096
abstract: We re--investigate a plausible proposal for universal quantum gates in Kane's model, in which the authors assumed that electron spin is always downward under a background magnetic field and the value of controlling parameters is varied instantaneously. We demonstrate that a considerable error appears, for example, in the X rotation. As result, the controlled operations don't work. Such a failure is caused by improper choice of the computational bases; actually, the electron spin is not always downward over time during quantum operations.

id: quant-ph/0509097
title: An absolutely secure QKD scheme with no detection noise, entanglement and classical communication
authors: Janos A. Bergou, Laszlo B. Kish
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509097
abstract: A new quantum communication scheme is introduced which is the quantum realization of the classical Kish-Sethuraman (KS) cipher. First the message is bounced back with additional encryption by the Receiver and the original encryption is removed and the message is resent by the Sender. The mechanical analogy of this operation is using two padlocks; one by the Sender and one by the Receiver. We show that the rotation of the polarization is an operator which satisfies the conditions required for the KS encryption operators provided single photons are communicated. The new method is not only simple but has several advantages. The Evasdropper extracts zero information even if she executes a quantum measurement on the state. The communication can be done by two publicly agreed orthogonal states. Therefore, there is no inherent detection noise. No classical channel and no entangled states are required for the communication.

id: quant-ph/0509098
title: Comment on "Impossibility of distant indirect measurement of the quantum Zeno effect"
authors: S. Wallentowitz, P.E. Toschek
comments: 2 pages, to be published in Phys. Rev. A, comment on quant-ph/0310090
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509098
abstract: In the paper by M. Hotta and M. Morikawa [Phys. Rev. A 69, 052114 (2004)] the non-existence of the quantum Zeno effect caused by indirect measurements has been claimed. It is shown here that the pertinent proof is incorrect, and the claim unfounded.

id: quant-ph/0509099
title: Experimental Tailoring of a Three-Level Lambda System in Tm3+:YAG
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric De Seze, Anne Louchet, Vincent Crozatier, Ivan Lorger¨¦, Fabien Bretenaker, Jean-Louis Le Gou?t, Olivier Guillot-No?l, Philippe Goldner
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 085112 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509099
abstract: Quantum information transfer from light to atom ensembles and vice versa has both basic and practical importance. Among the relevant topics let us mention entanglement and decoherence of macroscopic systems, together with applications to quantum memory for long distance quantum cryptography. Although the first experimental demonstrations have been performed in atomic vapors and clouds, rare earth ion doped crystals are also interesting media for such processes. In this paper we address Tm3+ ions capability to behave as three-level lambda systems, a key ingredient to convert optical excitation into a spontaneous- emission-free spin wave. Indeed Tm3+ falls within reach of light sources that can be stabilized easily to the required degree. In the absence of zero-field hyperfine structure we apply an external magnetic field to lift the nuclear spin degeneracy in Tm3+:YAG. We experimentally determine the gyromagnetic tensor components with the help of spectral hole-burning techniques. Then appropriate orientation of the applied field enables us to optimize the transition probability ratio along the two legs of the lambda. The resulting three-level lambda system should suit quantum information processing requirements.

id: quant-ph/0509100
title: Physical Purification of Quantum States
authors: M. Kleinmann, H. Kampermann, T. Meyer, D. Bruss
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062309 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509100
abstract: We introduce the concept of a physical process that purifies a mixed quantum state, taken from a set of states, and investigate the conditions under which such a purification map exists. Here, a purification of a mixed quantum state is a pure state in a higher-dimensional Hilbert space, the reduced density matrix of which is identical to the original state. We characterize all sets of mixed quantum states, for which perfect purification is possible. Surprisingly, some sets of two non-commuting states are among them. Furthermore, we investigate the possibility of performing an imperfect purification.

id: quant-ph/0509101
title: On complementary channels and the additivity problem
authors: A. S. Holevo
comments: 11 pages; references added, typos corrected
journal: Probab. Theory and Appl., v. 51, 133-143, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509101
abstract: We explore complementarity between output and environment of a quantum channel (or, more generally, CP map), making an observation that the output purity characteristics for complementary CP maps coincide. Hence, validity of the mutiplicativity/additivity conjecture for a class of CP maps implies its validity for complementary maps. The class of CP maps complementary to entanglement-breaking ones is described and is shown to contain diagonal CP maps as a proper subclass, resulting in new class of CP maps (channels) for which the multiplicativity/additivity holds. Covariant and Gaussian channels are discussed briefly in this context.

id: quant-ph/0509102
title: Orientation of molecules via laser-induced anti-alignment
authors: E. Gershnabel, I. Sh. Averbukh, R.J. Gordon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509102
abstract: We show that field-free molecular orientation induced by a half-cycle pulse may be considerably enhanced by an additional laser pulse inducing molecular anti-alignment. Two qualitatively different enhancement mechanisms are identified depending on the pulse order, and their effects are optimized with the help of quasi-classical as well as fully quantum models.

id: quant-ph/0509103
title: Robust "trapping states" in the motion of a trapped ion
authors: S. Wallentowitz, W. Vogel, P.E. Toschek
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: Opt. Commun. 239, 109 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509103
abstract: A novel robust mechanism for the generation of "trapping states" is shown to exist in the coupling of a two-level system with an oscillator, which is based on nonlinearities in the laser-induced vibronic coupling. This mechanism is exemplified with an ion confined in the potential well of a trap, where the nonlinearities are due to Franck--Condon type overlap integrals of the laser waves with the ionic centre-of-mass wavefunction. In contrast to the coherent trapping mechanism known from micro-maser theory, this mechanism works also in an incoherent regime operated by noisy lasers and is therefore much more robust against external decoherence effects. These features favour the incoherent regime, in particular for the preparation of highly excited trapping states.

id: quant-ph/0509104
title: On the notion of reconstruction of quantum theory
authors: Alexei Grinbaum
comments: 23 pages, rewritten and extended
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509104
abstract: What belongs to quantum theory is no more than what is needed for its derivation. We argue for an approach focusing on reconstruction rather than interpretation of quantum mechanics and analyze several examples of reconstruction. We submit that reconstruction advances our understanding of quantum theory irrespective of one's ontological stance.

id: quant-ph/0509105
title: Return operator, cross Bell bases and protocol of teleportation of arbitrary multipartite qubit entanglement
authors: Zai-Zhe Zhong
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509105
abstract: In this paper, we define the return operator, the cross product operator and the cross Bell bases. Using the cross Bell bases, we give a protocol of teleportation of arbitrary multipartite qubit entanglement, this scheme is a quite natural generalization of the BBCJPW scheme. We find that this teleportation, in fact, is essentially determined by the teleportation of every single unknown qubit state as in the original scheme of BBCJPW. The calculation in detail is given for the case of tripartite qubit.

id: quant-ph/0509106
title: Information-theoretic principle entails orthomodularity of a lattice
authors: Alexei Grinbaum
comments: Version prior to published, with slight modifications
journal: Found. Phys. Lett. 18 (6) 2005, pp. 563-572
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509106
abstract: Quantum logical axiomatic systems for quantum theory usually include a postulate that a lattice under consideration is orthomodular. We propose a derivation of orthomodularity from an information-theoretic axiom. This provides conceptual clarity and removes a long-standing puzzle about the meaning of orthomodularity.

id: quant-ph/0509107
title: Quantum nature of laser light
authors: David T. Pegg, John Jeffers
comments: 
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 52, 1835 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509107
abstract: All compositions of a mixed-state density operator are equivalent for the prediction of the probabilities of future outcomes of measurements. For retrodiction, however, this is not the case. The retrodictive formalism of quantum mechanics provides a criterion for deciding that some compositions are fictional. Fictional compositions do not contain preparation device operators, that is operators corresponding to states that could have been prepared. We apply this to Molmer's controversial conjecture that optical coherences in laser light are a fiction and find agreement with his conjecture. We generalise Molmer's derivation of the interference between two lasers to avoid the use of any fictional states. We also examine another possible method for discriminating between conerent states and photon number states in laser light and find that it does not work, with the equivalence for prediction saved by entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0509108
title: Coherent states of a charged particle in a uniform magnetic field
authors: K. Kowalski, J. Rembielinski
comments: 2 eps figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 8247-8258
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509108
abstract: The coherent states are constructed for a charged particle in a uniform magnetic field based on coherent states for the circular motion which have recently been introduced by the authors.

id: quant-ph/0509109
title: Quantum Lubrication: Suppression of Friction in a First Principle Four Stroke Heat Engine
authors: Tova Feldmann, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: references added some minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509109
abstract: A quantum model of a heat engine resembling the Otto cycle is employed to explore strategies to suppress frictional losses. These losses are caused by the inability of the engine's working medium to follow adiabatically the change in the Hamiltonian during the expansion and compression stages. By adding external noise to the engine, frictional losses can be suppressed.

id: quant-ph/0509110
title: Emergence of thermodynamic behavior within composite quantum systems
authors: Guenter Mahler, Jochen Gemmer, Mathias Michel
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures, accepted for publication in Physica E
journal: Physica E, 29, 53-65 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509110
abstract: Entanglement within a given device provides a potential resource for quantum information processing. Entanglement between system and environment leads to decoherence (thus suppressing non-classical features within the system) but also opens up a route to robust and universal control. The latter is related to thermodynamic equilibrium, a generic behavior of bi-partite quantum systems. Fingerprints of this equilibrium behavior (including relaxation and stability) show up already far from the thermodynamic limit, where a complete solution of the underlying Schroedinger dynamics of the total system is still feasible.

id: quant-ph/0509111
title: Replacing Two Controlled-U's with Two CNOTs
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 13 pages (8 files: 1 .tex, 2 .sty, 4 .m, 1 .xxx)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509111
abstract: We give a simple, closed-form formula, what we call the Deflation Identity, for converting any 2-qubit circuit with exactly two controlled-U's (and some 1-qubit rotations) into an equivalent circuit with just two CNOTs (and some 1-qubit rotations). We also give two interesting applications of the Deflation Identity; one to "opening and closing a breach" in a quantum circuit, the other to the CS decomposition of a 2-qubit operator.

id: quant-ph/0509112
title: Non-adiabatic quantum molecular dynamics: Ionization of many electron systems
authors: Mathias Uhlmann, Thomas Kunert, Ruediger Schmidt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509112
abstract: We propose a novel method to describe realistically ionization processes with absorbing boundary conditions in basis expansion within the formalism of the so-called Non-Adiabatic Quantum Molecular Dynamics. This theory couples self-consistently a classical description of the nuclei with a quantum mechanical treatment of the electrons in atomic many-body systems. In this paper we extend the formalism by introducing absorbing boundary conditions via an imaginary potential. It is shown how this potential can be constructed in time-dependent density functional theory in basis expansion. The approach is first tested on the hydrogen atom and the pre-aligned hydrogen molecular ion H2+ in intense laser fields where reference calculations are available. It is then applied to study the ionization of non-aligned H2+ and H2. Striking differences in the orientation dependence between both molecules are found. Surprisingly, enhanced ionization is predicted for perpendicularly aligned molecules.

id: quant-ph/0509113
title: Array of planar Penning traps as a nuclear magnetic resonance molecule for quantum computation
authors: G. Ciaramicoli, F. Galve, I. Marzoli, P. Tombesi
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures (to be published in Phys. Rev. A)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509113
abstract: An array of planar Penning traps, holding single electrons, can realize an artificial molecule suitable for NMR-like quantum information processing. The effective spin-spin coupling is accomplished by applying a magnetic field gradient, combined to the Coulomb interaction acting between the charged particles. The system lends itself to scalability, since the same substrate can easily accommodate an arbitrary number of traps. Moreover, the coupling strength is tunable and under experimental control. Our theoretical predictions take into account a realistic setting, within the reach of current technology.

id: quant-ph/0509114
title: Coherent Backscattering of Light with Nonlinear Atomic Scatterers
authors: Thomas Wellens, Benoit Gremaud, Dominique Delande, Christian Miniatura
comments: 18 pages, 13 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509114
abstract: We study coherent backscattering of a monochromatic laser by a dilute gas of cold two-level atoms in the weakly nonlinear regime. The nonlinear response of the atoms results in a modification of both the average field propagation (nonlinear refractive index) and the scattering events. Using a perturbative approach, the nonlinear effects arise from inelastic two-photon scattering processes. We present a detailed diagrammatic derivation of the elastic and inelastic components of the backscattering signal both for scalar and vectorial photons. Especially, we show that the coherent backscattering phenomenon originates in some cases from the interference between three different scattering amplitudes. This is in marked contrast with the linear regime where it is due to the interference between two different scattering amplitudes. In particular we show that, if elastically scattered photons are filtered out from the photo-detection signal, the nonlinear backscattering enhancement factor exceeds the linear barrier two, consistently with a three-amplitude interference effect.

id: quant-ph/0509116
title: On the general equation of motion of quantum thermodynamics and the distinction between quantal and nonquantal uncertainties
authors: Gian Paolo Beretta
comments: Unabridged Latex version of a 1981 MIT doctoral thesis. Published on the ArXiv with explicit written permission of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Work referred to in a series of articles listed in the Foreword. 64 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509116
abstract: A general quantum theory encompassing Mechanics, Thermodynamics and irreversible dynamics is presented in two parts. The first part is concerned exclusively with the description of the states of any individual physical system. It is based on a new nonlinear quantum equation of motion, which reduces to the Schroedinger equation of motion of motion of conventional quantum dynamics only under special conditions. It accounts for the implications of the laws of Thermodynamics as well as for irreversible phenomena, such as the natural tendency of an isolated system to transit from any non-equilibrium state to an equilibrium state of higher entropy. Conversely, the laws of Thermodynamics and irreversibility emerge as manifestations of the fundamental quantum dynamical behaviour of the elementary constituents of any material system. We call this part Quantum Thermodynamics. The second part of the theory, which contains the first as a special case, is concerned with the description of stochastic distributions of states in an ensemble of identical physical systems each of which individually obeys the laws of Quantum Thermodynamics. It is based on a new measure-theoretic description of ensembles. It accounts unambiguously for the essential distinction between two types of uncertainties that are generally present in an ensemble, namely, quantal uncertainties due to the inherent quantal nature of the states of each individual member system and nonquantal uncertainties due to the stochastic distribution of states. We call this part Quantum Statistical Thermodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0509117
title: Cavity-QED tests of representations of canonical commutation relations employed in field quantization
authors: Marek Czachor, Marcin Wilczewski
comments: Discussion of dissipative and nondissipative decoherence is included. Theory is now consistent with the existing data and predictions for new experiments are more reliable
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.46:1215-1228,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509117
abstract: Various aspects of dissipative and nondissipative decoherence of Rabi oscillations are discussed in the context of field quantization in alternative representations of CCR. Theory is confronted with experiment, and a possibility of more conclusive tests is analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0509118
title: Quantum computing (Kwantumberekening)
authors: W.L. Fouch¨¦, J. Heidema, P.H. Potgieter
comments: 24 pages, in Afrikaans (title: Kwantumberekening) with English abstract
journal: Suid-Afrikaanse Tydskrif vir Natuurwetenskap en Tegnologie (ISSN 0254-3486), Vol 24, Issue 3, September, 60-83 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509118
abstract: There has been no lack of coverage in the past few years in scientific journals of the topic of quantum computation. Rightly so, as this is a novel idea with--so far--at least one very important practical application (prime factorisation) as soon as the technology can accommodate reasonably sized computations. Interest in quantum computing has been sparked by both the realization that increasing miniaturisation will eventually bring computer scientists face-to-face with quantum effects, and by the grasping of the potential for massive parallelism inherent in the Hilbert space representation of quantum systems and in the special effects of quantum entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0509119
title: Macroscopic Entanglement by Entanglement Swapping
authors: Stefano Pirandola, David Vitali, Paolo Tombesi, Seth Lloyd
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 150403 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509119
abstract: We present a scheme for entangling two micromechanical oscillators. The scheme exploits the quantum effects of radiation pressure and it is based on a novel application of entanglement swapping, where standard optical measurements are used to generate purely mechanical entanglement. The scheme is presented by first solving the general problem of entanglement swapping between arbitrary bipartite Gaussian states, for which simple input-output formulas are provided.

id: quant-ph/0509120
title: The ultra-sensitive electrical detection of spin Rabi oscillation at paramagnetic defects
authors: Christoph Boehme, Klaus Lips
comments: The manuscript has been submitted for journal publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509120
abstract: A short review of the pulsed electrically detected magnetic resonance (pEDMR) experiment is presented. PEDMR allows the highly sensitive observation of coherent electron spin motion of charge carriers and defects in semiconductors by means of transient current measurements. The theoretical foundations, the experimental implementation, its sensitivity and its potential with regard to the investigation of electronic transitions in semiconductors are discussed. For the example of the P_b center at the crystalline silicon (111) to silicon dioxide interface it is shown experimentally how one can detect spin Rabi-oscillation, its dephasing, coherence decays and spin-coupling effects.

id: quant-ph/0509121
title: Continuous variable tripartite entanglement from twin nonlinearities
authors: M.K. Olsen A.S. Bradley
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509121
abstract: In this work we analyse and compare the continuous variable tripartite entanglement available from the use of two concurrent or cascaded $\chi^{(2)}$ nonlinearities. We examine both idealised travelling-wave models and more experimentally realistic intracavity models, showing that tripartite entangled outputs are readily producible. These may be a useful resource for such applications as quantum cryptography and teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0509122
title: Symmetric measurements attaining the accessible information
authors: Thomas Decker
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509122
abstract: A theorem of Davies states that for symmetric quantum states there exists a symmetric POVM maximizing the mutual information. To apply this theorem the representation of the symmetry group has to be irreducible. We obtain a similar yet weaker result for reducible representations. We apply our results to the double trines ensemble and show numerically that for this ensemble the pretty good measurement is optimal.

id: quant-ph/0509123
title: Entanglement-assisted Orientation in Space
authors: Caslav Brukner, Nikola Paunkovic, Terry Rudolph, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 2.8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509123
abstract: We demonstrate that quantum entanglement can help separated individuals in making decisions if their goal is to find each other in the absence of any communication between them. We derive a Bell-like inequality that the efficiency of every classical solution for our problem has to obey, and demonstrate its violation by the quantum efficiency. This proves that no classical strategy can be more efficient than the quantum one.

id: quant-ph/0509124
title: Another dual formulation of the separability problem
authors: D. Salgado, J.L. Sanchez-Gomez, M. Ferrero
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509124
abstract: We show how the separability problem is dual to that of decomposing any given matrix into a conic combination of rank-one partial isometries, thus offering a duality approach different to the positive maps characterization problem. Several inmediate consequences are analyzed: (i) a sufficient criterion for separability for bipartite quantum systems, (ii) a complete solution to the separability problem for pure states also of bipartite systems independent of the classical Schmidt decomposition method and (iii) a natural generalization of these results to multipartite systems.

id: quant-ph/0509125
title: Feedback cooling of a single trapped ion
authors: Pavel Bushev, Daniel Rotter, Alex Wilson, Francois Dubin, Christoph Becher, Juergen Eschner, Rainer Blatt, Viktor Steixner, Peter Rabl, Peter Zoller
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509125
abstract: Based on a real-time measurement of the motion of a single ion in a Paul trap, we demonstrate its electro-mechanical cooling below the Doppler limit by homodyne feedback control (cold damping). The feedback cooling results are well described by a model based on a quantum mechanical Master Equation.

id: quant-ph/0509126
title: Properties of Conjugate Channels with Applications to Additivity and Multiplicativity
authors: Christopher King, Keiji Matsumoto, Michael Nathanson, Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: Final version to appear in Markov Processes and Related Fields special issue in memory of John T. Lewis
journal: Markov Process and Related Fields 13, 391-423 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509126
abstract: Quantum channels can be described via a unitary coupling of system and environment, followed by a trace over the environment state space. Taking the trace instead over the system state space produces a different mapping which we call the conjugate channel. We explore the properties of conjugate channels and describe several different methods of construction. In general, conjugate channels map M_d to M_d' with d < d', and different constructions may differ by conjugation with a partial isometry. We show that a channel and its conjugate have the same minimal output entropy and maximal output p-norm. It then follows that the additivity and multiplicativity conjectures for these measures of optimal output purity hold for a product of channels if and only if they also hold for the product of their conjugates. This allows us to reduce these conjectures to the special case of maps taking M_d to M_d' with a minimal representation of dimension at most d. We find explicit expressions for the conjugates for a number of well-known examples, including entanglement-breaking channels, unital qubit channels, the depolarizing channel, and a subclass of random unitary channels. For the entanglement-breaking channels, channels this yields a new class of channels for which additivity and multiplicativity of optimal output purity can be established. For random unitary channels using the generalized Pauli matrices, we obtain a new formulation of the multiplicativity conjecture. The conjugate of the completely noisy channel plays a special role and suggests a mechanism for using noise to transmit information.

id: quant-ph/0509127
title: Time Reversal Communication in Multi-Path Fading Channels with Pinholes
authors: Albert Fannjiang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509127
abstract: The paper presents an analysis of the time reversal in multi-path Rayleigh-fading channels with $N$ inputs (transmitters) and $M$ outputs (receivers). The main issues addressed are the condition of statistical stability, the rate of information transfer and the effect of pinholes. The stability condition is proved to be $MC\ll N_{\rm eff}B$ for broadband channels and $M\ll N_{\rm eff}$ for narrowband channels where $C$ is the symbol rate, $B$ is the bandwidth and $N_{\rm eff}$ is the {\em effective} number of transmitters. It is shown that when the number of layers, $n-1$, is relatively low compared to the logarithm of numbers of pinholes $N_{\rm eff}$ is given by $n^{-1}$ times the harmonic mean of the number of transmitters and the numbers of pinholes at all layers. On the other hand, when the number of layers is relatively large the effective number of pinholes diminishes exponentially. The energy efficiency is shown to be optimal when the power supply is set to the noise level times $BN_{\rm eff}$ and that the maximal information rate is roughly $BN_{\rm eff}$ when the stability condition is violated.

id: quant-ph/0509128
title: Homodyne measurement of average photon number
authors: J. G. Webb, T. C. Ralph, E. H. Huntington
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A. Only this 'comments:' field changed from last submission
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509128
abstract: We describe a new scheme for the measurement of mean photon flux at an arbitrary optical sideband frequency using homodyne detection. Experimental implementation of the technique requires an AOM in addition to the homodyne detector, and does not require phase locking. The technique exhibits polarisation, frequency and spatial mode selectivity, as well as much improved speed, resolution and dynamic range when compared to linear photodetectors and avalanche photo diodes (APDs), with potential application to quantum state tomography and information encoding using an optical frequency basis. Experimental data also directly confirms the Quantum Mechanical description of vacuum noise.

id: quant-ph/0509129
title: Quantum Signature Protocol without the Trusted Third Party
authors: Wen Xiao-jun, Liu Yun
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509129
abstract: An authentic digital signature scheme based on the correlation of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states was presented. In this scheme, by performing a local unitary operation on the third particles of each GHZ triplet, Alice can encode message M and get its signature S. Bob performs CNOT operation on the combined GHZ triplets can recovery the message M and directly authenticates Alice's signature S. Our scheme was designed to use quantum secret key to guaranteed unconditional security, as well as use quantum fingerprinting to avoid trick attacks and reduce communication complexity.

id: quant-ph/0509130
title: Comment on ''Copenhagen Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics Is Incorrect''
authors: Markus Bier
comments: 1/2 page, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509130
abstract: It is shown that ''Theorem 1'' of the article ''Copenhagen Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics Is Incorrect'' by G.-L. Li and V.O.K. Li (see quant-ph/0509089) is false. Therefore the assertion expressed in the title of that article is untenable.

id: quant-ph/0509131
title: Direct experimental evidence of free fermion antibunching
authors: M. Iannuzzi, A. Orecchini, F. Sacchetti, P. Facchi, S. Pascazio
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96 (2006) 080402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509131
abstract: Fermion antibunching was observed on a beam of free noninteracting neutrons. A monochromatic beam of thermal neutrons was first split by a graphite single crystal, then fed to two detectors, displaying a reduced coincidence rate. The result is a fermionic complement to the Hanbury Brown and Twiss effect for photons.

id: quant-ph/0509132
title: N-fold Supersymmetry in Quantum Systems with Position-dependent Mass
authors: Toshiaki Tanaka
comments: 18 pages, no figures; Refs. updated, typos corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 219-234
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509132
abstract: We formulate the framework of N-fold supersymmetry in one-body quantum mechanical systems with position-dependent mass (PDM). We show that some of the significant properties in the constant-mass case such as the equivalence to weak quasi-solvability also hold in the PDM case. We develop a systematic algorithm for constructing an N-fold supersymmetric PDM system. We apply it to obtain type A N-fold supersymmetry in the case of PDM, which is characterized by the so-called type A monomial space. The complete classification and general form of effective potentials for type A N-fold supersymmetry in the PDM case are given.

id: quant-ph/0509133
title: Joint measurements and Bell inequalities
authors: Wonmin Son, Erika Andersson, Stephem M. Barnett, M. S. Kim
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052116 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509133
abstract: Joint quantum measurements of non-commuting observables are possible, if one accepts an increase in the measured variances. A necessary condition for a joint measurement to be possible is that a joint probability distribution exists for the measurement. This fact suggests that there may be a link with Bell inequalities, as these will be satisfied if and only if a joint probability distribution for all involved observables exists. We investigate the connections between Bell inequalities and conditions for joint quantum measurements to be possible. Mermin's inequality for the three-particle Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state turns out to be equivalent to the condition for a joint measurement on two out of the three quantum systems to exist. Gisin's Bell inequality for three co-planar measurement directions, meanwhile, is shown to be less strict than the condition for the corresponding joint measurement.

id: quant-ph/0509134
title: Interacting classical and quantum ensembles
authors: Michael J.W. Hall, Marcel Reginatto
comments: 31 pages, minor clarifications and one Ref. added, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys.Rev. A72 (2005) 062109
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509134
abstract: A consistent description of interactions between classical and quantum systems is relevant to quantum measurement theory, and to calculations in quantum chemistry and quantum gravity. A solution is offered here to this longstanding problem, based on a universally-applicable formalism for ensembles on configuration space. This approach overcomes difficulties arising in previous attempts, and in particular allows for backreaction on the classical ensemble, conservation of probability and energy, and the correct classical equations of motion in the limit of no interaction. Applications include automatic decoherence for quantum ensembles interacting with classical measurement apparatuses; a generalisation of coherent states to hybrid harmonic oscillators; and an equation for describing the interaction of quantum matter fields with classical gravity, that implies the radius of a Robertson-Walker universe with a quantum massive scalar field can be sharply defined only for particular `quantized' values.

id: quant-ph/0509135
title: Exact Solution for a Two-Level Atom in Radiation Fields and the Freeman Resonances
authors: Dong-Sheng Guo, Yong-Shi Wu, Linn Van Woerkom
comments: 24 pages, no figure; v2 typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509135
abstract: Using techniques of complex analysis in an algebraic approach, we solve the wave equation for a two-level atom interacting with a monochromatic light field exactly. A closed-form expression for the quasi-energies is obtained, which shows that the Bloch-Siegert shift is always finite, regardless of whether the original or the shifted level spacing is an integral multiple of the driving frequency, $\omega$. We also find that the wave functions, though finite when the original level spacing is an integral multiple of $\omega$, become divergent when the intensity-dependent shifted energy spacing is an integral multiple of the photon energy. This result provides, for the first time in the literature, an ab-initio theoretical explanation for the occurrence of the Freeman resonances observed in above-threshold ionization experiments.

id: quant-ph/0509136
title: q-deformed Fermions
authors: P.Narayana Swamy
comments: 10 pages, Revtex format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509136
abstract: This is a study of $q$-Fermions arising from a q-deformed algebra of harmonic oscillators. Two distinct algebras will be investigated. Employing the first algebra, the Fock states are constructed for the generalized Fermions obeying Pauli exclusion principle. The distribution function and other thermodynamic properties such as the internal energy and entropy are derived. Another generalization of fermions from a different q-deformed algebra is investigated which deals with q-fermions not obeying the exclusion principle. Fock states are constructed for this system. The basic numbers appropriate for this system are determined as a direct consequence of the algebra. We also establish the Jackson Derivative, which is required for the q-calculus needed to describe these generalized Fermions.

id: quant-ph/0509137
title: Schrodinger Cat States for Quantum Information Processing
authors: H. Jeong, T.C. Ralph
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, to be published as an invited book chapter of "Quantum Information with Continuous Variables of Atoms and Light" (Imperial College Press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509137
abstract: We extensively discuss how Schrodinger cat states (superpositions of well-separated coherent states) in optical systems can be used for quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0509138
title: Generation of entangled photons by trapped ions in microcavities under a magnetic field gradient
authors: M. Feng, Z.J. Deng, K.L. Gao
comments: 2 Tables, 2 Figures, To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A 72, 042333 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509138
abstract: We propose a potential scheme to generate entangled photons by manipulating trapped ions embedded in two-mode microcavities, respectively, assisted by a magnetic field gradient. By means of the spin-spin coupling due to the magnetic field gradient and the Coulomb repulsion between the ions, we show how to efficiently generate entangled photons by detecting the internal states of the trapped ions. We emphasize that our scheme is advantageous to create complete sets of entangled multi-photon states. The requirement and the experimental feasibility of our proposal are discussed in detail.

id: quant-ph/0509139
title: Experimental Measurement of Mixed State Geometric Phase by Quantum Interferometry using NMR
authors: Arindam Ghosh, Anil Kumar
comments: 7 Figures. Physics Letters A (In Press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509139
abstract: Geometric phase has been proposed as one of the promising methodologies to perform fault tolerant quantum computations. However, since decoherence plays a crucial role in such studies, understanding of mixed state geometric phase has become important. While mixed state geometric phase was first introduced mathematically by Uhlmann, recently Sjoqvist et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 85(14), 2845 (2000)] have described the mixed state geometric phase in the context of quantum interference and shown theoretically that the visibility as well as the shift of the interference pattern are functions of geometric phase and the purity of the mixed state. Here we report the first experimental study of the dependence of interference visibility and shift of the interference pattern on the mixed state geometric phase by Nuclear Magnetic Resonance.

id: quant-ph/0509140
title: Universal entanglement concentration
authors: Keiji Matsumoto, Masahito Hayashi
comments: Revised a lot, especially proofs, though no change in theorems, lemmas itself. Very long, but essential part is from Sec.I to Sec IV-C. Some of the appendces are almost independent of the main body
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509140
abstract: We propose a new protocol of \textit{universal} entanglement concentration, which converts many copies of an \textit{unknown} pure state to an \textit{% exact} maximally entangled state. The yield of the protocol, which is outputted as a classical information, is probabilistic, and achives the entropy rate with high probability, just as non-universal entanglement concentration protocols do. Our protocol is optimal among all similar protocols in terms of wide varieties of measures either up to higher orders or non-asymptotically, depending on the choice of the measure. The key of the proof of optimality is the following fact, which is a consequence of the symmetry-based construction of the protocol: For any invariant measures, optimal protocols are found out in modifications of the protocol only in its classical output, or the claim on the product. We also observe that the classical part of the output of the protocol gives a natural estimate of the entropy of entanglement, and prove that that estimate achieves the better asymptotic performance than any other (potentially global) measurements.

id: quant-ph/0509141
title: Continuous time quantum walks in phase space
authors: Oliver Muelken, Alexander Blumen
comments: slightly revised version to be published in PRA, 6 pages, 6 color figures (high quality postscript figures are available upon request)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012105 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509141
abstract: We formulate continuous time quantum walks (CTQW) in a discrete quantum mechanical phase space. We define and calculate the Wigner function (WF) and its marginal distributions for CTQWs on circles of arbitrary length $N$. The WF of the CTQW shows characteristic features in phase space. Revivals of the probability distributions found for continuous and for discrete quantum carpets do manifest themselves as characteristic patterns in phase space.

id: quant-ph/0509142
title: Field tuned atom-atom entanglement via diople-dipole interaction
authors: Yan-Qing Guo, Hai-Jing Cao, He-Shan Song
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509142
abstract: We propose a simple scheme, in which only one atom couples to a cavity field, to entangle two two-level atoms. We connect two atoms with dipole-dipole interaction since one of them can move around the cavity. The results show that the peak entanglment does not depend on dipole-dipole interaction strength but on field density at a certain controlling time. So the field density can act as a switch for maximum entanglement (ME) generation.

id: quant-ph/0509143
title: Local field modulated entanglment among three distant atoms
authors: Yan-Qing Guo, Jing Chen, He-Shan Song
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509143
abstract: We extend the scheme for that proposed by S. Mancini and S. Bose (Phys. Rev. A \QTR{bf}{70}, 022307(2004)) to the case of triple-atom. Under mean field approximation, we obtain an effective Hamiltonian of triple-body Ising-model interaction. Furthermore, we stress on discussing the influence of the existence of a third-atom on the two-atom entanglement and testing the modulation effects of locally applied optical fields and fiber on the entanglement properties of our system.

id: quant-ph/0509144
title: Entangling Two-Atom Through Cooperative Interaction Under Stimulated Emission
authors: Y. Q. Guo, H. S. Song, L. Zhou, X. X. Yi
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509144
abstract: We discuss the generation of two-atom entanglement inside a resonant microcavity under stimulated emission (STE) interaction. The amount of entanglement is shown based on different atomic initial state. For each kind of intial state, we obtain the entanglement period and the entanglement critical point, which are found to deeply depend on driving field density. In case of atomic state $| ee >$, the entanglement can be induced due to STE. In case of atomic state $| eg >$, there is a competition between driving field indued entanglement and STE induced entanglement. When two atoms are initially in $| gg >$, we can find a lumbar region where STE increases the amount and period of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0509145
title: The dissipation of the system and the atom in two-photon Jaynes-Cummings model with degenerate atomic levels
authors: Y. Q. Guo, L. Zhou, H. S. Song
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509145
abstract: The method of perturbative expansion of master equation is employed to study the dissipative properties of system and of atom in the two-photon Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM) with degenerate atomic levels. The numerical results show that the degeneracy of atomic levels prolongs the period of entanglement between the atom and the field. The asymptotic value of atomic linear entropy is apparently increased by the degeneration. The amplitude of local entanglement and disentanglement is suppressed. The better the initial coherence property of the degenerate atom, the larger the coherence loss.

id: quant-ph/0509146
title: Engineering atom-atom thermal entanglement via two-photon process
authors: Y. Q. Guo, L. Zhou, H. S. Song
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509146
abstract: We study the system that two atoms simultaneously interact with a single-mode thermal field via different couplings and different spontaneous emission rates when two-photon process is involved. It is found that we indeed can employ the different couplings to produce the atom-atom thermal entanglement in two-photon process. The different atomic spontaneous emission rates are also utilizable in generating thermal entanglement. We also investigate the effect of the cavity leakage. To the initial atomic state $|ee> ,$a slight leakage can relieve the restriction of interaction time and we can obtain a large and steady entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0509147
title: Photon Frequency Mode Matching using Acousto-Optic Frequency Beam Splitters
authors: Nick S. Jones, T.M. Stace
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 033813 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509147
abstract: It is a difficult engineering task to create distinct solid state single photon sources which nonetheless emit photons at the same frequency. It is also hard to create entangled photon pairs from quantum dots. In the spirit of quantum engineering we propose a simple optical circuit which can, in the right circumstances, make frequency distinguishable photons frequency indistinguishable. Our circuit can supply a downstream solution to both problems, opening up a large window of allowed frequency mismatches between physical mechanisms. The only components used are spectrum analysers/prisms and an Acousto-Optic Modulator. We also note that an Acousto-Optic Modulator can be used to obtain Hong-Ou-Mandel two photon interference effects from the frequency distinguishable photons generated by distinct sources.

id: quant-ph/0509148
title: Two-level quantum dynamics, integrability and unitary NOT gates
authors: Renato M. Angelo, Walter F. Wreszinski
comments: 4 pages and 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 72, 034105 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509148
abstract: We study the dynamics of a two-level quantum system interacting with an external electromagnetic field periodic and quasiperiodic in time. The quantum evolution is described exactly by the classical equations of motion of a gyromagnet in a time-dependent magnetic field. We prove that this classical system is integrable as a consequence of the underlying unitary quantum dynamics. As a consequence, for the periodic case: i) rigorous assessment of the validity of the rotating-wave approximation (RWA) becomes possible even beyond the assumptions of resonance and weak coupling (the latter conditions are also shown to follow from the method of averaging); ii) we determine conditions for the realization of the quantum NOT operation beyond the RWA, by means of classical stroboscopic maps. The results bear upon areas as diverse as quantum optics, nuclear magnetic resonance, and quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0509149
title: A Bayesian Account of Quantum Histories
authors: Thomas Marlow
comments: 24 pages, accepted for publication in Annals of Physics, minor correction
journal: Annals of Physics 321 (2006) 1103--1125
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509149
abstract: We investigate whether quantum history theories can be consistent with Bayesian reasoning and whether such an analysis helps clarify the interpretation of such theories. First, we summarise and extend recent work categorising two different approaches to formalising multi-time measurements in quantum theory. The standard approach consists of describing an ordered series of measurements in terms of history propositions with non-additive `probabilities'. The non-standard approach consists of defining multi-time measurements to consist of sets of exclusive and exhaustive history propositions and recovering the single-time exclusivity of results when discussing single-time history propositions. We analyse whether such history propositions can be consistent with Bayes' rule. We show that certain class of histories are given a natural Bayesian interpretation, namely the linearly positive histories originally introduced by Goldstein and Page. Thus we argue that this gives a certain amount of interpretational clarity to the non-standard approach. We also attempt a justification of our analysis using Cox's axioms of probability theory.

id: quant-ph/0509150
title: Geometric nature in adiabatic evolution of dark eigenstates
authors: Shi-Liang Zhu, Z. D. Wang
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509150
abstract: In a recent Letter [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 95}, 080502 (2005)], an interesting scheme was proposed to implement a type of conditional quantum phase gates with built-in fault-tolerant feature via adiabatic evolution of dark eigenstates. In this comment we elaborate the geometric nature of the gate scheme and clarify that it still belongs to a class of conventional geometric quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0509151
title: Is there Unruh radiation?
authors: G. W. Ford, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: Phys.Lett. A350 (2006) 17-26
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509151
abstract: It is generally accepted that a system undergoing uniform acceleration with respect to zero-temperature vacuum will thermalize at a finite temperature (the so-called Unruh temperature) that is proportional to the acceleration. However, the question of whether or not the system actually radiates is highly controversial. Thus, we are motivated to present an exact calculation using a generalized quantum Langevin equation to describe an oscillator (the detector) moving under a constant force and coupled to a one-dimensional scalar field (scalar electrodynamics). Moreover, our analysis is simplified by using the oscillator as a detector. We show that this system does not radiate despite the fact that it does in fact thermalize at the Unruh temperature. We remark upon a differing opinion expressed regarding a system coupled to the electromagnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0509152
title: Joint measurements of spin, operational locality and uncertainty
authors: Erika Andersson, Stephen M. Barnett, Alain Aspect
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 042104 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509152
abstract: Joint, or simultaneous, measurements of non-commuting observables are possible within quantum mechanics, if one accepts an increase in the variances of the jointly measured observables. In this paper, we discuss joint measurements of a spin 1/2 particle along any two directions. Starting from an operational locality principle, it is shown how to obtain a bound on how sharp the joint measurement can be. We give a direct interpretation of this bound in terms of an uncertainty relation.

id: quant-ph/0509153
title: Lower Bounds on Quantum Query Complexity
authors: Peter Hoyer, Robert Spalek
comments: survey, 23 pages
journal: Bulletin of the European Association for Theoretical Computer Science, Volume 87, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509153
abstract: Shor's and Grover's famous quantum algorithms for factoring and searching show that quantum computers can solve certain computational problems significantly faster than any classical computer. We discuss here what quantum computers_cannot_ do, and specifically how to prove limits on their computational power. We cover the main known techniques for proving lower bounds, and exemplify and compare the methods.

id: quant-ph/0509154
title: Extremality of Gaussian quantum states
authors: Michael M. Wolf, Geza Giedke, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 080502 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509154
abstract: We investigate Gaussian quantum states in view of their exceptional role within the space of all continuous variables states. A general method for deriving extremality results is provided and applied to entanglement measures, secret key distillation and the classical capacity of Bosonic quantum channels. We prove that for every given covariance matrix the distillable secret key rate and the entanglement, if measured appropriately, are minimized by Gaussian states. This result leads to a clearer picture of the validity of frequently made Gaussian approximations. Moreover, it implies that Gaussian encodings are optimal for the transmission of classical information through Bosonic channels, if the capacity is additive.

id: quant-ph/0509155
title: Quantum optics of ultra-cold molecules
authors: D. Meiser, T. Miyakawa, H. Uys, P. Meystre
comments: This is a contribution to a Festschrift in honor of H. Walther's 70th birthday
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509155
abstract: Quantum optics has been a major driving force behind the rapid experimental developments that have led from the first laser cooling schemes to the Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) of dilute atomic and molecular gases. Not only has it provided experimentalists with the necessary tools to create ultra-cold atomic systems, but it has also provided theorists with a formalism and framework to describe them: many effects now being studied in quantum-degenerate atomic and molecular systems find a very natural explanation in a quantum optics picture. This article briefly reviews three such examples that find their direct inspiration in the trailblazing work carried out over the years by Herbert Walther, one of the true giants of that field. Specifically, we use an analogy with the micromaser to analyze ultra-cold molecules in a double-well potential; study the formation and dissociation dynamics of molecules using the passage time statistics familiar from superradiance and superfluorescence studies; and show how molecules can be used to probe higher-order correlations in ultra-cold atomic gases, in particular bunching and antibunching.

id: quant-ph/0509156
title: An Atom Trap Relying on Optical Pumping
authors: P. Bouyer, P. Lemonde, M. Ben Dahan, A. Michaud, C. Salomon, J. Dalibard
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett., 27 (8) pp.569-574, 10 September 1994
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509156
abstract: We have investigated a new radiation pressure trap which relies on optical pumping and does not require any magnetic field. It employs six circularly polarized divergent beams and works on the red of a $J_{g} \longrightarrow J_{e} = J_{g} + 1$ atomic transition with $J_{g} \geq 1/2$. We have demonstrated this trap with cesium atoms from a vapour cell using the 852 nm $J_{g} = 4 \longrightarrow J_{e} = 5$ resonance transition. The trap contained up to $3 \cdot 10^{7}$ atoms in a cloud of $1/\sqrt{e}$ radius of 330 $\mu$m.

id: quant-ph/0509157
title: Identifying a Two-State Hamiltonian in the Presence of Decoherence
authors: Jared H. Cole, Andrew D. Greentree, Daniel K. L. Oi, Sonia G. Schirmer, Cameron J. Wellard, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. Minor corrections, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062333 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509157
abstract: Mapping the system evolution of a two-state system allows the determination of the effective system Hamiltonian directly. We show how this can be achieved even if the system is decohering appreciably over the observation time. A method to include various decoherence models is given and the limits of this technique are explored. This technique is applicable both to the problem of calibrating a control Hamiltonian for quantum computing applications and for precision experiments in two-state quantum systems. For simple models of decoherence, this method can be applied even when the decoherence time is comparable to the oscillation period of the system.

id: quant-ph/0509158
title: Comprehensive proof of the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger Theorem for the four-qubit system
authors: Li Tang, Jie Zhong, Yaofeng Ren, Mingsheng Zhan, Zeqian Chen
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509158
abstract: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) theorem asserts that there is a set of mutually commuting nonlocal observables with a common eigenstate on which those observables assume values that refute the attempt to assign values only required to have them by the local realism of Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen (EPR). It is known that for a three-qubit system there is only one form of the GHZ-Mermin-like argument with equivalence up to a local unitary transformation, which is exactly Mermin's version of the GHZ theorem. In this paper, however, for a four-qubit system which was originally studied by GHZ, we show that there are nine distinct forms of the GHZ-Mermin-like argument. The proof is obtained by using some geometric invariants to characterize the sets of mutually commuting nonlocal spin observables on the four-qubit system. It is proved that there are at most nine elements (except for a different sign) in a set of mutually commuting nonlocal spin observables in the four-qubit system, and each GHZ-Mermin-like argument involves a set of at least five mutually commuting four-qubit nonlocal spin observables with a GHZ state as a common eigenstate in GHZ's theorem. Therefore, we present a complete construction of the GHZ theorem for the four-qubit system.

id: quant-ph/0509159
title: Semiclassical quantization of non-Hamiltonian dynamical systems without memory
authors: E. D. Vol
comments: 8 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509159
abstract: We propose a new method of quantization of a wide class of dynamical systems that originates directly from the equations of motion. The method is based on the correspondence between the classical and the quantum Poisson brackets, postulated by Dirac. This correspondence applied to open (non-Hamiltonian) systems allows one to point out the way of transition from the quantum description based on the Lindblad equation to the dynamical description of their classical analogs by the equations of motion and vice versa. As the examples of using of the method we describe the procedure of the quantization of three widely considered dynamical systems: 1) the harmonic oscillator with friction, 2) the oscillator with a nonlinear damping that simulates the process of the emergence of the limit cycle, and 3) the system of two periodic rotators with a weak interaction that synchronizes their oscillations. We discuss a possible application of the method for a description of quantum fluctuations in Josephson junctions with a strong damping and for the quantization of open magnetic systems with a dissipation and a pumping.

id: quant-ph/0509160
title: Exact solution of quantum dynamics of a cantilever coupling to a single trapped ultracold ion
authors: T. Liu, M. Feng, K.L. Wang
comments: 5 Figures. Big changes have been made
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509160
abstract: The quantum behavior of a precooled cantilever can be probed highly efficiently by coupling to a trapped ultracold ion, in which a fast cooling of the cantilever down to the ground vibrational state is possible. We solve the dynamics of the coupling system by a squeezed-state expansion technique, and can in principle obtain the exact solution of the time-evolution of the coupling system. Compared to the treatment under rotating-wave approximation, we can present a more accurate description of the quantum behavior of the cantilever.

id: quant-ph/0509161
title: Efficient Circuits for Exact-Universal Computations with Qudits
authors: Gavin K. Brennen, Stephen S. Bullock, Dianne P. O'Leary
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 6, 436 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509161
abstract: This paper concerns the efficient implementation of quantum circuits for qudits. We show that controlled two-qudit gates can be implemented without ancillas and prove that the gate library containing arbitrary local unitaries and one two-qudit gate, CINC, is exact-universal. A recent paper (PRL 94 230502) describes quantum circuits for qudits which require O(d^n) two-qudit gates for state synthesis and O(d^{2n}) two-qudit gates for unitary synthesis, matching the respective lower bound complexities. In this work, we present the state synthesis circuit in much greater detail and prove that it is correct. Also, the (n-2)/(d-2) ancillas required in the original algorithm may be removed without changing the asymptotics. Further, we present a new algorithm for unitary synthesis, inspired by the QR matrix decomposition, which is also asymptotically optimal.

id: quant-ph/0509162
title: Exponential complexity of an adiabatic algorithm for an NP-complete problem
authors: Marko Znidaric, Martin Horvat
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; v3. published version
journal: Phys.Rev.A. 73, 022329 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509162
abstract: We prove an analytical expression for the size of the gap between the ground and the first excited state of quantum adiabatic algorithm for the 3-satisfiability, where the initial Hamiltonian is a projector on the subspace complementary to the ground state. For large problem sizes the gap decreases exponentially and as a consequence the required running time is also exponential.

id: quant-ph/0509163
title: Mixing and Decoherence in Continuous-Time Quantum Walks on Cycles
authors: Leonid Fedichkin, Dmitry Solenov, Christino Tamon
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 6, No. 3 (2006), 263-276.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509163
abstract: We prove analytical results showing that decoherence can be useful for mixing time in a continuous-time quantum walk on finite cycles. This complements the numerical observations by Kendon and Tregenna (Physical Review A 67 (2003), 042315) of a similar phenomenon for discrete-time quantum walks. Our analytical treatment of continuous-time quantum walks includes a continuous monitoring of all vertices that induces the decoherence process. We identify the dynamics of the probability distribution and observe how mixing times undergo the transition from quantum to classical behavior as our decoherence parameter grows from zero to infinity. Our results show that, for small rates of decoherence, the mixing time improves linearly with decoherence, whereas for large rates of decoherence, the mixing time deteriorates linearly towards the classical limit. In the middle region of decoherence rates, our numerical data confirms the existence of a unique optimal rate for which the mixing time is minimized.

id: quant-ph/0509164
title: Teleportation of an arbitrary mixture of diagonal states of multiqubits via classical correlation and classical communication
authors: An Min Wang
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. Deleted section 6, revised typing and language errors and added several sentences in content
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509164
abstract: We propose a protocol in which the faithful and deterministic teleportation of an arbitrary mixture of diagonal states is completed $via$ classical correlation and classical communication. Our scheme can be generalized straightforwardly to the case of $N$-qubits by using $N$ copies of classical correlated pairs and classical communication. Moreover, a varying scheme by using the generalized classical correlated state within a multiqubit space is also presented. In addition, the arbitrary mixed state whose set of eigenvectors is known are a direct application of our protocol.

id: quant-ph/0509165
title: Generating entangled photon pairs from a cavity-QED system
authors: D.L. Zhou, B. Sun, C.P. Sun, L. You
comments: It has recently come to our attention that the experiment by T. Wilk, S. C. Webster, A. Kuhn and G. Rempe, published in Science 317, 488 (2007), exactly realizes what we proposed in this article, which is published in Phy. Rev. A 040302(R) (2005)
journal: Phy. Rev. A 040302(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509165
abstract: We propose a scheme for the controlled generation of Einstein-Podosky-Rosen (EPR) entangled photon pairs from an atom coupled to a high Q optical cavity, extending the prototype system as a source for deterministic single photons. A thorough theoretical analysis confirms the promising operating conditions of our scheme as afforded by currently available experimental setups. Our result demonstrates the cavity QED system as an efficient and effective source for entangled photon pairs, and shines new light on its important role in quantum information science.

id: quant-ph/0509166
title: Quantum states on Harmonic lattices
authors: Norbert Schuch, J. Ignacio Cirac, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 33 pages, 6 figures. Sec. I-VI published in Commun. Math. Phys. 267, 65 (2006). Sec. VII, which introduces Gaussian Matrix Product States, is now available separately at arXiv:1201.3945, and has been published in the Proceedings on the conference on Quantum information and many body quantum systems, edited by M. Ericsson and S. Montangero, pg. 129 (Edizioni della Normale, Pisa, 2008)
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 267, 65-95 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509166
abstract: We investigate bosonic Gaussian quantum states on an infinite cubic lattice in arbitrary spatial dimensions. We derive general properties of such states as ground states of quadratic Hamiltonians for both critical and non-critical cases. Tight analytic relations between the decay of the interaction and the correlation functions are proven and the dependence of the correlation length on band gap and effective mass is derived. We show that properties of critical ground states depend on the gap of the point-symmetrized rather than on that of the original Hamiltonian. For critical systems with polynomially decaying interactions logarithmic deviations from polynomially decaying correlation functions are found. Moreover, we provide a generalization of the matrix product state representation for Gaussian states and show that properties hold analogously to the case of finite dimensional spin systems.

id: quant-ph/0509167
title: Correlations, spectral gap, and entanglement in harmonic quantum systems on generic lattices
authors: M. Cramer, J. Eisert
comments: 26 pages, LaTeX, published version (figure added)
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 71 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509167
abstract: We investigate the relationship between the gap between the energy of the ground state and the first excited state and the decay of correlation functions in harmonic lattice systems. We prove that in gapped systems, the exponential decay of correlations follows for both the ground state and thermal states. Considering the converse direction, we show that an energy gap can follow from algebraic decay and always does for exponential decay. The underlying lattices are described as general graphs of not necessarily integer dimension, including translationally invariant instances of cubic lattices as special cases. Any local quadratic couplings in position and momentum coordinates are allowed for, leading to quasi-free (Gaussian) ground states. We make use of methods of deriving bounds to matrix functions of banded matrices corresponding to local interactions on general graphs. Finally, we give an explicit entanglement-area relationship in terms of the energy gap for arbitrary, not necessarily contiguous regions on lattices characterized by general graphs.

id: quant-ph/0509168
title: Quantum Information Processing with Single Photons
authors: Yuan Liang Lim
comments: PhD Thesis, 131 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509168
abstract: Photons are natural carriers of quantum information due to their ease of distribution and long lifetime. This thesis concerns various related aspects of quantum information processing with single photons. Firstly, we demonstrate N-photon entanglement generation through a generalised N X N symmetric beam splitter known as the Bell multiport. A wide variety of 4-photon entangled states as well as the N-photon W-state can be generated with an unexpected non-monotonic decreasing probability of success with N. We also show how the same setup can be used to generate multiatom entanglement. A further study of multiports also leads us to a multiparticle generalisation of the Hong-Ou-Mandel dip which holds for all Bell multiports of even number of input ports. Next, we demonstrate a generalised linear optics based photon filter that has a constant success probability regardless of the number of photons involved. This filter has the highest reported success probability and is interferometrically robust. Finally, we demonstrate how repeat-until-success quantum computing can be performed with two distant nodes with unit success probability using only linear optics resource. We further show that using non-identical photon sources, robustness can still be achieved, an illustration of the nature and advantages of measurement-based quantum computation. A direct application to the same setup leads naturally to arbitrary multiphoton state generation on demand. Finally, we demonstrate how polarisation entanglement of photons can be detected from the emission of two atoms in a Young's double-slit type experiment without linear optics, resulting in both atoms being also maximally entangled.

id: quant-ph/0509169
title: On the Optimality of Quantum Encryption Schemes
authors: Iordanis Kerenidis, Daniel Nagaj
comments: 15 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 47, 092102 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509169
abstract: It is well known that n bits of entropy are necessary and sufficient to perfectly encrypt n bits (one-time pad). Even if we allow the encryption to be approximate, the amount of entropy needed doesn't asymptotically change. However, this is not the case when we are encrypting quantum bits. For the perfect encryption of n quantum bits, 2n bits of entropy are necessary and sufficient (quantum one-time pad), but for approximate encryption one asymptotically needs only n bits of entropy. In this paper, we provide the optimal trade-off between the approximation measure epsilon and the amount of classical entropy used in the encryption of single quantum bits. Then, we consider n-qubit encryption schemes which are a composition of independent single-qubit ones and provide the optimal schemes both in the 2- and the operator-norm. Moreover, we provide a counterexample to show that the encryption scheme of Ambainis-Smith based on small-bias sets does not work in the operator-norm.

id: quant-ph/0509170
title: Cloning of observables
authors: Alessandro Ferraro, Matteo Galbiati, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: revised and enlarged version, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 39, L219-L228 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509170
abstract: We introduce the concept of cloning for classes of observables and classify cloning machines for qubit systems according to the number of parameters needed to describe the class under investigation. A no-cloning theorem for observables is derived and the connections between cloning of observables and joint measurements of noncommuting observables are elucidated. Relationships with cloning of states and non-demolition measurements are also analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0509171
title: The ubiquitous XP commutator
authors: A. C. de la Torre
comments: 7 pages
journal: Eur.J.Phys. 27 (2006) 225-230
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509171
abstract: Position and momentum of a particle can take any value in a continuous spectrum; these values are independent but their indeterminacies are correlated; momentum and position are mutually the generators of the transformations in each other. It is shown in a concise way, how all these features arise solely from their commutation relation $[X,P]=i\hbar$. The article is complete and self contained, adequate for didactic use.

id: quant-ph/0509172
title: Elliptical torii in a constant magnetic field
authors: M. Encinosa, M. Jack
comments: 11 pages revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509172
abstract: The Schrodinger equation for an electron on the surface of an elliptical torus in the presence of a constant azimuthally symmetric magnetic field is developed. The single particle spectrum and eigenfunctions as a function of magnetic flux through the torus are determined and it is shown that inclusion of the geometric potential is necessary to recover the limiting cases of vertical strip and flat ring structures.

id: quant-ph/0509173
title: Measurement driven quantum evolution
authors: L. Roa, M. L. Ladron de Guevara, A. Delgado, A. Klimov
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509173
abstract: We study the problem of mapping an unknown mixed quantum state onto a known pure state without the use of unitary transformations. This is achieved with the help of sequential measurements of two non-commuting observables only. We show that the overall success probability is maximized in the case of measuring two observables whose eigenstates define mutually unbiased bases. We find that for this optimal case the success probability quickly converges to unity as the number of measurement processes increases and that it is almost independent of the initial state. In particular, we show that to guarantee a success probability close to one the number of consecutive measurements must be larger than the dimension of the Hilbert space. We connect these results to quantum copying, quantum deleting and entanglement generation.

id: quant-ph/0509174
title: Predictability sieve, pointer states, and the classicality of quantum trajectories
authors: Diego A. R. Dalvit, Jacek Dziarmaga, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 10 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 062101 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509174
abstract: We study various measures of classicality of the states of open quantum systems subject to decoherence. Classical states are expected to be stable in spite of decoherence, and are thought to leave conspicuous imprints on the environment. Here these expected features of environment-induced superselection (einselection) are quantified using four different criteria: predictability sieve (which selects states that produce least entropy), purification time (which looks for states that are the easiest to find out from the imprint they leave on the environment), efficiency threshold (which finds states that can be deduced from measurements on a smallest fraction of the environment), and purity loss time (that looks for states for which it takes the longest to lose a set fraction of their initial purity). We show that when pointer states -- the most predictable states of an open quantum system selected by the predictability sieve -- are well defined, all four criteria agree that they are indeed the most classical states. We illustrate this with two examples: an underdamped harmonic oscillator, for which coherent states are unanimously chosen by all criteria, and a free particle undergoing quantum Brownian motion, for which most criteria select almost identical Gaussian states (although, in this case, predictability sieve does not select well defined pointer states.)

id: quant-ph/0509175
title: Topological Quantum Computing with Only One Mobile Quasiparticle
authors: S. H. Simon, N.E. Bonesteel, M. H. Freedman, N. Petrovic, L. Hormozi
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 96 (2006) 070503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509175
abstract: In a topological quantum computer, universal quantum computation is performed by dragging quasiparticle excitations of certain two dimensional systems around each other to form braids of their world lines in 2+1 dimensional space-time. In this paper we show that any such quantum computation that can be done by braiding $n$ identical quasiparticles can also be done by moving a single quasiparticle around n-1 other identical quasiparticles whose positions remain fixed.

id: quant-ph/0509176
title: Fast Ground State Manipulation of Neutral Atoms in Microscopic Optical Traps
authors: D. D. Yavuz, P. B. Kulatunga, E. Urban, T. A. Johnson, N. Proite, T. Henage, T.G. Walker, M. Saffman
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 063001 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509176
abstract: We demonstrate Rabi flopping at MHz rates between ground hyperfine states of neutral $^{87}$Rb atoms that are trapped in two micron sized optical traps. Using tightly focused laser beams we demonstrate high fidelity, site specific Rabi rotations with crosstalk on neighboring sites separated by $8 \mu\rm m$ at the level of $10^{-3}$. Ramsey spectroscopy is used to measure a dephasing time of $870 \mu\rm s$ which is $\approx$ 5000 times longer than the time for a $\pi/2$ pulse.

id: quant-ph/0509177
title: On Superselection Rules in Bohm-Bell Theories
authors: Samuel Colin, Thomas Durt, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 20 pages LaTeX, no figures; v2 minor improvements, journal version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 15403-15419
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509177
abstract: The meaning of superselection rules in Bohm-Bell theories (i.e., quantum theories with particle trajectories) is different from that in orthodox quantum theory. More precisely, there are two concepts of superselection rule, a weak and a strong one. Weak superselection rules exist both in orthodox quantum theory and in Bohm-Bell theories and represent the conventional understanding of superselection rules. We introduce the concept of strong superselection rule, which does not exist in orthodox quantum theory. It relies on the clear ontology of Bohm-Bell theories and is a sharper and, in the Bohm-Bell context, more fundamental notion. A strong superselection rule for the observable G asserts that one can replace every state vector by a suitable statistical mixture of eigenvectors of G without changing the particle trajectories or their probabilities. A weak superselection rule asserts that every state vector is empirically indistinguishable from a suitable statistical mixture of eigenvectors of G. We establish conditions on G for both kinds of superselection. For comparison, we also consider both kinds of superselection in theories of spontaneous wave function collapse.

id: quant-ph/0509178
title: Spacetime algebra and electron physics
authors: C.J.L. Doran, A.N. Lasenby, S.F. Gull, S. Somaroo, A.D. Challinor
comments: 93 pages, 23 figures
journal: Advances in Imaging and Electron Physics 95, 271-386 (1996)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509178
abstract: This paper surveys the application of geometric algebra to the physics of electrons. It first appeared in 1996 and is reproduced here with only minor modifications. Subjects covered include non-relativistic and relativistic spinors, the Dirac equation, operators and monogenics, the Hydrogen atom, propagators and scattering theory, spin precession, tunnelling times, spin measurement, multiparticle quantum mechanics, relativistic multiparticle wave equations, and semiclassical mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0509179
title: Quantum metrology
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 010401 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509179
abstract: We point out a general framework that encompasses most cases in which quantum effects enable an increase in precision when estimating a parameter (quantum metrology). The typical quantum precision-enhancement is of the order of the square root of the number of times the system is sampled. We prove that this is optimal and we point out the different strategies (classical and quantum) that permit to attain this bound.

id: quant-ph/0509180
title: Characterization of bipartite states using a single homodyne detector
authors: Virginia D'Auria, Alberto Porzio, Salvatore Solimeno, Stefano Olivares, Matteo G.A. Paris
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum and Semiclass. Opt. 7, S750 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509180
abstract: We suggest a scheme to reconstruct the covariance matrix of a two-mode state using a single homodyne detector plus a polarizing beam splitter and a polarization rotator. It can be used to fully characterize bipartite Gaussian states and to extract relevant informations on generic states.

id: quant-ph/0509181
title: The Communication Complexity of the Hamming Distance Problem
authors: Wei Huang, Yaoyun Shi, Shengyu Zhang, Yufan Zhu
comments: 8 pages, v3, updated reference. to appear in Information Processing Letters, 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509181
abstract: We investigate the randomized and quantum communication complexity of the Hamming Distance problem, which is to determine if the Hamming distance between two n-bit strings is no less than a threshold d. We prove a quantum lower bound of \Omega(d) qubits in the general interactive model with shared prior entanglement. We also construct a classical protocol of O(d \log d) bits in the restricted Simultaneous Message Passing model, improving previous protocols of O(d^2) bits (A. C.-C. Yao, Proceedings of the Thirty-Fifth Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, pp. 77-81, 2003), and O(d\log n) bits (D. Gavinsky, J. Kempe, and R. de Wolf, quant-ph/0411051, 2004).

id: quant-ph/0509182
title: Spacetime path formalism: localized states
authors: Ed Seidewitz
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. The content of this paper has been incorporated into v3 and later of arXiv:quant-ph/0507115
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509182
abstract: This note is an addendum to quant-ph/0507115. In that paper, I present a formalism for relativistic quantum mechanics in which the spacetime paths of particles are considered fundamental, reproducing the standard results of the traditional formulation of relativistic quantum mechanics and quantum field theory. Now, it is well known that there are issues with the ability to localize the position of particles in the usual formulation of relativistic quantum mechanics. The present note shows how, in the spacetime path formalism, the natural representation of on-shell 3-momentum states is effectively a Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation of the traditional representation, addressing the localization issues of position states and, further, providing a straightforward non-relativistic limit.

id: quant-ph/0509183
title: On the most efficient unitary transformation for programming quantum channels
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 8 pages, ws-procs9x6 and qcircuit styles. Proceedings "26th Conference: QP and IDA" - Levico (Trento), February 20-26, 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509183
abstract: We address the problem of finding the optimal joint unitary transformation on system + ancilla which is the most efficient in programming any desired channel on the system by changing the state of the ancilla. We present a solution to the problem for dim(H)=2 for both system and ancilla.

id: quant-ph/0509184
title: Correlation in superradiance: A closed-form approach to cooperative effects
authors: S. F. Yelin, M. Kostrun, Tun Wang, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509184
abstract: We have developed a novel method to describe superradiance and related cooperative and collective effects in a closed form. Using the method we derive a two-atom master equation in which any complexity of atomic levels, semiclassical coupling fields and quantum fluctuations in the fields can be included, at least in principle. As an example, we consider the dynamics of an initially inverted two-level system and show how even such in a simple system phenomena such as the initial radiation burst or broadening due to dipole-dipole interactions occur, but it is also possible to estimate the population of the subradiant state during the radiative decay. Finally, we find that correlation only, not entanglement is responsible for superradiance.

id: quant-ph/0509185
title: Spin Decoherence in a Gravitational Field
authors: Hiroaki Terashima, Masahito Ueda
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, To appear in Proceedings of The 8th International Symposium on Foundations of Quantum Mechanics in the Light of New Technology (ISQM-TOKYO '05)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509185
abstract: We discuss a mechanism of spin decoherence in gravitation within the framework of general relativity. The spin state of a particle moving in a gravitational field is shown to decohere due to the curvature of spacetime. As an example, we analyze a particle going around a static spherically-symmetric object.

id: quant-ph/0509186
title: On the distribution of 1550-nm photon pairs efficiently generated using a periodically poled lithium niobate waveguide
authors: Shigehiko Mori, Jonas Soderholm, Naoto Namekata, Shuichiro Inoue
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Commun. 264 (2006) 156-162
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509186
abstract: We report on the generation of photon pairs in the 1550-nm band suitable for long-distance fiber-optic quantum key distribution. The photon pairs were generated in a periodically poled lithium niobate waveguide with a high conversion-efficiency. Using a pulsed semiconductor laser with a pulse rate of 800 kHz and a maximum average pump power of 50 muW, we obtained a coincidence rate of 600 s^-1. Our measurements are in agreement with a Poissonian photon-pair distribution, as is expected from a comparison of the coherence time of the pump and of the detected photons. An average of 0.9 photon pairs per pulse was obtained.

id: quant-ph/0509187
title: CNOT gate by adiabatic passage with an optical cavity
authors: N. Sangouard, X. Lacour, S. Guerin, H. R. Jauslin
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, submitted to EPJD
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 37, 451 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509187
abstract: We propose a scheme for the construction of a CNOT gate by adiabatic passage in an optical cavity. In opposition to a previously proposed method, the technique is not based on fractional adiabatic passage, which requires the control of the ratio of two pulse amplitudes. Moreover, the technique constitutes a decoherence-free method in the sense that spontaneous emission and cavity damping are avoided since the dynamics follows dark states.

id: quant-ph/0509188
title: Efficient Implementation of Controlled-Rotations by Using Entanglement
authors: Ming-Yong Ye, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Our result satisfies our intuition about this question
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032337 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509188
abstract: Implementation of controlled-rotations using entanglement is considered. We show that the successful probability is closely related to the entanglement and the rotation angle. The successful probability will increase if we increase the entanglement we use or decrease the controlled-rotation angle and the probability will trend to unit when the entangled state trends to a Bell state or the controlled-rotation angle trends to zero.

id: quant-ph/0509189
title: Reply to Comment on ''Quantum key distribution for d-level systems with generalized Bell states''
authors: V. Karimipour
comments: 4 pages, Latex, no figures, Accepted for Publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 066302 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509189
abstract: In a recent comment \cite{ch1} it has been claimed that an entangled-based quantum key distribution protocol proposed in \cite{zhang} and its generalization to d-level systems in \cite{v1} are insecure against an attack devised by the authors of the comment. We invalidate the arguments of the comment and show that the protocols are still secure.

id: quant-ph/0509190
title: Surface Screening in the Casimir Force
authors: Ana M. Contreras-Reyes, W. Luis Moch¨¢n
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A {\bf 72}, 034102 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509190
abstract: We calculate the corrections to the Casimir force between two metals due to the spatial dispersion of their response functions. We employ model-independent expressions for the force in terms of the optical coefficients. We express the non-local corrections to the Fresnel coefficients employing the surface $d_\perp$ parameter, which accounts for the distribution of the surface screening charge. Within a self-consistent jellium calculation, spatial dispersion increases the Casimir force significatively for small separations. The nonlocal correction has the opposite sign than previously predicted employing hydrodynamic models and assuming abruptly terminated surfaces.

id: quant-ph/0509191
title: An algorithm to perform POVMs through Neumark theorem: application to the discrimination of non-orthogonal pure quantum states
authors: Wilson R. M. Rabelo, Alexandre G. Rodrigues, Reinaldo O. Vianna
comments: 12 pages, including a matlab code
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics C, 17, 1203-1218 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509191
abstract: We consider a protocol to perform the optimal quantum state discrimination of $N$ linearly independent non-orthogonal pure quantum states and present a computational code. Through the extension of the original Hilbert space, it is possible to perform an unitary operation yielding a final configuration, which gives the best discrimination without ambiguity by means of von Neumann measurements. Our goal is to introduce a detailed general mathematical procedure to realize this task by means of semidefinite programming and norm minimization. The former is used to fix which is the best detection probability amplitude for each state of the ensemble. The latter determines the matrix which leads the states to the final configuration. In a final step, we decompose the unitary transformation in a sequence of two-level rotation matrices.

id: quant-ph/0509192
title: Realizing Ternary Quantum Switching Networks without Ancilla Bits
authors: Guowu Yang, Xiaoyu Song, Marek Perkowski, Jinzhao Wu
comments: 10 pages, Latex. in press, J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. (2005)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509192
abstract: This paper investigates the synthesis of quantum networks built to realize ternary switching circuits in the absence of ancilla bits. The results we established are twofold. The first shows that ternary Swap, ternary Not and ternary Toffoli gates are universal for the realization of arbitrary $n\times n$ ternary quantum switching networks without ancilla bits. The second result proves that all $n\times n$ quantum ternary networks can be generated by Not, Controlled-Not, Multiply-Two, and Toffoli gates. Our approach is constructive. key words: ternary quantum logic synthesis, quantum circuit optimization, group theory.

id: quant-ph/0509193
title: Nondeterministic testing of Sequential Quantum Logic propositions on a quantum computer
authors: M. S. Leifer
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509193
abstract: In the past few years it has been shown that universal quantum computation can be obtained by projective measurements alone, with no need for unitary gates. This suggests that the underlying logic of quantum computing may be an algebra of sequences of quantum measurements rather than an algebra of products of unitary operators. Such a Sequential Quantum Logic (SQL) was developed in the late 70's and has more recently been applied to the consistent histories framework of quantum mechanics as a possible route to the theory of quantum gravity. In this letter, I give a method for deciding the truth of a proposition in SQL with nonzero probability of success on a quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0509194
title: Nonlocality without inequalities
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Luca Marinatto
comments: 10 pages; Latex; Talk delivered at ICSSUR'05, Besancon, France, 2-6 May 2005; to be published on J. Opt. B (special issue)
journal: J. Opt. B 7, 643 (2005).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509194
abstract: We prove that every conceivable hidden variable model reproducing the quantum mechanical predictions of almost any entangled state must necessarily violate Bell's locality condition. The proof does not involve the consideration of any Bell inequality but it rests on simple set theoretic arguments and it works for almost any noncompletely factorizable state vector associated to any number of particles whose Hilbert spaces have arbitrary dimensionality.

id: quant-ph/0509195
title: Identical particles and entanglement
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Luca Marinatto
comments: 8 pages; Latex; Talk delivered at the International Conference on Quantum Optics 2004, Minsk, Belarus
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy 99, 386 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509195
abstract: We review two general criteria for deciding whether a pure bipartite quantum state describing a system of two identical particles is entangled or not. The first one considers the possibility of attributing a complete set of objective properties to each particle belonging to the composed system, while the second is based both on the consideration of the Slater-Schmidt number of the fermionic and bosonic analog of the Schmidt decomposition and on the evaluation of the von Neumann entropy of the one-particle reduced statistical operators.

id: quant-ph/0509196
title: A new algorithm for producing quantum circuits using KAK decompositions
authors: Yumi Nakajima, Yasuhito Kawano, Hiroshi Sekigawa
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Quantum Information & Computation, vol. 6, no. 1, 067-080 (2006)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509196
abstract: We provide a new algorithm that translates a unitary matrix into a quantum circuit according to the G=KAK theorem in Lie group theory. With our algorithm, any matrix decomposition corresponding to type-AIII KAK decompositions can be derived according to the given Cartan involution. Our algorithm contains, as its special cases, Cosine-Sine decomposition (CSD) and Khaneja-Glaser decomposition (KGD) in the sense that it derives the same quantum circuits as the ones obtained by them if we select suitable Cartan involutions and square root matrices. The selections of Cartan involutions for computing CSD and KGD will be hown explicitly. As an example, we show explicitly that our method can automatically reproduce the well-known efficient quantum circuit for the n-qubit quantum Fourier transform.

id: quant-ph/0509197
title: Effective Spin Quantum Phases in Systems of Trapped Ions
authors: X.-L. Deng, D. Porras, J. I. Cirac
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 063407 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509197
abstract: A system of trapped ions under the action of off--resonant standing--waves can be used to simulate a variety of quantum spin models. In this work, we describe theoretically quantum phases that can be observed in the simplest realization of this idea: quantum Ising and XY models. Our numerical calculations with the Density Matrix Renormalization Group method show that experiments with ion traps should allow one to access general properties of quantum critical systems. On the other hand, ion trap quantum spin models show a few novel features due to the peculiarities of induced effective spin--spin interactions which lead to interesting effects like long--range quantum correlations and the coexistence of different spin phases.

id: quant-ph/0509198
title: Control of photon correlations in type II parametric down-conversion
authors: R. Andrews, A. T. Joseph, E. R. Pike, Sarben Sarkar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509198
abstract: In this paper we describe theoretically quantum control of temporal correlations of entangled photons produced by collinear type II spontaneous parametric down-conversion. We examine the effect of spectral phase modulation of the signal or idler photons arriving at a 50/50 beam splitter on the temporal shape of the entangled-photon wave packet . The coincidence count rate is calculated analytically for photon pairs in terms of the modulation depth applied to either the signal or idler beam with a spectral phase filter. It is found that the two-photon coincidence rate can be controlled by varying the modulation depth of the spectral filter.

id: quant-ph/0509199
title: Minimal Bell-Kochen-Specker proofs with POVMs on qubits
authors: A. A. Methot
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509199
abstract: There are many different definitions of what a Bell-Kochen-Specker proof with POVMs might be. Here we present and discuss the minimal proof on qubits for three of these definitions and show that they are indeed minimal.

id: quant-ph/0509200
title: A Bose-Einstein condensate bouncing off a rough mirror
authors: H¨¦l¨¨ne Perrin, Yves Colombe, Brigitte Mercier, Vincent Lorent, Carsten Henkel
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series (2005) 151
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509200
abstract: We present experimental results and theoretical analysis of the diffuse reflection of a Bose-Einstein condensate from a rough mirror. The mirror is produced by a blue-detuned evanescent wave supported by a dielectric substrate. The results are carefully analysed via a comparison with a numerical simulation. The scattering is clearly anisotropic, more pronounced in the direction of the evanescent wave surface propagation, as predicted theoretically.

id: quant-ph/0509201
title: Qubits entanglement dynamics modified by an effective atomic environment
authors: I. Sainz, A. B. Klimov, Luis Roa
comments: eight pages, two figure included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509201
abstract: We study entanglement dynamics of a couple of two-level atoms resonantly interacting with a cavity mode and embedded in a dispersive atomic environment. We show that in the absence of the environment the entanglement reaches its maximum value when only one exitation is involved. Then, we find that the atomic environment modifies that entanglement dynamics and induces a typical collapse-revival structure even for an initial one photon Fock state of the field.

id: quant-ph/0509202
title: Quantum Computation by Communication
authors: T. P. Spiller, Kae Nemoto, Samuel L. Braunstein, W. J. Munro, P. van Loock, G. J. Milburn
comments: final published version
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 30 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509202
abstract: We present a new approach to scalable quantum computing--a ``qubus computer''--which realises qubit measurement and quantum gates through interacting qubits with a quantum communication bus mode. The qubits could be ``static'' matter qubits or ``flying'' optical qubits, but the scheme we focus on here is particularly suited to matter qubits. There is no requirement for direct interaction between the qubits. Universal two-qubit quantum gates may be effected by schemes which involve measurement of the bus mode, or by schemes where the bus disentangles automatically and no measurement is needed. In effect, the approach integrates together qubit degrees of freedom for computation with quantum continuous variables for communication and interaction.

id: quant-ph/0509203
title: Fault-tolerance threshold for a distance-three quantum code
authors: Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures; improved presentation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509203
abstract: The quantum error threshold is the highest (model-dependent) noise rate which we can tolerate and still quantum-compute to arbitrary accuracy. Although noise thresholds are frequently estimated for the Steane seven-qubit, distance-three quantum code, there has been no proof that a constant threshold even exists for distance-three codes. We prove the existence of a constant threshold. The proven threshold is well below estimates, based on simulations and analytic models, of the true threshold, but at least it is now known to be positive.

id: quant-ph/0509204
title: Direct measurement of finite-time disentanglement induced by a reservoir
authors: M. Franca Santos, P. Milman, L. Davidovich, N. Zagury
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 040305(R) (2006) (4 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509204
abstract: We propose a method for directly probing the dynamics of disentanglement of an initial two-qubit entangled state, under the action of a reservoir. We show that it is possible to detect disentanglement, for experimentally realizable examples of decaying systems, through the measurement of a single observable, which is invariant throughout the decay. The systems under consideration may lead to either finite-time or asymptotic disentanglement. A general prescription for measuring this observable, which yields an operational meaning to entanglement measures, is proposed, and exemplified for cavity quantum electrodynamics and trapped ions.

id: quant-ph/0509205
title: Continuous Non-Demolition Observation, Quantum Filtering and Optimal Estimation
authors: V. P. Belavkin
comments: A revised version of the paper published in the Proceedings of the 1st QCMC conference, Paris 1990
journal: In: Quantum Aspects of Optical Communication. Lecture notes in Physics, 45 131-145, Springer, Berlin 1991
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509205
abstract: A quantum stochastic model for an open dynamical system (quantum receiver) and output multi-channel of observation with an additive nonvacuum quantum noise is given. A quantum stochastic Master equation for the corresponding instrument is derived and quantum stochastic filtering equations both for the Heisenberg operators and the reduced density matrix of the system under the nondemolition observation are found. Thus the dynamical problem of quantum filtering is generalized for a noncommutative output process, and a quantum stochastic model and optimal filtering equation for the dynamical estimation of an input Markovian process is found. The results are illustrated on an example of optimal estimation of an input Gaussian diffusion signal, an unknown gravitational force say in a quantum optical or Weber's antenna for detection and filtering a gravitational waves.

id: quant-ph/0509206
title: Quantum Algorithm for Commutativity Testing of a Matrix Set
authors: Yuki Kelly Itakura
comments: 70 pages, 8 figures, MMath Essay for Univerisity of Waterloo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509206
abstract: Suppose we have k matrices of size n by n. We are given an oracle that knows all the entries of k matrices, that is, we can query the oracle an (i,j) entry of the l-th matrix. The goal is to test if each pair of k matrices commute with each other or not with as few queries to the oracle as possible. In order to solve this problem, we use a theorem of Mario Szegedy (quant-ph/0401053) that relates a hitting time of a classical random walk to that of a quantum walk. We also take a look at another method of quantum walk by Andris Ambainis (quant-ph/0311001). We apply both walks into triangle finding problem (quant-ph/0310134) and matrix verification problem (quant-ph/0409035) to compare the powers of the two different walks. We also present Ambainis's method of lower bounding technique (quant-ph/0002066) to obtain a lower bound for this problem. It turns out Szegedy's algorithm can be generalized to solve similar problems. Therefore we use Szegedy's theorem to analyze the problem of matrix set commutativity. We give an O(k^{4/5}n^{9/5}) algorithm as well as a lower bound of Omega(k^{1/2}n). We generalize the technique used in coming up with the upper bound to solve a broader range of similar problems. This is probably the first problem to be studied on the quantum query complexity using quantum walks that involves more than one parameter, here, k and n.

id: quant-ph/0509207
title: Quantum Entanglement in the Two Impurity Kondo Model
authors: Sam Young Cho, Ross H. McKenzie
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509207
abstract: In order to quantify quantum entanglement in two impurity Kondo systems, we calculate the concurrence, negativity, and von Neumann entropy. The entanglement of the two Kondo impurities is shown to be determined by two competing many-body effects, the Kondo effect and the Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction, $I$. Due to the spin-rotational invariance of the ground state, the concurrence and negativity are uniquely determined by the spin-spin correlation between the impurities. It is found that there exists a critical minimum value of the antiferromagnetic correlation between the impurity spins which is necessary for entanglement of the two impurity spins. The critical value is discussed in relation with the unstable fixed point in the two impurity Kondo problem. Specifically, at the fixed point there is no entanglement between the impurity spins. Entanglement will only be created (and quantum information processing (QIP) be possible) if the RKKY interaction exchange energy, $I$, is at least several times larger than the Kondo temperature, $T_K$. Quantitative criteria for QIP are given in terms of the impurity spin-spin correlation.

id: quant-ph/0509208
title: Non-Markovian dynamics of a qubit
authors: Sabrina Maniscalco, Francesco Petruccione
comments: Replaced with published version (minor changes)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73,012111 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509208
abstract: In this paper we investigate the non-Markovian dynamics of a qubit by comparing two generalized master equations with memory. In the case of a thermal bath, we derive the solution of the post-Markovian master equation recently proposed in Ref. [A. Shabani and D.A. Lidar, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 71}, 020101(R) (2005)] and we study the dynamics for an exponentially decaying memory kernel. We compare the solution of the post-Markovian master equation with the solution of the typical memory kernel master equation. Our results lead to a new physical interpretation of the reservoir correlation function and bring to light the limits of usability of master equations with memory for the system under consideration.

id: quant-ph/0509209
title: Brokered Graph State Quantum Computing
authors: Simon C. Benjamin, Dan E. Browne, Joe Fitzsimons, John J. L. Morton
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 8, 141 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509209
abstract: We describe a procedure for graph state quantum computing that is tailored to fully exploit the physics of optically active multi-level systems. Leveraging ideas from the literature on distributed computation together with the recent work on probabilistic cluster state synthesis, our model assigns to each physical system two logical qubits: the broker and the client. Groups of brokers negotiate new graph state fragments via a probabilistic optical protocol. Completed fragments are mapped from broker to clients via a simple state transition and measurement. The clients, whose role is to store the nascent graph state long term, remain entirely insulated from failures during the brokerage. We describe an implementation in terms of NV-centres in diamond, where brokers and clients are very naturally embodied as electron and nuclear spins.

id: quant-ph/0509210
title: Observables of Angular Momentum as Observables on the Fedosov Quantized Sphere
authors: Philip Tillman, George Sparling
comments: 30 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 47, 052102 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509210
abstract: In this paper we construct the commutators of the Fedosov * (a generalization of the Moyal star product) on the phase space of S2. It is shown that this product obeys the standard angular momentum commutation relations in ordinary nonrelativistic quantum mechanics. The purpose of this paper is three-fold. One is to find an exact, non-perturbative solution to the commutators of the Fedosov *. The other is to verify that these commutation relations correspond to angular momentum commutation relations as in ordinary nonrelativistic quantum mechanics. The last is to show a more general computation of the Fedosov *; essentially undeforming Fedosov's algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0509211
title: Expanded Conclusive Eavesdropping in Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Howard E. Brandt, John M. Myers
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509211
abstract: The paper [Howard E. Brandt, "Conclusive eavesdropping in quantum key distribution," J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005)] is generalized to include the full range of error rates for the projectively measured quantum cryptographic entangling probe, and also the full range of inconclusive rates for the entangling probe measured with the POVM receiver.

id: quant-ph/0509212
title: Unambiguous unitary quantum channels
authors: Shengjun Wu, Xuemei Chen
comments: 17 pages, 16 figures
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Vol. 7 (No. 8), 782-798 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509212
abstract: Unambiguous unitary maps and unambiguous unitary quantum channels are introduced and some of their properties are derived. These properties ensure certain simple form for the measurements involved in realizing an unambiguous unitary quantum channel. Error correction and unambiguous error correction with nonzero probability are discussed in terms of unambiguous unitary quantum channels. We not only re-derive the well-known condition for a set of errors to be correctable with certainty, but also obtain a necessary and sufficient condition for the errors caused by a noisy channel to be correctable with any nonzero probability. Dense coding with a partially entangled state can also be viewed as an unambiguous unitary quantum channel when all messages are required to be transmitted with equal probability of success, the maximal achievable probability of success is derived and the optimum protocol is also obtained.

id: quant-ph/0509213
title: Statistical Reconstruction of arbitrary spin states of particles: root approach
authors: Yu.I. Bogdanov
comments: 9 pages, the International Conference "Quantum Information-2005"(QI-2005), Zvenigorod, Moscow district, October 5-6, 2005, Accepted for publication in Proc. of SPIE
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509213
abstract: A method of quantum tomography of arbitrary spin particle states is developed on the basis of the root approach. It is shown that the set of mutually complementary distributions of angular momentum projections can be naturally described by a set of basis functions based on the Kravchuk polynomials. The set of Kravchuk basis functions leads to a multi-parametric statistical distribution that generalizes the binomial distribution. In order to analyze a statistical inverse problem of quantum mechanics, we investigated the likelihood equation and the statistical properties of the obtained estimates. The conclusions of the analytical researches are approved by the results of numerical calculations.

id: quant-ph/0509214
title: What is "system": some decoherence-theory arguments
authors: Miroljub Dugic
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 45, 2249 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509214
abstract: We discuss the possibility of making the {\it initial} definitions of mutually different (possibly interacting, or even entangled) systems in the context of decoherence theory. We point out relativity of the concept of elementary physical system as well as point out complementarity of the different possible divisions of a composite system into "subsystems", thus eventually sharpening the issue of 'what is system'.

id: quant-ph/0509215
title: Comment on "Time-dependent entropy of simple quantum model systems"
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski
comments: Comment to appesr in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys Rev. A 72, (2005), 056101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509215
abstract: In the above mentioned paper by J. Dunkel and S. A. Trigger [Phys. Rev. {\bf A 71}, 052102, (2005)] a hypothesis has been pursued that the loss of information associated with the quantum evolution of pure states, quantified in terms of an increase in time of so-called Leipnik's joint entropy, could be a rather general property shared by many quantum systems. This behavior has been confirmed for the unconfined model systems and properly tuned initial data (maximally classical states). We provide two particular examples which indicate a complexity of the quantum evolution. In the presence of a confining (harmonic) potential Leipnik's entropy may be non-increasing for maximally classical initial data. Another choice of initial data implies periodicity in time of the Leipnik entropy.

id: quant-ph/0509216
title: On the Quantum Mechanics for One Photon
authors: Yapeng Hu, Weigang Qiu, Hongbao Zhang
comments: 15 pages, typos corrected, references added, corrections and improvements made owing to the anonymous referee's responsible and helpful remarks, accepted for publication in Journal of Mathematical Physics:)
journal: J.Math.Phys. 47 (2006) 052304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509216
abstract: This paper revisits the quantum mechanics for one photon from the modern viewpoint and by the geometrical method. Especially, besides the ordinary (rectangular) momentum representation, we provide an explicit derivation for the other two important representations, called the cylindrically symmetrical representation and the spherically symmetrical representation, respectively. These other two representations are relevant to some current photon experiments in quantum optics. In addition, the latter is useful for us to extract the information on the quantized black holes. The framework and approach presented here are also applicable to other particles with arbitrary mass and spin, such as the particle with spin 1/2.

id: quant-ph/0509217
title: Teleporting a quantum state in a subset of the whole Hilbert space
authors: Mei-Yu Wang, Feng-Li Yan
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: Physics Letters A, 355 (2006) 94-97
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509217
abstract: We investigate the lower bound of the amount of entanglement for faithfully teleporting a quantum state belonging to a subset of the whole Hilbert space. Moreover, when the quantum state belongs to a set composed of two states, a probabilistic teleportation scheme is presented using a non-maximally entangled state as the quantum channel. We also calculate the average transmission efficiency of this scheme.

id: quant-ph/0509218
title: N-qubit entanglement via the $J_y^2$-type collective interaction
authors: D.L. Zhou, B. Zeng, J.S. Tang, Z. Xu, L. You
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Letts. A 345, 38 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509218
abstract: We investigate quantum correlations of the $N$-qubit states via a collective pseudo-spin interaction ($\propto J_y^2$) on arbitrary pure separable states for a given interval of time. Based on this dynamical generation of the $N$-qubit maximal entangled states, a quantum secret sharing protocol with $N$ continuous classical secrets is developed.

id: quant-ph/0509219
title: Phase-stable source of polarization-entangled photons using a polarization Sagnac interferometer
authors: Taehyun Kim, Marco Fiorentino, Franco N. C. Wong
comments: Submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509219
abstract: We demonstrate a simple, robust, and ultrabright parametric down-conversion source of polarization-entangled photons based on a polarization Sagnac interferometer. Bidirectional pumping in type-II phase-matched periodically poled KTiOPO4 yields a measured flux of 5 000 polarization-entangled pairs/s per mW of pump power in a 1-nm bandwidth at 96.8% quantum-interference visibility. The common-path arrangement of the Sagnac interferometer eliminates the need for phase stabilization for the biphoton output state.

id: quant-ph/0509220
title: Macroscopic quantum information channel via the polarization-sensitive interaction between the light and spin subsystems
authors: Oksana Mishina, Dmitriy Kupriyanov, Eugene Polzik
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, plenary talk presented at NATO ASI in Quantum Information and Quantum Computation
journal: Proceedings of the NATO Advanced Research Workshop, Crete 2005: "Quantum Communication and Security" (ISO Press, Amsterdam, 2006), Vol. 199, pp. 346-352
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0509220
abstract: We discuss the quantum information channel, which is based on coherent and polarization sensitive interaction of light and atomic spin waves. We show that the joint Heisenberg dynamics of the polarization Stokes components of light and of the angular momenta of atoms has a wave nature and can be properly described in terms of the macroscopic polariton-type spin wave created in the sample. The principles of the quantum memory and readout protocols via the wave coupling of the output time modes in the light subsystem and the output spatial modes in the spin subsystem are demonstrated.

id: cond-mat/0509010
title: Entanglement between static and flying qubits in quantum wires
authors: J.H. Jefferson, A. Ramsak, T. Rejec
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 74, 764 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0509010
abstract: A weakly bound electron in a semiconductor quantum wire is shown to become entangled with an itinerant electron via the coulomb interaction. The degree of entanglement and its variation with energy of the injected electron, may be tuned by choice of spin and initial momentum. Full entanglement is achieved close to energies where there are spin-dependent resonances. Possible realisations of related device structures are discussed.

id: cond-mat/0509038
title: Shot noise and spin-orbit coherent control of entangled and spin polarized electrons
authors: J. Carlos Egues, Guido Burkard, D. Saraga, John Schliemann, Daniel Loss
comments: 30 two-column pages and 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 235326 (2005)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0509038
abstract: We extend our previous work on shot noise for entangled and spin polarized electrons in a beam-splitter geometry with spin-orbit (\textit{s-o}) interaction in one of the incoming leads (lead 1). Besides accounting for both the Dresselhaus and the Rashba spin-orbit terms, we present general formulas for the shot noise of singlet and triplets states derived within the scattering approach. We determine the full scattering matrix of the system for the case of leads with \textit{two} orbital channels coupled via weak \textit{s-o} interactions inducing channel anticrossings. We show that this interband coupling coherently transfers electrons between the channels and gives rise to an additional modulation angle -- dependent on both the Rashba and Dresselhaus interaction strengths -- which allows for further independent coherent control of the electrons traversing the incoming leads. We derive explicit shot noise formulas for a variety of correlated pairs (e.g., Bell states) and lead spin polarizations. Interestingly, the singlet and \textit{each} of the triplets defined along the quantization axis perpendicular to lead 1 (with the local \textit{s-o} interaction) and in the plane of the beam splitter display distinctive shot noise for injection energies near the channel anticrossings; hence, one can tell apart all the triplets, in addition to the singlet, through noise measurements. We also find that spin-orbit induced backscattering within lead 1 reduces the visibility of the noise oscillations, due to the additional partition noise in this lead. Finally, we consider injection of two-particle wavepackets into leads with multiple discrete states and find that two-particle entanglement can still be observed via noise bunching and antibunching.

id: cond-mat/0509154
title: Quasi-condensate growth on an atom chip
authors: N.P. Proukakis, J. Schmiedmayer, H.T.C. Stoof
comments: Detailed Discussion (11 Pages, 7 Fig), Classification of Accessible Regimes, Description of Experimental Techniques
journal: Phys.Rev.A73:053603,2006
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0509154
abstract: We discuss and model an experiment to study quasi-condensate growth on an atom chip. In particular, we consider the addition of a deep dimple to the weak harmonic trap confining an ultracold one-dimensional atomic Bose gas, below or close to the characteristic temperature for quasi-condensate formation. The subsequent dynamics depends critically on both the initial conditions, and the form of the perturbing potential. In general, the dynamics features a combination of shock-wave propagation in the quasi-condensate, and quasi-condensate growth from the surrounding thermal cloud.

id: cond-mat/0509161
title: Extended Bose Hubbard model of interacting bosonic atoms in optical lattices: from superfluidity to density waves
authors: G. Mazzarella, S. M. Giampaolo, F. Illuminati
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 013625 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0509161
abstract: For systems of interacting, ultracold spin-zero neutral bosonic atoms, harmonically trapped and subject to an optical lattice potential, we derive an Extended Bose Hubbard (EBH) model by developing a systematic expansion for the Hamiltonian of the system in powers of the lattice parameters and of a scale parameter, the {\it lattice attenuation factor}. We identify the dominant terms that need to be retained in realistic experimental conditions, up to nearest-neighbor interactions and nearest-neighbor hoppings conditioned by the on site occupation numbers. In mean field approximation, we determine the free energy of the system and study the phase diagram both at zero and at finite temperature. At variance with the standard on site Bose Hubbard model, the zero temperature phase diagram of the EBH model possesses a dual structure in the Mott insulating regime. Namely, for specific ranges of the lattice parameters, a density wave phase characterizes the system at integer fillings, with domains of alternating mean occupation numbers that are the atomic counterparts of the domains of staggered magnetizations in an antiferromagnetic phase. We show as well that in the EBH model, a zero-temperature quantum phase transition to pair superfluidity is in principle possible, but completely suppressed at lowest order in the lattice attenuation factor. Finally, we determine the possible occurrence of the different phases as a function of the experimentally controllable lattice parameters.

id: cond-mat/0509236
title: Superconducting qubits can be coupled and addressed as trapped ions
authors: Yu-xi Liu, L. F. Wei, J. R. Johansson, J. S. Tsai, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 144518 (2007)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0509236
abstract: Exploiting the intrinsic nonlinearity of superconducting Josephson junctions, we propose a scalable circuit with superconducting qubits (SCQs) which is very similar to the successful one now being used for trapped ions. The SCQs are coupled to the "vibrational" mode provided by a superconducting LC circuit or its equivalent (e.g., a SQUID). Both single-qubit rotations and qubit-LC-circuit couplings/decouplings can be controlled by the frequencies of the time-dependent magnetic fluxes. The circuit is scalable since the qubit-qubit interactions, mediated by the LC circuit, can be selectively performed, and the information transfer can be realized in a controllable way.

id: cond-mat/0509328
title: Light scattering in Cooper-paired Fermi atoms
authors: Bimalendu Deb
comments: single column, 26 pages, 10 figures; Title changed, discussion on experimental implication added in concluding section. Accepted for publication in J. Phys. B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39 (2006) 529--551
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0509328
abstract: We present a detailed theoretical study of light scattering off superfluid trapped Fermi gas of atoms at zero temperature. We apply Nambu-Gorkov formalism of superconductivity to calculate the response function of superfluid gas due to stimulated light scattering taking into account the final state interactions. The polarization of light has been shown to play a significant role in response of Cooper-pairs in the presence of a magnetic field. Particularly important is a scheme of polarization-selective light scattering by either spin-component of the Cooper-pairs leading to the single-particle excitations of one spin-component only. These excitations have a threshold of $2\Delta$ where $\Delta$ is the superfluid gap energy. Furthermore, polarization-selective light scattering allows for unequal energy and momentum transfer to the two partner atoms of a Cooper-pair. In the regime of low energy ($<< 2\Delta$) and low momentum ($<2\Delta/(\hbar v_F)$, $v_F$ being the Fermi velocity) transfer, a small difference in momentum transfers to the two spin-components may be useful in exciting Bogoliubov-Anderson phonon mode. We present detailed results on the dynamic structure factor (DSF) deduced from the response function making use of generalized fluctuation-dissipation theorem. Model calculations using local density approximation for trapped superfluid Fermi gas shows that when the energy transfer is less than $2\Delta_0$, where $\Delta_0$ refers to the gap at the trap center, DSF as a function of energy transfer has reduced gradient compared to that of normal Fermi gas.

id: cond-mat/0509505
title: Quantum atom optics with fermions from molecular dissociation
authors: K. V. Kheruntsyan
comments: Changes in response to referees' comments, updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 110401 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0509505
abstract: We study a fermionic atom optics counterpart of parametric down-conversion with photons. This can be realized through dissociation of a Bose-Einstein condensate of molecular dimers consisting of fermionic atoms. We present a theoretical model describing the quantum dynamics of dissociation and find analytic solutions for mode occupancies and atomic pair correlations, valid in the short time limit. The solutions are used to identify upper bounds for the correlation functions, which are applicable to any fermionic system and correspond to ideal particle number-difference squeezing

id: cond-mat/0509557
title: Four-qubit device with mixed couplings
authors: M. Grajcar, A. Izmalkov, S.H.W. van der Ploeg, S. Linzen, T. Plecenik, Th. Wagner, U. Huebner, E. Il'ichev, H.-G. Meyer, A.Yu. Smirnov, Peter J. Love, Alec Maassen van den Brink, M.H.S. Amin, S. Uchaikin, A.M. Zagoskin
comments: REVTeX 4, 5pp., 7 EPS figure files. N.B.: "Alec" is my first, and "Maassen van den Brink" my family name. v2: final published version, with changed title, different sample micrograph, and several clarifications
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett._96_, 047006 (2006)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0509557
abstract: We present the first experimental results on a device with more than two superconducting qubits. The circuit consists of four three-junction flux qubits, with simultaneous ferro- and antiferromagnetic coupling implemented using shared Josephson junctions. Its response, which is dominated by the ground state, is characterized using low-frequency impedance measurement with a superconducting tank circuit coupled to the qubits. The results are found to be in excellent agreement with the quantum-mechanical predictions.

id: cond-mat/0509602
title: Atomic current across an optical lattice
authors: Alexey V. Ponomarev, Javier Madronero, Andrey R. Kolovsky, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 050404 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0509602
abstract: We devise a microscopic model for the emergence of a collision-induced, fermionic atomic current across a tilted optical lattice. Tuning the - experimentally controllable - parameters of the microscopic dynamics allows to switch from Ohmic to negative differential conductance.

id: cond-mat/0509687
title: Incipience of quantum chaos in the Jahn-Teller model
authors: E.Majernikova, Serge Shpyrko
comments: 7 Figs, 15 pages, published in Phys.Rev.E
journal: Phys.Rev.E v.73, 066215 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0509687
abstract: We studied complex spectra of a two-level electron system coupled to two phonon (vibron) modes represented by the E$\otimes$e Jahn-Teller model. For particular rotation quantum numbers we found a coexistence of up to three regions of the spectra, (i) the dimerized region of long-range ordered (extended) pairs of oscillating levels, (ii) the short-range-ordered (localized) "kink lattice" of avoiding levels, and (iii) the intermediate region of kink nucleation with variable range of ordering. This structure appears above a certain critical line as a function of interaction strength. The level clustering and level avoiding generic patterns reflect themselves in several intermittent regions between up to three branches of spectral entropies. Linear scaling behavior of the widths of level curvature probability distributions provides the conventionally adopted indication for the presence of quantum chaos. Level spacing probability distributions show peculiarities of the partial (for fixed quantum angular momentum) as well as of the cumulative (all angular momenta) case. The clustering of levels with two and three dominant spacings at fixed angular momenta causes notable deviations of the cumulative distributions from the Poissonian one.

id: cond-mat/0509721
title: Continuous unitary transformations in two-level boson systems
authors: S. Dusuel, J. Vidal, J. M. Arias, J. Dukelsky, J. E. Garcia-Ramos
comments: 27 pages, 16 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. C 72, 064332 (2005)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0509721
abstract: Two-level boson systems displaying a quantum phase transition from a spherical (symmetric) to a deformed (broken) phase are studied. A formalism to diagonalize Hamiltonians with $O(2L+1)$ symmetry for large number of bosons is worked out. Analytical results beyond the simple mean-field treatment are deduced by using the continuous unitary transformations technique. In this scheme, a 1/N expansion for different observables is proposed and allows one to compute the finite-size scaling exponents at the critical point. Analytical and numerical results are compared and reveal the power of the present approach to compute the finite-size corrections in such a context.

id: cond-mat/0509735
title: Advanced control with a Cooper-pair box: stimulated Raman adiabatic passage and Fock-state generation in a nanomechanical resonator
authors: Jens Siewert, Tobias Brandes, Giuseppe Falci
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0509735
abstract: The rapid experimental progress in the field of superconducting nanocircuits gives rise to an increasing quest for advanced quantum-control techniques for these macroscopically coherent systems. Here we demonstrate theoretically that stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) should be possible with the quantronium setup of a Cooper-pair box. The scheme appears to be robust against decoherence and should be realizable even with the existing technology. As an application we present a method to generate single-phonon states of a nanomechnical resonator by vacuum-stimulated adiabatic passage with the superconducting nanocircuit coupled to the resonator.

id: cond-mat/0509737
title: On-Chip Microwave Fock States and Quantum Homodyne Measurements
authors: M. Mariantoni, M. J. Storcz, F. K. Wilhelm, W. D. Oliver, A. Emmert, A. Marx, R. Gross, H. Christ, E. Solano
comments: Four pages and two figures. Submitted for publication. Significant changes in the microwave measurement procedure
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0509737
abstract: We propose a method to couple metastable flux-based qubits to superconductive resonators based on a quantum-optical Raman excitation scheme that allows for the deterministic generation of stationary and propagating microwave Fock states and other weak quantum fields. Moreover, we introduce a suitable microwave quantum homodyne technique, with no optical counterpart, that enables the measurement of relevant field observables, even in the presence of noisy amplification devices.

id: cond-mat/0509766
title: Filled Landau levels in neutral quantum gases
authors: P. Ohberg, G. Juzeliunas, J. Ruseckas, M. Fleischhauer
comments: Minor corrections. Phys. Rev. A, 053632 (2005). High resolution figures can be obtained from the authors
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0509766
abstract: We consider the signatures of the Integer Quantum Hall Effect in a degenerate gas of electrically neutral atomic fermions. An effective magnetic field is achieved by applying two incident light beams with a high orbital angular momentum. We show how states corresponding to completely filled Landau levels are obtained and discuss various possibilities to measure the incompressible nature of the trapped two-dimensional gas

id: gr-qc/0509025
title: A Note on Frame Dragging
authors: R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 22 (2005) 3815-3816
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0509025
abstract: The measurement of spin effects in general relativity has recently taken centre stage with the successfully launched Gravity Probe B experiment coming toward an end, coupled with recently reported measurements using laser ranging. Many accounts of these experiments have been in terms of frame-dragging. We point out that this terminology has given rise to much confusion and that a better description is in terms of spin-orbit and spin-spin effects. In particular, we point out that the de Sitter precession (which has been mesured to a high accuracy) is also a frame-dragging effect and provides an accurate benchmark measurement of spin-orbit effects which GPB needs to emulate.

id: gr-qc/0509053
title: Spontaneous excitation of an accelerated atom in a spacetime with a reflecting plane boundary
authors: Hongwei Yu, Shizhuan Lu
comments: A few typographical errors corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.D72:064022,2005; Erratum-ibid.D73:109901,2006
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0509053
abstract: We study a two-level atom in interaction with a real massless scalar quantum field in a spacetime with a reflecting boundary. The presence of the boundary modifies the quantum fluctuations of the scalar field, which in turn modifies the radiative properties of atoms. We calculate the rate of change of the mean atomic energy of the atom for both inertial motion and uniform acceleration. It is found that the modifications induced by the presence of a boundary make the spontaneous radiation rate of an excited inertial atom to oscillate near the boundary and this oscillatory behavior may offer a possible opportunity for experimental tests for geometrical (boundary) effects in flat spacetime. While for accelerated atoms, the transitions from ground states to excited states are found to be possible even in vacuum due to changes in the vacuum fluctuations induced by both the presence of the boundary and the acceleration of atoms, and this can be regarded as an actual physical process underlying the Unruh effect.

id: gr-qc/0509082
title: Gravitationally-Induced Quantum Superpopsition Reduction with Large Extra Dimensions
authors: J. R. Mureika
comments: 22 pp; 1 postscript figure Expanded version of previous submission To appear in Phys Rev D
journal: Phys.Rev.D73:064012,2006
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0509082
abstract: A gravity-driven mechanism (``objective reduction'') proposed to explain quantum state reduction is analyzed in light of the possible existence of large extra dimensions in the ADD scenario. By calculating order-of-magnitude estimates for nucleon superpositions, it is shown that if the mechanism at question is correct, constraints may be placed on the number and size of extra dimensions. Hence, measurement of superposition collapse times ({\it e.g.} through diffraction or reflection experiments) could represent a new probe of extra dimensions. The influence of a time-dependent gravitational constant on the gravity-driven collapse scheme with and without the presence of extra dimensions is also discussed.

id: gr-qc/0509120
title: Probability Theories with Dynamic Causal Structure: A New Framework for Quantum Gravity
authors: Lucien Hardy
comments: 68 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0509120
abstract: Quantum theory is a probabilistic theory with fixed causal structure. General relativity is a deterministic theory but where the causal structure is dynamic. It is reasonable to expect that quantum gravity will be a probabilistic theory with dynamic causal structure. The purpose of this paper is to present a framework for such a probability calculus. We define an operational notion of space-time, this being composed of elementary regions. Central to this formalism is an object we call the causaloid. This object captures information about causal structure implicit in the data by quantifying the way in which the number of measurements required to establish a state for a composite region is reduced when there is a causal connection between the component regions. This formalism puts all elementary regions on an equal footing. It does not require that we impose fixed causal structure. In particular, it is not necessary to assume the existence of a background time. Remarkably, given the causaloid, we can calculate all relevant probabilities and so the causaloid is sufficient to specify the predictive aspect of a physical theory. We show how certain causaloids can be represented by suggestive diagrams and we show how to represent both classical probability theory and quantum theory by a causaloid. We do not give a causaloid formulation for general relativity though we speculate that this is possible. The work presented here suggests a research program aimed at finding a theory of quantum gravity. The idea is to use the causaloid formalism along with principles taken from the two theories to marry the dynamic causal structure of general relativity with the probabilistic structure of quantum theory.

id: hep-ph/0509317
title: Paramagnetic Meissner Effect and Finite Spin Susceptibility in an Asymmetric Superconductor
authors: Lianyi He, Meng Jin, Pengfei Zhuang
comments: 17pages, 2 figures, published in Physical Review B
journal: Phys.Rev.B73:024511,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0509317
abstract: A general analysis of Meissner effect and spin susceptibility of a uniform superconductor in an asymmetric two-component fermion system is presented in nonrelativistic field theory approach. We found that, the pairing mechanism dominates the magnetization property of superconductivity, and the asymmetry enhances the paramagnetism of the system. At the turning point from BCS to breached pairing superconductivity, the Meissner mass squared and spin susceptibility are divergent at zero temperature. In the breached pairing state induced by chemical potential difference and mass difference between the two kinds of fermions, the system goes from paramagnetism to diamagnetism, when the mass ratio of the two species increases.

id: hep-th/0509020
title: Simultaneous Ordinary and Type A N-fold Supersymmetries in Schroedinger, Pauli, and Dirac Equations
authors: Choon-Lin Ho, Toshiaki Tanaka
comments: 27 pages, 1 figure; typos corrected, Refs. updated, to appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals Phys. 321 (2006) 1375-1407
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0509020
abstract: We investigate physical models which possess simultaneous ordinary and type A N-fold supersymmetries, which we call type A (N,1)-fold supersymmetry. Inequivalent type A (N,1)-fold supersymmetric models with real-valued potentials are completely classified. Among them, we find that a trigonometric Rosen-Morse type and its elliptic version are of physical interest. We investigate various aspects of these models, namely, dynamical breaking and interrelation between ordinary and N-fold supersymmetries, shape invariance, quasi-solvability, and an associated algebra which is composed of one bosonic and four fermionic operators and dubbed type A (N,1)-fold superalgebra. As realistic physical applications, we demonstrate how these systems can be embedded into Pauli and Dirac equations in external electromagnetic fields.

id: hep-th/0509122
title: General boundary quantum field theory: Foundations and probability interpretation
authors: Robert Oeckl
comments: 30 pages, 5 figures, LaTeX; v2: typos corrected, footnote and remark added, references added/updated; v3: more typos corrected; v4: with corrections of the published version
journal: Adv.Theor.Math.Phys.12:319-352,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0509122
abstract: We elaborate on the proposed general boundary formulation as an extension of standard quantum mechanics to arbitrary (or no) backgrounds. Temporal transition amplitudes are generalized to amplitudes for arbitrary spacetime regions. State spaces are associated to general (not necessarily spacelike) hypersurfaces. We give a detailed foundational exposition of this approach, including its probability interpretation and a list of core axioms. We explain how standard quantum mechanics arises as a special case. We include a discussion of probability conservation and unitarity, showing how these concepts are generalized in the present framework. We formulate vacuum axioms and incorporate spacetime symmetries into the framework. We show how the Schroedinger-Feynman approach is a suitable starting point for casting quantum field theories into the general boundary form. We discuss the role of operators.

id: hep-th/0509123
title: General boundary quantum field theory: Timelike hypersurfaces in Klein-Gordon theory
authors: Robert Oeckl
comments: 25 pages, LaTeX; typos corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.D73:065017,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0509123
abstract: We show that the real massive Klein-Gordon theory admits a description in terms of states on various timelike hypersurfaces and amplitudes associated to regions bounded by them. This realizes crucial elements of the general boundary framework for quantum field theory. The hypersurfaces considered are hyperplanes on the one hand and timelike hypercylinders on the other hand. The latter lead to the first explicit examples of amplitudes associated with finite regions of space, and admit no standard description in terms of ``initial'' and ``final'' states. We demonstrate a generalized probability interpretation in this example, going beyond the applicability of standard quantum mechanics.

id: hep-th/0509138
title: Dirac Quantization of t'Hooft-Polyakov Monopole: Axial Hamiltonization
authors: Khaled R. Qandalji
comments: 
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys. 45 (2006) 1158-1165
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0509138
abstract: In this article, we carry out the Hamiltonization in the axial gauge, of the t'Hooft-Polyakov monopole field outside the localized region, which represents the monopole's core. One feature of the treatment here, is using the Higgs vacuum condition as both strong and weak equation instead of using it in the degree of freedom reduction.

id: math-ph/0509017
title: Quantum spin systems at positive temperature
authors: Marek Biskup, Lincoln Chayes, Shannon Starr
comments: 47 pages, version to appear in CMP (style files included)
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 269 (2007), no. 3, 611-657
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0509017
abstract: We develop a novel approach to phase transitions in quantum spin models based on a relation to their classical counterparts. Explicitly, we show that whenever chessboard estimates can be used to prove a phase transition in the classical model, the corresponding quantum model will have a similar phase transition, provided the inverse temperature $\beta$ and the magnitude of the quantum spins $\CalS$ satisfy $\beta\ll\sqrt\CalS$. From the quantum system we require that it is reflection positive and that it has a meaningful classical limit; the core technical estimate may be described as an extension of the Berezin-Lieb inequalities down to the level of matrix elements. The general theory is applied to prove phase transitions in various quantum spin systems with $\CalS\gg1$. The most notable examples are the quantum orbital-compass model on $\Z^2$ and the quantum 120-degree model on $\Z^3$ which are shown to exhibit symmetry breaking at low-temperatures despite the infinite degeneracy of their (classical) ground state.

id: math-ph/0509020
title: Observables I: Stone Spectra
authors: Hans F. de Groote
comments: 77 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0509020
abstract: In this work we discuss the notion of observable - both quantum and classical - from a new point of view. In classical mechanics, an observable is represented as a function (measurable, continuous or smooth), whereas in (von Neumann's approach to) quantum physics, an observable is represented as a bonded selfadjoint operator on Hilbert space. We will show in part II of this work that there is a common structure behind these two different concepts. If $\mathcal{R}$ is a von Neumann algebra, a selfadjoint element $A \in \mathcal{R}$ induces a continuous function $f_{A} : \mathcal{Q}(\mathcal{P(R)}) \to \mathbb{R}$ defined on the \emph{Stone spectrum} $\mathcal{Q}(\mathcal{P(R)})$ of the lattice $\mathcal{P(R)}$ of projections in $\mathcal{R}$. The Stone spectrum $\mathcal{Q}(\mathbb{L})$ of a general lattice $\mathbb{L}$ is the set of maximal dual ideals in $\mathbb{L}$, equipped with a canonical topology. $\mathcal{Q}(\mathbb{L})$ coincides with Stone's construction if $\mathbb{L}$ is a Boolean algebra (thereby ``Stone'') and is homeomorphic to the Gelfand spectrum of an abelian von Neumann algebra $\mathcal{R}$ in case of $\mathbb{L} = \mathcal{P(R)}$ (thereby ``spectrum'').

id: math-ph/0509028
title: Smoothness of Wave Functions in Thermal Equilibrium
authors: Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 16 pages LaTeX, no figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46 (2005) 112104
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0509028
abstract: We consider the thermal equilibrium distribution at inverse temperature $\beta$, or canonical ensemble, of the wave function $\Psi$ of a quantum system. Since $L^2$ spaces contain more nondifferentiable than differentiable functions, and since the thermal equilibrium distribution is very spread-out, one might expect that $\Psi$ has probability zero to be differentiable. However, we show that for relevant Hamiltonians the contrary is the case: with probability one, $\Psi$ is infinitely often differentiable and even analytic. We also show that with probability one, $\Psi$ lies in the domain of the Hamiltonian.

id: math-ph/0509064
title: Geometric Phases
authors: P¨¦ter L¨¦vay
comments: 27 pages LATEX. To appear in the Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics, Elsevier 2006
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0509064
abstract: The differential geometric aspects of Geometric Phases are reviewed.

id: math-ph/0509075
title: Observables II : Quantum Observables
authors: Hans F. de Groote
comments: 51 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0509075
abstract: In this work we discuss the notion of observable - both quantum and classical - from a new point of view. In classical mechanics, an observable is represented as a function (measurable, continuous or smooth), whereas in (von Neumann's approach to) quantum physics, an observable is represented as a bonded selfadjoint operator on Hilbert space. We will show in the present part II and the forthcoming part III of this work that there is a common structure behind these two different concepts. If $\mathcal{R}$ is a von Neumann algebra, a selfadjoint element $A \in \mathcal{R}$ induces a continuous function $f_{A} : \mathcal{Q}(\mathcal{P(R)}) \to \mathbb{R}$ defined on the \emph{Stone spectrum} $\mathcal{Q}(\mathcal{P(R)})$ (\cite{deg3}) of the lattice $\mathcal{P(R)}$ of projections in $\mathcal{R}$. $f_{A}$ is called the observable function corresponding to $A$. The aim of this part is to study observable functions and its various characterizations.

id: math/0509674
title: Super, quantum and non-commutative species
authors: Rafael Diaz, Eddy Pariguan
comments: 43 pages, 12 figures
journal: African Diaspora Journal of Mathematics. Volume 8, Number 1, pp. 90-130 (2009)
subjects: Category Theory (math.CT); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0509674
abstract: We introduce an approach to the categorification of rings, via the notion of distributive categories with negative objects, and use it to lay down categorical foundations for the study of super, quantum and non-commutative combinatorics. Via the usual duality between algebra and geometry, these constructions provide categorifications for various types of affine spaces, thus our works may be regarded as a starting point towards the construction of a categorical geometry.

id: nlin/0509009
title: Entanglement measures in quantum and classical chaos
authors: Arul Lakshminarayan, Jayendra N. Bandyopadhyay, M. S. Santhanam, V. B. Sheorey
comments: Published in Proceedings of First National Conference on Nonlinear Systems and Dynamics in IIT, Kharagpur, India, 28-30 Dec, 2003
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0509009
abstract: Entanglement is a Hilbert-space based measure of nonseparability of states that leads to unique quantum possibilities such as teleportation. It has been at the center of intense activity in the area of quantum information theory and computation. In this paper we discuss the implications of quantum chaos on entanglement, showing how chaos can lead to large entanglement that is universal and describable using random matrix theory. We also indicate how this measure can be used in the Hilbert space formulation of classical mechanics. This leads us to consider purely Hilbert-space based measures of classical chaos, rather than the usual phase-space based ones such as the Lyapunov exponents, and can possibly lead to understanding of partial differential equations and nonintegrable classical field theories.

id: nlin/0509016
title: Stability of wave packet dynamics under perturbations
authors: Jens Bolte, Tobias Schwaibold
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 73 (2006) 026223
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0509016
abstract: We introduce a novel method to investigate the stability of wave packet dynamics under perturbations of the Hamiltonian. Our approach relies on semiclassical approximations, but is non-perturbative. Two separate contributions to the quantum fidelity are identified: one factor derives from the dispersion of the wave packets, whereas the other factor is determined by the separation of a trajectory of the perturbed classical system away from a corresponding unperturbed trajectory. We furthermore estimate both contributions in terms of classical Lyapunov exponents and find a decay of fidelity that is, generically, at least exponential, but may also be doubly exponential. The latter case is shown to be realised for inverted harmonic oscillators.

id: nlin/0509035
title: General Quantum Resonances of the Kicked Particle
authors: Itzhack Dana, Dmitry L. Dorofeev
comments: Revised Version, to appear in Physical Review E
journal: Physical Review E 73, 026206 (2006)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0509035
abstract: The quantum resonances (QRs) of the kicked particle are studied in a most general framework by also considering {\em arbitrary} periodic kicking potentials. It is shown that QR can arise, in general, for {\em any rational} value of the Bloch quasimomentum. This is illustrated in the case of the main QRs for arbitrary potentials. In this case, which is shown to be precisely described by the linear kicked rotor, exact formulas are derived for the diffusion coefficients determining the asymptotic evolution of the average kinetic energy of either an incoherent mixture of plane waves or a general wave packet. The momentum probability distribution is exactly calculated and studied for a two-harmonic potential. It clearly exhibits new resonant values of the quasimomentum and it is robust under small deviations from QR.

id: nucl-th/0509038
title: Unusual photon isospin mixing and instantaneous Coulomb effects on the thermodynamics of compact matter
authors: Ji-sheng Chen
comments: Improved and revised version; 6 pages; references updated
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0509038
abstract: A hidden local symmetry formalism with a two-photon counterterm approach is performed based on the relativistic continuum quantum many-body theory. The underlying electromagnetic under-screening as well as screening effects between the electric charged point-like electrons and composite protons are discussed by analyzing the in-medium isospin mixing of Lorentz vector with scalar due to electromagnetic photon. Besides the usual screening results, the main conclusion is that an effective oscillatory instantaneous Coulomb potential between the like-charged collective electrons contributes a very large negative term to the equation of state. This counterintuitive like-charged attraction results from the modulation factor of the opposite charged baryon superfluid background. The anomalous long distance quantum dragging effects between the collective electrons can be induced in a compact Coulomb confinement environment. The physics is of the strongly coupling characteristic in a specific dilute regime.

id: physics/0509038
title: Avoided crossings in driven systems
authors: Benjamin P. Holder, Linda E. Reichl
comments: 32 pages, 13 figures; Submitted to Phys. Rev. A, 8/8/2005
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 043408 (2005) -- http://link.aps.org/abstract/PRA/v72/e043408
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0509038
abstract: We characterize the avoided crossings in a two-parameter, time-periodic system which has been the basis for a wide variety of experiments. By studying these avoided crossings in the near-integrable regime, we are able to determine scaling laws for the dependence of their characteristic features on the non-integrability parameter. As an application of these results, the influence of avoided crossings on dynamical tunneling is described and applied to the recent realization of multiple-state tunneling in an experimental system.

id: physics/0509197
title: Atom-molecule collisions in an optically trapped gas
authors: Nassim Zahzam, Thibault Vogt, Marcel Mudrich, Daniel Comparat, Pierre Pillet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0509197
abstract: Cold inelastic collisions between confined cesium (Cs) atoms and Cs$\_2$ molecules are investigated inside a CO$\_2$ laser dipole trap. Inelastic atom-molecule collisions can be observed and measured with a rate coefficient of $\sim 2.5 \times 10^{-11} $cm$^3$ s$^{-1}$, mainly independent of the molecular ro-vibrational state populated. Lifetimes of purely atomic and molecular samples are essentially limited by rest gas collisions. The pure molecular trap lifetime ranges 0,3-1 s, four times smaller than the atomic one, as is also observed in a pure magnetic trap. We give an estimation of the inelastic molecule-molecule collision rate to be $\sim 10^{-11}$ cm$^{3}$ s$^{-1}$.

id: physics/0509211
title: Trap-induced resonances in controlled collisions of cesium atoms
authors: Rene Stock, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures, 1 table
journal: Physical Review A 73, 032701 (2006)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0509211
abstract: We consider the feasibility of observing a trap-induced resonance [Stock et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 183201 (2003)] for the case of two 133Cs atoms, trapped in separated wells of a polarization-gradient optical lattice, and interacting through a multichannel scattering process. Due to the anomalously large scattering length of cesium dimers, a strong coupling can occur between vibrational states of the trap and a weakly bound molecular state that is made resonant by the ac-Stark shift of the lattice. We calculate the energy spectrum of the two-atom system as a function of the distance between two potential wells by connecting the solutions of the Schroedinger equation for the short-range molecular potential to that of the long-range trap in a self-consistent manner. The short-range potential is treated through a multichannel pseudopotential, parametrized by the K matrix, calculated numerically for atoms in free space in a close-coupling approximation. This captures both the bound molecular spectrum as well as the energy-dependent scattering for all partial waves. We establish realistic operating conditions under which the trap-induced resonance could be observed and show that this strong and coherent interaction could be used as a basis for high-fidelity two-qubit quantum logic operations.

