id: quant-ph/0511001
title: Perfect A/D conversion of entanglement
authors: Xiao-Yu Chen
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511001
abstract: We investigate how entanglement can be perfectly transfered between continuous variable and qubits system. We find that a two-mode squeezed vacuum state can be converted to the product state of an infinitive number of two-qubit states while keeping the entanglement. The reverse process is also possible. The interaction Hamitonian is a kind of non-linear Jaynes-Cumings Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0511002
title: Indistinguishable Particles in Quantum Mechanics: An Introduction
authors: Y. Omar
comments: To appear in Contemp. Phys
journal: Contemporary Physics, Vol. 46, 437-448 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511002
abstract: In this article, we discuss the identity and indistinguishability of quantum systems and the consequent need to introduce an extra postulate in Quantum Mechanics to correctly describe situations involving indistinguishable particles. This is, for electrons, the Pauli Exclusion Principle, or in general, the Symmetrization Postulate. Then, we introduce fermions and bosons and the distributions respectively describing their statistical behaviour in indistinguishable situations. Following that, we discuss the spin-statistics connection, as well as alternative statistics and experimental evidence for all these results, including the use of bunching and antibunching of particles emerging from a beam splitter as a signature for some bosonic or fermionic states.

id: quant-ph/0511003
title: Comment on "Topological Transitions in Berry's Phase Interference Effects"
authors: Eyal Buks
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511003
abstract: Comment on "Topological Transitions in Berry's Phase Interference Effects"

id: quant-ph/0511004
title: Equiangular lines, mutually unbiased bases, and spin models
authors: Chris Godsil, Aidan Roy
comments: 23 pages; no figures. Minor correction as pointed out in arxiv.org:1104.3370
journal: European Journal of Combinatorics 30 (2009), pp. 246--262
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511004
abstract: We use difference sets to construct interesting sets of lines in complex space. Using (v,k,1)-difference sets, we obtain k^2-k+1 equiangular lines in C^k when k-1 is a prime power. Using semiregular relative difference sets with parameters (k,n,k,l) we construct sets of n+1 mutually unbiased bases in C^k. We show how to construct these difference sets from commutative semifields and that several known maximal sets of mutually unbiased bases can be obtained in this way, resolving a conjecture about the monomiality of maximal sets. We also relate mutually unbiased bases to spin models.

id: quant-ph/0511005
title: Towards a precision measurement of the Casimir force in a cylinder-plane geometry
authors: Michael Brown-Hayes, Diego A. R. Dalvit, Francisco D. Mazzitelli, Woo-Joong Kim, Roberto Onofrio
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures (.eps format, higher-resolution figures in published version)
journal: Phys.Rev. A72 (2005) 052102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511005
abstract: We report on a proposal aimed at measuring the Casimir force in a cylinder-plane configuration. The Casimir force is evaluated including corrections due to finite parallelism, conductivity, and temperature. The range of validity of the proximity force approximation is also discussed. An apparatus to test the feasibility of a precision measurement in this configuration has been developed, and we describe both a procedure to control the parallelism and the results of the electrostatic calibration. Finally, we discuss the possibility of measuring the thermal contribution to the Casimir force and deviations from the proximity force approximation, both of which are expected at relatively large distances.

id: quant-ph/0511006
title: Additivity and multiplicativity properties of some Gaussian channels for Gaussian inputs
authors: Tohya Hiroshima
comments: 9 pages, no figures. Published Version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012330 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511006
abstract: We prove multiplicativity of maximal output $p$ norm of classical noise channels and thermal noise channels of arbitrary modes for all $p>1$ under the assumption that the input signal states are Gaussian states. As a direct consequence, we also show the additivity of the minimal output entropy and that of the energy-constrained Holevo capacity for those Gaussian channels under Gaussian inputs. To the best of our knowledge, newly discovered majorization relation on symplectic eigenvalues, which is also of independent interest, plays a central role in the proof.

id: quant-ph/0511007
title: Gaussian operator bases for correlated fermions
authors: J. F. Corney, P. D. Drummond
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39, 269 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511007
abstract: We formulate a general multi-mode Gaussian operator basis for fermions, to enable a positive phase-space representation of correlated Fermi states. The Gaussian basis extends existing bosonic phase-space methods to Fermi systems and thus enables first-principles dynamical or equilibrium calculations in quantum many-body Fermi systems. We prove the completeness and positivity of the basis, and derive differential forms for products with one- and two-body operators. Because the basis satisfies fermionic superselection rules, the resulting phase space involves only c-numbers, without requiring anti-commuting Grassmann variables.

id: quant-ph/0511008
title: Comparison of the Cost Metrics for Reversible and Quantum Logic Synthesis
authors: Dmitri Maslov, D. Michael Miller
comments: More results added. 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: IET Computers & Digital Techniques, 1(2):98-104, 2007.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511008
abstract: A breadth-first search method for determining optimal 3-line circuits composed of quantum NOT, CNOT, controlled-V and controlled-V+ (NCV) gates is introduced. Results are presented for simple gate count and for technology motivated cost metrics. The optimal NCV circuits are also compared to NCV circuits derived from optimal NOT, CNOT and Toffoli (NCT) gate circuits. The work presented here provides basic results and motivation for continued study of the direct synthesis of NCV circuits, and establishes relations between function realizations in different circuit cost metrics.

id: quant-ph/0511009
title: Non-Locality and Classical Communication of the Hidden Variable Theories
authors: A. Fahmi
comments: 9 pages, no figure, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511009
abstract: In all local realistic theories worked out till now, locality is considered as a basic assumption. Most people in the field consider the inconsistency between local realistic theories and quantum mechanics to be a result of non-local nature of quantum mechanics. In this paper, we derive Bell's inequality for particles with instantaneous interactions, and show that the aforementioned contradiction still exists between quantum mechanics and non-local hidden variable models. Then, we use this non-locality to obtain the GHZ theorem. In what follows, we show that Bacon and Toner's protocol, for the simulation of Bell correlation, by using local hidden variables augmented by classical communication, have some inconsistency with quantum mechanics. Our approach can answer to Brassard questions from another viewpoint, we show that if we accept that our nature obeys quantum mechanical laws, then all of quantum mechanic results cannot be simulated by realistic theories augmented by classical communication or a single instance use of non-local box.

id: quant-ph/0511010
title: Dissipative decoherence in the Grover algorithm
authors: O. V. Zhirov, D. L. Shepelyansky
comments: 4 pages, 5 figs, EPJ style, research at this http URL
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 38, 405 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511010
abstract: Using the methods of quantum trajectories we study effects of dissipative decoherence on the accuracy of the Grover quantum search algorithm. The dependence on the number of qubits and dissipation rate are determined and tested numerically with up to 16 qubits. As a result, our numerical and analytical studies give the universal law for decay of fidelity and probability of searched state which are induced by dissipative decoherence effects. This law is in agreement with the results obtained previously for quantum chaos algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0511011
title: Beams of electromagnetic radiation carrying angular momentum: The Riemann-Silberstein vector and the classical-quantum correspondence
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Zofia Bialynicka-Birula
comments: To be published in the special issue of Optics Communications honoring Bruce Shore
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511011
abstract: All beams of electromagnetic radiation are made of photons. Therefore, it is important to find a precise relationship between the classical properties of the beam and the quantum characteristics of the photons that make a particular beam. It is shown that this relationship is best expressed in terms of the Riemann-Silberstein vector -- a complex combination of the electric and magnetic field vectors -- that plays the role of the photon wave function. The Whittaker representation of this vector in terms of a single complex function satisfying the wave equation greatly simplifies the analysis. Bessel beams, exact Laguerre-Gauss beams, and other related beams of electromagnetic radiation can be described in a unified fashion. The appropriate photon quantum numbers for these beams are identified. Special emphasis is put on the angular momentum of a single photon and its connection with the angular momentum of the beam.

id: quant-ph/0511012
title: Entanglement of remote atomic qubits
authors: D. N. Matsukevich, T. Chaneliere, S. D. Jenkins, S.-Y. Lan, T.A.B. Kennedy, A. Kuzmich
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 96, 030405 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511012
abstract: We report observations of entanglement of two remote atomic qubits, achieved by generating an entangled state of an atomic qubit and a single photon at Site A, transmitting the photon to Site B in an adjacent laboratory through an optical fiber, and converting the photon into an atomic qubit. Entanglement of the two remote atomic qubits is inferred by performing, locally, quantum state transfer of each of the atomic qubits onto a photonic qubit and subsequent measurement of polarization correlations in violation of the Bell inequality |S| <2. We experimentally determine S =2.16 +/- 0.03. Entanglement of two remote atomic qubits, each qubit consisting of two independent spin wave excitations, and reversible, coherent transfer of entanglement between matter and light, represent important advances in quantum information science.

id: quant-ph/0511013
title: Bounded-Error Quantum State Identification and Exponential Separations in Communication Complexity
authors: Dmitry Gavinsky, Julia Kempe, Oded Regev, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 20 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511013
abstract: We consider the problem of bounded-error quantum state identification: given either state \alpha_0 or state \alpha_1, we are required to output `0', `1' or `?' ("don't know"), such that conditioned on outputting `0' or `1', our guess is correct with high probability. The goal is to maximize the probability of not outputting `?'. We prove a direct product theorem: if we're given two such problems, with optimal probabilities a and b, respectively, and the states in the first problem are pure, then the optimal probability for the joint bounded-error state identification problem is O(ab). Our proof is based on semidefinite programming duality and may be of wider interest. Using this result, we present two exponential separations in the simultaneous message passing model of communication complexity. Both are shown in the strongest possible sense. First, we describe a relation that can be computed with O(log n) classical bits of communication in the presence of shared randomness, but needs Omega(n^{1/3}) communication if the parties don't share randomness, even if communication is quantum. This shows the optimality of Yao's recent exponential simulation of shared-randomness protocols by quantum protocols without shared randomness. Second, we describe a relation that can be computed with O(log n) classical bits of communication in the presence of shared entanglement, but needs Omega((n/log n)^{1/3}) communication if the parties share randomness but no entanglement, even if communication is quantum. This is the first example in communication complexity of a situation where entanglement buys you much more than quantum communication does.

id: quant-ph/0511014
title: Storage and retrieval of single photons transmitted between remote quantum memories
authors: T. Chaneliere, D. N. Matsukevich, S. D. Jenkins, S.-Y. Lan, T.A.B. Kennedy, A. Kuzmich
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nature, 438, 833 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511014
abstract: An elementary quantum network operation involves storing a qubit state in an atomic quantum memory node, and then retrieving and transporting the information through a single photon excitation to a remote quantum memory node for further storage or analysis. Implementations of quantum network operations are thus conditioned on the ability to realize such matter-to-light and/or light-to-matter quantum state mappings. Here, we report generation, transmission, storage and retrieval of single quanta using two remote atomic ensembles. A single photon is generated from a cold atomic ensemble at Site A via the protocol of Duan, Lukin, Cirac, and Zoller (DLCZ) [Nature v.414, 413 (2001)] and is directed to Site B through a 100 meter long optical fiber. The photon is converted into a single collective excitation via the dark-state polariton approach of Fleischhauer and Lukin [Phys. Rev. Lett. v.84, 5094 (2000)]. After a programmable storage time the atomic excitation is converted back into a single photon. This is demonstrated experimentally, for a storage time of 500 nanoseconds, by measurement of an anticorrelation parameter a. Storage times exceeding ten microseconds are observed by intensity cross-correlation measurements. The length of the storage period is two orders of magnitude longer than the time to achieve conversion between photonic and atomic quanta. The controlled transfer of single quanta between remote quantum memories constitutes an important step towards distributed quantum networks.

id: quant-ph/0511015
title: Observation of dark state polariton collapses and revivals
authors: D. N. Matsukevich, T. Chaneliere, S. D. Jenkins, S.-Y. Lan, T.A.B. Kennedy, A. Kuzmich
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 96, 033601 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511015
abstract: By time-dependent variation of a control field, both coherent and single photon states of light are stored in, and retrieved from, a cold atomic gas. The efficiency of retrieval is studied as a function of the storage time in an applied magnetic field. A series of collapses and revivals is observed, in very good agreement with theoretical predictions. The observations are interpreted in terms of the time evolution of the collective excitation of atomic spin wave and light wave, known as the dark-state polariton.

id: quant-ph/0511016
title: Convolutional and tail-biting quantum error-correcting codes
authors: G. David Forney, Jr., Markus Grassl, Saikat Guha
comments: 30 pages. Submitted to IEEE Transactions on Information Theory. Minor revisions after first round of reviews
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 53, no. 3, March 2007, pp. 865-880
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511016
abstract: Rate-(n-2)/n unrestricted and CSS-type quantum convolutional codes with up to 4096 states and minimum distances up to 10 are constructed as stabilizer codes from classical self-orthogonal rate-1/n F_4-linear and binary linear convolutional codes, respectively. These codes generally have higher rate and less decoding complexity than comparable quantum block codes or previous quantum convolutional codes. Rate-(n-2)/n block stabilizer codes with the same rate and error-correction capability and essentially the same decoding algorithms are derived from these convolutional codes via tail-biting.

id: quant-ph/0511017
title: Theory of dark-state polariton collapses and revivals
authors: S. D. Jenkins, D. N. Matsukevich, T. Chaneliere, A. Kuzmich, T. A. B. Kennedy
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 73, 021803(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511017
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of dark-state polaritons in an atomic ensemble with ground-state degeneracy. A signal light pulse may be stored and retrieved from the atomic sample by adiabatic variation of the amplitude of a control field. During the storage process, a magnetic field causes rotation of the atomic hyperfine coherences, leading to collapses and revivals of the dark-state polariton number. These collapses and revivals should be observable in measurements of the retrieved signal field, as a function of storage time and magnetic field orientation.

id: quant-ph/0511018
title: Experimental investigation of planar ion traps
authors: C.E. Pearson, D.R. Leibrandt, W.S. Bakr, W.J. Mallard, K.R. Brown, I.L. Chuang
comments: 11 pages, 20 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511018
abstract: Chiaverini et al. [Quant. Inf. Comput. 5, 419 (2005)] recently suggested a linear Paul trap geometry for ion trap quantum computation that places all of the electrodes in a plane. Such planar ion traps are compatible with modern semiconductor fabrication techniques and can be scaled to make compact, many zone traps. In this paper we present an experimental realization of planar ion traps using electrodes on a printed circuit board to trap linear chains of tens of 0.44 micron diameter charged particles in a vacuum of 15 Pa (0.1 torr). With these traps we address concerns about the low trap depth of planar ion traps and develop control electrode layouts for moving ions between trap zones without facing some of the technical difficulties involved in an atomic ion trap experiment. Specifically, we use a trap with 36 zones (77 electrodes) arranged in a cross to demonstrate loading from a traditional four rod linear Paul trap, linear ion movement, splitting and joining of ion chains, and movement of ions through intersections. We further propose an additional DC biased electrode above the trap which increases the trap depth dramatically, and a novel planar ion trap geometry that generates a two dimensional lattice of point Paul traps.

id: quant-ph/0511019
title: Synthesis of multi-qudit Hybrid and d-valued Quantum Logic Circuits by Decomposition
authors: Faisal Shah Khan, Marek Perkowski
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures
journal: Theoretical Computer Science, Volume 367, Issue 3, 1 December 2006, Pages 336-346
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511019
abstract: Recent research in generalizing quantum computation from 2-valued qudits to d-valued qudits has shown practical advantages for scaling up a quantum computer. A further generalization leads to quantum computing with hybrid qudits where two or more qudits have different finite dimensions. Advantages of hybrid and d-valued gates (circuits) and their physical realizations have been studied in detail by Muthukrishnan and Stroud (Physical Review A, 052309, 2000), Daboul et al. (J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 2525-2536, 2003), and Bartlett et al (Physical Review A, Vol.65, 052316, 2002). In both cases, a quantum computation is performed when a unitary evolution operator, acting as a quantum logic gate, transforms the state of qudits in a quantum system. Unitary operators can be represented by square unitary matrices. If the system consists of a single qudit, then Tilma et al (J.Phys. A: Math. Gen. 35 (2002) 10467-10501) have shown that the unitary evolution matrix (gate) can be synthesized in terms of its Euler angle parameterization. However, if the quantum system consists of multiple qudits, then a gate may be synthesized by matrix decomposition techniques such as QR factorization and the Cosine-sine Decomposition (CSD). In this article, we present a CSD based synthesis method for n qudit hybrid quantum gates, and as a consequence, derive a CSD based synthesis method for n qudit gates where all the qudits have the same dimension.

id: quant-ph/0511020
title: Zero-knowledge against quantum attacks
authors: John Watrous
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511020
abstract: This paper proves that several interactive proof systems are zero-knowledge against quantum attacks. This includes a few well-known classical zero-knowledge proof systems as well as quantum interactive proof systems for the complexity class HVQSZK, which comprises all problems having "honest verifier" quantum statistical zero-knowledge proofs. It is also proved that zero-knowledge proofs for every language in NP exist that are secure against quantum attacks, assuming the existence of quantum computationally concealing commitment schemes. Previously no non-trivial proof systems were known to be zero-knowledge against quantum attacks, except in restricted settings such as the honest-verifier and common reference string models. This paper therefore establishes for the first time that true zero-knowledge is indeed possible in the presence of quantum information and computation.

id: quant-ph/0511021
title: Exact solution of qubit decoherence models by a transfer matrix method
authors: Diu Nghiem, Robert Joynt
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032333 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511021
abstract: We present a new method for the solution of the behavior of an ensemble of qubits in a random time-dependent external field. The forward evolution in time is governed by a transfer matrix. The elements of this matrix determine the various decoherence times. The method provides an exact solution in cases where the noise is piecewise constant in time. We show that it applies, for example, to a realistic model of decoherence of electron spins in semiconductors. Results are obtained for the non-perturbative regimes of the models, and we see a transition from weak relaxation to overdamped behavior as a function of noise anisotropy.

id: quant-ph/0511022
title: Theory of 'which path' dephasing in single electron interference due to trace in conductive environment
authors: Pawel Machnikowski
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, moderate changes, 1 new figure, updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 155109 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511022
abstract: A single-electron two-path interference (Young) experiment is considered theoretically. The decoherence of an electron wave packet due to the 'which path' trace left in the conducting (metallic) plate placed under the electron trajectories is calculated using the many-body quantum description of the electron gas reservoir.

id: quant-ph/0511023
title: Thermalization of quantum systems by finite baths
authors: Jochen Gemmer, Mathias Michel
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, accepted for publication in Eur. Phys. Lett
journal: Europhys. Lett. 73, 1 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511023
abstract: We consider a discrete quantum system coupled to a finite bath, which may consist of only one particle, in contrast to the standard baths which usually consist of continua of oscillators, spins, etc. We find that such finite baths may nevertheless equilibrate the system though not necessarily in the way predicted by standard open system techniques. This behavior results regardless of the initial state being correlated or not.

id: quant-ph/0511024
title: Temporal aspects of one-dimensional completed scattering: An alternative view
authors: N L Chuprikov
comments: 13 pages, Revtex, 1 eps-figure; the abstract is rewritten; The Larmor time is expressed in terms of the dwell time
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511024
abstract: A {\it completed} scattering of a particle on a static one-dimensional (1D) potential barrier is a combined quantum process to consist from two elementary sub-processes (transmission and reflection) evolved coherently at all stages of scattering and macroscopically distinct at the final stage. The existing model of the process is clearly inadequate to its nature: all one-particle "observables" and "tunneling times", introduced as quantities to be common for the sub-processes, cannot be experimentally measured and, consequently, have no physical meaning; on the contrary, quantities introduced for either sub-process have no basis, for the time evolution of either sub-process is unknown in this model. We show that the wave function to describe a completed scattering can be uniquely presented as the sum of two solutions to the Schr\"odinger equation, which describe separately the sub-processes at all stages of scattering. For symmetric potential barriers such solutions are found explicitly. For either sub-process we define the time spent, on the average, by a particle in the barrier region. We define it as the Larmor time. As it turned out, this time is just Buttiker's dwell time averaged over the corresponding localized state. Thus, firstly, we justify the known definition of the local dwell time introduced by Hauge and co-workers as well by Leavens and Aers, for now this time can be measured; secondly, we confirm that namely Buttiker's dwell time gives the energy-distribution for the tunneling time; thirdly, we state that all the definitions are valid only if they are based on the wave functions for transmission and reflection found in our paper. Besides, we define the exact and asymptotic group times to be auxiliary in timing the scattering process.

id: quant-ph/0511025
title: Quantum Weakly Nondeterministic Communication Complexity
authors: Francois Le Gall
comments: 12 pages. v3: minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511025
abstract: We study the weakest model of quantum nondeterminism in which a classical proof has to be checked with probability one by a quantum protocol. We show the first separation between classical nondeterministic communication complexity and this model of quantum nondeterministic communication complexity for a total function. This separation is quadratic.

id: quant-ph/0511026
title: Entanglement induced in spin-1/2 particles by a spin chain near its critical points
authors: X. X. Yi, H. T. Cui, L. C. Wang
comments: 5 pages, 4figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 054102(2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511026
abstract: A relation between entanglement and criticality of spin chains is established. The entanglement we exploit is shared between auxiliary particles, which are isolated from each other, but are coupled to the same critical spin-1/2 chain. We analytically evaluate the reduced density matrix, and numerically show the entanglement of the auxiliary particles in the proximity of the critical points of the spin chain. We find that the entanglement induced by the spin-chain may reach one, and it can signal very well the critical points of the chain. A physical understanding and experimental realization with trapped ions are presented.

id: quant-ph/0511027
title: Controllable Entanglement of Lights in a Five-Level System
authors: Yun Li, Chao Hang, Lei Ma, Guoxiang Huang
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, 1 column. We have added a section in which the distortion of pulses due to the dispersion is considered
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511027
abstract: We analyze the nonlinear optical response of a five-level system under a novel configuration of electro-magnetically induced transparency. We show that a giant Kerr nonlinearity with a relatively large cross-phase modulation coefficient that occurs in such system may be used to produce an efficient photon-photon entanglement. We demonstrate that such photon-photon entanglement is practically controllable and hence facilitates promising applications in quantum information and computation.

id: quant-ph/0511028
title: An R||C_{max} Quantum Scheduling Algorithm
authors: Feng Lu, Dan C. Marinescu
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511028
abstract: Grover's search algorithm can be applied to a wide range of problems; even problems not generally regarded as searching problems, can be reformulated to take advantage of quantum parallelism and entanglement, and lead to algorithms which show a square root speedup over their classical counterparts. In this paper, we discuss a systematic way to formulate such problems and give as an example a quantum scheduling algorithm for an $R||C_{max}$ problem. $R||C_{max}$ is representative for a class of scheduling problems whose goal is to find a schedule with the shortest completion time in an unrelated parallel machine environment. Given a deadline, or a range of deadlines, the algorithm presented in this paper allows us to determine if a solution to an $R||C_{max}$ problem with $N$ jobs and $M$ machines exists, and if so, it provides the schedule. The time complexity of the quantum scheduling algorithm is $\mathcal{O}(\sqrt{M^N})$ while the complexity of its classical counterpart is $\mathcal{O}(M^N)$.

id: quant-ph/0511029
title: On Nonzero Kronecker Coefficients and their Consequences for Spectra
authors: Matthias Christandl, Aram Harrow, Graeme Mitchison
comments: 13 pages
journal: Commun. Math. Phys., 270, 575-585 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511029
abstract: A triple of spectra (r^A, r^B, r^{AB}) is said to be admissible if there is a density operator rho^{AB} with (Spec rho^A, Spec rho^B, Spec rho^{AB})=(r^A, r^B, r^{AB}). How can we characterise such triples? It turns out that the admissible spectral triples correspond to Young diagrams (mu, nu, lambda) with nonzero Kronecker coefficient [M. Christandl and G. Mitchison, to appear in Comm. Math. Phys., quant-ph/0409016; A. Klyachko, quant-ph/0409113]. This means that the irreducible representation V_lambda is contained in the tensor product of V_mu and V_nu. Here, we show that such triples form a finitely generated semigroup, thereby resolving a conjecture of Klyachko. As a consequence we are able to obtain stronger results than in [M. Ch. and G. M. op. cit.] and give a complete information-theoretic proof of the correspondence between triples of spectra and representations. Finally, we show that spectral triples form a convex polytope.

id: quant-ph/0511030
title: Single photon source characterization with a superconducting single photon detector
authors: Robert H. Hadfield, Martin J. Stevens, Steven S. Gruber, Aaron J. Miller, Robert E. Schwall, Richard P. Mirin, Sae Woo Nam
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511030
abstract: Superconducting single photon detectors (SSPD) based on nanopatterned niobium nitride wires offer single photon counting at fast rates, low jitter, and low dark counts, from visible wavelengths well into the infrared. We demonstrate the first use of an SSPD, packaged in a commercial cryocooler, for single photon source characterization. The source is an optically pumped, microcavity-coupled InGaAs quantum dot, emitting single photons on demand at 902 nm. The SSPD replaces the second silicon Avalanche Photodiode (APD) in a Hanbury-Brown Twiss interferometer measurement of the source second-order correlation function, g (2) (tau). The detection efficiency of the superconducting detector system is >2 % (coupling losses included). The SSPD system electronics jitter is 170 ps, versus 550 ps for the APD unit, allowing the source spontaneous emission lifetime to be measured with improved resolution.

id: quant-ph/0511031
title: Delayed commutation in quantum computer networks
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: 4 pages. 4 figures. Preliminar version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 110502 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511031
abstract: In the same way that classical computer networks connect and enhance the capabilities of classical computers, quantum networks can combine the advantages of quantum information and communications. We propose a non-classical network element, a delayed commutation switch, that can solve the problem of switching time in packet switching networks. With the help of some local ancillary qubits and superdense codes we can route the information after part of it has left the network node.

id: quant-ph/0511032
title: Effects of detector efficiency mismatch on security of quantum cryptosystems
authors: Vadim Makarov, Andrey Anisimov, Johannes Skaar
comments: v3: identical to the journal version. However, after publication we have discovered that Eq. 11 is incorrect: the available bit rate after privacy amplification is reduced even in the case (QBER)=0 [see Quant. Inf. Comp. 7, 73 (2007)]
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022313 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511032
abstract: We suggest a type of attack on quantum cryptosystems that exploits variations in detector efficiency as a function of a control parameter accessible to an eavesdropper. With gated single-photon detectors, this control parameter can be the timing of the incoming pulse. When the eavesdropper sends short pulses using the appropriate timing so that the two gated detectors in Bob's setup have different efficiencies, the security of quantum key distribution can be compromised. Specifically, we show for the Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) protocol that if the efficiency mismatch between 0 and 1 detectors for some value of the control parameter gets large enough (roughly 15:1 or larger), Eve can construct a successful faked-states attack causing a quantum bit error rate lower than 11%. We also derive a general security bound as a function of the detector sensitivity mismatch for the BB84 protocol. Experimental data for two different detectors are presented, and protection measures against this attack are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0511033
title: Dephasing due to Intermode Coupling in Superconducting Stripline Resonators
authors: Eyal Buks, Bernard Yurke
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511033
abstract: The nonlinearity exhibited by the kinetic inductance of a superconducting stripline couples stripline resonator modes together in a manner suitable for quantum non-demolition measurement of the number of photons in a given resonator mode. Quantum non-demolition measurement is accomplished by coherently driving another resonator mode, referred to as the detector mode, and measuring its response. We show that the sensitivity of such a detection scheme is directly related to the dephasing rate induced by such an intermode coupling. We show that high sensitivity is expected when the detector mode is driven into the nonlinear regime and operated close to a point where critical slowing down occurs.

id: quant-ph/0511034
title: Topological phase for entangled two-qubit states and the representation of the SO(3)group
authors: F. De Zela
comments: 25 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) 372-380
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511034
abstract: We discuss the representation of the $SO(3)$ group by two-qubit maximally entangled states (MES). We analyze the correspondence between $SO(3)$ and the set of two-qubit MES which are experimentally realizable. As a result, we offer a new interpretation of some recently proposed experiments based on MES. Employing the tools of quantum optics we treat in terms of two-qubit MES some classical experiments in neutron interferometry, which showed the $\pi $-phase accrued by a spin-$1/2$ particle precessing in a magnetic field. By so doing, we can analyze the extent to which the recently proposed experiments - and future ones of the same sort - would involve essentially new physical aspects as compared with those performed in the past. We argue that the proposed experiments do extend the possibilities for displaying the double connectedness of $SO(3)$, although for that to be the case it results necessary to map elements of $SU(2)$ onto physical operations acting on two-level systems.

id: quant-ph/0511035
title: Dephasing in matter-wave interferometry
authors: Fernando C. Lombardo, Paula I. Villar
comments: 9 pages, 1 eps-figure. To appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 6509-6516
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511035
abstract: We review different attempts to show the decoherence process in double-slit-like experiments both for charged particles (electrons) and neutral particles with permanent dipole moments. Interference is studied when electrons or atomic systems are coupled to classical or quantum electromagnetic fields. The interaction between the particles and time-dependent fields induces a time-varying Aharonov phase. Averaging over the phase generates a suppression of fringe visibility in the interference pattern. We show that, for suitable experimental conditions, the loss of contrast for dipoles can be almost as large as the corresponding one for coherent electrons and therefore, be observed. We analyze different trajectories in order to show the dependence of the decoherence factor with the velocity of the particles.

id: quant-ph/0511036
title: Evolving Quantum Circuits using Genetic Algorithms
authors: Prashant
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511036
abstract: The article is taken out.

id: quant-ph/0511037
title: Temperature Dependence of the Casimir Effect
authors: I. Brevik, J. B. Aarseth
comments: Latex, 11 pages, no figures. Expanded discussion in section 1; a reference added. To appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. (special issue for the Proceedings of the Seventh Workshop QFEXT'05, Barcelona, September 5-9, 2005)
journal: J.Phys.A39:6187-6194,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511037
abstract: In view of the increasing accuracy of Casimir experiments, there is a need for performing accurate theoretical calculations. Using accurate experimental data for the permittivities we present, via the Lifshitz formula applied to the standard Casimir setup with two parallel plates, accurate theoretical results in case of the metals Au, Cu and Al. Both similar and dissimilar cases are considered. Concentrating in particular on the finite temperature effect, we show how the Casimir pressure varies with separation for three different temperatures, T={1, 300, 350}K. The metal surfaces are taken to be perfectly plane. The experimental data for the permittivities are generally yielding results that are in good agreement with those calculated from the Drude relation with finite relaxation frequency. We give the results in tabular form, in order to facilitate the assessment of the temperature correction which is on the 1% level. We emphasize two points: (i) The most promising route for a definite experimental verification of the finite temperature correction appears to be to concentrate on the case of large separations (optimum around 2 micrometres); and (ii) there is no conflict between the present kind of theory and the Nernst theorem in thermodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0511038
title: Generation of two-color polarization-entangled optical beams with a self-phase-locked two-crystal Optical Parametric Oscillator
authors: Julien Laurat, Ga?lle Keller, Claude Fabre, Thomas Coudreau
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 73 (2006) 012333
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511038
abstract: A new device to generate polarization-entangled light in the continuous variable regime is introduced. It consists of an Optical Parametric Oscillator with two type-II phase-matched non-linear crystals orthogonally oriented, associated with birefringent elements for adjustable linear coupling. We give in this paper a theoretical study of its classical and quantum properties. It is shown that two optical beams with adjustable frequencies and well-defined polarization can be emitted. The Stokes parameters of the two beams are entangled. The principal advantage of this setup is the possibility to directly generate polarization entangled light without the need of mixing four modes on beam splitters as required in current experimental setups. This device opens new directions for the study of light-matter interfaces and generation of multimode non-classical light and higher dimensional phase space.

id: quant-ph/0511039
title: Quantum Brachistochrone
authors: Alberto Carlini, Akio Hosoya, Tatsuhiko Koike, Yosuke Okudaira
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 060503 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511039
abstract: We present a general framework for finding the time-optimal evolution and the optimal Hamiltonian for a quantum system with a given set of initial and final states. Our formulation is based on the variational principle and is analogous to that for the brachistochrone in classical mechanics. We reduce the problem to a formal equation for the Hamiltonian which depends on certain constraint functions specifying the range of available Hamiltonians. For some simple examples of the constraints, we explicitly find the optimal solutions.

id: quant-ph/0511040
title: Impossibility of Exact Flipping of Three Arbitrary Quantum States Via Incomparability
authors: Indrani Chattopadhyay, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 9 pages, no figures, replaced with accepted version, Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 044303 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511040
abstract: We present here a scheme that relates seemingly two different kinds of physical impossibilities of quantum information processing. We derive, exact flipping of three arbitrary states not lying in one great circle is not possible with certainty, by using the existence of incomparable states which are not interconvertible deterministically by local operations and classical communications. In contrast, considering the non-existence of exact universal flipper, the incomparability of a pair of bipartite pure entangled states can be established.

id: quant-ph/0511041
title: Synthesis of Ternary Quantum Logic Circuits by Decomposition
authors: Faisal Shah Khan, Marek Perkowski
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Proceedings of the 7th International Symposium on Representations and Methodology of Future Computing Technologies RM2005 (Reed Muller 2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511041
abstract: Recent research in multi-valued logic for quantum computing has shown practical advantages for scaling up a quantum computer. Multivalued quantum systems have also been used in the framework of quantum cryptography, and the concept of a qudit cluster state has been proposed by generalizing the qubit cluster state. An evolutionary algorithm based synthesizer for ternary quantum circuits has recently been presented, as well as a synthesis method based on matrix factorization.In this paper, a recursive synthesis method for ternary quantum circuits based on the Cosine-Sine unitary matrix decomposition is presented.

id: quant-ph/0511042
title: Optimization of Quantum Information Processing Maximizing Mutual Information
authors: V. P. Belavkin, R. L. Stratonovich
comments: 9 pages. Quantum Information more than 30 years ago. See more at this http URL
journal: Radio Eng. Electron. Phys., 19 (9), p. 1349, 1973. [trans. from Radiotekhnika i Electronika, 1973, 19, 9, 1839. 844]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511042
abstract: A model of quantum noisy channel with input encoding by a classical random vector is described. An equation of optimality is derived to determine a complete set of wave functions describing quantum decodings based on quasi-measurements maximizing the classical amount of transmitted information. A solution of this equation is found for the Gaussian multimode case with input Gaussian distribution. It is described by the overcomplete family of coherent vectors describing an optimal quasimeasurement of the canonical annihilation amplitudes in the output Hilbert space. It is found that the optimal decoding in this case realizes the maximum amount I=Spln[1+S/(N+1)] of the classical information as transmitted via the classical Gaussian channel with the effective noise covariance matrix N+I. A physical realization of optimal quasi-measurement based on an indirect (heterodyne) observation of the canonical operators is suggested.

id: quant-ph/0511043
title: On the Sufficient Optimality Condition for Quantum Information Processing
authors: V. P. Belavkin, A. G. Vantsyan
comments: 6 pages. An addition to quant-ph/0511042
journal: Radio Eng. Electron. Phys., 19 (7), p. 39, 1974. [trans. from Radiotekhnika i Electronika, 1974, 19, 7, 1391--1395]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511043
abstract: The necessary and sufficient conditions of optimality of the decoding of quantum signals minimizing the Bayesian risk are generalized for the Shannon mutual information criteria. It is shown that for a linear channel with Gaussian boson noise these conditions are satisfied by coherent quasi-measurement of the canonical annihilation amplitudes in the received superposition.

id: quant-ph/0511044
title: Continuous-variable optical quantum state tomography
authors: A.I.Lvovsky, M.G.Raymer
comments: Finally, a revision! Comments to lvov(at)ucalgary.ca and raymer(at)uoregon.edu are welcome
journal: Reviews of Modern Physics 81, 299 - 332 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511044
abstract: This review covers latest developments in continuous-variable quantum-state tomography of optical fields and photons, placing a special accent on its practical aspects and applications in quantum information technology. Optical homodyne tomography is reviewed as a method of reconstructing the state of light in a given optical mode. A range of relevant practical topics are discussed, such as state-reconstruction algorithms (with emphasis on the maximum-likelihood technique), the technology of time-domain homodyne detection, mode matching issues, and engineering of complex quantum states of light. The paper also surveys quantum-state tomography for the transverse spatial state (spatial mode) of the field in the special case of fields containing precisely one photon.

id: quant-ph/0511045
title: Scheme for generating the cluster states via atomic ensembles
authors: Ping Dong, Zheng-Yuan Xue, Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511045
abstract: A scheme for generating the cluster states via atomic ensembles is proposed. The scheme has inherent fault tolerance function and is robust to realistic noise and imperfections. All the facilities used in our scheme are well within the current technology.

id: quant-ph/0511046
title: Exactly solvable quantum state reduction models with time-dependent coupling
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Irene C. Constantinou, James D.C. Dear, Lane P. Hughston
comments: 27 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A39, 11029-11051 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511046
abstract: A closed-form solution to the energy-based stochastic Schrodinger equation with a time-dependent coupling is obtained. The solution is algebraic in character, and is expressed directly in terms of independent random data. The data consist of (i) a random variable H which has the distribution P(H=E_i) = pi_i, where pi_i is the transition probability from the initial state to the Luders state with energy E_i; and (ii) an independent P-Brownian motion, where P is the physical probability measure associated with the dynamics of the reduction process. When the coupling is time-independent, it is known that state reduction occurs asymptotically--that is to say, over an infinite time horizon. In the case of a time-dependent coupling, we show that if the magnitude of the coupling decreases sufficiently rapidly, then the energy variance will be reduced under the dynamics, but the state need not reach an energy eigenstate. This situation corresponds to the case of a ``partial'' or ``incomplete'' measurement of the energy. We also construct an example of a model where the opposite situation prevails, in which complete state reduction is achieved after the passage of a finite period of time.

id: quant-ph/0511047
title: Entanglement swapping, light cones and elements of reality
authors: A. Broadbent, A. A. Methot
comments: 10 pages, no figure, LHV models given explicitely, more explanations
journal: Physics Letters A, 364: 357-361 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511047
abstract: Recently, a number of two-participant all-versus-nothing Bell experiments have been proposed. Here, we give local realistic explanations for these experiments. More precisely, we examine the scenario where a participant swaps his entanglement with two other participants and then is removed from the experiment; we also examine the scenario where two particles are in the same light cone, i.e. belong to a single participant. Our conclusion is that, in both cases, the proposed experiments are not convincing proofs against local realism.

id: quant-ph/0511048
title: Correlated observables in single-particle systems and field theoretic interpretations
authors: Ian T. Durham
comments: 5 pages; references added for section 1; discussion of field theory expanded slightly
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511048
abstract: Bell-type experiments that test correlated observables typically involve measurements of spin or polarization on multi-particle systems in singlet states. These observables are all non-commuting and satisfy an uncertainty relation. Theoretically, the non-commuting nature should be independent of whether the singlet state consists of multiple particles or a single particle. Recent experiments in single neutron interferometry have in fact demonstrated this. In addition, if Bell-type inequalities can be found for experiments involving spin and polarization, the same should be true for experiments involving other non-commuting observables such as position and momentum as in the original EPR paper. As such, an experiment is proposed to measure (quantum mechanically) position and momentum for a single oscillator as a means for deriving a Bell-type inequality for these correlated observables. The experiment, if realizable, would shed light on the basic nature of matter, perhaps pointing to some form of self-entanglement, and would also help to further elucidate a possible mechanism behind the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Violation of these inequalities would, in fact, offer yet another confirmation of the principle.

id: quant-ph/0511049
title: Quantum efficiency of single-photon sources in the cavity-QED strong-coupling regime
authors: Guoqiang Cui, M. G. Raymer
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, final version, tex file uploaded
journal: Opt. Express 13, 9660-9665 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511049
abstract: We calculate the integrated-pulse quantum efficiency of single-photon sources in the cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) strong-coupling regime. An analytical expression for the quantum efficiency is obtained in the Weisskopf-Wigner approximation. Optimal conditions for a high quantum efficiency and a temporally localized photon emission rate are examined. We show the condition under which the earlier result of Law and Kimble [J. Mod. Opt. 44, 2067 (1997)] can be used as the first approximation to our result.

id: quant-ph/0511050
title: Scheme for sharing classical information via tripartite entangled states
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue, You-Min Yi, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 4 pages, no figure. A complete rewrritten vession, accepted for publication in Chinese Physics
journal: Chinese Physics 15/7, 1421-1424 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511050
abstract: We investigate schemes for quantum secret sharing and quantum dense coding via tripartite entangled states. We present a scheme for sharing classical information via entanglement swapping using two tripartite entangled GHZ states. In order to throw light upon the security affairs of the quantum dense coding protocol, we also suggest a secure quantum dense coding scheme via W state in analogy with the theory of sharing information among involved users.

id: quant-ph/0511051
title: Secure quantum dense coding via tripartite entangled GHZ state in cavity QED
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue, You-Min Yi, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 4pages, no figure. Any comment are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511051
abstract: We investigate economic protocol to securely encoding classical information among three users via entangled GHZ states. We implement the scheme in cavity QED with atomic qubits where the atoms interact simultaneously with a highly detuned cavity mode with the assistance of a classical field. The scheme is insensitive to the cavity decay and the thermal field, thus based on cavity QED techniques presently it might be realizable.

id: quant-ph/0511052
title: Tunneling in a magnetic field
authors: B. Ivlev
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511052
abstract: Quantum tunneling between two potential wells in a magnetic field can be strongly increased when the potential barrier varies in the direction perpendicular to the line connecting the two wells and remains constant along this line. An oscillatory structure of the wave function is formed in the direction joining the wells. The resulting motion can be coherent like motion in a conventional narrow band periodic structure. A particle penetrates the barrier over a long distance which strongly contrasts to WKB-like tunneling. The whole problem is stationary. A not very small tunneling transparency can be set between two quantum wires with real physical parameters and separated by a long potential barrier. The phenomenon is connected to Euclidean resonance.

id: quant-ph/0511053
title: An Optimal Photon Counting Polarimeter
authors: Alexander Ling, Soh Kee Pang, Antia Lamas-Linares, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: Rev 1, added references and revised title. Accepted by the Journal of Modern Optics
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 53, 1523 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511053
abstract: We present experimental results on a method to perform polarimetry on ensembles of single photons. Our setup is based on a measurement method known to be optimal for estimating the state of two level systems. The setup has no moving parts and is sensitive to weak sources (emitting single photons) of light as it relies on photon counting and has potential applications in both classical polarization measurements and quantum communication scenarios. In our implementation, we are able to reconstruct the Stokes parameters of pure polarization states with an average fidelity of 99.9%.

id: quant-ph/0511054
title: Strong Fourier Sampling Fails over $G^n$
authors: Gorjan Alagic, Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511054
abstract: We present a negative result regarding the hidden subgroup problem on the powers $G^n$ of a fixed group $G$. Under a condition on the base group $G$, we prove that strong Fourier sampling cannot distinguish some subgroups of $G^n$. Since strong sampling is in fact the optimal measurement on a coset state, this shows that we have no hope of efficiently solving the hidden subgroup problem over these groups with separable measurements on coset states (that is, using any polynomial number of single-register coset state experiments). Base groups satisfying our condition include all nonabelian simple groups. We apply our results to show that there exist uniform families of nilpotent groups whose normal series factors have constant size and yet are immune to strong Fourier sampling.

id: quant-ph/0511055
title: Towards quantum mechanics from a theory of experiments
authors: Inge S. Helland
comments: Proceedings from QTS-4, Varna, Bulgaria 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511055
abstract: Essential elements of quantum theory are derived from an epistemic point of view, i.e., the viewpoint that thetheory has to do with what can be said about nature. This gives a relationship to statistical reasoning and to other areas of modelling and decision making. In particular, a quantum state can be defined from an epistemic point of view to consist of two elements: A (maximal) question about the value of some parameter together with the answer to that question. Quantization itself can be approached from the point of view of model reduction under symmetry.

id: quant-ph/0511056
title: Robust implementations of Quantum Repeaters
authors: Alexander Klein, Uwe Dorner, Carolina Moura Alves, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures, minor changes in the introduction and Sec. III D, typos corrected, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 012332 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511056
abstract: We show how to efficiently exploit decoherence free subspaces (DFSs), which are immune to collective noise, for realizing quantum repeaters with long lived quantum memories. Our setup consists of an assembly of simple modules and we show how to implement them in systems of cold, neutral atoms in arrays of dipole traps. We develop methods for realizing robust gate operations on qubits encoded in a DFS using collisional interactions between the atoms. We also give a detailed analysis of the performance and stability of all required gate operations and emphasize that all modules can be realized with current or near future experimental technology.

id: quant-ph/0511057
title: Casimir interaction between normal or superfluid grains in the Fermi sea
authors: Andreas Wirzba, Aurel Bulgac, Piotr Magierski
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, submitted to the Proceedings of QFEXT'05, Barcelona, Sept. 5-9, 2005
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 6815-6822
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511057
abstract: We report on a new force that acts on cavities (literally empty regions of space) when they are immersed in a background of non-interacting fermionic matter fields. The interaction follows from the obstructions to the (quantum mechanical) motions of the fermions caused by the presence of bubbles or other (heavy) particles in the Fermi sea, as, for example, nuclei in the neutron sea in the inner crust of a neutron star or superfluid grains in a normal Fermi liquid. The effect resembles the traditional Casimir interaction between metallic mirrors in the vacuum. However, the fluctuating electromagnetic fields are replaced by fermionic matter fields. We show that the fermionic Casimir problem for a system of spherical cavities can be solved exactly, since the calculation can be mapped onto a quantum mechanical billiard problem of a point-particle scattered off a finite number of non-overlapping spheres or disks. Finally we generalize the map method to other Casimir systems, especially to the case of a fluctuating scalar field between two spheres or a sphere and a plate under Dirichlet boundary conditions.

id: quant-ph/0511058
title: Novel cloning machine with supplementary information
authors: Daowen Qiu
comments: 22 pages; the presentation is revised, and some typos are corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 5135-5150
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511058
abstract: Probabilistic cloning was first proposed by Duan and Guo. Then Pati established a novel cloning machine (NCM) for copying superposition of multiple clones simultaneously. In this paper, we deal with the novel cloning machine with supplementary information (NCMSI). For the case of cloning two states, we demonstrate that the optimal efficiency of the NCMSI in which the original party and the supplementary party can perform quantum communication equals that achieved by a two-step cloning protocol wherein classical communication is only allowed between the original and the supplementary parties. From this equivalence it follows that NCMSI may increase the success probabilities for copying. Also, an upper bound on the unambiguous discrimination of two nonorthogonal pure product states is derived. Our investigation generalizes and completes the results in the literature.

id: quant-ph/0511059
title: Phase Sensitivity of a Mach-Zehnder Interferometer
authors: Luca Pezze', Augusto Smerzi
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511059
abstract: The best performance of a Mach-Zehnder interferometer is achieved with the input state |N_T/2 + 1>|N_T/2-1 > + |N_T/2 - 1>|N_T/2+1>, being N_T the total number of atoms/photons. This gives: i) a phase-shift error confidence C_{68%}=2.67/N_T with ii) a single interferometric measurement. Different input quantum states can achieve the Heisenberg scaling ~ 1/N_T but with higher prefactors and at the price of a statistical analysis of two or more independent measurements.

id: quant-ph/0511060
title: A Dual Observer Information Exchange Theory of Measurement of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Prashant
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511060
abstract: The article is taken out.

id: quant-ph/0511061
title: A Study on the basics of Quantum Computing
authors: Prashant
comments: 41 pages, 13 figures, project report
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511061
abstract: The article is taken out.

id: quant-ph/0511062
title: Quantum Gauss Jordan Elimination
authors: Do Ngoc Diep, Do Hoang Giang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511062
abstract: In this paper we construct the Quantum Gau\ss Jordan Elimination (QGJE) Algorithm and estimate the complexity time of computation of Reduced Row Echelon Form (RREF) of an $N\times N$ matrix using QGJE procedure. The main theorem asserts that QGJE has computation time of order $2^{N/2}$.

id: quant-ph/0511063
title: Accounting Principles are Simulated on Quantum Computers
authors: Do Ngoc Diep, Do Hoang Giang
comments: LaTeX 13 pp., no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511063
abstract: The paper is devoted to a new idea of simulation of accounting by quantum computing. We expose the actual accounting principles in a pure mathematics language. After that we simulated the accounting principles on quantum computers. We show that all arbitrary accounting actions are exhausted by the described basic actions. The main problem of accounting are reduced to some system of linear equations in the economic model of Leontief. In this simulation we use our constructed quantum Gau\ss-Jordan Elimination to solve the problem and the time of quantum computing is some square root order faster than the time in classical computing.

id: quant-ph/0511064
title: Casimir torque
authors: Jos C. Torres-Guzmn, W. Luis Mochn
comments: 8 pages, 4 figs, Submitted to Proc. of QFEXT'05, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511064
abstract: We develop a formalism for the calculation of the flow of angular momentum carried by the fluctuating electromagnetic field within a cavity bounded by two flat anisotropic materials. By generalizing a procedure employed recently for the calculation of the Casimir force between arbitrary materials, we obtain an expression for the torque between anisotropic plates in terms of their reflection amplitude matrices. We evaluate the torque in 1D for ideal and realistic model materials.

id: quant-ph/0511065
title: Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation for Local Leakage Faults
authors: Panos Aliferis, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 19 pages Latex with 8 figures. v2 has some added references. v3 has an additional discussion. v4 is a compact version of the preceding ones
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 7 (2007) 139-156
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511065
abstract: We provide a rigorous analysis of fault-tolerant quantum computation in the presence of local leakage faults. We show that one can systematically deal with leakage by using appropriate leakage-reduction units such as quantum teleportation. The leakage noise is described by a Hamiltonian and the noise is treated coherently, similar to general non-Markovian noise analyzed in Refs. quant-ph/0402104 and quant-ph/0504218. We describe ways to limit the use of leakage-reduction units while keeping the quantum circuits fault-tolerant and we also discuss how leakage reduction by teleportation is naturally achieved in measurement-based computation.

id: quant-ph/0511066
title: Casimir-like tunneling-induced electronic forces
authors: Lorenzo M. Procopio, Carlos Villarreal, W. Luis Mochn
comments: 8 pages, 3 figs, submitted to Proc. of QFEXT'05, to be published in J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511066
abstract: We study the quantum forces that act between two nearby conductors due to electronic tunneling. We derive an expression for these forces by calculating the flux of momentum arising from the overlap of evanescent electronic fields. Our result is written in terms of the electronic reflection amplitudes of the conductors and it has the same structure as Lifshitz's formula for the electromagnetically mediated Casimir forces. We evaluate the tunneling force between two semiinfinite conductors and between two thin films separated by an insulating gap. We discuss some applications of our results.

id: quant-ph/0511067
title: Maps for Lorentz transformations of spin
authors: Thomas F. Jordan, Anil Shaji, E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 7 Pages, 3 Figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A73:032104,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511067
abstract: Lorentz transformations of spin density matrices for a particle with positive mass and spin 1/2 are described by maps of the kind used in open quantum dynamics. They show how the Lorentz transformations of the spin depend on the momentum. Since the spin and momentum generally are entangled, the maps generally are not completely positive and act in limited domains. States with two momentum values are considered, so the maps are for the spin qubit entangled with the qubit made from the two momentum values, and results from the open quantum dynamics of two coupled qubits can be applied. Inverse maps are used to show that every Lorentz transformation completely removes the spin polarization, and so completely removes the information, from a number of spin density matrices. The size of the spin polarization that is removed is calculated for particular cases.

id: quant-ph/0511068
title: Variational approach to dequantization
authors: Ricardo A. Mosna, Ian P. Hamilton, Luigi Delle Site
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. v2: changes in presentation and content
journal: J. Phys. A 39, L229-L235 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511068
abstract: We present a dequantization procedure based on a variational approach whereby quantum fluctuations latent in the quantum momentum are suppressed. This is done by adding generic local deformations to the quantum momentum operator which give rise to a deformed kinetic term quantifying the amount of ``fuzzyness'' caused by such fluctuations. Considered as a functional of such deformations, the deformed kinetic term is shown to possess a unique minimum which is seen to be the classical kinetic energy. Furthermore, we show that extremization of the associated deformed action functional introduces an essential nonlinearity to the resulting field equations which are seen to be the classical Hamilton-Jacobi and continuity equations. Thus, a variational procedure determines the particular deformation that has the effect of suppressing the quantum fluctuations, resulting in dequantization of the system.

id: quant-ph/0511069
title: Simulating quantum computation by contracting tensor networks
authors: Igor L. Markov, Yaoyun Shi
comments: 7 figures
journal: SIAM Journal on Computing, 38(3):963-981, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511069
abstract: The treewidth of a graph is a useful combinatorial measure of how close the graph is to a tree. We prove that a quantum circuit with $T$ gates whose underlying graph has treewidth $d$ can be simulated deterministically in $T^{O(1)}\exp[O(d)]$ time, which, in particular, is polynomial in $T$ if $d=O(\log T)$. Among many implications, we show efficient simulations for log-depth circuits whose gates apply to nearby qubits only, a natural constraint satisfied by most physical implementations. We also show that one-way quantum computation of Raussendorf and Briegel (Physical Review Letters, 86:5188--5191, 2001), a universal quantum computation scheme with promising physical implementations, can be efficiently simulated by a randomized algorithm if its quantum resource is derived from a small-treewidth graph.

id: quant-ph/0511070
title: Classical simulation of quantum many-body systems with a tree tensor network
authors: Yaoyun Shi, Luming Duan, Guifre Vidal
comments: 4 pages,7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022320 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511070
abstract: We show how to efficiently simulate a quantum many-body system with tree structure when its entanglement is bounded for any bipartite split along an edge of the tree. This is achieved by expanding the {\em time-evolving block decimation} simulation algorithm for time evolution from a one dimensional lattice to a tree graph, while replacing a {\em matrix product state} with a {\em tree tensor network}. As an application, we show that any one-way quantum computation on a tree graph can be efficiently simulated with a classical computer.

id: quant-ph/0511071
title: Tensor Norms and the Classical Communication Complexity of Nonlocal Quantum Measurement
authors: Yaoyun Shi, Yufan Zhu
comments: A preliminary version of this paper appears as part of an article in Proceedings of the the 37th ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC 2005), 460--467, 2005
journal: SIAM J. Comput. 38, pp. 753-766, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511071
abstract: We initiate the study of quantifying nonlocalness of a bipartite measurement by the minimum amount of classical communication required to simulate the measurement. We derive general upper bounds, which are expressed in terms of certain tensor norms of the measurement operator. As applications, we show that (a) If the amount of communication is constant, quantum and classical communication protocols with unlimited amount of shared entanglement or shared randomness compute the same set of functions; (b) A local hidden variable model needs only a constant amount of communication to create, within an arbitrarily small statistical distance, a distribution resulted from local measurements of an entangled quantum state, as long as the number of measurement outcomes is constant.

id: quant-ph/0511072
title: Eavesdropping on Blind Quantum Key Distribution through a Labeling Attack
authors: Marco Lucamarini
comments: Comments and/or opinions are welcome and encouraged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511072
abstract: I present an eavesdropping on the protocol proposed by W.-H. Kye, et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 040501 (2005)]. I show how an undetectable Eve can steal the whole information by labeling and then measuring the photons prepared by the user Alice.

id: quant-ph/0511073
title: Coherent-Squeezed State Representation of Travelling General Gaussian Wave Packets
authors: Sang Pyo Kim
comments: RevTex 14 pages, no figure
journal: J. Korean Phys. Soc. 49 (2006) 464-471
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511073
abstract: Using the time-dependent annihilation and creation operators, the invariant operators, for a free mass and an oscillator, we find the coherent-squeezed state representation of a travelling general Gaussian wave packet with initial expectation values, $x_0$ and $p_0$, of the position and momentum and variances, $\Delta x_0$ and $\Delta p_0$. The initial general Gaussian wave packet takes, up to a normalization factor, the form $e^{i p_0 x/\hbar} e^{- (1 \mp i \delta) (x - x_0)^2 / 4 (\Delta x_0)^2}$, where $\delta = \sqrt{(2\Delta x_0 \Delta p_0/\hbar)^2 -1}$ denotes a measure of deviation from the minimum uncertainty or the initial position-momentum correlation $\delta = 2\Delta (xp)_0 / \hbar$. The travelling Gaussian wave packet takes, up to a time-dependent phase and normalization factor, the form $e^{i p_c x/\hbar} e^{- (1 - 2 i \Delta (xp)_t/\hbar) (x - x_c)^2 / 4 (\Delta x_t)^2}$ and the centroid follows the the classical trajectory with $x_c(t)$ and $p_c(t)$. The position variance is found to have additionally a linearly time-dependent term proportional to $\delta$ with both positive and negative signs.

id: quant-ph/0511074
title: Quantum mechanics as an asymptotic projection of statistical mechanics of classical fields: derivation of Schr?dinger's, Heisenberg's and von Neumann's equations
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511074
abstract: We show that QM can be represented as a natural projection of a classical statistical model on the phase space $\Omega= H\times H,$ where $H$ is the real Hilbert space. Statistical states are given by Gaussian measures on $\Omega$ having zero mean value and dispersion of very small magnitude $\alpha$ (which is considered as a small parameter of the model). Such statistical states can be interpreted as fluctuations of the background field, cf. with SED and Nelson's mechanics. Physical variables (e.g., energy) are given by maps $f: \Omega \to {\bf R}$ (functions of classical fields). The conventional quantum representation of our prequantum classical statistical model is constructed on the basis of the Taylor expansion (up to the terms of the second order at the vacuum field point $\psi\_{\rm{vacuum}}\equiv 0)$ of variables $f: \Omega \to {\bf R}$ with respect to the small parameter $\sqrt{\alpha}.$ The complex structure of QM is induced by the symplectic structure on the infinite-dimensional phase space $\Omega.$ A Gaussian measure (statistical state) is represented in QM by its covariation operator. Equations of Schr\"{o}dinger, Heisenberg and von Neumann are images of Hamiltonian dynamics on $\Omega.$ The main experimental prediction of our prequantum model is that experimental statistical averages can deviate from ones given by QM.

id: quant-ph/0511075
title: Self-interference of a single Bose-Einstein condensate due to boundary effects
authors: R. W. Robinett
comments: 8 pages, no figures, to appear in Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511075
abstract: A simple model wavefunction, consisting of a linear combination of two free-particle Gaussians, describes many of the observed features seen in the interactions of two isolated Bose-Einstein condensates as they expand, overlap, and interfere. We show that a simple extension of this idea can be used to predict the qualitative time-development of a single expanding BEC condensate produced near an infinite wall boundary, giving similar interference phenomena. We also briefly discuss other possible time-dependent behaviors of single BEC condensates in restricted geometries,such as wave packet revivals.

id: quant-ph/0511076
title: Non-Hamiltonian Commutators in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Alessandro Sergi
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. E on August 8 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511076
abstract: The symplectic structure of quantum commutators is first unveiled and then exploited to introduce generalized non-Hamiltonian brackets in quantum mechanics. It is easily recognized that quantum-classical systems are described by a particular realization of such a bracket. In light of previous work, this introduces a unified approach to classical and quantum-classical non-Hamiltonian dynamics. In order to illustrate the use of non-Hamiltonian commutators, it is shown how to define thermodynamic constraints in quantum-classical systems. In particular, quantum-classical Nos\'e-Hoover equations of motion and the associated stationary density matrix are derived. The non-Hamiltonian commutators for both Nos\'e-Hoover chains and Nos\'e-Andersen (constant-pressure constant temperature) dynamics are also given. Perspectives of the formalism are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0511077
title: Generalized Teleportation Protocol
authors: Goren Gordon, Gustavo Rigolin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, RevTex4, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 042309 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511077
abstract: A generalized teleportation protocol (GTP) for N qubits is presented, where the teleportation channels are non-maximally entangled and all the free parameters of the protocol are considered: Alice's measurement basis, her sets of acceptable results, and Bob's unitary operations. The full range of Fidelity (F) of the teleported state and the Probability of Success (P_{suc}) to obtain a given fidelity are achieved by changing these free parameters. A channel efficiency bound is found, where one can determine how to divide it between F and P_{suc}. A one qubit formulation is presented and then expanded to N qubits. A proposed experimental setup that implements the GTP is given using linear optics.

id: quant-ph/0511078
title: Bound states for one-electron atoms in higher dimensions
authors: Nelson R. F. Braga, Rafael D'Andrea
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511078
abstract: We study the Schrodinger equation for one-electron atoms in space-times with d >= 4 spatial dimensions where the Gauss law is assumed to be valid. It is shown that there are no normalizable wave functions corresponding to bound states. The consistency with the classical limit is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0511079
title: Memory Efficient Quantum Circuit Simulator Based on Linked List Architecture
authors: Wissam Abdel Samad, Roy Ghandour, Mohamad Nabil Hajj Chehade
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511079
abstract: In this paper, we will introduce the quantum circuit simulator we developed in C++ environment. We devise a novel method for efficient memory handling using linked list structures that enables us to simulate a quantum circuit of up to 20 qubits in a reasonable time. Our package can simulate the activity of any quantum circuit constructed by the user; it will also be used to understand the robustness of certain quantum algorithms such as Simons and Shors.

id: quant-ph/0511080
title: Entanglement Degree of Parasupersymmetric Coherent States of Harmonic Oscillator
authors: S.J. Akhtarshenas
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, Vol. 45, (2006) 2231-2239
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511080
abstract: We study the boson-parafermion entanglement of the parasupersymmetric coherent states of the harmonic oscillator and derive the degree of entanglement in terms of the concurrence. The conditions for obtaining the maximal entanglement is also examined, and it is shown that in the usual supersymmetry situation we can obtain maximally entangled Bell states.

id: quant-ph/0511081
title: Environment induced incoherent controllability
authors: Raffaele Romano, Domenico D'Alessandro
comments: revtex4, 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 080402 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511081
abstract: We prove that the environment induced entanglement between two non interacting, two-dimensional quantum systems S and P can be used to control the dynamics of S by means of the initial state of P. Using a simple, exactly solvable model, we show that both accessibility and controllability of S can be achieved under suitable conditions on the interaction of S and P with the environment.

id: quant-ph/0511082
title: Uncommon information (the cost of exchanging a quantum state)
authors: Jonathan Oppenheim, Andreas Winter
comments: Accepted in Phys Rev Lett. Acceptance revoked due to a disagreement over author rights (see this http URL)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511082
abstract: If two parties share an unknown quantum state, one can ask how much quantum communication is needed for party A to send her share to party B. Recently, it was found that the number of qubits which should be sent is given by the conditional entropy. This quantifies the notion of partial information, and it can even be negative. Here, we not only demand that A send her state to B, but additionally, B should send his state to A. Paradoxically, we find that requiring that the parties perform this additional task can lower the amount of quantum communication required. This primitive, which we call quantum state exchange, can be used to quantify the notion of uncommon information, since the two parties only need to send each other the parts of their state they don't hold in common. In the classical case, the concept of uncommon information follows trivially from the concept of partial information. We find that for quantum states, this is not so. We prove upper and lower bounds for the uncommon information and find optimal protocols for several classes of states.

id: quant-ph/0511083
title: Optical generation of hybrid entangled state via entangling single-photon-added coherent state
authors: Yan Li, Hui Jing, Ming-Sheng Zhan
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511083
abstract: We propose a feasible scheme to realize the optical entanglement of single-photon-added coherent state (SPACS) and show that, besides the Sanders entangled coherent state, the entangled SPACS also leads to new forms of hybrid entanglement of quantum Fock state and classical coherent state. We probe the essential difference of two types of hybrid entangled state (HES). This HES provides a novel link between the discrete- and the continuous-variable entanglement in a natural way.

id: quant-ph/0511084
title: Information free quantum bus for generating stabiliser states
authors: Simon J. Devitt, Andrew D. Greentree, Lloyd C.L. Hollenberg
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures: substantial changes, accepted in quant. inf. proc. Added details for physical bus scheme using coherent electronic transport (MRAP)
journal: Quant. Inf. Proc. 6(4):229 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511084
abstract: Efficient generation of spatially delocalised entangled states is at the heart of quantum information science. Generally flying qubits are proposed for long range entangling interactions, however here we introduce a bus-mediated alternative for this task. Our scheme permits efficient and flexible generation of deterministic two-qubit operator measurements and has links to the important concepts of mode-entanglement and repeat-until-success protocols. Importantly, unlike flying qubit protocols, our bus particle never contains information about the individual quantum states of the particles, hence is information-free.

id: quant-ph/0511085
title: Coupled-channel version of PT-symmetric square well
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 22 pp., to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. Also to be presented during the conference `The physics of non-Hermitian operators' (this http URL), the fourth in the series of Workshops `Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics' (this http URL)
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 441-456
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511085
abstract: Coupled pair of PT-symmetric square wells is studied as a prototype of a quantum system characterized by two manifestly non-Hermitian commuting observables. We demonstrate that there exists a domain of couplings where both the respective sets of eigenvalues (viz., energies and spin projections) remain real and where the model acquires a consistent probabilistic interpretation mediated by an `ad hoc' scalar product.

id: quant-ph/0511086
title: Relation between Dimension and Angular Momentum for Radially Symmetric Potential in $N$-dimensional Space
authors: Zhao Wei-Qin
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511086
abstract: It is proved that when solving Schroedinger equations for radially symmetric potentials the effect of higher dimensions on the radial wave function is equivalent to the effect of higher angular momenta in lower dimensional cases. This result is applied to giving solutions for several radially symmetric potentials in N-dimension.

id: quant-ph/0511087
title: Effective magnetic fields induced by EIT in ultra-cold atomic gases
authors: G. Juzeliunas, J. Ruseckas, P. Ohberg
comments: 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 38 (2005) 4171-4183
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511087
abstract: We study the influence of two resonant laser beams (to be referred to as the control and probe beams) on the centre of mass motion of ultra-cold atoms characterised by three energy levels of the Lambda-type. The laser beams being in the Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) configuration drive the atoms to their dark states. We impose the adiabatic approximation and obtain an effective equation of motion for the dark state atoms. The equation contains a vector potential type interaction as well as an effective trapping potential. We concentrate on the situation where the control and probe beams are co-propagating and have Orbital Angular Momenta (OAM). The effective magnetic field is then oriented along the propagation direction of the control and probe beams. Its spatial profile can be shaped by choosing proper laser beams. We analyse several situations where the effective magnetic field exhibits a radial dependence. In particular we study effective magnetic fields induced by Bessel beams, and demonstrate how to generate a constant effective magnetic field for a ring geometry of the atomic trap. We also discuss a possibility to create an effective field of a magnetic monopole.

id: quant-ph/0511088
title: Quantum cloning
authors: Valerio Scarani, Sofyan Iblisdir, Nicolas Gisin, Antonio Acin
comments: 
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 77, 1225-1256 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511088
abstract: The impossibility of perfectly copying (or cloning) an arbitrary quantum state is one of the basic rules governing the physics of quantum systems. The processes that perform the optimal approximate cloning have been found in many cases. These "quantum cloning machines" are important tools for studying a wide variety of tasks, e.g. state estimation and eavesdropping on quantum cryptography. This paper provides a comprehensive review of quantum cloning machines (both for discrete-dimensional and for continuous-variable quantum systems); in addition, it presents the role of cloning in quantum cryptography, the link between optimal cloning and light amplification via stimulated emission, and the experimental demonstrations of optimal quantum cloning.

id: quant-ph/0511089
title: Phase time for a tunneling particle
authors: Swarnali Bandopadhyay, A. M. Jayannavar
comments: 25 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511089
abstract: We study the nature of tunneling phase time for various quantum mechanical structures such as networks and rings having potential barriers in their arms. We find the generic presence of Hartman effect, with superluminal velocities as a consequence, in these systems. In quantum networks it is possible to control the `super arrival' time in one of the arms by changing the parameters on another arm which is spatially separated from it. This is yet another quantum nonlocal effect. Negative time delays (time advancement) and `ultra Hartman effect' with negative saturation times have been observed in some parameter regimes. In presence and absence of Aharonov-Bohm (AB) flux quantum rings show Hartman effect. We obtain the analytical expression for the saturated phase time. In the opaque barrier regime this is independent of even the AB flux thereby generalizing the Hartman effect. We also briefly discuss the concept of "space collapse or space destroyer" by introducing a free space in between two barriers covering the ring. Further we show in presence of absorption the reflection phase time exhibits Hartman effect in contrast to the transmission phase time.

id: quant-ph/0511090
title: Entropic bounds and continual measurements
authors: Alberto Barchielli, Giancarlo Lupieri
comments: 10 pages
journal: Quantum Probability Series QP-PQ Vol. 20 (World Scientific, Singapore, 2007) pp. 79-89
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511090
abstract: Some bounds on the entropic informational quantities related to a quantum continual measurement are obtained and the time dependencies of these quantities are studied.

id: quant-ph/0511091
title: Time-energy and time-entropy uncertainty relations in dissipative quantum dynamics
authors: Gian Paolo Beretta
comments: 12 pages + 4 figures, revised, added more sections and numerical illustrations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511091
abstract: We derive exact relations and general inequalities that extend the usual time-energy uncertainty relations from the domain of unitary Hamiltonian dynamics to that of dissipative dynamics as described by a broad class of linear and nonlinear evolution equations for the density operator. For non-dissipative dynamics, by using the Schroedinger inequality instead of the Heisenberg-Robertson inequality, we obtain a general exact time-energy uncertainty relation which is sharper than the usual Mandelstam-Tamm-Messiah relation $\tau_F\Delta_H\ge \hbar/2$. For simultaneous unitary/dissipative dynamics, the usual time-energy uncertainty relation is replaced by a less restrictive relation that depends on the characteristic time of dissipation, $\tau$, and the uncertainty associated with the generalized nonequilibrium Massieu-function operator which defines the structure of the dissipative part of the assumed class of evolution equations. Within the steepest-entropy-ascent dissipative quantum dynamics of an isolated system introduced earlier by this author, we obtain the interesting time-energy and time-entropy uncertainty relation $(2\tau_F\Delta_H/ \hbar)^2+ (\tau_F\Delta_S/k_B\tau)^2 \ge 1$. We illustrate this result and various other inequalities by means of numerical simulations.

id: quant-ph/0511092
title: Quantum secure direct communication without using perfect quantum channel
authors: Jian Wang, Quan Zhang, Chao-jing Tang
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Quant. Info., 2006, 4(6): 925-934
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511092
abstract: Most of the quantum secure direct communication protocol needs a pre-established secure quantum channel. Only after insuring the security of quantum channel, could the sender encode the secret message and send them to the receiver through the secure channel. In this paper, we present a quantum secure direct communication protocol using Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs. It is not necessary for the present protocol to insure the security of quantum channel before transmitting the secret message. In the present protocol, all Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs are used to transmit the secret message except those chosen for eavesdropping check.

id: quant-ph/0511093
title: The possibility of absolute calibration of analog detectors by using parametric down-conversion: a systematical study
authors: Giorgio Brida, Maria Chekhova, Marco Genovese, Alexander Penin, Ivano Ruo-Berchera
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 23 (2006) 2185
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511093
abstract: Accurate calibration of photodetectors both in analog and in photon-counting regime is fundamental for various scientific applications, which range from "traditional" quantum optics to the studies on foundations of quantum mechanics, quantum cryptography, quantum computation, etc. In this paper we systematically study the possibility of the absolute calibration of analog photo-detectors based on the properties of parametric amplifiers. Our results show that such a method can be effectively developed with interesting possible metrological applications.

id: quant-ph/0511094
title: Qubit rotation and Berry Phase
authors: D.Banerjee, P. Bandyopadhyay
comments: 12 pages
journal: Physica Scripta 73, (2006) 571
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511094
abstract: A quantized fermion can be represented by a scalar particle encircling a magnetic flux line. It has the spinor structure which can be constructed from quantum gates and qubits. We have studied here the role of Berry phase in removing dynamical phase during one qubit rotation of a quantized fermion. The entanglement of two qubit inserting spin-echo to one of them results the change of Berry phase that can be considered as a measure of entanglement. Some effort is given to study the effect of noise on the Berry phase of spinor and their entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0511095
title: A Simple Path Integration For the Time Dependent Oscillator
authors: H. Ahmedov, I.H. Duru, A.E. Gumrukcuoglu
comments: Latex, 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511095
abstract: Feynman propagator is calculated for the time dependent harmonic oscillator by converting the problem into a free particle motion

id: quant-ph/0511096
title: A Polynomial Quantum Algorithm for Approximating the Jones Polynomial
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Vaughan Jones, Zeph Landau
comments: 19 pages. This is a revised version of our paper quant-ph/0511096. The main change is a much more intuitive and less technical exposition of the Path model representation, which makes the paper much shorter. In addition, we somewhat updated the introduction, corrected various technical errors, and hopefully improved the writing
journal: STOC 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511096
abstract: The Jones polynomial, discovered in 1984, is an important knot invariant in topology. Among its many connections to various mathematical and physical areas, it is known (due to Witten) to be intimately connected to Topological Quantum Field Theory (TQFT). The works of Freedman, Kitaev, Larsen and Wang provide an efficient simulation of TQFT by a quantum computer, and vice versa. These results implicitly imply the existence of an efficient quantum algorithm that provides a certain additive approximation of the Jones polynomial at the fifth root of unity, e^{2\pi i/5}, and moreover, that this problem is BQP-complete. Unfortunately, this important algorithm was never explicitly formulated. Moreover, the results mentioned are heavily based on TQFT, which makes the algorithm essentially inaccessible to computer scientists. We provide an explicit and simple polynomial quantum algorithm to approximate the Jones polynomial of an n-strands braid with m crossings at any primitive root of unity e^{2\pi i/k}, where the running time of the algorithm is polynomial in m,n and k. Our algorithm is based, rather than on TQFT, on well known mathematical results. By the results of Freedman et. al., our algorithm solves a BQP complete problem. The algorithm we provide exhibits a structure which we hope is generalizable to other quantum algorithmic problems. Candidates of particular interest are the approximations of other #P-hard problems, most notably, the partition function of the Potts model, a model which is known to be tightly connected to the Jones polynomial.

id: quant-ph/0511097
title: Quantum Solution to the Extended Newcomb's Paradox
authors: Dong Pyo Chi, Kabgyun Jeong
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511097
abstract: We regard the Newcomb's Paradox as a reduction of the Prisoner's Dilemma and search for the considerable quantum solution. The all known classical solutions to the Newcomb's problem always imply that human has freewill and is due to the unfair set-up(including strategies)of the Newcomb's Problem. In this reason, we here substitute the asymmetric payoff matrix to the general form of the payoff matrix M and consider both of them use the same quantum strategy. As a result we obtained the fair Nash equilibrium, which is better than the case using classical strategies. This means that whether the supernatural being has the precognition or not depends only on the choice of strategy.

id: quant-ph/0511098
title: Quantum error correction via robust probe modes
authors: Fumiko Yamaguchi, Kae Nemoto, William J. Munro
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 060302R (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511098
abstract: We propose a new scheme for quantum error correction using robust continuous variable probe modes, rather than fragile ancilla qubits, to detect errors without destroying data qubits. The use of such probe modes reduces the required number of expensive qubits in error correction and allows efficient encoding, error detection and error correction. Moreover, the elimination of the need for direct qubit interactions significantly simplifies the construction of quantum circuits. We will illustrate how the approach implements three existing quantum error correcting codes: the 3-qubit bit-flip (phase-flip) code, the Shor code, and an erasure code.

id: quant-ph/0511099
title: Modeling photo-detectors in quantum optics
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Mod. Op. 53, 1589 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511099
abstract: Photo-detection plays a fundamental role in experimental quantum optics and is of particular importance in the emerging field of linear optics quantum computing. Present theoretical treatment of photo-detectors is highly idealized and fails to consider many important physical effects. We present a physically motivated model for photo-detectors which accommodates for the effects of finite resolution, bandwidth and efficiency, as well as dark-counts and dead-time. We apply our model to two simple well known applications, which illustrates the significance of these characteristics.

id: quant-ph/0511100
title: Robust Logic Gates and Realistic Quantum Computation
authors: Li Xiao, Jonathan A. Jones
comments: 6 pages RevTex4 including 5 figures (3 low quality to save space). Revised at request of referee and incorporting minor corrections and updates. Now in press at Phys Rev A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511100
abstract: The composite rotation approach has been used to develop a range of robust quantum logic gates, including single qubit gates and two qubit gates, which are resistant to systematic errors in their implementation. Single qubit gates based on the BB1 family of composite rotations have been experimentally demonstrated in a variety of systems, but little study has been made of their application in extended computations, and there has been no experimental study of the corresponding robust two qubit gates to date. Here we describe an application of robust gates to Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) studies of approximate quantum counting. We find that the BB1 family of robust gates is indeed useful, but that the related NB1, PB1, B4 and P4 families of tailored logic gates are less useful than initially expected.

id: quant-ph/0511101
title: Quantum Error Correcting Codes From The Compression Formalism
authors: Man-Duen Choi, David W. Kribs, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, Rep. Math. Phys., to appear
journal: Rep. Math. Phys., 58 (2006), 77-91.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511101
abstract: We solve the fundamental quantum error correction problem for bi-unitary channels on two-qubit Hilbert space. By solving an algebraic compression problem, we construct qubit codes for such channels on arbitrary dimension Hilbert space, and identify correctable codes for Pauli-error models not obtained by the stabilizer formalism. This is accomplished through an application of a new tool for error correction in quantum computing called the ``higher-rank numerical range''. We describe its basic properties and discuss possible further applications.

id: quant-ph/0511102
title: Quantum marginal problem and N-representability
authors: Alexander Klyachko
comments: A talk at 12 Central European workshop on Quantum Optics, July 2005, Bilkent University, Turkey
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511102
abstract: A variant of the quantum marginal problem was known from early sixties as N-representability problem. In 1995 it was designated by National Research Council of USA as one of ten most prominent research challenges in quantum chemistry. In spite of this recognition the progress was very slow, until a couple of years ago the problem came into focus again, now in framework of quantum information theory. In the paper I give an account of the recent development.

id: quant-ph/0511103
title: Block-block entanglement and quantum phase transitions in one-dimensional extended Hubbard model
authors: Shu-Sa Deng, Shi-Jian Gu, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: S. S. Deng, S. J. Gu, and H. Q. Lin, Phys. Rev. B 74, 045103 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511103
abstract: In this paper, we study block-block entanglement in the ground state of one-dimensional extended Hubbard model. Our results show that the phase diagram derived from the block-block entanglement manifests richer structure than that of the local (single site) entanglement because it comprises nonlocal correlation. Besides phases characterized by the charge-density-wave, the spin-density-wave, and phase-separation, which can be sketched out by the local entanglement, singlet superconductivity phase could be identified on the contour map of the block-block entanglement. Scaling analysis shows that ${\rm log}_2(l)$ behavior of the block-block entanglement may exist in both non-critical and the critical regions, while some local extremum are induced by the finite-size effect. We also study the block-block entanglement defined in the momentum space and discuss its relation to the phase transition from singlet superconducting state to the charge-density-wave state.

id: quant-ph/0511104
title: Controlling excess noise in fiber optics continuous variables quantum key distribution
authors: Jr?me Lodewyck, Thierry Debuisschert, Rosa Tualle-Brouri, Philippe Grangier
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: PRA, 72, 050303(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511104
abstract: We describe a continuous variables coherent states quantum key distribution system working at 1550 nm, and entirely made of standard fiber optics and telecom components, such as integrated-optics modulators, couplers and fast InGaAs photodiodes. The setup is composed of an emitter randomly modulating a coherent state in the complex plane with a doubly Gaussian distribution, and a receiver based on a shot noise limited time-resolved homodyne detector. By using a reverse reconciliation protocol, the device can transfer a raw key rate up to 1 Mb/s, with a proven security against Gaussian or non-Gaussian attacks. The dependence of the secret information rate of the present fiber set-up is studied as a function of the line transmission and excess noise.

id: quant-ph/0511105
title: Medium-modified Casimir forces
authors: M. S. Tomas
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, reinterpreted and revised
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 6785-6789
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511105
abstract: We argue that the results for the vacuum forces on a slab and on an atom embedded in a magnetodielectric medium near a mirror, obtained using a recently suggested Lorentz-force approach to the Casimir effect, are equivalent to the corresponding results obtained in a traditional way. We also derive a general expression for the atom-atom force in a medium and extend a few classical results concerning this force in vacuum and dielectrics to magnetodielectric systems. This, for example, reveals that the (repulsive) interaction between atoms of different polarizability type is at small distances unaffected by a (weakly polarizable) medium.

id: quant-ph/0511106
title: Entanglement, fidelity, and quantum-classical correlations with an atom walking in a quantized cavity field
authors: S.V. Prants, M.Yu. Uleysky, V.Yu. Argonov
comments: 
journal: S.V. Prants, M.Yu. Uleysky, and V.Yu. Argonov. Entanglement, fidelity, and quantum-classical correlations with an atom moving in a quantized cavity field. Physical Review A. V.73 (2006) art. 023807.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511106
abstract: Stability and instability of quantum evolution are studied in the interaction between a two-level atom with photon recoil and a quantized field mode in an ideal cavity, the basic model of cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED). It is shown that the Jaynes-Cummings dynamics can be unstable in the regime of chaotic walking of the atomic center-of-mass in the quantized field of a standing wave in the absence of any kind of interaction with environment. This kind of quantum instability manifests itself in strong variations of reduced quantum purity and entropy, correlating with the respective classical Lyapunov exponent, and in exponential sensitivity of fidelity of quantum states to small variations in the atom-field detuning. The connection between quantum entanglement and fidelity and the center-of-mass motion is clarified analytically and numerically for a few regimes of that motion. The results are illustrated with two specific initial field states: the Fock and coherent ones. Numerical experiments demonstrate various manifestations of the quantum-classical correspondence, including dynamical chaos and fractals, which can be, in principle, observed in real experiments with atoms and photons in high finesse cavities.

id: quant-ph/0511107
title: Quantum gate for Q switching in monolithic photonic bandgap cavities containing two-level atoms
authors: Andrew D. Greentree, J. Salzman, Steven Prawer, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 013818 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511107
abstract: Photonic bandgap cavities are prime solid-state systems to investigate light-matter interactions in the strong coupling regime. However, as the cavity is defined by the geometry of the periodic dielectric pattern, cavity control in a monolithic structure can be problematic. Thus, either the state coherence is limited by the read-out channel, or in a high Q cavity, it is nearly decoupled from the external world, making measurement of the state extremely challenging. We present here a method for ameliorating these difficulties by using a coupled cavity arrangement, where one cavity acts as a switch for the other cavity, tuned by control of the atomic transition.

id: quant-ph/0511108
title: Eigensolutions of the kicked Harper model
authors: G. A. Kells
comments: 9 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511108
abstract: The time-evolution operator for the kicked Harper model is reduced to block matrix form when the effective Planck's constant hbar = 2 pi M/N and M and N are integers. Each block matrix is spanned by an orthonormal set of N "kq" (quasi-position/quasi-momentum) functions. This implies that the system's eigenfunctions or stationary states are necessarily discrete and periodic. The reduction allows, for the first time, an examination of the 2-dimensional structure of the system's quasi-energy spectrum and the study of, with unprecedented accuracy, the system's stationary states.

id: quant-ph/0511109
title: A new approach to quantum backflow
authors: Markus Penz, Gebhard Grbl, Sabine Kreidl, Peter Wagner
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 423-433 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511109
abstract: We derive some rigorous results concerning the backflow operator introduced by Bracken and Melloy. We show that it is linear bounded, self adjoint, and not compact. Thus the question is underlined whether the backflow constant is an eigenvalue of the backflow operator. From the position representation of the backflow operator we obtain a more efficient method to determine the backflow constant. Finally, detailed position probability flow properties of a numerical approximation to the (perhaps improper) wave function of maximal backflow are displayed.

id: quant-ph/0511110
title: Discrete PT-symmetric square-well oscillators
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 12 pp
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511110
abstract: Exact solvability of the discretized N-point version of the PT-symmetric square-well model is pointed out. Its wave functions are found proportional to the classical Tshebyshev polynomials of a complex argument. At all N a compact secular equation is derived giving the real spectrum of energies at any non-Hermiticity strength Z below its finite and weakly N-dependent critical value. In the limit of vanishing Z the model degenerates to a Hermitian Hueckel Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0511111
title: On the SU(3) parametrization of qutrits
authors: A. T. Bolukbasi, T. Dereli
comments: Paper presented at 12th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics, 6-9 June 2005, Bilkent Univ., Ankara, Turkey
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511111
abstract: Parametrization of qutrits on the complex projective plane CP^2 = SU(3)/U(2) is given explicitly. A set of constraints that characterize mixed state density matrices is found.

id: quant-ph/0511112
title: Covariance and Frames of Reference
authors: Elemer E Rosinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511112
abstract: A transition of focus from state space to frames of reference and their transformations is argued as being the appropriate setup for ensuring the covariance of physical laws. Such an approach can not only simplify and clarify aspects of General Relativity, but can possibly help in the development of a Grand Unified Theory as well.

id: quant-ph/0511113
title: Implementation of continuous variable quantum cryptography in optical fibres using a go-&-return configuration
authors: Matthieu Legre, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Quant. Inf. & Comp., Vol. 6, No. 4&5, 326 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511113
abstract: We demonstrate an implementation of quantum key distribution with continuous variables based on a go-&-return configuration over distances up to 14km. This configuration leads to self-compensation of polarisation and phase fluctuations. We observe a high degree of stability of our set-up over many hours.

id: quant-ph/0511114
title: Coupling bosonic modes with a qubit: entanglement dynamics at zero and finite-temperatures
authors: Emanuele Ciancio, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511114
abstract: We consider a system of two iso-spectral bosonic modes coupled with a single two-level systems i.e., a qubit. The dynamics is described by a mode-symmetric two-modes Jaynes-Cummings. The entanglement, induced between the two bosonic modes, is analyzed and quantified by negativity. We computed the time evolution of negativity starting from an initial thermal state of the bosonic sector for both zero and finite temperature. We also studied the entangling power of the interaction as a function of mode-qubit detuning and its resilience against temperature increase. Finally a two-qubit gates based on bosonic virtual subsystem is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0511115
title: Enhanced dynamical entanglement transfer with multiple qubits
authors: A. Serafini, M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim, S. Bose
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, RevTeX4; terminology revised; accepted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 022312 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511115
abstract: We present two strategies to enhance the dynamical entanglement transfer from continuous variable (CV) to finite dimensional systems by employing multiple qubits. First, we consider the entanglement transfer to a composite finite dimensional system of many qubits simultaneously interacting with a bipartite CV field. We show that, considering realistic conditions in the generation of CV entanglement, a small number of qubits resonantly coupled to the CV system is sufficient for an almost complete dynamical transfer of the entanglement. Our analysis also sheds further light on the transition between microscopic and macroscopic behaviours of composite finite dimensional systems coupled to bosonic fields (like atomic clouds interacting with light). Furthermore, we present a protocol based on sequential interactions of the CV system with some ancillary qubit systems and on subsequent measurements, allowing to probabilistically convert CV entanglement into `almost perfect' Bell pairs of two qubits. Our proposals are suited for realizations in various experimental settings, ranging from cavity-QED to cavity-integrated superconducting devices.

id: quant-ph/0511116
title: Experimental Entanglement Distillation of Two-qubit Mixed States Under Local filtering Operations
authors: Zhi-Wei Wang, Xiang-Fa Zhou, Yun-Feng Huang, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Xi-Feng Ren, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96 220505 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511116
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate optimal entanglement distillation from two forms of two-qubit mixed states under local filtering operations according to the constructive method intruduced by F. Verstraete et al. [Phys. Rev. A 64, 010101(R) (2001)]. In principle, our set-up can be easily applied to distilling entanglement from arbitrary two-qubit partially mixed states. We also test the violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shinmony-Holt (CHSH) inequality for the distilled state from the first form of mixed state to show its "hidden non-locality".

id: quant-ph/0511117
title: Perfect Computational Equivalence between Quantum Turing Machines and Finitely Generated Uniform Quantum Circuit Families
authors: Harumichi Nishimura, Masanao Ozawa
comments: 11pages
journal: Quant. Inf. Process. 8(1), pp. 13-24, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511117
abstract: In order to establish the computational equivalence between quantum Turing machines (QTMs) and quantum circuit families (QCFs) using Yao's quantum circuit simulation of QTMs, we previously introduced the class of uniform QCFs based on an infinite set of elementary gates, which has been shown to be computationally equivalent to the polynomial-time QTMs (with appropriate restriction of amplitudes) up to bounded error simulation. This result implies that the complexity class BQP introduced by Bernstein and Vazirani for QTMs equals its counterpart for uniform QCFs. However, the complexity classes ZQP and EQP for QTMs do not appear to equal their counterparts for uniform QCFs. In this paper, we introduce a subclass of uniform QCFs, the finitely generated uniform QCFs, based on finite number of elementary gates and show that the class of finitely generated uniform QCFs is perfectly equivalent to the class of polynomial-time QTMs; they can exactly simulate each other. This naturally implies that BQP as well as ZQP and EQP equal the corresponding complexity classes of the finitely generated uniform QCFs.

id: quant-ph/0511118
title: Fast Rydberg gates without dipole blockade via quantum control
authors: M. Cozzini, T. Calarco, A. Recati, P. Zoller
comments: 1 column, 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511118
abstract: We propose a scheme for controlling interactions between Rydberg-excited neutral atoms in order to perform a fast high-fidelity quantum gate. Unlike dipole-blockade mechanisms already found in the literature, we drive resonantly the atoms with a state-dependent excitation to Rydberg levels, and we exploit the resulting dipole-dipole interaction to induce a controlled atomic motion in the trap, in a similar way as discussed in recent ion-trap quantum computing proposals. This leads atoms to gain the required gate phase, which turns out to be a combination of a dynamic and a geometrical contribution. The fidelity of this scheme is studied including small anharmonicity and temperature effects, with promising results for reasonably achievable experimental parameters.

id: quant-ph/0511119
title: Exact entanglement probability distribution of bi-partite randomised stabilizer states
authors: Oscar Dahlsten, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, replaced with published version
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 6, 527 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511119
abstract: We study the entanglement properties of random pure stabilizer states in spin-1/2 particles. For two contiguous groups of spins of arbitrary size we obtain a compact and exact expression for the probability distribution for the entanglement values between the two sets. This allows for exact derivations of the average entanglement and the degree of concentration of measure around this average. We also give simple bounds on these quantities. We find that for large systems the average entanglement is near maximal and the measure is concentrated around it.

id: quant-ph/0511120
title: Random decoupling schemes for quantum dynamical control and error suppression
authors: Lorenza Viola, Emanuel Knill
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: Physical Review Letters, 94, 060502 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511120
abstract: We present a general control-theoretic framework for constructing and analyzing random decoupling schemes, applicable to quantum dynamical control of arbitrary finite-dimensional composite systems. The basic idea is to design the control propagator according to a random rather than deterministic path on a group. We characterize the performance of random decoupling protocols, and identify control scenarios where they can significantly weaken time scale requirements as compared to cyclic counterparts. Implications for reliable quantum computation are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0511121
title: Dynamical control of qubit coherence: Random versus deterministic schemes
authors: Lea F. Santos, Lorenza Viola
comments: 21 pages, 15 figures, to appear in Physical Review A, 72 (2005)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511121
abstract: We revisit the problem of switching off unwanted phase evolution and decoherence in a single two-state quantum system in the light of recent results on random dynamical decoupling methods [L. Viola and E. Knill, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 94}, 060502 (2005)]. A systematic comparison with standard cyclic decoupling is effected for a variety of dynamical regimes, including the case of both semiclassical and fully quantum decoherence models. In particular, exact analytical expressions are derived for randomized control of decoherence from a bosonic environment. We investigate quantitatively control protocols based on purely deterministic, purely random, as well as hybrid design, and identify their relative merits and weaknesses at improving system performance. We find that for time-independent systems, hybrid protocols tend to perform better than pure random and may improve over standard asymmetric schemes, whereas random protocols can be considerably more stable against fluctuations in the system parameters. Beside shedding light on the physical requirements underlying randomized control, our analysis further demonstrates the potential for explicit control settings where the latter may significantly improve over conventional schemes.

id: quant-ph/0511122
title: Continuum variable entangled state generated by an asymmetric beam splitter
authors: H.Y.Fan Y.L.Yang
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511122
abstract: The generating entangled state by using a 50/50 beamsplitter has been discussed in the literature before . In this paper we explore how to use an asymmetric beam-splitter to produce a new kind of entangled state. We construct such kind of states theoretically and then prove that they make up a complete and orthonormal representation in two-mode Fock space. Its application in finding new squeezing operator and new squeezed state is introduced.

id: quant-ph/0511123
title: Two-player quantum pseudo-telepathy based on recent all-versus-nothing violations of local realism
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73 (2006) 022302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511123
abstract: We introduce two two-player quantum pseudo-telepathy games based on two recently proposed all-versus-nothing (AVN) proofs of Bell's theorem [A. Cabello, Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 210401 (2005); Phys. Rev. A 72, 050101(R) (2005)]. These games prove that Broadbent and Methot's claim that these AVN proofs do not rule out local-hidden-variable theories in which it is possible to exchange unlimited information inside the same light-cone (quant-ph/0511047) is incorrect.

id: quant-ph/0511124
title: Gauge Invariant Quantization of Dissipative Systems of Charged Particles in Extended Phase Space
authors: S. Khademi, S. Nasiri
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511124
abstract: Recently, it is shown that the extended phase space formulation of quantum mechanics is a suitable technique for studying the quantum dissipative systems. Here, as a further application of this formalism, we consider a dissipative system of charged particles interacting with an external time dependent electric field. Such a system has been investigated by Buch and Denman, and two distinct solutions with completely different structure have been obtained for Schr\"odinger's equation in two different gauges. However, by generalizing the gauge transformations to the phase space and using the extended phase space technique to study the same system, we demonstrate how both gauges lead to the same conductivity, suggesting the recovery of gauge invariance for this physical quantity within the extended phase space approach.

id: quant-ph/0511125
title: Quantum Potential and Symmetries in Extended Phase Space
authors: Sadollah Nasiri
comments: Published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 2 (2006), 062, 12 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511125
abstract: The behavior of the quantum potential is studied for a particle in a linear and a harmonic potential by means of an extended phase space technique. This is done by obtaining an expression for the quantum potential in momentum space representation followed by the generalization of this concept to extended phase space. It is shown that there exists an extended canonical transformation that removes the expression for the quantum potential in the dynamical equation. The situation, mathematically, is similar to disappearance of the centrifugal potential in going from the spherical to the Cartesian coordinates that changes the physical potential to an effective one. The representation where the quantum potential disappears and the modified Hamilton-Jacobi equation reduces to the familiar classical form, is one in which the dynamical equation turns out to be the Wigner equation.

id: quant-ph/0511126
title: Study of Dissipative System of Charged Particles by Wigner's Functions
authors: S.Khademi, S.Nasiri, S.Fathi, F.Taati
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511126
abstract: Recently, it is shown that the extended phase space formulation of quantum mechanics is a suitable technique for studying the quantum dissipative system. Here, as an application of this formalism, we consider a dissipative system of charged particles interacting with an external time dependent electric field. Such a system has been investigating by Buch and Denman, and two solutions with completely different structure have been obtained for Schr\"{o}dinger's equation in two different gauges. We demonstrate how both gauges lead to the same conductivity by generalizing the gauge transformations to the phase space and using the extended phase space technique.

id: quant-ph/0511127
title: A Generalized Rule For Non-Commuting Operators in Extended Phase Space
authors: S. Nasiri, S. Khademi, S. Bahrami, F. Taati
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511127
abstract: A generalized quantum distribution function is introduced. The corresponding ordering rule for non-commuting operators is given in terms of a single parameter. The origin of this parameter is in the extended canonical transformations that guarantees the equivalence of different distribution functions obtained by assuming appropriate values for this parameter.

id: quant-ph/0511128
title: Analysis of the generation of photon pairs in periodically poled lithium niobate
authors: Jonas Soderholm, Keiichi Hirano, Shigehiko Mori, Shuichiro Inoue, Sunao Kurimura
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, uses ws-procs10x7.cls; v2: Sign in equation (5) corrected
journal: Proceedings of the 8th International Symposium on Foundations of Quantum Mechanics in the Light of New Technology, edited by S. Ishioka and K. Fujikawa (World Scientific, Singapore, 2006), pp. 46-49. ISBN 981-256-858-1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511128
abstract: The process of spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) in nonlinear crystals makes it fairly easy to generate entangled photon states. It has been known for some time that the conversion efficiency can be improved by employing quasi-phase-matching in periodically poled crystals. Using two single-photon detectors, we have analyzed the photon pairs generated by SPDC in a periodically poled lithium niobate crystal pumped by a femtosecond laser. Several parameters could be varied in our setup, allowing us to obtain data in close agreement with both thermal and Poissonian photon-pair distributions.

id: quant-ph/0511129
title: How to Measure the Nonlocal Phase of a Single Photon
authors: Noam Erez
comments: 9 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511129
abstract: The relative phase between spatially separated component waves of a single photon can be measured by joint interference with a second photon emitted by a known source. In the case of a single such phase (i.e. two component waves), the probability for a successful measurement is one half. This method can be implemented with current experimental techniques.

id: quant-ph/0511130
title: Quantum key distribution without alternative measurements and rotations
authors: Fei Gao, Fenzhuo Guo, Qiaoyan Wen, Fuchen Zhu
comments: 11 pages, no figures, a modified version of quant-ph/0412014, add a security proof and delete the identification part
journal: Physics Letters A, Vol. 349 pp. 53-58, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511130
abstract: A quantum key distribution protocol based on entanglement swapping is proposed. Through choosing particles by twos from the sequence and performing Bell measurements, two communicators can detect eavesdropping and obtain the secure key. Because the two particles measured together are selected out randomly, we need neither alternative measurements nor rotations of the Bell states to obtain security.

id: quant-ph/0511131
title: Adiabatic Quantum Computing in systems with constant inter-qubit couplings
authors: S. Knysh, V.N. Smelyanskiy
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures, reference added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511131
abstract: We propose an approach suitable for solving NP-complete problems via adiabatic quantum computation with an architecture based on a lattice of interacting spins (qubits) driven by locally adjustable effective magnetic fields. Interactions between qubits are assumed constant and instance-independent, programming is done only by changing local magnetic fields. Implementations using qubits coupled by magnetic-, electric-dipole and exchange interactions are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0511132
title: Observation of dynamic localization in periodically-curved waveguide arrays
authors: S. Longhi, M. Marangoni, M. Lobino, R. Ramponi, P. Laporta, E. Cianci, V. Foglietti
comments: 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 243901 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511132
abstract: We report on a direct experimental observation of dynamic localization (DL) of light in sinusoidally-curved Lithium-Niobate waveguide arrays which provides the optical analog of DL for electrons in periodic potentials subjected to ac electric fields as originally proposed by Dunlap and Kenkre [D.H. Dunlap and V.M. Kenkre, Phys. Rev. B 34, 3625 (1986)]. The theoretical condition for DL in a sinusoidal field is experimentally demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0511133
title: On the information-splitting essence of two types of quantum key distribution protocols
authors: Fei Gao, Fenzhuo Guo, Qiaoyan Wen, Fu-Chen Zhu
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, Revtex 4
journal: Physics Letters A 355 (2006) 172-175
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511133
abstract: With the help of a simple quantum key distribution (QKD) scheme, we discuss the relation between BB84-type protocols and two-step-type ones. It is shown that they have the same essence, i.e., information-splitting. More specifically, the similarity between them includes (1) the carrier state is split into two parts which will be sent one by one; (2) the possible states of each quantum part are indistinguishable; (3) anyone who obtains both parts can recover the initial carrier state and then distinguish it from several possible states. This result is useful for related scheme designing and security analyzing.

id: quant-ph/0511134
title: Untangling Quantum Entanglement
authors: Jeremy L. Fellows
comments: 30 pages, 23 figures, hyperlink to appendices and related information at end of paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511134
abstract: The phenomenon of quantum entanglement is explained in a way which is fully consistent with Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity. A subtle flaw is identified in the logic supporting the view that Bell's Inequality precludes all local hidden-variable theories, and it is shown how EPR-type experiments can be constructed to produce statistical correlation results in a purely classical manner which match exactly the predictions made by quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0511135
title: Path Integral Approach for Spaces of Non-constant Curvature in Three Dimensions
authors: Christian Grosche
comments: 
journal: Phys.Atom.Nucl.70:537-544,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511135
abstract: In this contribution I show that it is possible to construct three-dimensional spaces of non-constant curvature, i.e. three-dimensional Darboux-spaces. Two-dimensional Darboux spaces have been introduced by Kalnins et al., with a path integral approach by the present author. In comparison to two dimensions, in three dimensions it is necessary to add a curvature term in the Lagrangian in order that the quantum motion can be properly defined. Once this is done, it turns out that in the two three-dimensional Darboux spaces, which are discussed in this paper, the quantum motion is similar to the two-dimensional case. In $\threedDI$ we find seven coordinate systems which separate the Schr\"odinger equation. For the second space, $\threedDII$, all coordinate systems of flat three-dimensional Euclidean space which separate the Schr\"odinger equation also separate the Schr\"odinger equation in $\threedDII$. I solve the path integral on $\threedDI$ in the $(u,v,w)$-system, and on $\threedDII$ in the $(u,v,w)$-system and in spherical coordinates.

id: quant-ph/0511136
title: On the explanation for quantum statistics
authors: Simon Saunders
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures; to appear in Studies in the History and Philosophy of Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511136
abstract: The concept of classical indistinguishability is analyzed and defended against a number of well-known criticisms, with particular attention to the Gibbs' paradox. Granted that it is as much at home in classical as in quantum statistical mechanics, the question arises as to why indistinguishability, in quantum mechanics but not in classical mechanics, forces a change in statistics. The answer, illustrated with simple examples, is that the equilibrium measure on classical phase space is continuous, whilst on Hilbert space it is discrete. The relevance of names, or equivalently, properties stable in time that can be used as names, is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0511137
title: Hall of Mirrors Scattering from an Impurity in a Quantum Wire
authors: J. Y. Vaishnav, A. Itsara, E. J. Heller
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures. Accepted for publication in Physical Review B. Minor additions to text, added references
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 115331 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511137
abstract: This paper develops a scattering theory to examine how point impurities affect transport through quantum wires. While some of our new results apply specifically to hard-walled wires, others--for example, an effective optical theorem for two-dimensional waveguides--are more general. We apply the method of images to the hard-walled guide, explicitly showing how scattering from an impurity affects the wire's conductance. We express the effective cross section of a confined scatterer entirely in terms of the empty waveguide's Green's function, suggesting a way in which to use semiclassical methods to understand transport properties of smooth wires. In addition to predicting some new phenomena, our approach provides a simple physical picture for previously observed effects such as conductance dips and confinement-induced resonances.

id: quant-ph/0511138
title: Generation of cluster states
authors: Ping Dong, Zheng-Yuan Xue, Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: Complete rewite version, adding the main results of quant-ph/0511045. 7 pages and 3 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 73, 033818 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511138
abstract: We propose two schemes for the generation of the cluster states. One is based on cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) techniques. The scheme only requires resonant interactions between two atoms and a single-mode cavity. The interaction time is very short, which is important in view of decoherence. Furthermore, we also discuss the cavity decay and atomic spontaneous emission case. The other is based on atomic ensembles. The scheme has inherent fault tolerance function and is robust to realistic noise and imperfections. All the facilities used in our schemes are well within the current technology.

id: quant-ph/0511139
title: The Aladin2 experiment: status and perspectives
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte, Detlef Born, Enrico Calloni, Giampiero Esposito, Uve Hubner, Evgeni Il'ichev, Luigi Rosa, Ornella Scaldaferri, Francesco Tafuri, Ruggero Vaglio
comments: Talk given by Calloni at QFEXT05 Conference in Barcelona: Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions
journal: J.Phys.A39:6153-6159,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511139
abstract: Aladin2 is an experiment devoted to the first measurement of variations of Casimir energy in a rigid cavity. The main scientific motivation relies on the possibility of the first demonstration of a phase transition influenced by vacuum fluctuations. The guiding principle of the measurement, based on the behaviour of the critical field for an in-cavity superconducting film, will be only briefly recalled. In this paper, after an introduction to the long term motivations, the experimental apparatus and the results of the first measurement of sensitivity will be presented in detail, particularly in comparison with the expected signal. Last, the most important steps towards the final measurement will be discussed.

id: quant-ph/0511140
title: Stability, Gain, and Robustness in Quantum Feedback Networks
authors: C. D'Helon, M.R. James
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511140
abstract: This paper concerns the problem of stability for quantum feedback networks. We demonstrate in the context of quantum optics how stability of quantum feedback networks can be guaranteed using only simple gain inequalities for network components and algebraic relationships determined by the network. Quantum feedback networks are shown to be stable if the loop gain is less than one-this is an extension of the famous small gain theorem of classical control theory. We illustrate the simplicity and power of the small gain approach with applications to important problems of robust stability and robust stabilization.

id: quant-ph/0511141
title: Perturbative Analysis of Possible Failures in the Traditional Adiabatic Conditions
authors: T. Vrtesi, R. Englman
comments: Latex file, 14 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511141
abstract: Recently, Marzlin and Sanders (2004) demonstrated an inconsistency when the adiabatic approximation was applied to specific, "inverse" time-evolving systems. Following that, Tong et al. (2005) showed that the widely used traditional adiabatic conditions are insufficient to guarantee the validity of the adiabatic approximation for this class of systems. In this article we explore the origin of these observations by a perturbative approach and find that in first order approximation certain nonzero terms appear in the solution which gives rise to the breakdown of the adiabatic approximation (despite the fact that the traditional adiabatic conditions are satisfied). We argue that in this case the Hamiltonian of Marzlin and Sanders' inverse time evolving system cannot be written in terms of t/T, where T denotes the total evolution time. It is further demonstrated that the new qualitative adiabatic condition of Ye et al. (2005) performs well in some cases when the traditional conditions fail to describe properly non-adiabatic evolution.

id: quant-ph/0511142
title: Statistical Mechanics of Quantum-Classical Systems with Holonomic Constraints
authors: Alessandro Sergi
comments: Submitted to Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511142
abstract: The statistical mechanics of quantum-classical systems with holonomic constraints is formulated rigorously by unifying the classical Dirac bracket and the quantum-classical bracket in matrix form. The resulting Dirac quantum-classical theory, which conserves the holonomic constraints exactly, is then used to formulate time evolution and statistical mechanics. The correct momentum-jump approximation for constrained system arises naturally from this formalism. Finally, in analogy with what was found in the classical case, it is shown that the rigorous linear response function of constrained quantum-classical systems contains non-trivial additional terms which are absent in the response of unconstrained systems.

id: quant-ph/0511143
title: Simulations of "Decoherence" with Noise Pulses
authors: L. Stodolsky
comments: Four pages, three figures. Contribution to special issue of Molecular Physics in honor of R. A. Harris
journal: Molecular Physics {104} 1337 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511143
abstract: A simulation of decoherence as random noise in the Hamiltonian is studied. The full Hamiltonian for the rf Squid is used, with the parameters chosen such that there is a double-potential well configuration where the two quasi-degenerate lowest levels are well separated from the rest. The results for these first two levels are in quantitative agreement with expectations from the ``spin 1/2'' picture for the behavior of a two-state system.

id: quant-ph/0511144
title: Classical Phase Space Density for the Relativistic Hydrogen Atom
authors: Th. M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 15pages AIP tex with 1 Figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511144
abstract: Quantum mechanics is considered to arise from an underlying classical structure (``hidden variable theory'', ``sub-quantum mechanics''), where quantum fluctuations follow from a physical noise mechanism. The stability of the hydrogen ground state can then arise from a balance between Lorentz damping and energy absorption from the noise. Since the damping is weak, the ground state phase space density should predominantly be a function of the conserved quantities, energy and angular momentum. A candidate for this phase space density is constructed for ground state of the relativistic hydrogen problem of a spinless particle. The first excited states and their spherical harmonics are also considered in this framework. The analytic expression of the ground state energy can be reproduced, provided averages of certain products are replaced by products of averages. This analysis puts forward that quantum mechanics may arise from an underlying classical level as a slow variable theory, where each new quantum operator relates to a new, well separated time interval.

id: quant-ph/0511145
title: Semantics and simulation of communication in quantum programming
authors: Wolfgang Mauerer
comments: Master's thesis, 101 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Programming Languages (cs.PL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511145
abstract: We present the quantum programming language cQPL which is an extended version of QPL [P. Selinger, Math. Struct. in Comp. Sci. 14(4):527-586, 2004]. It is capable of quantum communication and it can be used to formulate all possible quantum algorithms. Additionally, it possesses a denotational semantics based on a partial order of superoperators and uses fixed points on a generalised Hilbert space to formalise (in addition to all standard features expected from a quantum programming language) the exchange of classical and quantum data between an arbitrary number of participants. Additionally, we present the implementation of a cQPL compiler which generates code for a quantum simulator.

id: quant-ph/0511146
title: Spatial decoherence near metallic surfaces
authors: R. Fermani, S. Scheel, P. L. Knight
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032902 (2006) (9 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511146
abstract: We present a first-principles derivation of spatial atomic-sublevel decoherence near dielectric and metallic surfaces. The theory is based on the electromagnetic-field quantization in absorbing dielectric media. We derive an expression for the time-variation of the off-diagonal matrix element of the atomic density matrix for arbitrarily shaped substrates. For planar multilayered substrates we find that for small lateral separations of the atom's possible positions the spatial coherence decreases quadratically with the separation and inversely to the squared atom-surface distance.

id: quant-ph/0511147
title: Two-colorable graph states with maximal Schmidt measure
authors: Simone Severini
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 356, Issue 2, 31 July 2006, Pages 99-103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511147
abstract: The Schmidt measure was introduced by Eisert and Briegel for quantifying the degree of entanglement of multipartite quantum systems [Phys. Rev. A 64, 022306 (2001)]. Although generally intractable, it turns out that there is a bound on the Schmidt measure for two-colorable graph states [Phys. Rev. A 69, 062311 (2004)]. For these states, the Schmidt measure is in fact directly related to the number of nonzero eigenvalues of the adjacency matrix of the associated graph. We remark that almost all two-colorable graph states have maximal Schmidt measure and we construct specific examples. These involve perfect trees, line graphs of trees, cographs, graphs from anti-Hadamard matrices, and unyciclic graphs. We consider some graph transformations, with the idea of transforming a two-colorable graph state with maximal Schmidt measure into another one with the same property. In particular, we consider a transformation introduced by Francois Jaeger, line graphs, and switching. By making appeal to a result of Ehrenfeucht et al. [Discrete Math. 278 (2004)], we point out that local complementation and switching form a transitive group acting on the set of all graph states of a given dimension.

id: quant-ph/0511148
title: Limitations of Quantum Coset States for Graph Isomorphism
authors: Sean Hallgren, Martin Roetteler, Pranab Sen
comments: 25 pages
journal: J. ACM 57(6): 34 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511148
abstract: It has been known for some time that graph isomorphism reduces to the hidden subgroup problem (HSP). What is more, most exponential speedups in quantum computation are obtained by solving instances of the HSP. A common feature of the resulting algorithms is the use of quantum coset states, which encode the hidden subgroup. An open question has been how hard it is to use these states to solve graph isomorphism. It was recently shown by Moore, Russell, and Schulman that only an exponentially small amount of information is available from one, or a pair of coset states. A potential source of power to exploit are entangled quantum measurements that act jointly on many states at once. We show that entangled quantum measurements on at least \Omega(n log n) coset states are necessary to get useful information for the case of graph isomorphism, matching an information theoretic upper bound. This may be viewed as a negative result because highly entangled measurements seem hard to implement in general. Our main theorem is very general and also rules out using joint measurements on few coset states for some other groups, such as GL(n, F_{p^m}) and G^n where G is finite and satisfies a suitable property.

id: quant-ph/0511149
title: Tight Results on Multiregister Fourier Sampling: Quantum Measurements for Graph Isomorphism Require Entanglement
authors: Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell
comments: supersedes earlier posting quant-ph/0510233, which was withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511149
abstract: We establish a general method for proving bounds on the information that can be extracted via arbitrary entangled measurements on tensor products of hidden subgroup coset states. When applied to the symmetric group, the method yields an Omega(n log n) lower bound on the number of coset states over which we must perform an entangled measurement in order to obtain non-negligible information about a hidden involution. These results are tight to within a multiplicative constant and apply, in particular, to the case relevant for the Graph Isomorphism problem. Part of our proof was obtained after learning from Hallgren, Roetteler, and Sen that they had obtained similar results.

id: quant-ph/0511150
title: Valence-Bond-Solid state entanglement in a 2-D Cayley tree
authors: Heng Fan, Vladimir Korepin, Vwani Roychowdhury
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511150
abstract: The Valence-Bond-Solid (VBS) states are in general ground states for certain gapped models. We consider the entanglement of VBS states on a two-dimensional Cayley tree. We show that the entropy of the reduced density operator does not depend on the whole size of the Cayley tree. We also show that asymptotically, the entropy is liearly proportional to the number of singlet states cut by the reduced density operator of the VBS state.

id: quant-ph/0511151
title: On Integrability and Pseudo-Hermitian Systems with Spin-Coupling Point Interactions
authors: Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 7 pages
journal: Czech J. Phys. 55 (2005) 1085
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511151
abstract: We study the pseudo-Hermitian systems with general spin-coupling point interactions and give a systematic description of the corresponding boundary conditions for PT-symmetric systems. The corresponding integrability for both bosonic and fermionic many-body systems with PT-symmetric contact interactions is investigated.

id: quant-ph/0511152
title: The Application of Asymmetric Entangled States in Quantum Game
authors: Ye Li, Gan Qin, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511152
abstract: In the present letter, we propose a more general entangling operator to the quantization of Cournot economic model, in which players can access to a continuous set of strategies. By analyzing the relation between the von Neumann entropy of the entangled state and the total profit of two players precisely, we find that the total profit at the Nash equilibrium always achieves its maximal value as long as the entropy tends to infinity. Moreover, since the asymmetry is introduced in the entangled state, the quantum model shows some kind of "encouraging" and "suppressing" effect in profit functions of different players.

id: quant-ph/0511153
title: Paramagnetic Materials and Practical Algorithmic Cooling for NMR Quantum Computing
authors: Jose M. Fernandez, Tal Mor, Yossi Weinstein
comments: 5 pages, A conference version of this paper appeared in SPIE, volume 5105, pages 185-194 (2003)
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 3, pp. 281-285 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511153
abstract: Algorithmic Cooling is a method that uses novel data compression techniques and simplecquantum computing devices to improve NMR spectroscopy, and to offer scalable NMR quantum computers. The algorithm recursively employs two steps. A reversible entropy compression of the computation quantum-bits (qubits) of the system and an irreversible heat transfer from the system to the environment through a set of reset qubits that reach thermal relaxation rapidly. Is it possible to experimentally demonstrate algorithmic cooling using existing technology? To allow experimental algorithmic cooling, the thermalization time of the reset qubits must be much shorter than the thermalization time of the computation qubits. However such thermalization-times ratios have yet to be reported. We investigate here the effect of a paramagnetic salt on the thermalization-times ratio of computation qubits (carbons) and a reset qubit (hydrogen). We show that the thermalization-times ratio is improved by approximately three-fold. Based on this result, an experimental demonstration of algorithmic cooling by thermalization and magnetic ions is currently performed by our group and collaborators.

id: quant-ph/0511154
title: Continuous measurements on continuous variable quantum systems: The Gaussian description
authors: L. B. Madsen, K. M?lmer
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures. Modified version of a contribution to the book "Quantum Information with Continuous Variables", Eds. G. Leuchs, N. Cerf, and E. Polzik. To be published by Imperial College Press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511154
abstract: The Gaussian state description of continuous variables is adapted to describe the quantum interaction between macroscopic atomic samples and continuous-wave light beams. The formalism is very efficient: a non-linear differential equation for the covariance matrix of the atomic system explicitly accounts for both the unitary evolution, the dissipation and noise due to the atom-light interaction, and the back-action due to homodyne optical detection on the beam after its interaction with the atoms. Applications to atomic spin squeezing and estimation of unknown classical parameters are presented, and extensions beyond the Gaussian states are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0511155
title: Entanglement of Formation of Bipartite Quantum States
authors: Kai Chen, Sergio Albeverio, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 210501 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511155
abstract: We give an explicit tight lower bound for the entanglement of formation for arbitrary bipartite mixed states by using the convex hull construction of a certain function. This is achieved by revealing a novel connection among the entanglement of formation, the well-known Peres-Horodecki and realignment criteria. The bound gives a quite simple and efficiently computable way to evaluate quantitatively the degree of entanglement for any bipartite quantum state.

id: quant-ph/0511156
title: Experimental Heat-Bath Cooling of Spins
authors: Gilles Brassard, Yuval Elias, Jose M. Fernandez, Haggai Gilboa, Jonathan A. Jones, Tal Mor, Yossi Weinstein, Li Xiao
comments: 11 pages, 6 Figures, submitted version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511156
abstract: Algorithmic cooling is a novel technique to generate ensembles of highly polarized spins, which could significantly improve the signal strength in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. It combines reversible (entropy-preserving) manipulations and irreversible controlled interactions with the environment, using simple quantum computing techniques to increase spin polarization far beyond the Shannon entropy-conservation bound. Notably, thermalization is beneficially employed as an integral part of the cooling scheme, contrary to its ordinary destructive implications. We report the first cooling experiments bypassing Shannon's entropy-conservation bound, performed on a standard liquid-state NMR spectrometer. We believe that this experimental success could pave the way for the first near-future application of quantum computing devices.

id: quant-ph/0511157
title: Dobinski-type relations: Some properties and physical applications
authors: P Blasiak, A Horzela, K A Penson, A I Solomon
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39, 4999-5006 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511157
abstract: We introduce a generalization of the Dobinski relation through which we define a family of Bell-type numbers and polynomials. For all these sequences we find the weight function of the moment problem and give their generating functions. We provide a physical motivation of this extension in the context of the boson normal ordering problem and its relation to an extension of the Kerr Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0511158
title: Superposition and Entanglement: Pillars of Quantum Information Processing
authors: Prashant, Indranil Chakrabarty
comments: 8 pages, review article
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511158
abstract: This article discusses the important primitives of Superposition and Entanglement in Quantum Information Processing from physics point of view. System of spin-1/2 particles has been considered which presents itself as a logical and conceptual candidate to understand these concepts. The article is intended as a review of these important concepts and hopes to bring forth a conceptual framework in this regard.

id: quant-ph/0511159
title: Nonlocal properties of dynamical three-body Casimir-Polder forces
authors: L. Rizzuto, R. Passante, F. Persico
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511159
abstract: We consider the three-body Casimir-Polder interaction between three atoms during their dynamical self-dressing. We show that the time-dependent three-body Casimir-Polder interaction energy displays nonlocal features related to quantum properties of the electromagnetic field and to the nonlocality of spatial field correlations. We discuss the measurability of this intriguing phenomenon and its relation with the usual concept of stationary three-body forces.

id: quant-ph/0511160
title: Matter-screened Casimir force and Casimir-Polder force in planar structures
authors: Christian Raabe, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure -- published online at J. Opt. B on Nov 16 2005
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) S610-S615
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511160
abstract: Using a recently developed theory of the Casimir force (Raabe C and Welsch D-G 2005 Phys. Rev. A 71 013814), we calculate the force that acts on a plate in front of a planar wall and the force that acts on the plate in the case where the plate is part of matter that fills the space in front of the wall. We show that in the limit of a dielectric plate whose permittivity is close to unity, the force obtained in the former case reduces to the ordinary, i.e., unscreened Casimir-Polder force acting on isolated atoms. In the latter case, the theory yields the Casimir-Polder force that is screened by the surrounding matter.

id: quant-ph/0511161
title: Inelastic scattering of light by a cold trapped atom: Effects of the quantum center-of-mass motion
authors: Marc Bienert, Wolfgang Merkel, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 033402 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511161
abstract: The light scattered by a cold trapped ion, which is in the stationary state of laser cooling, presents features due to the mechanical effects of atom-photon interaction. These features appear as additional peaks (sidebands) in the spectrum of resonance fluorescence. Among these sidebands the literature has discussed the Stokes and anti-Stokes components, namely the sidebands of the elastic peak. In this manuscript we show that the motion also gives rise to sidebands of the inelastic peaks. These are not always visible, but, as we show, can be measured in parameter regimes which are experimentally accessible.

id: quant-ph/0511162
title: Quantum phase transitions without thermodynamic limits
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Daniel W. Hook, Lane P. Hughston
comments: 4 Pages, further references added
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A (2007) 463, 2021--2030
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511162
abstract: A new microcanonical equilibrium state is introduced for quantum systems with finite-dimensional state spaces. Equilibrium is characterised by a uniform distribution on a level surface of the expectation value of the Hamiltonian. The distinguishing feature of the proposed equilibrium state is that the corresponding density of states is a continuous function of the energy, and hence thermodynamic functions are well defined for finite quantum systems. The density of states, however, is not in general an analytic function. It is demonstrated that generic quantum systems therefore exhibit second-order (continuous) phase transitions at finite temperatures.

id: quant-ph/0511163
title: Experimental Quantum Cryptography with Qutrits
authors: Simon Groeblacher, Thomas Jennewein, Alipasha Vaziri, Gregor Weihs, Anton Zeilinger
comments: New version includes additional references and a few minor changes to the manuscript
journal: New J. Phys. 8 (2006) 75
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511163
abstract: We produce two identical keys using, for the first time, entangled trinary quantum systems (qutrits) for quantum key distribution. The advantage of qutrits over the normally used binary quantum systems is an increased coding density and a higher security margin. The qutrits are encoded into the orbital angular momentum of photons, namely Laguerre-Gaussian modes with azimuthal index l +1, 0 and -1, respectively. The orbital angular momentum is controlled with phase holograms. In an Ekert-type protocol the violation of a three-dimensional Bell inequality verifies the security of the generated keys. A key is obtained with a qutrit error rate of approximately 10 %.

id: quant-ph/0511164
title: About what can be honestly called a Quantum Brudno's Theorem
authors: Gavriel Segre
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511164
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn.

id: quant-ph/0511165
title: Codekets
authors: Mihai Caragiu
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511165
abstract: To every binary linear [n,k]-code C we associate a quantum state ("codeket") belonging to the n-th tensor power of the 2-dimensional complex Hilbert space associated to the spin 1/2 particle. We completely characterize the expectation values of the products of x-, y- or z- spins measured in the state we define, for each of the particles in a chosen subset. This establishes an interesting relationship with the dual code. We also address the case of nonlinear codes, and derive both a bound satisfied by the expectations of spin products, as well as a nice algebraic identity.

id: quant-ph/0511166
title: On the number of representations providing noiseless subsystems
authors: William Gordon Ritter
comments: 17 pp, 4 figs, accepted for Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 062328 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511166
abstract: This paper studies the combinatoric structure of the set of all representations, up to equivalence, of a finite-dimensional semisimple Lie algebra. This has intrinsic interest as a previously unsolved problem in representation theory, and also has applications to the understanding of quantum decoherence. We prove that for Hilbert spaces of sufficiently high dimension, decoherence-free subspaces exist for almost all representations of the error algebra. For decoherence-free subsystems, we plot the function $f_d(n)$ which is the fraction of all $d$-dimensional quantum systems which preserve $n$ bits of information through DF subsystems, and note that this function fits an inverse beta distribution. The mathematical tools which arise include techniques from classical number theory.

id: quant-ph/0511167
title: Calculating state-to-state transition probabilities within TDDFT
authors: Nina Rohringer, Simone Peter, Joachim Burgd?rfer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511167
abstract: The determination of the elements of the S-matrix within the framework of time-dependent density-functional theory (TDDFT) has remained a widely open question. We explore two different methods to calculate state-to-state transition probabilities. The first method closely follows the extraction of the S-matrix from the time-dependent Hartree-Fock approximation. This method suffers from cross-channel correlations resulting in oscillating transition probabilities in the asymptotic channels. An alternative method is proposed which corresponds to an implicit functional in the time-dependent density. It gives rise to stable and accurate transition probabilities. An exactly solvable two-electron system serves as benchmark for a quantitative test.

id: quant-ph/0511168
title: Scheme for direct measurement of a general two-qubit Hamiltonian
authors: Simon J. Devitt, Jared H. Cole, Lloyd C.L. Hollenberg
comments: 4 Pages, 1 Figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 73, 052317 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511168
abstract: The construction of two-qubit gates appropriate for universal quantum computation is of enormous importance to quantum information processing. Building such gates is dependent on accurate knowledge of the interaction dynamics between two qubit systems. This letter will present a systematic method for reconstructing the full two-qubit interaction Hamiltonian through experimental measures of concurrence. This not only gives a convenient method for constructing two qubit quantum gates, but can also be used to experimentally determine various Hamiltonian parameters in physical systems. We show explicitly how this method can be employed to determine the first and second order spin-orbit corrections to the exchange coupling in quantum dots.

id: quant-ph/0511169
title: Fisher Information: Quantum Uncertainty Relation
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty
comments: 3 pages
journal: Acta Physica Slovaca vol. 54 No. 6, 487 -492 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511169
abstract: The paper deals with the reformulation of quantum uncertainty relation involving position and momentum of a particle on the basis of the Kerridge measure of inaccuracy and the Fisher information.

id: quant-ph/0511170
title: Reverse estimation theory, Complementality between RLD and SLD, and monotone distances
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: Submitted to QIT. Full is in prepareation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511170
abstract: Many problems in quantum information theory can be vied as interconversion between resources. In this talk, we apply this view point to state estimation theory, motivated by the following observations. First, a monotone metric takes value between SLD and RLD Fisher metric. This is quite analogous to the fact that entanglement measures are sandwiched by distillable entanglement and entanglement cost. Second, SLD add RLD are mutually complement via purification of density matrices, but its operational meaning was not clear. To find a link between these observations, we define reverse estimation problem, or simulation of quantum state family by probability distribution family, proving that RLD Fisher metric is a solution to local reverse estimation problem of quantum state family with 1-dim parameter. This result gives new proofs of some known facts and proves one new fact about monotone distances. We also investigate information geometry of RLD, and reverse estimation theory of a multi-dimensional parameter family.

id: quant-ph/0511171
title: Shannon Entropy: Axiomatic Characterization and Application
authors: C. G. Chakrabarti, Indranil Chakrabarty
comments: 11 pages
journal: IJMMS Vol-17,2847-2854 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511171
abstract: We have presented a new axiomatic derivation of Shannon Entropy for a discrete probability distribution on the basis of the postulates of additivity and concavity of the entropy function.We have then modified shannon entropy to take account of observational uncertainty.The modified entropy reduces, in the limiting case, to the form of Shannon differential entropy. As an application we have derived the expression for classical entropy of statistical mechanics from the quantized form of the entropy.

id: quant-ph/0511172
title: On Classical Teleportation and Classical Nonlocality
authors: Tal Mor
comments: 8 pages, Version 2 is using the term "quantum remote steering" to describe HJW idea, and "classical remote steering" is the main new result of this current paper. Version 2 also has an additional citation (to Gisin's 89 paper)
journal: Int. J. of Quantum Information 4, 161-172 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511172
abstract: An interesting protocol for classical teleportation of an unknown classical state was recently suggested by Cohen, and by Gour and Meyer. In that protocol, Bob can sample from a probability distribution P that is given to Alice, even if Alice has absolutely no knowledge about P. Pursuing a similar line of thought, we suggest here a limited form of nonlocality - "classical nonlocality". Our nonlocality is the (somewhat limited) classical analogue of the Hughston-Jozsa-Wootters (HJW) quantum nonlocality. The HJW nonlocality tells us how, for a given density matrix rho, Alice can generate any rho-ensemble on the North Star. This is done using surprisingly few resources - one shared entangled state (prepared in advance), one generalized quantum measurement, and no communication. Similarly, our classical nonlocality presents how, for a given probability distribution P, Alice can generate any P-ensemble on the North Star, using only one correlated state (prepared in advance), one (generalized) classical measurement, and no communication. It is important to clarify that while the classical teleportation and the classical non-locality protocols are probably rather insignificant from a classical information processing point of view, they significantly contribute to our understanding of what exactly is quantum in their well established and highly famous quantum analogues.

id: quant-ph/0511173
title: Tomographic reconstruction of quantum states in N spatial dimensions
authors: Anders S. Mouritzen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511173
abstract: Most quantum tomographic methods can only be used for one-dimensional problems. We show how to infer the quantum state of a non-relativistic N-dimensional harmonic oscillator system by simple inverse Radon transforms. The procedure is equally applicable to finding the joint quantum state of several distinguishable particles in different harmonic oscillator potentials. A requirement of the procedure is that the angular frequencies of the N harmonic potentials are incommensurable. We discuss what kind of information can be found if the requirement of incommensurability is not fulfilled and also under what conditions the state can be reconstructed from finite time measurements. As a further example of quantum state reconstruction in N dimensions we consider the two related cases of an N-dimensional free particle with periodic boundary conditions and a particle in an N-dimensional box, where we find a similar condition of incommensurability and finite recurrence time for the one-dimensional system.

id: quant-ph/0511174
title: Teleportation and spin squeezing utilizing multimode entanglement of light with atoms
authors: K. Hammerer, E.S. Polzik, J.I. Cirac
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052313 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511174
abstract: We present a protocol for the teleportation of the quantum state of a pulse of light onto the collective spin state of an atomic ensemble. The entangled state of light and atoms employed as a resource in this protocol is created by probing the collective atomic spin, Larmor precessing in an external magnetic field, off resonantly with a coherent pulse of light. We take here for the first time full account of the effects of Larmor precession and show that it gives rise to a qualitatively new type of multimode entangled state of light and atoms. The protocol is shown to be robust against the dominating sources of noise and can be implemented with an atomic ensemble at room temperature interacting with free space light. We also provide a scheme to perform the readout of the Larmor precessing spin state enabling the verification of successful teleportation as well as the creation of spin squeezing.

id: quant-ph/0511175
title: A Proof of the Security of Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Eli Biham, Michel Boyer, P. Oscar Boykin, Tal Mor, Vwani Roychowdhury
comments: 64 pages; Accepted for publication in J. of Cryptology; replaces quant-ph/9912053; short version appeared in STOC'2000 pages 715-724
journal: Journal of cryptology 19, 381-439 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511175
abstract: We prove the security of theoretical quantum key distribution against the most general attacks which can be performed on the channel, by an eavesdropper who has unlimited computation abilities, and the full power allowed by the rules of classical and quantum physics. A key created that way can then be used to transmit secure messages such that their security is also unaffected in the future.

id: quant-ph/0511176
title: Non-Markovian decay beyond the Fermi Golden Rule: Survival Collapse of the polarization in spin chains
authors: E. Rufeil Fiori, H. M. Pastawski
comments: corrected version
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett., 420, 35-41 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511176
abstract: The decay of a local spin excitation in an inhomogeneous spin chain is evaluated exactly: I) It starts quadratically up to a spreading time t_{S}. II) It follows an exponential behavior governed by a self-consistent Fermi Golden Rule. III) At longer times, the exponential is overrun by an inverse power law describing return processes governed by quantum diffusion. At this last transition time t_{R} a survival collapse becomes possible, bringing the polarization down by several orders of magnitude. We identify this strongly destructive interference as an antiresonance in the time domain. These general phenomena are suitable for observation through an NMR experiment.

id: quant-ph/0511177
title: Quantum Computer Condition: Stability, Classical Computation and Norms
authors: Gerald Gilbert, Michael Hamrick, F. Javier Thayer, Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511177
abstract: The Quantum Computer Condition (QCC) provides a rigorous and completely general framework for carrying out analyses of questions pertaining to fault-tolerance in quantum computers. In this paper we apply the QCC to the problem of fluctuations and systematic errors in the values of characteristic parameters in realistic systems. We show that fault-tolerant quantum computation is possible despite variations in these parameters. We also use the QCC to explicitly show that reliable classical computation can be carried out using as input the results of fault-tolerant, but imperfect, quantum computation. Finally, we consider the advantages and disadvantages of the superoperator and diamond norms in connection with application of the QCC to various quantum information-theoretic problems.

id: quant-ph/0511178
title: Universal Quantum Computation with the nu=5/2 Fractional Quantum Hall State
authors: Sergey Bravyi
comments: 17 pages, 12 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 042313 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511178
abstract: We consider topological quantum computation (TQC) with a particular class of anyons that are believed to exist in the Fractional Quantum Hall Effect state at Landau level filling fraction nu=5/2. Since the braid group representation describing statistics of these anyons is not computationally universal, one cannot directly apply the standard TQC technique. We propose to use very noisy non-topological operations such as direct short-range interaction between anyons to simulate a universal set of gates. Assuming that all TQC operations are implemented perfectly, we prove that the threshold error rate for non-topological operations is above 14%. The total number of non-topological computational elements that one needs to simulate a quantum circuit with $L$ gates scales as $L(\log L)^3$.

id: quant-ph/0511179
title: Klein-Gordon Equation with Casimir Potential for Attosecond Laser Pulse Interaction with Matter
authors: Miroslaw Kozlowski, Janina Marciak-Kozlowska
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511179
abstract: In this paper the Klein-Gordon equation (K-GE) is solved for the interaction of attosecond laser pulses with medium in which Casimir force operates. It is shown that for nanoscale structures, NEMS and MEMS, the attosecond laser pulses can be used as the tool for the investigation of the role played by Casimir force on the nanoscale. Key words: Casimir force; NEMS, MEMS, Attosecond laser pulses.

id: quant-ph/0511180
title: A Simple Discussion on Wave Functional in Free QED
authors: Daqing Liu
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511180
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to some mistakes

id: quant-ph/0511181
title: Photon Wave Mechanics
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong, Ole Keller
comments: Revised version based on Chin. Phys. Lett. 24, 418 (2007)
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 24, 418 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511181
abstract: In contrast to wave functions in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics interpreted as probability amplitudes, wave functions in relativistic quantum mechanics have generalized meanings such as charge-density amplitudes, energy-density amplitudes as well as particle-number density amplitudes, etc. Applying electromagnetic field intensities we construct a photon wave function, it corresponds to the (1,0)+(0,1) spinor representation of the electromagnetic field, and can be interpreted as the energy-density amplitude of photons outside a source. In terms of photon wave functions we develop photon wave mechanics, which provides us with a new quantum-mechanical description for photons outside a source.

id: quant-ph/0511182
title: Pseudo-Hermitian versus Hermitian position-dependent-mass Hamiltonians in a perturbative framework
authors: B. Bagchi, C. Quesne, R. Roychoudhury
comments: 13 pages, no figure, modified presentation, 6 additional references, published version
journal: J. Phys. A 39 (2006) L127-L134
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511182
abstract: We formulate a systematic algorithm for constructing a whole class of Hermitian position-dependent-mass Hamiltonians which, to lowest order of perturbation theory, allow a description in terms of PT-symmetric Hamiltonians. The method is applied to the Hermitian analogue of the PT-symmetric cubic anharmonic oscillator. A new example is provided by a Hamiltonian (approximately) equivalent to a PT-symmetric extension of the one-parameter trigonometric Poschl-Teller potential.

id: quant-ph/0511183
title: Atom-Photon Entanglement
authors: Juergen Volz, Markus Weber, Daniel Schlenk, Wenjamin Rosenfeld, Johannes Vrana, Karen Saucke, Christian Kurtsiefer, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511183
abstract: We report the observation of entanglement between a single trapped atom and a single photon at a wavelength suitable for low-loss communication over large distances, thereby achieving a crucial step towards long range quantum networks. To verify the entanglement we introduce a single atom state analysis. This technique is used for full state tomography of the atom-photon qubit-pair. The detection efficiency and the entanglement fidelity are high enough to allow in a next step the generation of entangled atoms at large distances, ready for a final loophole-free Bell experiment.

id: quant-ph/0511184
title: Semiclassical interpretation of microscopic processes
authors: Milos V. Lokajicek
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511184
abstract: There are three upper limits (2, 2.sqrt{2}, 2.sqrt{3}) of the Bell operator corresponding to different physical concepts: classical, hidden-variable and quantum-mechanical. Only the classical concept corresponding to the lowest limit has been excluded by experimental data, while the other two should be regarded as acceptable for the interpretation of EPR experiments and all microscopic processes. A corresponding hidden-variable or semiclassical model (based on the extended Hilbert space) will be proposed and shortly described.

id: quant-ph/0511185
title: Excitation and Entanglement Transfer Versus Spectral Gap
authors: Michael J. Hartmann, Moritz E. Reuter, Martin B. Plenio
comments: title changed, figures added
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 94 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511185
abstract: We consider quantum many body systems as quantum channels and study the relation between the transfer quality and the size of the spectral gap between the system's ground and excited states. In our setup two ancillas are weakly coupled to the quantum many body system at different sites, and we study the propagation of an excitation and quantum information from one ancilla to the other. We observe two different scenarios: a slow, but perfect transfer if the gap large and a fast, but un-complete transfer otherwise. We provide a numerical and analytical approach as well as a simplified physical model explaining our findings. Our results relate the potential of spin chains acting as quantum channels to the concept of quantum phase transitions and offer a different approach to the characterisation of these.

id: quant-ph/0511186
title: Berry phase, topology, and diabolicity in quantum nano-magnets
authors: Patrick Bruno
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 117208 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511186
abstract: A topological theory of the diabolical points (degeneracies) of quantum magnets is presented. Diabolical points are characterized by their diabolicity index, for which topological sum rules are derived. The paradox of the the missing diabolical points for Fe8 molecular magnets is clarified. A new method is also developed to provide a simple interpretation, in terms of destructive interferences due to the Berry phase, of the complete set of diabolical points found in biaxial systems such as Fe8.

id: quant-ph/0511187
title: Direct measurement of non-linear properties of bipartite quantum states
authors: Fabio Antonio Bovino, Giuseppe Castagnoli, Artur Ekert, Pawel Horodecki, Carolina Moura Alves, Alexander Vladimir Sergienko
comments: To appear on PRL with minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511187
abstract: Non-linear properties of quantum states, such as entropy or entanglement, quantify important physical resources and are frequently used in quantum information science. They are usually calculated from a full description of a quantum state, even though they depend only on a small number parameters that specify the state. Here we extract a non-local and a non-linear quantity, namely the Renyi entropy, from local measurements on two pairs of polarization entangled photons. We also introduce a "phase marking" technique which allows to select uncorrupted outcomes even with non-deterministic sources of entangled photons. We use our experimental data to demonstrate the violation of entropic inequalities. They are examples of a non-linear entanglement witnesses and their power exceeds all linear tests for quantum entanglement based on all possible Bell-CHSH inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0511188
title: Spatial Degrees of Freedom in Everett Quantum Mechanics
authors: Mark A. Rubin
comments: 34 pp., no figs. Introduction, discussion revised. Material tangential to main point removed
journal: Found. Phys. 36 (2006) 1115-1159
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511188
abstract: Stapp claims that, when spatial degrees of freedom are taken into account, Everett quantum mechanics is ambiguous due to a "core basis problem." To examine an aspect of this claim I generalize the ideal measurement model to include translational degrees of freedom for both the measured system and the measuring apparatus. Analysis of this generalized model using the Everett interpretation in the Heisenberg picture shows that it makes unambiguous predictions for the possible results of measurements and their respective probabilities. The presence of translational degrees of freedom for the measuring apparatus affects the probabilities of measurement outcomes in the same way that a mixed state for the measured system would. Examination of a measurement scenario involving several observers illustrates the consistency of the model with perceived spatial localization of the measuring apparatus.

id: quant-ph/0511189
title: Projection Measurement of the Maximally Entangled N-Photon State for a Demonstration of N-Photon de Broglie Wavelength
authors: F. W. Sun, Z. Y. Ou, G. C. Guo
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, new title, some content change, replaced Fig.1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511189
abstract: We construct a projection measurement process for the maximally entangled N-photon state (the NOON-state) with only linear optical elements and photodetectors. This measurement process will give null result for any N-photon state that is orthogonal to the NOON state. We examine the projection process in more detail for N=4 by applying it to a four-photon state from type-II parametric down-conversion. This demonstrates an orthogonal projection measurement with a null result. This null result corresponds to a dip in a generalized Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer for four photons. We find that the depth of the dip in this arrangement can be used to distinguish a genuine entangled four-photon state from two separate pairs of photons. We next apply the NOON state projection measurement to a four-photon superposition state from two perpendicularly oriented type-I parametric down-conversion processes. A successful NOON state projection is demonstrated with the appearance of the four-photon de Broglie wavelength in the interference fringe pattern.

id: quant-ph/0511190
title: Achieving Holevo Bound in Quantum Measurement
authors: Nima Lashkari
comments: 5 pages, Latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511190
abstract: We show that information gain in a qubit measurement is optimal under a Von Neumann measurement. For an initially mixed apparatus kept in touch with a qubit, the conditions for achieving the equality sign of Holevo bound on the information accessible to apparatus are derived. These constraints can be identified as the conditions for the optimization of information gain in a qubit measurement. At the end, we will generalize the idea to qudit measurements using a phase-shift gate.

id: quant-ph/0511191
title: Dirac sextic oscillator in the constant magnetic field
authors: Ramazan Koc, Mehmet Koca
comments: 
journal: Tr. J. Phys. 29 (2005) 201-205
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511191
abstract: We introduce a Dirac equation which reproduces the usual radial sextic oscillator potential in the non-relativistic limit. We determine its energy spectrum in the presence of the magnetic field. It is shown that the equation is solved in the context of quasi-exactly-solvable problems. The equation possesses hidden $sl_{2}$-algebra and the destroyed symmetry of the equation can be recovered for a specific values of the magnetic field which leads to exact determination of the eigenvalues.

id: quant-ph/0511192
title: Geometric phase for SU(N) through fiber bundles and unitary integration
authors: D. B. Uskov, A. R. P. Rau
comments: 4 pages. Following referee reports in April 2006, stylistic changes made throughout and a specific application added at the end
journal: Phys.Rev.A74:030304,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511192
abstract: Geometric phases are important in quantum physics and now central to fault tolerant quantum computation. For spin-1/2 and SU(2), the Bloch sphere $S^2$, together with a U(1) phase, provides a complete SU(2) description. We generalize to $N$-level systems and SU($N$) in terms of a $2(N-1)$-dimensional base space and reduction to a ($N$-1)-level problem, paralleling closely the two-dimensional case. This iteratively solves the time evolution of an $N$-level system and gives ($N$-1) geometric phases explicitly. A complete analytical construction of a S^4 Bloch-like sphere for two qubits is given for the Spin(5) or SO(5) subgroup of SU(4).

id: quant-ph/0511193
title: Corrections to the Nonrelativistic Ground Energy of a Helium Atom
authors: Yi-Shi Duan, Yu-Xiao Liu, Li-Jie Zhang
comments: 8 pages, no figures, 2 tables
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 21 (2004) 1714-1716
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511193
abstract: Considering the nuclear motion, the authors give out the nonrelativistic ground energy of a helium atom by using a simple but effective variational wave function with a flexible parameter $k$. Based on this result, the relativistic and radiative corrections to the nonrelativistic Hamiltonian are discussed. The high precision value of the helium ground energy is evaluated to be -2.90338 a.u., and the relative error is 0.00034%.

id: quant-ph/0511194
title: Exactly solvable models with PT-symmetry and with an asymmetric coupling of channels
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 22 p., submitted and to be presented, this week, to PHHQP IV Int. Workshop in Stellenbosch (this http URL)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 4047-4061
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511194
abstract: Bound states generated by K coupled PT-symmetric square wells are studied in a series of models where the Hamiltonians are assumed $R-$pseudo-Hermitian and $R^2-$symmetric. Specific rotation-like generalized parities $R$ are considered such that $R^N=I$ at some integers N. We show that and how our assumptions make the models exactly solvable and quasi-Hermitian. This means that they possess the real spectra as well as the standard probabilistic interpretation.

id: quant-ph/0511195
title: Three level atom optics in dipole traps and waveguides
authors: K. Eckert, J. Mompart, R. Corbalan, M. Lewenstein, G. Birkl
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures; submitted to special issue 'Quantum Control of Light and Matter' of Optics Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511195
abstract: An analogy is explored between a setup of three atomic traps coupled via tunneling and an internal atomic three-level system interacting with two laser fields. Within this scenario we describe a STIRAP like process which allows to move an atom between the ground states of two trapping potentials and analyze its robustness. This analogy is extended to other robust and coherent transport schemes and to systems of more than a single atom. Finally it is applied to manipulate external degrees of freedom of atomic wave packets propagating in waveguides.

id: quant-ph/0511196
title: Quantized Detector Networks: a Quantum Informational Approach to the Description and Interpretation of Quantum Physics
authors: George Jaroszkiewicz
comments: 20 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511196
abstract: We discuss the QDN (quantized detector network) approach to the formulation and interpretation of quantum mechanics. This approach gives us a system-free approach to quantum physics. By this, we mean having a proper emphasis on those aspects of physics which are observable and an avoidance of metaphysical concepts, which by definition are incapable of verification and should play no role in science on that account. By focusing on only what experimentalists deal with, i.e., quantum information, we avoid the ambiguities and confusion generated by the undue objectification of what are complex quantum processes.

id: quant-ph/0511197
title: Reduced Dirac Equation and Lamb Shift as an Off-mass-shell effect in Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Guang-jiong Ni, Jianjun Xu, Senyue Lou
comments: 48 pages,3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511197
abstract: Based on the precision experimental data of energy-level differences in hydrogenlike atoms, especially the 1S-2S transition of hydrogen and deuterium, the necessity of establishing a reduced Dirac equation (RDE) with reduced mass as the substitution of original electron mass is stressed. The theoretical basis of RDE lies on two symmetries, the invariance under the space-time inversion and that under the pure space inversion. Based on RDE and within the framework of quantum electrodynamics in covariant form, the Lamb shift can be evaluated (at one-loop level) as the radiative correction on a bound electron staying in an off-mass-shell state--a new approach eliminating the infrared divergence. Hence the whole calculation, though with limited accuracy, is simplified, getting rid of all divergences and free of ambiguity.

id: quant-ph/0511198
title: Towards a fullerene-based quantum computer
authors: Simon C Benjamin, Arzhang Ardavan, G Andrew D Briggs, David A Britz, Daniel Gunlycke, John Jefferson, Mark A G Jones, David F Leigh, Brendon W Lovett, Andrei N Khlobystov, S A Lyon, John J L Morton, Kyriakos Porfyrakis, Mark R Sambrook, Alexei M Tyryshkin
comments: 20 pages, 13 figs, single column format
journal: Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter, Volume 18, Issue 21, pp. S867-S883 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511198
abstract: Molecular structures appear to be natural candidates for a quantum technology: individual atoms can support quantum superpositions for long periods, and such atoms can in principle be embedded in a permanent molecular scaffolding to form an array. This would be true nanotechnology, with dimensions of order of a nanometre. However, the challenges of realising such a vision are immense. One must identify a suitable elementary unit and demonstrate its merits for qubit storage and manipulation, including input / output. These units must then be formed into large arrays corresponding to an functional quantum architecture, including a mechanism for gate operations. Here we report our efforts, both experimental and theoretical, to create such a technology based on endohedral fullerenes or 'buckyballs'. We describe our successes with respect to these criteria, along with the obstacles we are currently facing and the questions that remain to be addressed.

id: quant-ph/0511199
title: The Quantum Governor: Automatic quantum control and reduction of the influence of noise without measuring
authors: S. Kallush, R. Kosloff
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511199
abstract: The problem of automatically protecting a quantum system against noise in a closed circuit is analyzed. A general scheme is developed built from two steps. At first, a distillation step is induced in which undesired components are removed to another degree of freedom of the system. Later a recovering step is employed which the system gains back its initial density. An Optimal-Control method is used to generate the distilling operator. The scheme is demonstrated by a simulation of a two level byte influenced by white noise. Undesired deviations from the target were shown to be reduced by at least two orders of magnitude on average. The relations between the quantum version of the classical Watt's Governor and the field of quantum information are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0511200
title: A New Quantum Lower Bound Method, with Applications to Direct Product Theorems and Time-Space Tradeoffs
authors: Andris Ambainis, Robert Spalek, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 16 pages LaTeX. Version 2: title changed, proofs significantly cleaned up and made selfcontained. This version to appear in the proceedings of the STOC 06 conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511200
abstract: We give a new version of the adversary method for proving lower bounds on quantum query algorithms. The new method is based on analyzing the eigenspace structure of the problem at hand. We use it to prove a new and optimal strong direct product theorem for 2-sided error quantum algorithms computing k independent instances of a symmetric Boolean function: if the algorithm uses significantly less than k times the number of queries needed for one instance of the function, then its success probability is exponentially small in k. We also use the polynomial method to prove a direct product theorem for 1-sided error algorithms for k threshold functions with a stronger bound on the success probability. Finally, we present a quantum algorithm for evaluating solutions to systems of linear inequalities, and use our direct product theorems to show that the time-space tradeoff of this algorithm is close to optimal.

id: quant-ph/0511201
title: Electromagnetically Induced Transparency using six level atoms doped in the crystalline medium
authors: Hassan Kaatuzian, Sina Mehrabadi, Ahmad Ajdarzadeh Oskouei
comments: 4 pages; 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511201
abstract: Using the density matrix theory of interaction between light and matter, and relevant parameters of the relaxation rates for a six-level model, we have shown theoretically the possibility of realizing Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) and Slow Light effects in Pr(+3 ion) doped YSO crystal. In addition, we have presented a simplified method to analyse EIT effect in such a six level atomic system. Finally, we have demonstrated results of numerical calculation and have compared them with experimental measurements reported recently.

id: quant-ph/0511202
title: Verifying continuous variable entanglement of intense light pulses
authors: O. Gl?ckl, U. L. Andersen, G. Leuchs
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 73, 012306 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511202
abstract: Three different methods have been discussed to verify continuous variable entanglement of intense light beams. We demonstrate all three methods using the same set--up to facilitate the comparison. The non--linearity used to generate entanglement is the Kerr--effect in optical fibres. Due to the brightness of the entangled pulses, standard homodyne detection is not an appropriate tool for the verification. However, we show that by using large asymmetric interferometers on each beam individually, two non-commuting variables can be accessed and the presence of entanglement verified via joint measurements on the two beams. Alternatively, we witness entanglement by combining the two beams on a beam splitter that yields certain linear combinations of quadrature amplitudes which suffice to prove the presence of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0511203
title: Joint estimation of real squeezing and displacement
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 14 pages, 3 eps figures; a section has been added with new results in terms of Heisenberg uncertainty relations for the joint measurement
journal: J. Phys. A 39, 2127 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511203
abstract: We study the problem of joint estimation of real squeezing and amplitude of the radiation field, deriving the measurement that maximizes the probability density of detecting the true value of the unknown parameters. More generally, we provide a solution for the problem of estimating the unknown unitary action of a nonunimodular group in the maximum likelihood approach. Remarkably, in this case the optimal measurements do not coincide with the so called square-root measurements. In the case of squeezing and displacement we analyze in detail the sensitivity of estimation for coherent states and displaced squeezed states, deriving the asymptotic relation between the uncertainties in the joint estimation and the corresponding uncertainties in the optimal separate measurements of squeezing and displacement. A two-mode setup is also analyzed, showing how entanglement between optical modes can be used to approximate perfect estimation.

id: quant-ph/0511204
title: Entanglement of a qubit coupled to a resonator in the adiabatic regime
authors: G. Liberti, R. L. Zaffino, F. Piperno, F. Plastina
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032346 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511204
abstract: We discuss the ground state entanglement of a bi-partite system, composed by a qubit strongly interacting with an oscillator mode, as a function of the coupling strenght, the transition frequency and the level asymmetry of the qubit. This is done in the adiabatic regime in which the time evolution of the qubit is much faster than the oscillator one. Within the adiabatic approximation, we obtain a complete characterization of the ground state properties of the system and of its entanglement content.

id: quant-ph/0511205
title: Dispersive properties and giant Kerr non-linearities in Dipole Induced Transparency
authors: Edo Waks, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511205
abstract: We calculate the dispersive properties of the reflected field from a cavity coupled to a single dipole. We show that when a field is resonant with the dipole it experiences a 90 degree phase shift relative to reflection from a bare cavity if the Purcell factor exceeds the bare cavity reflectivity. We then show that optically Stark shifting the dipole with a second field can be used to achieve giant Kerr non-linearites. It is shown that currently achievable cavity lifetimes and cavity quality factors can allow a single emitter in the cavity to impose a nonlinear $\pi$ phase shift at the single photon level.

id: quant-ph/0511206
title: Realization of an n-qubit controlled-U gate with superconducting quantum interference devices or atoms in cavity QED
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Siyuan Han
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures, 1 table, RevTeX, Accepted by Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511206
abstract: We propose an approach to realize an $n$-qubit controlled-$U$ gate with superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) in cavity QED. In this approach, the two lowest levels of a SQUID represent the two logical states of a qubit while a higher-energy intermediate level serves the gate manipulation. Our method operates essentially by creating a single photon through one of the control SQUIDs and then performing an arbitrary unitrary transformation on the target SQUID with the assistance of the cavity photon. In addition, we show that the method can be applied to implement an $n $% -qubit controlled-$U$ gate with atomic qubits in cavity QED.

id: quant-ph/0511207
title: Cloning and Optimal Gaussian individual attacks for continuous-variable quantum key distribution using coherent states and reverse reconciliation
authors: Ryo Namiki, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: RevTeX, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032302 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511207
abstract: We investigate the security of continuous-variable (CV) quantum key distribution (QKD) using coherent states and reverse reconciliation against Gaussian individual attacks based on an optimal Gaussian $1 \to 2$ cloning machine. We provide an implementation of the optimal Gaussian individual attack. we also find a Bell-measurement attack which works without delayed choice of measurements and has better performance than the cloning attack.

id: quant-ph/0511208
title: Complex chaos in the conditional dynamics of qubits
authors: T. Kiss, I. Jex, G. Alber, S. Vymetal
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 040301(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511208
abstract: We analyze the consequences of iterative measurement-induced nonlinearity on the dynamical behavior of qubits. We present a one-qubit scheme where the equation governing the time evolution is a complex-valued nonlinear map with one complex parameter. In contrast to the usual notion of quantum chaos, exponential sensitivity to the initial state occurs here. We calculate analytically the Lyapunov exponent based on the overlap of quantum states, and find that it is positive. We present a few illustrative examples of the emerging dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0511209
title: A perturbative treatment for the energy levels of neutral atoms
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 18 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A21, 6465(2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511209
abstract: Energy levels of neutral atoms have been re-examined by applying an alternative perturbative scheme in solving the Schrodinger equation for the Yukawa potential model with a modified screening parameter. The predicted shell binding energies are found to be quite accurate over the entire range of the atomic number $Z$ up to 84 and compare very well with those obtained within the framework of hyper-virial-Pade scheme and the method of shifted large-N expansion. It is observed that the new perturbative method may also be applied to the other areas of atomic physics.

id: quant-ph/0511210
title: Bragg solitons in an electromagnetically induced transparency medium
authors: Wei Jiang, Qun-feng Chen, Yong-sheng Zhang, G. -C. Guo
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511210
abstract: In this Letter we discuss the possibility of producing Bragg solitons in an electromagnetically induced transparency medium. We show that this coherent medium can be engineered to be a Bragg grating with a large Kerr nonlinearity through proper arrangements of light fields. Unlike in previous studies, the parameters of the medium can be easily controlled through adjusting the intensities and detunings of lasers. Thus this scheme may provide an opportunity to study the dynamics of Bragg solitons. And doing experiments with low power lights is possible.

id: quant-ph/0511211
title: A Generalized Deletion Machine
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, Satyabrata Adhikari
comments: 5 pages,To appear in Erato Conference Proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511211
abstract: In this work we prescribe a more generalized quantum-deleting machine (input state dependent). The fidelity of deletion is dependent on some machine parameters such that on alteration of machine parameters we get back to standard deleting machines. We also carried out a various comparative study of various kinds of quantum deleting machines. We also plotted graphs, making a comparative study of fidelity of deletion of the deletion machines, obtained as particular cases on changing the machine parameters of our machine.

id: quant-ph/0511212
title: Transient Phenomena in Quantum Bound States Subjected to a Sudden Perturbation
authors: Marcos Moshinsky, Emerson Sadurn
comments: Published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 1 (2005), 003, 9 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511212
abstract: Transient phenomena in quantum mechanics have been of interest to one of the authors (MM) since long ago and, in this paper, we focus on the problem of a potential V_- which for negative times gives rise to bound states and is suddenly changed at t=0 to a potential V_+ which includes V_- plus a perturbed term. An example will be the deuteron (where the proton and neutron are assumed to interact through an oscillator potential) submitted to a sudden electrostatic field. The analysis for t>0 can be carried out with the help of appropriate Feynmann propagators and we arrive at the result that the separation between the nucleons has an amplitude that depends on the intensity of the electrostatic field, but its period continues to be related with the inverse of the frequency of the oscillator proposed for the interaction. A general approximate procedure for arbitrary problems of this type is also presented at the end.

id: quant-ph/0511213
title: Effective cross-Kerr nonlinearity and robust phase gates with trapped ions
authors: F. L. Semiao, A. Vidiella-Barranco
comments: Included discussion of faster gates (Lamb-Dicke regime), Corrected typos, and Added references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 064305 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511213
abstract: We derive an effective Hamiltonian that describes a cross-Kerr type interaction in a system involving a two-level trapped ion coupled to the quantized field inside a cavity. We assume a large detuning between the ion and field (dispersive limit) and this results in an interaction Hamiltonian involving the product of the (bosonic) ionic vibrational motion and field number operators. We also demonstrate the feasibility of operation of a phase gate based on our hamiltonian. The gate is insensitive to spontaneous emission, an important feature for the practical implementation of quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0511214
title: Time-reversal and super-resolving phase measurements
authors: K. J. Resch, K. L. Pregnell, R. Prevedel, A. Gilchrist, G. J. Pryde, J. L. O'Brien, A. G. White
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.98:223601,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511214
abstract: We demonstrate phase super-resolution in the absence of entangled states. The key insight is to use the inherent time-reversal symmetry of quantum mechanics: our theory shows that it is possible to \emph{measure}, as opposed to prepare, entangled states. Our approach is robust, requiring only photons that exhibit classical interference: we experimentally demonstrate high-visibility phase super-resolution with three, four, and six photons using a standard laser and photon counters. Our six-photon experiment demonstrates the best phase super-resolution yet reported with high visibility and resolution.

id: quant-ph/0511215
title: Classical predictability and coarse-grained evolution of the quantum baker's map
authors: Artur Scherer, Andrei N. Soklakov, Ruediger Schack
comments: 28 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. D 73, 125009 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511215
abstract: We investigate how classical predictability of the coarse-grained evolution of the quantum baker's map depends on the character of the coarse-graining. Our analysis extends earlier work by Brun and Hartle [Phys. Rev. D 60, 123503 (1999)] to the case of a chaotic map. To quantify predictability, we compare the rate of entropy increase for a family of coarse-grainings in the decoherent histories formalism. We find that the rate of entropy increase is dominated by the number of scales characterising the coarse-graining.

id: quant-ph/0511216
title: Bayesian updating of a probability distribution encoded on a quantum register
authors: Andrei N. Soklakov, Ruediger Schack
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511216
abstract: We investigate the problem of Bayesian updating of a probability distribution encoded in the quantum state of n qubits. The updating procedure takes the form of a quantum algorithm that prepares the quantum register in the state representing the posterior distribution. Depending on how the prior distribution is given, we describe two implementations, one probabilistic and one deterministic, of such an algorithm in the standard model of a quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0511217
title: The entangling and disentangling power of unitary transformations are unequal
authors: Noah Linden, John A. Smolin, Andreas Winter
comments: 6 pages, 1 airfoil
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511217
abstract: We consider two capacity quantities associated with bipartite unitary gates: the entangling and the disentangling power. For two-qubit unitaries these two capacities are always the same. Here we prove that these capacities are different in general. We do so by constructing an explicit example of a qubit-qutrit unitary whose entangling power is maximal (2 ebits), but whose disentangling power is strictly less. A corollary is that there can be no unique ordering for unitary gates in terms of their ability to perform non-local tasks. Finally we show that in large dimensions, almost all bipartite unitaries have entangling and disentangling capacities close to the maximal possible (and thus in high dimensions the difference in these capacities is small for almost all unitaries).

id: quant-ph/0511218
title: Provable entanglement and information cost for qubit-based quantum key-distribution protocols
authors: G.M. Nikolopoulos, A. Khalique, G. Alber
comments: Published online in Eur. Phys. J. D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 37, 441 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511218
abstract: Provable entanglement has been shown to be a necessary precondition for unconditionally secure key generation in the context of quantum cryptographic protocols. We estimate the maximal threshold disturbance up to which the two legitimate users can prove the presence of quantum correlations in their data, in the context of the four- and six-state quantum key-distribution protocols, under the assumption of coherent attacks. Moreover, we investigate the conditions under which an eavesdropper can saturate these bounds, by means of incoherent and two-qubit coherent attacks. A direct connection between entanglement distillation and classical advantage distillation is also presented.

id: quant-ph/0511219
title: Time reversal and exchange symmetries of unitary gate capacities
authors: Aram W. Harrow, Peter W. Shor
comments: 17 pages. v2: improved bounds, clarified proofs. v3: published version, added section explaining notation
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th., vol. 56, no. 1, pp. 462-475, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511219
abstract: Unitary gates are an interesting resource for quantum communication in part because they are always invertible and are intrinsically bidirectional. This paper explores these two symmetries: time-reversal and exchange of Alice and Bob. We will present examples of unitary gates that exhibit dramatic separations between forward and backward capacities (even when the back communication is assisted by free entanglement) and between entanglement-assisted and unassisted capacities, among many others. Along the way, we will give a general time-reversal rule for relating the capacities of a unitary gate and its inverse that will explain why previous attempts at finding asymmetric capacities failed. Finally, we will see how the ability to erase quantum information and destroy entanglement can be a valuable resource for quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0511220
title: Transfer of single photon polarization states by two-channel continuous variable teleportation
authors: Toshiki Ide, Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, The 13th Quantum Information Technology Symposium (QIT13)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511220
abstract: Superpositions of two orthogonal single-photon polarization states are commonly used as optical qubits. If such qubits are sent by continuous variable quantum teleportation, the modifications of the qubit states due to imperfect entanglement cause an increase in the average photon number of the output state. This effect can be interpreted as an accidental quantum cloning of the single photon input. We analyze the output statistics of the single photon teleportation and derive the transfer and cloning fidelities from the equations of the polarization qubit.

id: quant-ph/0511221
title: Optimal error tracking via quantum coding and continuous syndrome measurement
authors: Ramon van Handel, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511221
abstract: We revisit a scenario of continuous quantum error detection proposed by Ahn, Doherty and Landahl [Phys. Rev. A 65, 042301 (2002)] and construct optimal filters for tracking accumulative errors. These filters turn out to be of a canonical form from hybrid control theory; we numerically assess their performance for the bit-flip and five-qubit codes. We show that a tight upper bound on the stochastic decay of encoded fidelity can be computed from the measurement records. Our results provide an informative case study in decoherence suppression with finite-strength measurement.

id: quant-ph/0511222
title: Proposal of an experimentally accessible measure of many-fermion entanglement
authors: M. Kindermann
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 240403 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511222
abstract: We propose a measure of interaction-induced ground state entanglement in many-fermion systems that is experimentally accessible. It is formulated in terms of cross-correlations of currents through resonant fermion levels weakly coupled to the probed system. The proposed entanglement measure vanishes in the absence of many-body interactions and it is related to measures of occupation number entanglement. We evaluate it for two examples of interacting electronic nanostructures.

id: quant-ph/0511223
title: Efficient symmetric multiparty quantum state sharing of an arbitrary m-qubit state
authors: Xi-Han Li, Ping Zhou, Chun-Yan Li, Hong-Yu Zhou, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 6 pages, no figures; It simplifies the process for sharing an arbitrary m-qubit state in Phys. Rev. A 72, 022338 (2005) (quant-ph/0501129)
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39 (2006) 1975-1983
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511223
abstract: We present a scheme for symmetric multiparty quantum state sharing of an arbitrary $m$-qubit state with $m$ Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states following some ideas from the controlled teleportation [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{72}, 02338 (2005)]. The sender Alice performs $m$ Bell-state measurements on her $2m$ particles and the controllers need only to take some single-photon product measurements on their photons independently, not Bell-state measurements, which makes this scheme more convenient than the latter. Also it does not require the parties to perform a controlled-NOT gate on the photons for reconstructing the unknown $m$-qubit state and it is an optimal one as its efficiency for qubits approaches the maximal value.

id: quant-ph/0511224
title: Quantum signature scheme with single photons
authors: Jian Wang, Quan Zhang, Chao-jing Tang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511224
abstract: Quantum digital signature combines quantum theory with classical digital signature. The main goal of this field is to take advantage of quantum effects to provide unconditionally secure signature. We present a quantum signature scheme with message recovery without using entangle effect. The most important property of the proposed scheme is that it is not necessary for the scheme to use Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states. The present scheme utilizes single photons to achieve the aim of signature and verification. The security of the scheme relies on the quantum one-time pad and quantum key distribution. The efficiency analysis shows that the proposed scheme is an efficient scheme.

id: quant-ph/0511225
title: The foundations of statistical mechanics from entanglement: Individual states vs. averages
authors: Sandu Popescu, Anthony J. Short, Andreas Winter
comments: 12 pages, v3 title changed, v2 minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511225
abstract: We consider an alternative approach to the foundations of statistical mechanics, in which subjective randomness, ensemble-averaging or time-averaging are not required. Instead, the universe (i.e. the system together with a sufficiently large environment) is in a quantum pure state subject to a global constraint, and thermalisation results from entanglement between system and environment. We formulate and prove a "General Canonical Principle", which states that the system will be thermalised for almost all pure states of the universe, and provide rigorous quantitative bounds using Levy's Lemma.

id: quant-ph/0511226
title: Light induced effective magnetic fields for ultra-cold atoms in planar geometries
authors: G. Juzeliunas, J. Ruseckas, P. Ohberg, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73 025602 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511226
abstract: We propose a scheme to create an effective magnetic field for ultra-cold atoms in a planar geometry. The set-up allows the experimental study of classical and quantum Hall effects in close analogy to solid-state systems including the possibility of finite currents. The present scheme is an extention of the proposal in Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 033602 (2004) where the effective magnetic field is now induced for three-level Lambda-type atoms by two counterpropagating laser beams with shifted spatial profiles. Under conditions of electromagentically induced transparency the atom-light interaction has a space dependent dark state, and the adiabatic center of mass motion of atoms in this state experiences effective vector and scalar potentials. The associated magnetic field is oriented perpendicular to the propagation direction of the laser beams. The field strength achievable is one flux quantum over an area given by the transverse beam separation and the laser wavelength. For a sufficiently dilute gas the field is strong enough to reach the lowest Landau level regime.

id: quant-ph/0511227
title: Semiquantum versus semiclassical mechanics for simple nonlinear systems
authors: A.J. Bracken, J.G. Wood
comments: Latex2e file. 27 pages, 7 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511227
abstract: Quantum mechanics has been formulated in phase space, with the Wigner function as the representative of the quantum density operator, and classical mechanics has been formulated in Hilbert space, with the Groenewold operator as the representative of the classical Liouville density function. Semiclassical approximations to the quantum evolution of the Wigner function have been defined, enabling the quantum evolution to be approached from a classical starting point. Now analogous semiquantum approximations to the classical evolution of the Groenewold operator are defined, enabling the classical evolution to be approached from a quantum starting point. Simple nonlinear systems with one degree of freedom are considered, whose Hamiltonians are polynomials in the Hamiltonian of the simple harmonic oscillator. The behaviour of expectation values of simple observables and of eigenvalues of the Groenewold operator, are calculated numerically and compared for the various semiclassical and semiquantum approximations.

id: quant-ph/0511228
title: Entanglement-Assisted Capacity of Quantum Multiple-Access Channels
authors: Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Igor Devetak, Andreas Winter
comments: Published version. 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: IEEE Transaction on Information Theory, vol. 54, Issue 7, pp. 3078-3090, Jul. 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511228
abstract: We find a regularized formula for the entanglement-assisted (EA) capacity region for quantum multiple access channels (QMAC). We illustrate the capacity region calculation with the example of the collective phase-flip channel which admits a single-letter characterization. On the way, we provide a first-principles proof of the EA coding theorem based on a packing argument. We observe that the Holevo-Schumacher-Westmoreland theorem may be obtained from a modification of our EA protocol. We remark on the existence of a family hierarchy of protocols for multiparty scenarios with a single receiver, in analogy to the two-party case. In this way, we relate several previous results regarding QMACs.

id: quant-ph/0511229
title: Quantum-Classical Dynamics of Wave Fields
authors: Alessandro Sergi
comments: Manuscript accepted by The Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511229
abstract: An approach to the quantum-classical mechanics of phase space dependent operators, which has been proposed recently, is remodeled as a formalism for wave fields. Such wave fields obey a system of coupled non-linear equations that can be written by means of a suitable non-Hamiltonian bracket. As an example, the theory is applied to the relaxation dynamics of the spin-boson model. In the adiabatic limit, a good agreement with calculations performed by the operator approach is obtained. Moreover, the theory proposed in this paper can take nonadiabatic effects into account without resorting to surface-hopping approximations. Hence, the results obtained follow qualitatively those of previous surface-hopping calculations and increase by a factor of (at least) two the time length over which nonadiabatic dynamics can be propagated with small statistical errors. Moreover, it is worth to note that the dynamics of quantum-classical wave fields here proposed is a straightforward non-Hamiltonian generalization of the formalism for non-linear quantum mechanics that Weinberg introduced recently.

id: quant-ph/0511230
title: Analytical regularisation for confined quantum fields between parallel surfaces
authors: F C Santos, A C Tort, E Elizalde
comments: Submitted for publication in the procceedings of the QFTEXT'05, Barcelona 2005
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 6725-6732
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511230
abstract: We review a simple technique for evaluating the vacuum energy stemming from non-trivial boundary conditions and review results for the Casimir energy of a massive fermionic field confined in a d+1-dimensional slab-bag and the effect of a uniform magnetic field on the vacuum energy of confined massive bosonic and fermionic fields. New results concerning the Casimir energy and the evaluation of the rate of creation of quanta in kappa-deformed theories are presented.

id: quant-ph/0511231
title: The Concept of Mass, Quarks, and Phase Space
authors: P. Zenczykowski
comments: 26 pages. to be published in Concepts of Physics, Vol.3, 2006 (this http URL)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511231
abstract: We point out the conceptual problems related to the application of the standard notion of mass to quarks and recall the arguments that there should be a close connection between the properties of elementary particles and the arena used for the description of classical macroscopic processes. Motivated by the above and the wish to introduce more symmetry between the coordinates of position and momentum we concentrate on the classical nonrelativistic phase space with ${\bf {p}}^2+{\bf {x}}^2$ as an invariant. A symmetry-based argument on how to generalize the way in which mass enters into our description of Nature is presented and placed into the context of the phase-space scheme discussed. It is conjectured that the proposed non-standard way of relating "mass" to the variables of the classical phase space is actually used in Nature, and that it manifests itself through the existence of quarks. Some properties of this proposal, including unobservability of "free quarks" and the emergence of mesons, are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0511232
title: Analysis of a single-atom dipole trap
authors: Markus Weber, Juergen Volz, Karen Saucke, Christian Kurtsiefer, Harald Weinfurter
comments: Version 2; formula in equ. 3 corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 043406 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511232
abstract: We describe a simple experimental technique which allows to store a single Rubidium 87 atom in an optical dipole trap. Due to light-induced two-body collisions during the loading stage of the trap the maximum number of captured atoms is locked to one. This collisional blockade effect is confirmed by the observation of photon anti-bunching in the detected fluorescence light. The spectral properties of single photons emitted by the atom were studied with a narrow-band scanning cavity. We find that the atomic fluorescence spectrum is dominated by the spectral width of the exciting laser light field. In addition we observe a spectral broadening of the atomic fluorescence light due to the Doppler effect. This allows us to determine the mean kinetic energy of the trapped atom corresponding to a temperature of 105 micro Kelvin. This simple single-atom trap is the key element for the generation of atom-photon entanglement required for future applications in quantum communication and a first loophole-free test of Bell's inequality.

id: quant-ph/0511233
title: Cross-Kerr-based information transfer processes
authors: Jinhyoung Lee, M. Paternostro, C. Ogden, Y. W. Cheong, S. Bose, M. S. Kim
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 23 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511233
abstract: The realization of nonclassical states is an important task for many applications of quantum information processing. Usually, properly tailored interactions, different from goal to goal, are considered in order to accomplish specific tasks within the general framework of quantum state engineering. In this paper we remark on the flexibility of a cross-Kerr nonlinear coupling in hybrid systems as an important ingredient in the engineering of nonclassical states. The general scenario we consider is the implementation of high cross-Kerr nonlinearity in cavity-quantum electrodynamics. In this context, we discuss the possibility of performing entanglement transfer and swapping between a qubit and a continuous-variable state. The recently introduced concept of entanglement reciprocation is also considered and shown to be possible with our scheme. We reinterpret some of our results in terms of applications of a generalized Ising interaction to systems of different nature.

id: quant-ph/0511234
title: Periodic and discrete Zak bases
authors: Berthold-Georg Englert, Kean Loon Lee, Ady Mann, Michael Revzen
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures; displayed abstract is shortened, see the paper for the complete abstract
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General 39 (2006) 1669-1682
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511234
abstract: Weyl's displacement operators for position and momentum commute if the product of the elementary displacements equals Planck's constant. Then, their common eigenstates constitute the Zak basis, each state specified by two phase parameters. Upon enforcing a periodic dependence on the phases, one gets a one-to-one mapping of the Hilbert space on the line onto the Hilbert space on the torus. The Fourier coefficients of the periodic Zak bases make up the discrete Zak bases. The two bases are mutually unbiased. We study these bases in detail, including a brief discussion of their relation to Aharonov's modular operators, and mention how they can be used to associate with the single degree of freedom of the line a pair of genuine qubits.

id: quant-ph/0511235
title: The electrodynamic 2-body problem and the origin of quantum mechanics
authors: C. K. Raju
comments: 30 pages, 8 figures
journal: Foundations of Physics 34 (2004) 937--62
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511235
abstract: We numerically solve the functional differential equations (FDE's) of 2-particle electrodynamics, using the full electrodynamic force obtained from the retarded Lienard-Wiechert potentials and the Lorentz force law. In contrast, the usual formulation uses only the Coulomb force (scalar potential), reducing the electrodynamic 2-body problem to a system of ordinary differential equations (ODE's). The ODE formulation is mathematically suspect since FDE's and ODE's are known to be incompatible; however, the Coulomb approximation to the full electrodynamic force has been believed to be adequate for physics. We can now test this long-standing belief by comparing the FDE solution with the ODE solution, in the historically interesting case of the classical hydrogen atom. The solutions differ. A key qualitative difference is that the full force involves a `delay' torque. Our existing code is inadequate to calculate the detailed interaction of the delay torque with radiative damping. However, a symbolic calculation provides conditions under which the delay torque approximately balances (3rd order) radiative damping. Thus, further investigations are required, and it was prematurely concluded that radiative damping makes the classical hydrogen atom unstable. Solutions of FDE's naturally exhibit an_infinite_ spectrum of _discrete_ frequencies. The conclusion is that (a) the Coulomb force is_not_ a valid approximation to the full electrodynamic force, so that (b) the n-body interaction needs to be reformulated in various current contexts such as molecular dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0511236
title: Non-Markovian Quantum State Diffusion: Application to Quantum Jumps in $^{24}$Mg$^+$
authors: Joshua Wilkie, Ray Ng
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511236
abstract: Non-Markovian quantum state diffusion (NMQSD) is an exact method for calculating the reduced density matrix of an arbitrary subsystem interacting linearly with the radiation field. Applications of the theory have however been few due to the intractable nature of the variational-differential NMQSD evolution equation. Recently, we argued that the variational-differential equation can be rewritten as an integrodifferential equation which can be readily solved numerically. This manuscript provides an explicit derivation of the modified equations. Applications to intermittent fluorescence in $^{24}$Mg$^+$ are discussed in detail. Earlier speculations that quantum jumps occur on all time scales are verified on a picosecond timescale. We show that a plot of the probability density of the signal vs signal strength shows the two characteristic peaks associated with the bright and dark manifolds, and that the ratio of the areas under the peaks is 16 as observed experimentally. We also show that the shape of this distribution is sensitive to bath memory, but has a mathematical form common to both the Markovian and non-Markovian cases.

id: quant-ph/0511237
title: Detection of multipartite entanglement in the vicinity of symmetric Dicke states
authors: Geza Toth
comments: 8 pages, no figures, revtex4; typos corrected, presentation improved, part about connection to superradiance added; published version; J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, Feature issue on optical quantum information science, Eds. B. Sanders, A. Zeilinger, and Y. Yamamoto
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 24, 275 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511237
abstract: We present methods for detecting entanglement around symmetric Dicke states. In particular, we consider N-qubit symmetric Dicke states with N/2 excitations. In the first part of the paper we show that for large N these states have the smallest overlap possible with states without genuine multi-partite entanglement. Thus these states are particulary well suited for the experimental examination of multi-partite entanglement. We present fidelity-based entanglement witness operators for detecting multipartite entanglement around these states. In the second part of the paper we consider entanglement criteria, somewhat similar to the spin squeezing criterion, based on the moments or variances of the collective spin operators. Surprisingly, these criteria are based on an upper bound for variances for separable states. We present both criteria detecting entanglement in general and criteria detecting only genuine multi-partite entanglement. The collective operator measured for our criteria is an important physical quantity: Its expectation value essentially gives the intensity of the radiation when a coherent atomic cloud emits light.

id: quant-ph/0511238
title: Exact Propagators for Soliton Potentials
authors: Andrey M. Pupasov, Boris F. Samsonov
comments: Published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 1 (2005), 020, 7 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511238
abstract: Using the method of Darboux transformations (or equivalently supersymmetric quantum mechanics) we obtain an explicit expression for the propagator for the one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation with a multi-soliton potential.

id: quant-ph/0511239
title: Squeezing at 946nm with periodically-poled KTiOPO_4
authors: Takao Aoki, Go Takahashi, Akira Furusawa
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511239
abstract: We report generation of squeezed vacuum in sideband modes of continuous-wave light at 946 nm using a periodically poled KTiOPO_4 crystal in an optical parametric oscillator. At the pump power of 250 mW, we observe the squeezing level of -5.6+/-0.1 dB and the anti-squeezing level of +12.7+/-0.1 dB. The pump power dependence of the observed squeezing/anti-squeezing levels agrees with the theoretically calculated values when the phase fluctuation of locking is taken into account.

id: quant-ph/0511240
title: Can entanglement efficiently be weakend by symmetrization?
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: Conjecture 2 revised. Accordingly, protocol became a bit more complicated. Added two more references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511240
abstract: Consider a quantum system with $m$ subsystems with $n$ qubits each, and suppose the state of the system is living in the symmetric subspace. It is known that, in the limit of $m\to\infty$, entanglement between any two subsystems vanishes. In this paper we study asymptotic behavior of the entanglement as $m$ and $n$ grows. Our conjecture is that if $m$ is a polynomially bounded function in $n$, then the entanglement decreases polynomially. The motivation of this study is a study of quantum Merlin-Arthur game. If this conjecture is ture, we can prove that bipartite separable certificate does not increase the computational power of the proof system. protocol. In the paper, we provide two evidences which support the conjecture. First, if $m$ is an exponential function, then entanglement decreases exponentially fast. Second, in case of a maximally entangled state, our conjecture is true.

id: quant-ph/0511241
title: Method for Solving the Bloch Equation from the Connection with Time-Dependent Oscillator
authors: Sang Pyo Kim
comments: RevTex, 14 pages, no figure
journal: J. Korean Phys. Soc. 48 (2006) 119-124
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511241
abstract: We introduce a novel method to find exact density operators for a spin-1/2 particle in time-dependent magnetic fields by using the one-mode bosonic representation of $su(2)$ and the connection with a time-dependent oscillator. As illustrative examples, we apply the method to find the density operators for constant and/or oscillating magnetic fields, which turn out to be time-dependent in general.

id: quant-ph/0511242
title: Quantum Non-Demolition Bell State Measurement and N-party GHZ State Preparation in Quantum Dot
authors: Guo-Ping Guo, Hui Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: some modification to introduction and some details are added
journal: Modern Physics Letters B Vol 21, No. 14 (2007) 867-874
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511242
abstract: By exploiting the fermionic qubit parity measurement, we present a scheme to realize quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement of Bell-states and generate n-party GHZ state in quantum dot. Compared with the original protocol, the required electron transfer before and after parity measurement can be nonadiabatic, which may speed up the operation speed and make the omitting of spin-orbit interaction more reasonable. This may help us to construct CNOT gate without highly precise control of coupling as the way of D. Gottesman and I. L. Chuang.

id: quant-ph/0511243
title: Entanglement and quantum phase transitions
authors: Shi-Jian Gu, Guang-Shan Tian, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 24 2737 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511243
abstract: We examine several well known quantum spin models and categorize behavior of pairwise entanglement at quantum phase transitions. A unified picture on the connection between the entanglement and quantum phase transition is given.

id: quant-ph/0511244
title: On partially entanglement breaking channels
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 9 pages
journal: Open Sys. Information Dyn. 13 (2006) 17-26
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511244
abstract: Using well known duality between quantum maps and states of composite systems we introduce the notion of Schmidt number of a quantum channel. It enables one to define classes of quantum channels which partially break quantum entanglement. These classes generalize the well known class of entanglement breaking channels.

id: quant-ph/0511245
title: Elementary proof of the bound on the speed of quantum evolution
authors: Piotr Kosinski, Magdalena Zych
comments: no figures, 6 pages; final version, to appear in Phys.Rev.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511245
abstract: An elementary proof is given of the bound on "ortogonalization time".

id: quant-ph/0511246
title: Controlling quantum state transfer in spin chain with the confined field
authors: Bing Chen, Z. Song, C. P. Sun
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Comm. Theor. Phys. 46 749 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511246
abstract: As a demonstration of the spectrum-parity matching condition (SPMC) for quantum state transfer, we investigate the propagation of single-magnon state in the Heisenberg chain in the confined external tangent magnetic field analytically and numerically. It shows that the initial Gaussian wave packet can be retrieved at the counterpart location near-perfectly over a longer distance if the dispersion relation of the system meets the SPMC approximately.

id: quant-ph/0511247
title: A classical analogue of negative information
authors: Jonathan Oppenheim, Robert W. Spekkens, Andreas Winter
comments: 7 pages revtex4, v2 has corrections in response to referee's comments. Accepted in Phys Rev Lett. Acceptance revoked due to a disagreement over our use of a Creative Commons license. See this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511247
abstract: Recently, it was discovered that the `quantum partial information' needed to merge one party's state with another party's state is given by the conditional entropy, which can be negative [Horodecki, Oppenheim, and Winter, Nature 436, 673 (2005)]. Here we find a classical analogue of this, based on a long known relationship between entanglement and shared private correlations: namely, we consider a private distribution held between two parties, and correlated to a reference system, and ask how much secret communication is needed for one party to send her distribution to the other. We give optimal protocols for this task, and find that private information can be negative - the sender's distribution can be transferred and the potential to send future distributions in secret is gained through the distillation of a secret key. An analogue of `quantum state exchange' is also discussed and one finds cases where exchanging a distribution costs less than for one party to send it. The results give new classical protocols, and also clarify the various relationships between entanglement and privacy.

id: quant-ph/0511248
title: A theory of electromagnetic fluctuations for metallic surfaces and van der Waals interactions between metallic bodies
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; typos corrected, minor changes to match the published version in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.96:160401,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511248
abstract: A new general expression is derived for the fluctuating electromagnetic field outside a metal surface, in terms of its surface impedance. It provides a generalization to real metals of Lifshitz theory of molecular interactions between dielectric solids. The theory is used to compute the radiative heat transfer between two parallel metal surfaces at different temperatures. It is shown that a measurement of this quantity may provide an experimental resolution of a long-standing controversy about the effect of thermal corrections on the Casimir force between real metal plates.

id: quant-ph/0511249
title: Maximizing nearest neighbour entanglement in finitely correlated qubit--chains
authors: Beatrix C. Hiesmayr, Matyas Koniorczyk, Heide Narnhofer
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, 2nd version minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032310 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511249
abstract: We consider translationally invariant states of an infinite one dimensional chain of qubits or spin-1/2 particles. We maximize the entanglement shared by nearest neighbours via a variational approach based on finitely correlated states. We find an upper bound of nearest neighbour concurrence equal to C=0.434095 which is 0.09% away from the bound C_W=0.434467 obtained by a completely different procedure. The obtained state maximizing nearest neighbour entanglement seems to approximate the maximally entangled mixed states (MEMS). Further we investigate in detail several other properties of the so obtained optimal state.

id: quant-ph/0511250
title: Generators and Roots of Quantum Logic Gates
authors: R. Muradian, Diego Frias
comments: 10 pages no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511250
abstract: This is an exposition of some basic mathematical aspects of quantum logic gates. At first we established some general formulas for the case of arbitrary quantum gate A with unique restriction A^2=I. The explicit form of the generators and roots of matrix A have been found . Then we apply general results to the particular cases of one-qubit and multi-qubit quantum gates. Some interesting properties of square roots of basic Pauli and Hadamard gates are demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0511251
title: Causal Incompleteness: A New Perspective on Quantum Non-locality
authors: T.N.Palmer
comments: 20 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511251
abstract: The mathematical notion of incompleteness (eg of rational numbers, Turing-computable functions, and arithmetic proof) does not play a key role in conventional physics. Here, a reformulation of the kinematics of quantum theory is attempted, based on an inherently granular and discontinuous state space, in which the quantum wavefunction is associated with a finite set of finite bit strings, and the unitary transformations of complex Hilbert space are reformulated as finite permutation and related operators incorporating complex and hyper-complex structure. Such a reformulation, consistent with Wheeler's `It from Bit' programme, provides the basis for a novel interpretation of the Bell theorem: that the experimental violation of the Bell inequalities reveals the inevitable incompleteness of the causal structure of physical theory. The kinematic reformulation of quantum theory so developed, provides a new perspective on the age-old dichotomy of free will versus determinism.

id: quant-ph/0511252
title: $(1+1)$ dimensional Dirac equation with non Hermitian interaction
authors: A. Sinha, P. Roy
comments: 9 pages
journal: Modern Physics Letters A, vol. 20, no. 31, (2005) pages 2377 - 2385
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511252
abstract: We study $(1+1)$ dimensional Dirac equation with non Hermitian interactions, but real energies. In particular, we analyze the pseudoscalar and scalar interactions in detail, illustrating our observations with some examples. We also show that the relevant hidden symmetry of the Dirac equation with such an interaction is pseudo supersymmetry.

id: quant-ph/0511253
title: Quantum dense coding via atomic ensembles without prior distributed entangled state
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue, Ping Dong, Ming Yang, You-Min Yi, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511253
abstract: We investigate a scheme for implementing quantum dense coding via atomic ensembles, where prior distribution of the quantum entangled state is not needed. Our scheme also combines another two distinct advantages: atomic ensembles qubits with long coherent time serve as memory qubits and phtonic qubit as flying qubit. Thus our suggestion may offer a simple and easy way of demonstrating quantum dense coding experimentally via atomic ensembles.

id: quant-ph/0511254
title: Mid-Infrared Single Photon Counting
authors: Guilherme Temporao, Sebastien Tanzilli, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin, Thierry Aellen, Marcella Giovannini, Jerome Faist
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511254
abstract: We report a procedure to detect mid-infrared single photons at 4.65 um via a two-stage scheme based on Sum Frequency Generation, using a Periodically Poled Lithium Niobate (PPLN) nonlinear crystal and a Silicon Avalanche Photodiode. An experimental investigation shows that, in addition to a high timing resolution, this technique yields a detection sensitivity of 1.24 pW with 63mW of net pump power.

id: quant-ph/0511255
title: Comment on "Peres-Horodecki Separability Criterion for Continuous Variable Systems"
authors: Stefano Pirandola
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author, its content is now available as part of arXiv:0902.1502
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511255
abstract: The content of this paper is now available as part of arXiv:0902.1502

id: quant-ph/0511256
title: Creating and probing long-range order in atomic clouds
authors: C. von Cube, S. Slama, M. Kohler, C. Zimmermann, Ph.W. Courteille
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511256
abstract: Ultracold atoms interacting with the optical modes of a high-Q optical ring cavity can synchronize their motion. The collective behavior makes the system interesting for quantum computing applications. This paper is devoted to the study of the collective coupling. We report on the first observation of a collective dynamics and on the realization of a laser, the gain mechanism of which is based on collective atomic recoil. We show that, if the atoms are subject to a friction force, starting from an unordered distribution they spontaneously form a moving density grating. Furthermore, we demonstrate that a 1D atomic density grating can be probed via Bragg scattering. By heterodyning the Bragg-reflected light with a reference beam, we obtain detailed information on phase shifts induced by the Bragg scattering process.

id: quant-ph/0511257
title: Near-Perfect Simultaneous Measurement of a Qubit Register
authors: M. Acton, K.-A. Brickman, P.C. Haljan, P.J. Lee, L. Deslauriers, C. Monroe
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures; revised version has grammatical changes, updated references, and referee suggested changes particularly to CCD noise section
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511257
abstract: Simultaneous measurement of multiple qubits stored in hyperfine levels of trapped 111Cd+ ions is realized with an intensified charge-coupled device (CCD) imager. A general theory of fluorescence detection for hyperfine qubits is presented and applied to experimental data. The use of an imager for photon detection allows for multiple qubit state measurement with detection fidelities of greater than 98%. Improvements in readout speed and fidelity are discussed in the context of scalable quantum computation architectures.

id: quant-ph/0511258
title: Multiple Reflections and Diffuse Scattering in Bragg Scattering at Optical Lattices
authors: S. Slama, C. von Cube, M. Kohler, C. Zimmermann, Ph.W. Courteille
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511258
abstract: We study Bragg scattering at 1D atomic lattices. Cold atoms are confined by optical dipole forces at the antinodes of a standing wave generated inside a laser-driven cavity. The atoms arrange themselves into an array of lens-shaped layers located at the antinodes of the standing wave. Light incident on this array at a well-defined angle is partially Bragg-reflected. We measure reflectivities as high as 30%. In contrast to a previous experiment devoted to the thin grating limit [S. Slama, et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 193901 (2005)] we now investigate the thick grating limit characterized by multiple reflections of the light beam between the atomic layers. In principle multiple reflections give rise to a photonic stop band, which manifests itself in the Bragg diffraction spectra as asymmetries and minima due to destructive interference between different reflection paths. We show that close to resonance however disorder favors diffuse scattering, hinders coherent multiple scattering and impedes the characteristic suppression of spontaneous emission inside a photonic band gap.

id: quant-ph/0511259
title: Comment on the quantum nature of angular momentum using a coupled-boson representation
authors: ILki Kim, Gerald J. Iafrate
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511259
abstract: A simple approach for understanding the quantum nature of angular momentum and its reduction to the classical limit is presented based on Schwinger's coupled-boson representation. This approach leads to a straightforward explanation of why the square of the angular momentum in quantum mechanics is given by j(j+1) instead of just j^2, where j is the angular momentum quantum number.

id: quant-ph/0511260
title: All Inequalities for the Relative Entropy
authors: Ben Ibinson, Noah Linden, Andreas Winter
comments: 15 pages, 3 embedded eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511260
abstract: The relative entropy of two n-party quantum states is an important quantity exhibiting, for example, the extent to which the two states are different. The relative entropy of the states formed by reducing two n-party to a smaller number $m$ of parties is always less than or equal to the relative entropy of the two original n-party states. This is the monotonicity of relative entropy. Using techniques from convex geometry, we prove that monotonicity under restrictions is the only general inequality satisfied by relative entropies. In doing so we make a connection to secret sharing schemes with general access structures. A suprising outcome is that the structure of allowed relative entropy values of subsets of multiparty states is much simpler than the structure of allowed entropy values. And the structure of allowed relative entropy values (unlike that of entropies) is the same for classical probability distributions and quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0511261
title: Possibly novel demonstration of nonlocality for two maximally entangled particles
authors: Demetrios Kalamidas
comments: Substantial revisions made to text. Implications for the revised argument are presented
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511261
abstract: We present, at the gedanken level, a possibly novel non-statistical demonstration of nonlocality for two maximally entangled particles. The argument requires only two alternative experimental contexts, only one and the same single-particle observable, and leads to a contradiction with a constrained form of local realism in 50% of experimental runs. However, the argument is based on a 'plausible' but not definitive notion of locality.

id: quant-ph/0511262
title: Decoherence in a system of many two--level atoms
authors: Daniel Braun
comments: replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 230502 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511262
abstract: I show that the decoherence in a system of $N$ degenerate two--level atoms interacting with a bosonic heat bath is for any number of atoms $N$ governed by a generalized Hamming distance (called ``decoherence metric'') between the superposed quantum states, with a time--dependent metric tensor that is specific for the heat bath.The decoherence metric allows for the complete characterization of the decoherence of all possible superpositions of many-particle states, and can be applied to minimize the over-all decoherence in a quantum memory. For qubits which are far apart, the decoherence is given by a function describing single-qubit decoherence times the standard Hamming distance. I apply the theory to cold atoms in an optical lattice interacting with black body radiation.

id: quant-ph/0511263
title: Comparison of some methods of quantum state estimation
authors: Th. Baier, K.M. Hangos, A. Magyar, D. Petz
comments: 13 pages, 19 figures, to be published in the proceedings of the "26th Conference: QP and IDA" - Levico (Trento), February, 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511263
abstract: In the paper the Bayesian and the least squares methods of quantum state tomography are compared for a single qubit. The quality of the estimates are compared by computer simulation when the true state is either mixed or pure. The fidelity and the Hilbert-Schmidt distance are used to quantify the error. It was found that in the regime of low measurement number the Bayesian method outperforms the least squares estimation. Both methods are quite sensitive to the degree of mixedness of the state to be estimated, that is, their performance can be quite bad near pure states.

id: quant-ph/0511264
title: Fault-Tolerant Landau-Zener Quantum Gates
authors: C. Hicke, L. F. Santos, M. I. Dykman
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511264
abstract: We present a method to perform fault-tolerant single-qubit gate operations using Landau-Zener tunneling. In a single Landau-Zener pulse, the qubit transition frequency is varied in time so that it passes through the frequency of the radiation field. We show that a simple three-pulse sequence allows eliminating errors in the gate up to the third order in errors in the qubit energies or the radiation frequency.

id: quant-ph/0511265
title: Experimental noise-resistant Bell-inequality violations for polarization-entangled photons
authors: Fabio A. Bovino, Giuseppe Castagnoli, Adan Cabello, Antia Lamas-Linares
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73 (2006) 062110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511265
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate that violations of Bell's inequalities for two-photon polarization-entangled states with colored noise are extremely robust, whereas this is not the case for states with white noise. Controlling the amount of noise by using the timing compensation scheme introduced by Kim et al. [Phys. Rev. A 67, 010301(R) (2003)], we have observed violations even for states with very high noise, in excellent agrement with the predictions of Cabello et al. [Phys. Rev. A 72, 052112 (2005)].

id: quant-ph/0511266
title: Statistical Zero Knowledge and quantum one-way functions
authors: Elham Kashefi, Iordanis Kerenidis
comments: 20 pages; Computational Complexity, Cryptography and Quantum Physics; Published version, main results unchanged, presentation improved
journal: Journal of Theoretical Computer Sience, March 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511266
abstract: One-way functions are a very important notion in the field of classical cryptography. Most examples of such functions, including factoring, discrete log or the RSA function, can be, however, inverted with the help of a quantum computer. In this paper, we study one-way functions that are hard to invert even by a quantum adversary and describe a set of problems which are good such candidates. These problems include Graph Non-Isomorphism, approximate Closest Lattice Vector and Group Non-Membership. More generally, we show that any hard instance of Circuit Quantum Sampling gives rise to a quantum one-way function. By the work of Aharonov and Ta-Shma, this implies that any language in Statistical Zero Knowledge which is hard-on-average for quantum computers, leads to a quantum one-way function. Moreover, extending the result of Impagliazzo and Luby to the quantum setting, we prove that quantum distributionally one-way functions are equivalent to quantum one-way functions. Last, we explore the connections between quantum one-way functions and the complexity class QMA and show that, similarly to the classical case, if any of the above candidate problems is QMA-complete then the existence of quantum one-way functions leads to the separation of QMA and AvgBQP.

id: quant-ph/0511267
title: Optimal Visible Compression Rate For Mixed States Is Determined By Entanglement Of Purification
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: 5 pages
journal: Physical Review A, Vol. 73, 060301(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511267
abstract: Entanglement of purification was introduced by Terhal et al. for characterizing the bound of the generation of correlated states from maximally entangled states with sublinear size of classical communication. On the other hand, M. Horodecki obtained the optimal compression rate with a mixed states ensemble in the visible setting. In this paper, we prove that the optimal visible compression rate for mixed states is equal to the limit of the regularized entanglement of purification of the state corresponding to the given ensemble. This result gives a new interpretation to the entanglement of purification.

id: quant-ph/0511268
title: Practical limitations in optical entanglement purification
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Timothy C. Ralph, William J. Munro
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 030301(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511268
abstract: Entanglement purification protocols play an important role in the distribution of entangled systems, which is necessary for various quantum information processing applications. We consider the effects of photo-detector efficiency and bandwidth, channel loss and mode-mismatch on the operation of an optical entanglement purification protocol. We derive necessary detector and mode-matching requirements to facilitate practical operation of such a scheme, without having to resort to destructive coincidence type demonstrations.

id: quant-ph/0511269
title: Distortion operator and Entanglement Information Rate Distortion of Quantum Gaussian Source
authors: Xiao-yu Chen
comments: 6 page, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511269
abstract: Quantum random variable, distortion operator are introduced based on canonical operators. As the lower bound of rate distortion, the entanglement information rate distortion is achieved by Gaussian map for Gaussian source. General Gaussian maps are further reduced to unitary transformations and additive noises from the physical meaning of distortion. The entanglement information rate distortion function then are calculated for one mode Gaussian source. The rate distortion is accessible at zero distortion point. For pure state, the rate distortion function is always zero. In contrast to the distortion defined via fidelity, our definition of the distortion makes it possible to calculate the entanglement information rate distortion function for Gaussian source.

id: quant-ph/0511270
title: Photon Position Operator and Localization of Photons inside a Waveguide
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong, Ole Keller
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511270
abstract: In this article, we show that in the level of quantum mechanics, a photon position operator with commuting components can be obtained in a more natural way; in the level of quantum field theory, the photon position operator corresponds to the center of the photon number. It is most interesting for us to show that, a photon inside a waveguide can be localized in the same sense that a massive particle can be localized in free space, and just as that it is impossible to localize a massive particle with a greater precision than its Compton wavelength, one can also arrival at a similar conclusion: it is impossible to localize a photon inside a waveguide with a greater precision than its equivalent Compton wavelength, which owing to evanescent-wave or photon-tunneling phenomena.

id: quant-ph/0511271
title: Quantum thermodynamics with missing reference frames: Decompositions of free energy into non-increasing components
authors: Dominik Janzing
comments: 17 pages, latex, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511271
abstract: If an absolute reference frame with respect to time, position, or orientation is missing one can only implement quantum operations which are covariant with respect to the corresponding unitary symmetry group G. Extending observations of Vaccaro et al., I argue that the free energy of a quantum system with G-invariant Hamiltonian then splits up into the Holevo information of the orbit of the state under the action of G and the free energy of its orbit average. These two kinds of free energy cannot be converted into each other. The first component is subadditive and the second superadditive; in the limit of infinitely many copies only the usual free energy matters. Refined splittings of free energy into more than two independent (non-increasing) terms can be defined by averaging over probability measures on G that differ from the Haar measure. Even in the presence of a reference frame, these results provide lower bounds on the amount of free energy that is lost after applying a covariant channel. If the channel properly decreases one of these quantities, it decreases the free energy necessarily at least by the same amount, since it is unable to convert the different forms of free energies into each other.

id: quant-ph/0511272
title: Quantum Advantage without Entanglement
authors: Dan Kenigsberg, Tal Mor, Gil Ratsaby
comments: 10 pages
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 6(7), 606--615 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511272
abstract: We study the advantage of pure-state quantum computation without entanglement over classical computation. For the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm we present the maximal subproblem that can be solved without entanglement, and show that the algorithm still has an advantage over the classical ones. We further show that this subproblem is of greater significance, by proving that it contains all the Boolean functions whose quantum phase-oracle is non-entangling. For Simon's and Grover's algorithms we provide simple proofs that no non-trivial subproblems can be solved by these algorithms without entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0511273
title: Quantum computation with abelian anyons on the honeycomb lattice
authors: Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, REVTEX, improved presentation and implementation
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 4, No. 6 (2006) 947-954
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511273
abstract: We consider a two-dimensional spin system that exhibits abelian anyonic excitations. Manipulations of these excitations enable the construction of a quantum computational model. While the one-qubit gates are performed dynamically the model offers the advantage of having a two-qubit gate that is of topological nature. The transport and braiding of anyons on the lattice can be performed adiabatically enjoying the robust characteristics of geometrical evolutions. The same control procedures can be used when dealing with non-abelian anyons. A possible implementation of the manipulations with optical lattices is developed.

id: quant-ph/0511274
title: Quantum Computation: A Computer Science Perspective
authors: Anders K. H. Bengtsson
comments: 155 pages, 25 figures, 54 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511274
abstract: The theory of quantum computation is presented in a self contained way from a computer science perspective. The basics of classical computation and quantum mechanics is reviewed. The circuit model of quantum computation is presented in detail. Throughout there is an emphasis on the physical as well as the abstract aspects of computation and the interplay between them. This report is presented as a Master's thesis at the department of Computer Science and Engineering at G{\"o}teborg University, G{\"o}teborg, Sweden. The text is part of a larger work that is planned to include chapters on quantum algorithms, the quantum Turing machine model and abstract approaches to quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0511275
title: Realistic Picture of 2D Harmonic Oscillator Coherent States
authors: Michel Gondran
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511275
abstract: We show that a 2D harmonic oscillator coherent state is a soliton which has the same evolution as a spinning top: the center of mass follows a classical trajectory and the particle rotates around its center of mass in the same direction as its spin with the harmonic oscillator frequency.

id: quant-ph/0511276
title: A complete analysis of the Stern-Gerlach experiment using Pauli spinors
authors: Michel Gondran, Alexandre Gondran
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0511276
abstract: The Stern-Gerlach experiment is the fundamental experiment in order to exhibit the quantization of spin and understand the measurement problem in quantum mechanics. However, although the Stern-Gerlach experiment plays an essential role in the teaching of quantum mechanics, no complete analysis of this experiment using Pauli spinors is presented in the pedagogical literature. This paper presents such an analysis and develops implications for the theory of quantum measurement. We first propose an analytic expression of both the wave function and the probability density in the Stern-Gerlach experiment. Our explicit solution is obtained via a complete integration of the Pauli equation over time and space. The probability density evolution describes a slipping of the wave packet into two separate packets due to the measurement device, but it cannot account for impacts. We therefore calculate the de Broglie-Bohm trajectories, which not only explain impacts naturally, but also accounts for the spin quantization following the magnetic field gradient. It is then possible to propose a clear explanation of measurement effects in the Stern-Gerlach experiment.

id: cond-mat/0511014
title: Entanglement and alpha entropies for a massive scalar field in two dimensions
authors: H. Casini, M. Huerta
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: J.Stat.Mech.0512:P12012,2005
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511014
abstract: We find the analytic expression of the trace of powers of the reduced density matrix on an interval of length L, for a massive boson field in 1+1 dimensions. This is given exactly (except for a non universal factor) in terms of a finite sum of solutions of non linear differential equations of the Painlev\'e V type. Our method is a generalization of one introduced by Myers and is based on the explicit calculation of quantities related to the Green function on a plane, where boundary conditions are imposed on a finite cut. It is shown that the associated partition function is related to correlators of exponential operators in the Sine-Gordon model in agreement with a result by Delfino et al. We also compute the short and long distance leading terms of the entanglement entropy. We find that the bosonic entropic c-function interpolates between the Dirac and Majorana fermion ones given in a previous paper. Finally, we study some universal terms for the entanglement entropy in arbitrary dimensions which, in the case of free fields, can be expressed in terms of the two dimensional entropy functions.

id: cond-mat/0511018
title: Dynamics of matter-wave and optical fields in superradiant scattering from Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: O. Zobay, Georgios M. Nikolopoulos
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 041604(R) (2005)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511018
abstract: We study superradiant scattering off Bose-Einstein condensates by solving the semiclassical Maxwell-Schroedinger equations describing the coupled dynamics of matter-wave and optical fields. Taking the spatial dependence of these fields along the condensate axis into account, we are able to reproduce and explain many of the characteristic features observed in the experiments of Inouye et al. [Science 285, 571 (1999)] and Schneble et al. [Science 300, 475 (2003)], such as the shape of the atomic side-mode distributions for forward and backward scattering, the spatial asymmetry between forward and backward side modes, and the depletion of the condensate center observed for forward scattering.

id: cond-mat/0511091
title: Canonical Typicality
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, Joel L. Lebowitz, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 6 pages LaTeX, no figures; v2 minor improvements and additions
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 050403 (2006)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511091
abstract: It is well known that a system, S, weakly coupled to a heat bath, B, is described by the canonical ensemble when the composite, S+B, is described by the microcanonical ensemble corresponding to a suitable energy shell. This is true both for classical distributions on the phase space and for quantum density matrices. Here we show that a much stronger statement holds for quantum systems. Even if the state of the composite corresponds to a single wave function rather than a mixture, the reduced density matrix of the system is canonical, for the overwhelming majority of wave functions in the subspace corresponding to the energy interval encompassed by the microcanonical ensemble. This clarifies, expands and justifies remarks made by Schr\"odinger in 1952.

id: cond-mat/0511126
title: Entanglement between static and flying qubits in a semiconducting carbon nanotube
authors: D. Gunlycke, J. H. Jefferson, T. Rejec, A. Ramsak, D. G. Pettifor, G. A. D. Briggs
comments: 17 pages and 12 figures, accepted to J. Phys. Cond. Mat
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 18 (2006) S851-S866
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511126
abstract: Entanglement can be generated by two electrons in a spin-zero state on a semiconducting single-walled carbon nanotube. The two electrons, one weakly bound in a shallow well in the conduction band, and the other injected into the conduction band, are coupled by the Coulomb interaction. Both transmission and entanglement are dependent on the well characteristics, which can be controlled by a local gate, and on the kinetic energy of the injected electron. Regimes with different degrees of electron correlation exhibit full or partial entanglement. In the latter case, the maximum entanglement can be estimated as a function of width and separation of a pair of singlet-triplet resonances.

id: cond-mat/0511207
title: Quantum Statistics with Classical Particles
authors: Daniel Gottesman
comments: 5 pages. v2 adds one reference
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511207
abstract: Indistinguishability of particles is normally considered to be an inherently quantum property which cannot be possessed by a classical theory. However, Saunders has argued that this is incorrect, and that classically indistinguishable particles are possible. I make this suggestion concrete by describing a class of microscopic classical theories involving indistinguishable particles hopping stochastically on a graph, and show that it should be possible to experimentally create a physical system realizing a simple model by continuously observing atoms trapped in an optical lattice. The indistinguishable classical particles obey Bose-Einstein statistics, display the associated clustering phenomena, and in appropriate models, can even undergo Bose-Einstein condensation.

id: cond-mat/0511336
title: Polariton quantum blockade in a photonic dot
authors: Arnaud Verger, Cristiano Ciuti, Iacopo Carusotto
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 73 (2006) 193306
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511336
abstract: We investigate the quantum nonlinear dynamics of a resonantly excited photonic quantum dot embedding a quantum well in the strong exciton-photon coupling regime. Within a master equation approach, we study the polariton quantum blockade and the generation of single photon states due to polariton-polariton interactions as a function of the photonic dot geometry, spectral linewidths and energy detuning between quantum well exciton and confined photon mode. The second order coherence function $g^{(2)}(t,t')$ is calculated for both continuous wave and pulsed excitations.

id: cond-mat/0511341
title: Surface-atom force out of thermal equilibrium and its effect on ultra-cold atoms
authors: Mauro Antezza
comments: Submitted to JPA Special Issue QFEXT'05
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 6117-6126
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511341
abstract: The surface-atom Casimir-Polder-Lifshitz force out of thermal equilibrium is investigated in the framework of macroscopic electrodynamics. Particular attention is devoted to its large distance limit that shows a new, stronger behaviour with respect to the equilibrium case. The frequency shift produced by the surface-atom force on the the center-of-mass oscillations of a harmonically trapped Bose-Einstein condensate and on the Bloch oscillations of an ultra-cold fermionic gas in an optical lattice are discussed for configurations out of thermal equilibrium.

id: cond-mat/0511360
title: Antiresonances as precursors of decoherence
authors: L. E. F. Foa Torres, H. M. Pastawski, E. Medina
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Europhys. Lett
journal: Europhysics Letters 73, 164 (2006).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511360
abstract: We show that, in presence of a complex spectrum, antiresonances act as a precursor for dephasing enabling the crossover to a fully decoherent transport even within a unitary Hamiltonian description. This general scenario is illustrated here by focusing on a quantum dot coupled to a chaotic cavity containing a finite, but large, number of states using a Hamiltonian formulation. For weak coupling to a chaotic cavity with a sufficiently dense spectrum, the ensuing complex structure of resonances and antiresonances leads to phase randomization under coarse graining in energy. Such phase instabilities and coarse graining are the ingredients for a mechanism producing decoherence and thus irreversibility. For the present simple model one finds a conductance that coincides with the one obtained by adding a ficticious voltage probe within the Landauer-Buettiker picture. This sheds new light on how the microscopic mechanisms that produce phase fluctuations induce decoherence.

id: cond-mat/0511370
title: Dissipative dynamics of coupled quantum dots under quantum measurement
authors: Shi-Hua Ouyang, Chi-Hang Lam, J. Q. You
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 18, 11551 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511370
abstract: We have studied the dissipative dynamics of a solid-state qubit with an extra electron confined to either one of two coupled quantum dots. Previous theoretical work based on Bloch-type rate equations gave an unphysical uniform occupation probability of the electron in the quantum dots even for non-identical dots. We show that this is due to neglecting higher order interactions in the analysis. By including higher order terms, we obtain expected asymmetric occupation probabilities for non-identical dots. Our work demonstrates that the high order interaction terms can lead to important qualitative impacts on the operation of the qubit.

id: cond-mat/0511402
title: Photocount statistics in mesoscopic optics
authors: S. Balog, P. Zakharov, F. Scheffold, S.E. Skipetrov
comments: Thoroughly revised text and figures, new data set, new figure added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 103901 (2006)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511402
abstract: We report the first observation of the impact of mesoscopic fluctuations on the photocount statistics of coherent light scattered in a random medium. Poisson photocount distribution of the incident light widens and gains additional asymmetry upon transmission through a suspension of small dielectric spheres. The effect is only appreciable when the average number <n> of photocounts becomes comparable or larger than the effective dimensionless conductance g of the sample.

id: cond-mat/0511466
title: Entanglement crossover close to a quantum critical point
authors: Luigi Amico, Dario Patane`
comments: 12 pages; 5 figures (eps). References added; to be published in Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhys.Lett. 77 (2007) 17001
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511466
abstract: We discuss the thermal entanglement close to a quantum phase transition by analyzing the concurrence for one dimensional models in the quantum Ising universality class. We demonstrate that the entanglement sensitivity to thermal and to quantum fluctuations obeys universal $T\neq 0$--scaling behaviour. We show that the entanglement, together with its criticality, exhibits a peculiar universal crossover behaviour.

id: cond-mat/0511470
title: Quantum buses and quantum computer architecture based on quantum dots
authors: Irene D'Amico
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511470
abstract: We propose a quantum computer architecture based on quantum dots both for short distance and for long distance communication/computation. Our scheme exploits the natural characteristics of self-assembled quantum dots and it is scalable. It is centered on the idea of a quantum bus based on semiconductor self-assembled quantum dots. This allows for transmission of qubits between the different quantum registers, and could be integrated in most of the present proposal for semiconductor quantum dot-based quantum computation. Our proposal exploits the peculiar properties of {\it relatively short} spin-chains, and advantages and disadvantages of two possible implementations, both based on spin-chain global dynamics, are discussed in details. A clear advantage of the scheme is to avoid the use of microcavities for long distance communication between different elements of the quantum computer. In this respect our scheme is comparatively faster than hybrid quantum dot-microcavity schemes.

id: cond-mat/0511555
title: Entanglement production in chaotic quantum dots subject to spin-orbit coupling
authors: Diego Frustaglia, Simone Montangero, Rosario Fazio
comments: 6 pages; extended version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74, 165326 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511555
abstract: We study numerically the production of orbital and spin entangled states in chaotic quantum dots for non-interacting electrons. The introduction of spin-orbit coupling permit us to identify signatures of time-reversal symmetry correlations in the entanglement production previously unnoticed, resembling weak-(anti)localization quantum corrections to the conductance. We find the entanglement to be strongly dependent on spin-orbit coupling, showing universal features for broken time-reversal and spin-rotation symmetries.

id: cond-mat/0511565
title: Scaling of geometric phases close to quantum phase transition in the XY chain
authors: Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 077206 (2006) (a slightly different version)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511565
abstract: We show that geometric phase of the ground state in the XY model obeys scaling behavior in the vicinity of a quantum phase transition. In particular we find that geometric phase is non-analytical and its derivative with respect to the field strength diverges at the critical magnetic field. Furthermore, universality in the critical properties of the geometric phase in a family of models is verified. In addition, since quantum phase transition occurs at a level crossing or avoided level crossing and these level structures can be captured by Berry curvature, the established relation between geometric phase and quantum phase transitions is not a specific property of the XY model, but a very general result of many-body systems.

id: cond-mat/0511592
title: Dynamics of Coupled Qubits Interacting with an Off-Resonant Cavity
authors: Oliver Gywat, Florian Meier, Daniel Loss, D. D. Awschalom
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures. v2: minor additions and minor numerical error in Eq. (32) corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 125336 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511592
abstract: We study a model for a pair of qubits which interact with a single off-resonant cavity mode and, in addition, exhibit a direct inter-qubit coupling. Possible realizations for such a system include coupled superconducting qubits in a line resonator as well as exciton states or electron spin states of quantum dots in a cavity. The emergent dynamical phenomena are strongly dependent on the relative energy scales of the inter-qubit coupling strength, the coupling strength between qubits and cavity mode, and the cavity mode detuning. We show that the cavity mode dispersion enables a measurement of the state of the coupled-qubit system in the perturbative regime. We discuss the effect of the direct inter-qubit interaction on a cavity-mediated two-qubit gate. Further, we show that for asymmetric coupling of the two qubits to the cavity, the direct inter-qubit coupling can be controlled optically via the ac Stark effect.

id: cond-mat/0511639
title: Quantum dynamical phase transition in a system with many-body interactions
authors: Ernesto P. Danieli, Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Patricia R. Levstein, Horacio M. Pastawski
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, minor changes, fig.2 modified, added references
journal: Solid State Comm. 141 (2007) 422
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511639
abstract: We introduce a microscopic Hamiltonian model of a two level system with many-body interactions with an environment whose excitation dynamics is fully solved within the Keldysh formalism. If a particle starts in one of the states of the isolated system, the return probability oscillates with the Rabi frequency $\omega_{0}$. For weak interactions with the environment $1/\tau_{\mathrm{SE}}<2\omega_{0},$ we find a slower oscillation whose amplitude decays with a decoherence rate $1/\tau_{\phi}=1/(2\tau_{\mathrm{SE}% })$. However, beyond a finite critical interaction with the environment, $1/\tau_{\mathrm{SE}}>2\omega_{0}$, the decoherence rate becomes $1/\tau_{\phi}\propto(\omega_{0}^{2})\tau_{\mathrm{SE}}$. The oscillation period diverges showing a \emph{quantum dynamical phase transition}to a Quantum Zeno phase.

id: cond-mat/0511645
title: Classical limit of master equation for harmonic oscillator coupled to oscillator bath with separable initial conditions
authors: Subhashish Banerjee, Abhishek Dhar
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. E 73, 067104 (2006)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511645
abstract: The equation for the Wigner function describing the reduced dynamics of a single harmonic oscillator, coupled to an oscillator bath, was obtained by Karrlein and Grabert [Phys. Rev. E, vol. 55, 153 (1997)]. It was shown that for some special correlated initial conditions the equation reduces, in the classical limit, to the corresponding classical Fokker-Planck equation obtained by Adelman [J. Chem Phys., vol. 64, 124 (1976)]. However for separable initial conditions the Adelman equations were not recovered. We resolve this problem by showing that, for separable initial conditions, the classical Langevin equation obtained from the oscillator bath model is somewhat different from the one considered by Adelman. We obtain the corresponding Fokker-Planck equation and show that it exactly matches the classical limit of the equation for the Wigner function obtained from the master equation for separable initial conditions. We also discuss why the special correlated initial conditions correspond to Adelman's solution.

id: cond-mat/0511678
title: Detecting correlation functions of ultracold atoms through Fourier sampling of time-of-flight images
authors: L.-M. Duan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 103201 (2006).
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511678
abstract: We propose a detection method for ultracold atoms which allows reconstruction of the full one-particle and two-particle correlation functions from the measurements. The method is based on Fourier sampling of the time-of-flight images through two consecutive impulsive Raman pulses. For applications of this method, we discuss a few examples, including detection of phase separation between superfluid and Mott insulators, various types of spin or superfluid orders, entanglement, exotic or fluctuating orders.

id: cond-mat/0511709
title: Adiabatic-Impulse approximation for avoided level crossings: from phase transition dynamics to Landau-Zener evolutions and back again
authors: Bogdan Damski, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 12 pages & 6 figures, minor corrections, version accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A73 (2006) 063405
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511709
abstract: We show that a simple approximation based on concepts underlying the Kibble-Zurek theory of second order phase transition dynamics can be used to treat avoided level crossing problems. The approach discussed in this paper provides an intuitive insight into quantum dynamics of two level systems, and may serve as a link between the theory of dynamics of classical and quantum phase transitions. To illustrate these ideas we analyze dynamics of a paramagnet-ferromagnet quantum phase transition in the Ising model. We also present exact unpublished solutions of the Landau-Zener like problems.

id: cond-mat/0511727
title: Application of the Hilbert Space Average Method on Heat Conduction Models
authors: Mathias Michel, Jochen Gemmer, Guenter Mahler
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 73, 016101 (2006)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511727
abstract: We analyze closed one-dimensional chains of weakly coupled many level systems, by means of the so-called Hilbert space average method (HAM). Subject to some concrete conditions on the Hamiltonian of the system, our theory predicts energy diffusion with respect to a coarse-grained description for almost all initial states. Close to the respective equilibrium we investigate this behavior in terms of heat transport and derive the heat conduction coefficient. Thus, we are able to show that both heat (energy) diffusive behavior as well as Fourier's law follows from and is compatible with a reversible Schroedinger dynamics on the complete level of description.

id: cond-mat/0511732
title: Entanglement and boundary critical phenomena
authors: Huan-Qiang Zhou, Thomas Barthel, John Ove Fjaerestad, Ulrich Schollwoeck
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 050305(R) (2006)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511732
abstract: We investigate boundary critical phenomena from a quantum information perspective. Bipartite entanglement in the ground state of one-dimensional quantum systems is quantified using the Renyi entropy S_alpha, which includes the von Neumann entropy (alpha=1) and the single-copy entanglement (alpha=infinity) as special cases. We identify the contribution from the boundary entropy to the Renyi entropy, and show that there is an entanglement loss along boundary renormalization group (RG) flows. This property, which is intimately related to the Affleck-Ludwig g-theorem, can be regarded as a consequence of majorization relations between the spectra of the reduced density matrix along the boundary RG flows. We also point out that the bulk contribution to the single-copy entanglement is half of that to the von Neumann entropy, whereas the boundary contribution is the same.

id: cond-mat/0511747
title: Dynamics of a Tonks-Girardeau gas released from a hard-wall trap
authors: A. del Campo, J. G. Muga
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 74, 965 (2006)
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0511747
abstract: We study the expansion dynamics of a Tonks-Girardeau gas released from a hard wall trap. Using the Fermi-Bose map, the density profile is found analytically and shown to differ from that one of a classical gas in the microcanonical ensemble even at macroscopic level, for any observation time larger than a critical time. The relevant time scale arises as a consequence of fermionization.

id: cs/0511017
title: Short Quantum Games
authors: Gus Gutoski
comments: MSc thesis, 79 pages single-spaced
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0511017
abstract: In this thesis we introduce quantum refereed games, which are quantum interactive proof systems with two competing provers. We focus on a restriction of this model that we call "short quantum games" and we prove an upper bound and a lower bound on the expressive power of these games. For the lower bound, we prove that every language having an ordinary quantum interactive proof system also has a short quantum game. An important part of this proof is the establishment of a quantum measurement that reliably distinguishes between quantum states chosen from disjoint convex sets. For the upper bound, we show that certain types of quantum refereed games, including short quantum games, are decidable in deterministic exponential time by supplying a separation oracle for use with the ellipsoid method for convex feasibility.

id: cs/0511049
title: Entropy, Convex Optimization, and Competitive Quantum Interactions
authors: Gus Gutoski
comments: withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0511049
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to errors.

id: gr-qc/0511001
title: A squeezed state source using radiation pressure induced rigidity
authors: T. Corbitt, Y. Chen, F. Khalili, D. Ottaway, S. Vyatchanin, S. Whitcomb, N. Mavalvala
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0511001
abstract: We propose an experiment to extract ponderomotive squeezing from an interferometer with high circulating power and low mass mirrors. In this interferometer, optical resonances of the arm cavities are detuned from the laser frequency, creating a mechanical rigidity that dramatically suppresses displacement noise. After taking into account imperfection of optical elements, laser noise, and other technical noise consistent with existing laser and optical technologies and typical laboratory environments, we expect the output light from the interferometer to have measurable squeezing of ~5 dB, with a frequency-independent squeeze angle for frequencies below 1 kHz. This squeeze source is well suited for injection into a gravitational-wave interferometer, leading to improved sensitivity from reduction in the quantum noise. Furthermore, this design provides an experimental test of quantum-limited radiation pressure effects, which have not previously been tested.

id: gr-qc/0511066
title: How robust is the entanglement entropy-area relation?
authors: Saurya Das, S. Shankaranarayanan
comments: 5 Pages, Revtex 4, 2 EPS Figures. Significant revisions. Conclusions modified. Version appeared in Phys. Rev. D. (Rapid Communications)
journal: Phys.Rev. D73 (2006) 121701
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0511066
abstract: We revisit the problem of finding the entanglement entropy of a scalar field on a lattice by tracing over its degrees of freedom inside a sphere. It is known that this entropy satisfies the area law -- entropy proportional to the area of the sphere -- when the field is assumed to be in its ground state. We show that the area law continues to hold when the scalar field degrees of freedom are in generic coherent states and a class of squeezed states. However, when excited states are considered, the entropy scales as a lower power of the area. This suggests that for large horizons, the ground state entropy dominates, whereas entropy due to excited states gives power law corrections. We discuss possible implications of this result to black hole entropy.

id: gr-qc/0511148
title: Local effects of global gravitation
authors: Jakob Lamey, Gustav M. Obermair
comments: 7 pages, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0511148
abstract: In what respect does terrestrial physics reflect the two unique features of the global gravitational field: its infinite range and its equivalence to spacetime curvature? We quote the evidence that true irreversibility, i.e the growth of the Boltzmann entropy of any finite system, is the consequence of the global state of the gravitation dominated and expanding universe. Moreover, as another example, we calculate the effect of global expansion and of the gravitational potential observed in our Local Group on spacetime metric in terms of curvature. Surprisingly, we find an energy density which is in numerical agreement with the purely quantum theoretical result for the Casimir energy density containing Planck's constant.

id: gr-qc/0511161
title: Spin networks, quantum automata and link invariants
authors: Silvano Garnerone, Annalisa Marzuoli, Mario Rasetti
comments: LateX,19 pages; to appear in the Proc. of "Constrained Dynamics and Quantum Gravity (QG05), Cala Gonone (Italy) September 12-16 2005
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser. 33 (2006) 95-106
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0511161
abstract: The spin network simulator model represents a bridge between (generalized) circuit schemes for standard quantum computation and approaches based on notions from Topological Quantum Field Theories (TQFT). More precisely, when working with purely discrete unitary gates, the simulator is naturally modelled as families of quantum automata which in turn represent discrete versions of topological quantum computation models. Such a quantum combinatorial scheme, which essentially encodes SU(2) Racah--Wigner algebra and its braided counterpart, is particularly suitable to address problems in topology and group theory and we discuss here a finite states--quantum automaton able to accept the language of braid group in view of applications to the problem of estimating link polynomials in Chern--Simons field theory.

id: hep-ph/0511094
title: Comparison of Chemical Freeze-Out Criteria in Heavy-Ion Collisions
authors: J. Cleymans, H. Oeschler, K. Redlich, S. Wheaton
comments: 15 pages 7 figures uses revtex
journal: Phys.Rev.C73:034905,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0511094
abstract: One of the most remarkable results to emerge from heavy-ion collisions over the past two decades is the striking regularity shown by particle yields at all energies. This has led to several very successful proposals describing particle yields over a very wide range of beam energies, reaching from 1 A GeV up to 200 A GeV, using only one or two parameters. A systematic comparison of these proposals is presented here. The conditions of fixed energy per particle, baryon+anti-baryon density, normalized entropy density as well as percolation model are investigated. The results are compared with the most recent chemical freeze-out parameters obtained in the thermal-statistical analysis of particle yields. The sensitivity and dependence of the results on parameters is analyzed and discussed. It is shown that in the energy range above the top AGS energy, within present accuracies, all chemical freeze-out criteria give a fairly good description of the particle yields. However, the low energy heavy-ion data favor the constant energy per particle as a unified condition of chemical particle freeze-out. This condition also shows the weakest sensitivity on model assumptions and parameters.

id: hep-th/0511010
title: Effects of a mixed vector-scalar kink-like potential for spinless particles in two-dimensional spacetime
authors: Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A22:2609-2618,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0511010
abstract: The intrinsically relativistic problem of spinless particles subject to a general mixing of vector and scalar kink-like potentials ($\sim \mathrm{tanh} ,\gamma x$) is investigated. The problem is mapped into the exactly solvable Surm-Liouville problem with the Rosen-Morse potential and exact bounded solutions for particles and antiparticles are found. The behaviour of the spectrum is discussed in some detail. An apparent paradox concerning the uncertainty principle is solved by recurring to the concept of effective Compton wavelength.

id: hep-th/0511056
title: Scalar Casimir effect between Dirichlet spheres or a plate and a sphere
authors: Aurel Bulgac, Piotr Magierski, Andreas Wirzba
comments: published version; 13 pages, 2 figures; add. material (in Sec.VI) and corrections (esp. in App.B)
journal: Phys.Rev. D73 (2006) 025007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0511056
abstract: We present a simple formalism for the evaluation of the Casimir energy for two spheres and a sphere and a plane, in case of a scalar fluctuating field, valid at any separations. We compare the exact results with various approximation schemes and establish when such schemes become useful. The formalism can be easily extended to any number of spheres and/or planes in three or arbitrary dimensions, with a variety of boundary conditions or non-overlapping potentials/non-ideal reflectors.

id: hep-th/0511092
title: Quantum energies with worldline numerics
authors: Holger Gies, Klaus Klingmuller
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, Submitted to the Proceedings of the Seventh Workshop QFEXT'05 (Barcelona, September 5-9, 2005), Refs updated, version to appear in JPhysA
journal: J.Phys.A39:6415-6422,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0511092
abstract: We present new results for Casimir forces between rigid bodies which impose Dirichlet boundary conditions on a fluctuating scalar field. As a universal computational tool, we employ worldline numerics which builds on a combination of the string-inspired worldline approach with Monte-Carlo techniques. Worldline numerics is not only particularly powerful for inhomogeneous background configurations such as involved Casimir geometries, it also provides for an intuitive picture of quantum-fluctuation-induced phenomena. Results for the Casimir geometries of a sphere above a plate and a new perpendicular-plates configuration are presented.

id: hep-th/0511114
title: Lectures on Fuzzy and Fuzzy SUSY Physics
authors: A. P. Balachandran, S. Kurkcuoglu, S. Vaidya
comments: 136 pages, LaTeX, A substantially revised and updated version is being published by World Scientific
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0511114
abstract: This is a preliminary version, comments and inputs are welcome. Contents: 1. Introduction. 2. Fuzzy Spaces. 3. Star Products. 4. Scalar Fields on the Fuzzy Sphere. 5. Instantons, Monopoles and Projective Modules. 6. Fuzzy Nonlinear Sigma Models. 7. Fuzzy Gauge Theories. 8. The Dirac Operator and Axial Anomaly. 9. Fuzzy Supersymmetry. 10.Fuzzy Spaces as Hopf Algebras.

id: hep-th/0511129
title: Trapping neutral fermions with kink-like potentials
authors: Antonio S. de Castro, Marcelo Hott
comments: 13 pages
journal: Phys.Lett. A351 (2006) 379-383
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0511129
abstract: The intrinsically relativistic problem of neutral fermions subject to kink--like potentials ($\sim \mathrm{tanh} \gamma x$) is investigated and the exact bound-state solutions are found. Apart from the lonely hump solutions for $E=\pm mc^{2}$, the problem is mapped into the exactly solvable Surm-Liouville problem with a modified P\"{o}schl-Teller potential. An apparent paradox concerning the uncertainty principle is solved by resorting to the concepts of effective mass and effective Compton wavelength.

id: hep-th/0511142
title: Quantum anomaly and geometric phase; their basic differences
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 28 pages. The last sentence in Abstract has been changed, the last paragraph in Section 1 has been re-written, and the latter half of Discussion has been replaced by new materials. New Conclusion to summarize the analysis has been added. This new version is to be published in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev. D73 (2006) 025017
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0511142
abstract: It is sometimes stated in the literature that the quantum anomaly is regarded as an example of the geometric phase. Though there is some superficial similarity between these two notions, we here show that the differences bewteen these two notions are more profound and fundamental. As an explicit example, we analyze in detail a quantum mechanical model proposed by M. Stone, which is supposed to show the above connection. We show that the geometric term in the model, which is topologically trivial for any finite time interval $T$, corresponds to the so-called ``normal naive term'' in field theory and has nothing to do with the anomaly-induced Wess-Zumino term. In the fundamental level, the difference between the two notions is stated as follows: The topology of gauge fields leads to level crossing in the fermionic sector in the case of chiral anomaly and the {\em failure} of the adiabatic approximation is essential in the analysis, whereas the (potential) level crossing in the matter sector leads to the topology of the Berry phase only when the precise adiabatic approximation holds.

id: hep-th/0511204
title: Quasi-exact solvability of Dirac equation with Lorentz scalar potential
authors: Choon-Lin Ho
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: Annals Phys. 321 (2006) 2170-2182
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0511204
abstract: We consider exact/quasi-exact solvability of Dirac equation with a Lorentz scalar potential based on factorizability of the equation. Exactly solvable and $sl(2)$-based quasi-exactly solvable potentials are discussed separately in Cartesian coordinates for a pure Lorentz potential depending only on one spatial dimension, and in spherical coordinates in the presence of a Dirac monopole.

id: hep-th/0511229
title: PT-Symmetric Versus Hermitian Formulations of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Carl M. Bender, Jun-Hua Chen, Kimball A. Milton
comments: 13 pages, REVTeX, 10 eps figures
journal: J.Phys.A39:1657-1668,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0511229
abstract: A non-Hermitian Hamiltonian that has an unbroken PT symmetry can be converted by means of a similarity transformation to a physically equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian. This raises the following question: In which form of the quantum theory, the non-Hermitian or the Hermitian one, is it easier to perform calculations? This paper compares both forms of a non-Hermitian $ix^3$ quantum-mechanical Hamiltonian and demonstrates that it is much harder to perform calculations in the Hermitian theory because the perturbation series for the Hermitian Hamiltonian is constructed from divergent Feynman graphs. For the Hermitian version of the theory, dimensional continuation is used to regulate the divergent graphs that contribute to the ground-state energy and the one-point Green's function. The results that are obtained are identical to those found much more simply and without divergences in the non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Hamiltonian. The $\mathcal{O}(g^4)$ contribution to the ground-state energy of the Hermitian version of the theory involves graphs with overlapping divergences, and these graphs are extremely difficult to regulate. In contrast, the graphs for the non-Hermitian version of the theory are finite to all orders and they are very easy to evaluate.

id: hep-th/0511274
title: Classification of irreps and invariants of the N-extended Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Z. Kuznetsova, M. Rojas, F. Toppan
comments: Final version to appear in JHEP. 52 pages. The part with the complete classification of irreps (and the explicit presentation of length-4 irreps of N=9,10,11,12 and N=10 length-5 irreps) is unchanged. An extra section has been added with an entire class of off-shell invariant actions for arbitrary values N of the 1D extended supersymmetry. A non-trivial N=8 off-shell action for the (1,8,7) multiplet has been constructed as an example. It is obtained in terms of the octonionic structure constants
journal: JHEP0603:098,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0511274
abstract: We present an algorithmic classification of the irreps of the $N$-extended one-dimensional supersymmetry algebra linearly realized on a finite number of fields. Our work is based on the 1-to-1 \cite{pt} correspondence between Weyl-type Clifford algebras (whose irreps are fully classified) and classes of irreps of the $N$-extended 1D supersymmetry. The complete classification of irreps is presented up to $N\leq 10$. The fields of an irrep are accommodated in $l$ different spin states. N=10 is the minimal value admitting length $l>4$ irreps. The classification of length-4 irreps of the N=12 and {\em real} N=11 extended supersymmetries is also explicitly presented.\par Tensoring irreps allows us to systematically construct manifestly ($N$-extended) supersymmetric multi-linear invariants {\em without} introducing a superspace formalism. Multi-linear invariants can be constructed both for {\em unconstrained} and {\em multi-linearly constrained} fields. A whole class of off-shell invariant actions are produced in association with each irreducible representation. The explicit example of the N=8 off-shell action of the $(1,8,7)$ multiplet is presented.\par Tensoring zero-energy irreps leads us to the notion of the {\em fusion algebra} of the 1D $N$-extended supersymmetric vacua.

id: hep-th/0511285
title: Quantum degrees of freedom of a region of spacetime
authors: Federico Piazza
comments: 6 pages, talk given at the XXVIII Spanish Relativity Meeting, Oviedo Spain, to appear in the proceedings
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0511285
abstract: The holographic principle and the thermodynamics of de Sitter space suggest that the total number of fundamental degrees of freedom associated with any finite-volume region of space may be finite. The naive picture of a short distance cut-off, however, is hardly compatible with the dynamical properties of spacetime, let alone with Lorentz invariance. Considering the regions of space just as general ``subsystems'' may help clarifying this problem. In usual QFT the regions of space are, in fact, associated with a tensor product decomposition of the total Hilbert space into ``subsystems'', but such a decomposition is given a priori and the fundamental degrees of freedom are labelled, already from the beginning, by the spacetime points. We suggest a new strategy to identify ``localized regions'' as ``subsystems'' in a way which is intrinsic to the total Hilbert-space dynamics of the quantum state of the fields.

id: hep-th/0511302
title: A Novel "Magnetic" Field And Its Dual Non-Commutative Phase Space
authors: Subir Ghosh
comments: 8 pages LaTex, Matches journal version, PLB 638 (2006)350; One reference added and minor change in text, related to it
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0511302
abstract: In this paper we have studied a new form of Non-Commutative (NC) phase space with an operatorial form of noncommutativity. A point particle in this space feels the effect of an interaction with an "{\it{internal}}" magnetic field, that is singular at a specific position $\theta^{-1}$. By "internal" we mean that the effective magnetic fields depends essentially on the particle properties and modifies the symplectic structure. Here $\theta $ is the NC parameter and induces the coupling between the particle and the "internal" magnetic field. The magnetic moment of the particle is computed. Interaction with an {\it{external}} physical magnetic field reveals interesting features induced by the inherent fuzziness of the NC phase space: introduction of non-trivial structures into the charge and mass of the particle and possibility of the particle dynamics collapsing to a Hall type of motion. The dynamics is studied both from Lagrangian and symplectic (Hamiltonian) points of view. The canonical (Darboux) variables are also identified. We briefly comment, that the model presented here, can play interesting role in the context of (recently observed) {\it{real}} space Berry curvature in material systems.

id: math-ph/0511021
title: On the separation principle of quantum control
authors: Luc Bouten, Ramon van Handel
comments: 24 pages; see also math-ph/0508006. An extended version of this paper is in preparation
journal: In Quantum Stochastics and Information: Statistics, Filtering and Control (V. P. Belavkin and M. I. Guta, eds.), World Scientific, 2008
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0511021
abstract: It is well known that quantum continuous observations and nonlinear filtering can be developed within the framework of the quantum stochastic calculus of Hudson-Parthasarathy. The addition of real-time feedback control has been discussed by many authors, but the foundations of the theory still appear to be relatively undeveloped. Here we introduce the notion of a controlled quantum flow, where feedback is taken into account by allowing the coefficients of the quantum stochastic differential equation to be adapted processes in the observation algebra. We then prove a separation theorem for quantum control: the admissible control that minimizes a given cost function is a memoryless function of the filter, provided that the associated Bellman equation has a sufficiently regular solution. Along the way we obtain results on existence and uniqueness of the solutions of controlled quantum filtering equations and on the innovations problem in the quantum setting.

id: math-ph/0511036
title: Heisenberg Realizations, Eigenfunctions and Proof of the Kurlberg-Rudnick Supremum Conjecture
authors: Shamgar Gurevich, Ronny Hadani
comments: Preliminary version, 31 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0511036
abstract: In this paper, proof of the {\it Kurlberg-Rudnick supremum conjecture} for the quantum Hannay-Berry model is presented. This conjecture was stated in P. Kurlberg's lectures at Bologna 2001 and Tel-Aviv 2003. The proof is a primer application of a fundamental solution: all the Hecke eigenfunctions of the quantum system are constructed. The main tool in our construction is the categorification of the compatible system of realizations of the Heisenberg representation over a finite field. This enables us to construct certain "perverse sheaves" that stands motivically prior to the Hecke eigenfunctions.

id: math-ph/0511042
title: String-localized Quantum Fields and Modular Localization
authors: J. Mund, B. Schroer, J. Yngvason
comments: minor corrections
journal: Commun.Math.Phys.268:621-672,2006
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0511042
abstract: We study free, covariant, quantum (Bose) fields that are associated with irreducible representations of the Poincar\'e group and localized in semi-infinite strings extending to spacelike infinity. Among these are fields that generate the irreducible representations of mass zero and infinite spin that are known to be incompatible with point-like localized fields. For the massive representation and the massless representations of finite helicity, all string-localized free fields can be written as an integral, along the string, of point-localized tensor or spinor fields. As a special case we discuss the string-localized vector fields associated with the point-like electromagnetic field and their relation to the axial gauge condition in the usual setting.

id: math-ph/0511043
title: Effective Equations of Motion for Quantum Systems
authors: Martin Bojowald, Aureliano Skirzewski
comments: 31 pages; v2: a new example, new references
journal: Rev.Math.Phys. 18 (2006) 713-746
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0511043
abstract: In many situations, one can approximate the behavior of a quantum system, i.e. a wave function subject to a partial differential equation, by effective classical equations which are ordinary differential equations. A general method and geometrical picture is developed and shown to agree with effective action results, commonly derived through path integration, for perturbations around a harmonic oscillator ground state. The same methods are used to describe dynamical coherent states, which in turn provide means to compute quantum corrections to the symplectic structure of an effective system.

id: math-ph/0511044
title: Von Neumann Uniqueness Theorem doesn't hold in Hyperbolic Quantum Mechanics
authors: A. Khrennikov, G. Segre
comments: accepted for publication on "International Journal of Theoretical Physics"
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, vol. 45, n. 10, pages 1869-1890, October 2006
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0511044
abstract: It is shown that Von Neumann Uniqueness Theorem doesn't hold in Hyperbolic Quantum Mechanics

id: math-ph/0511046
title: Quantum Stratonovich Stochastic Calculus and the Quantum Wong-Zakai Theorem
authors: John Gough
comments: 24 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 47, 113509, 2006
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0511046
abstract: We extend the Ito -to- Stratonovich analysis or quantum stochastic differential equations, introduced by Gardiner and Collett for emission (creation), absorption (annihilation) processes, to include scattering (conservation) processes. Working within the framework of quantum stochastic calculus, we define Stratonovich calculus as an algebraic modification of the Ito one and give conditions for the existence of Stratonovich time-ordered exponentials. We show that conversion formula for the coefficients has a striking resemblance to Green's function formulae from standard perturbation theory. We show that the calculus conveniently describes the Markov limit of regular open quantum dynamical systemsin much the same way as in the Wong-Zakai approximation theorems of classical stochastic analysis. We extend previous limit results to multiple-dimensions with a proof that makes use of diagrammatic conventions.

id: math/0511278
title: Higher-Rank Numerical Ranges and Compression Problems
authors: Man-Duen Choi, David W. Kribs, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Linear Algebra and its Applications
journal: Lin. Alg. Appl., 418 (2006), 828-839.
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0511278
abstract: We consider higher-rank versions of the standard numerical range for matrices. A central motivation for this investigation comes from quantum error correction. We develop the basic structure theory for the higher-rank numerical ranges, and give a complete description in the Hermitian case. We also consider associated projection compression problems.

id: math/0511324
title: Multiple Multidimensional Morse Wavelets
authors: G. Metikas, S. C. Olhede
comments: 28 pages, 12 Postscript figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0511324
abstract: We define a set of operators that localise a radial image in radial space and radial frequency simultaneously. We find the eigenfunctions of this operator and thus define a non-separable orthogonal set of radial wavelet functions that may be considered optimally concentrated over a region of radial space and radial scale space, defined via a doublet of parameters. We give analytic forms for their energy concentration over this region. We show how the radial function localisation operator can be generalised to an operator, localising any square integrable function in two dimensional Euclidean space. We show that the latter operator, with an appropriate choice of localisation region, approximately has the same eigenfunctions as the radial operator. Based on the radial wavelets we define a set of quaternionic valued wavelet functions that can extract local orientation for discontinuous signals and both orientation and phase structure for oscillatory signals. The full set of quaternionic wavelet functions are component wise orthogonal; hence their statistical properties are tractable, and we give forms for the variability of the estimates of the local phase and orientation, as well as the local energy of the image. By averaging estimates across wavelets, a substantial reduction in the variance is achieved.

id: math/0511350
title: Spinor functions of spinors and the concept of extended spinor fields
authors: Ruslan Sharipov
comments: AmSTeX, 56 pages, amsppt style
journal: 
subjects: Differential Geometry (math.DG); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0511350
abstract: Spinor fields depending on tensor fields and other spinor fields are considered. The concept of extended spinor fields is introduced and the theory of differentiation for such fields is developed.

id: physics/0511120
title: Introduction to Quantum Cryptography
authors: Gustavo Rigolin, Andres A. Rieznik
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, text in Portuguese, to be published in Revista Brasileira de Ensino de Fisica
journal: Rev. Bras. Ens. Fis. 27, 517 (2005)
subjects: Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0511120
abstract: We show in details the four quantum key distribution protocols which initiated the important field of quantum cryptography, using an accessible language for undergraduate students. We begin presenting the BB84 protocol, which uses polarization states of photons in order to transmit cryptographic keys. Thereupon we show the E91 protocol, whose security is based on the use of singlet states to generate a random sequence of bits. We end the paper with the BBM92 and the B92 protocol. These last two protocols can be seen as simplified versions of the first two.

id: physics/0511125
title: A New Approach to Analyse $H\otimes (2h\oplus g)$ Jahn-Teller System for $C_{60}$
authors: Ramazan Koc, Hayriye Tutunculer, Mehmet Koca
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 12, (2000), 467-472
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0511125
abstract: It is now well known that electron (hole)-vibron coupling and hence Jahn-Teller (JT) effect is important understanding the properties of $C_{60}$ and related molecules. In this paper, we study $H\otimes (2h\oplus g)$ coupling case to find the potential energy surfaces for the positively charged $C_{60}$ molecule due to distortion. The $H\otimes (2h\oplus g)$ Jahn-Teller system is of particular importance as this will be the JT effect displayed by $C_{60}$ molecules removed with an electron. $C_{60}^{+}$ is obtained by removing one electron from fivefold degenerate Hu highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and a hole in HOMO interacts with the vibrational modes of $C_{60}$ and symmetry is broken. We apply the method of symmetry breaking mechanism to obtain expressions for the potential energy surface.

id: physics/0511153
title: Cavity Q, mode volume, and lasing threshold in small diameter AlGaAs microdisks with embedded quantum dots
authors: Kartik Srinivasan, Matthew Borselli, Andreas Stintz, Sanjay Krishna, Oskar Painter
comments: 6 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 14, No. 3, pp. 1094-1105, Feb. 6, 2006 (http://www.opticsexpress.org/abstract.cfm?id=87777)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0511153
abstract: The quality factor (Q), mode volume (Veff), and room-temperature lasing threshold of microdisk cavities with embedded quantum dots (QDs) are investigated. Finite element method simulations of standing wave modes within the microdisk reveal that Veff can be as small as 2(lambda/n)^3 while maintaining radiation-limited Qs in excess of 10^5. Microdisks of diameter D=2 microns are fabricated in an AlGaAs material containing a single layer of InAs QDs with peak emission at lambda = 1317 nm. For devices with Veff ~2 (lambda/n)^3, Qs as high as 1.2 x 10^5 are measured passively in the 1.4 micron band, using an optical fiber taper waveguide. Optical pumping yields laser emission in the 1.3 micron band, with room temperature, continuous-wave thresholds as low as 1 microWatt of absorbed pump power. Out-coupling of the laser emission is also shown to be significantly enhanced through the use of optical fiber tapers, with laser differential efficiency as high as xi~16% and out-coupling efficiency in excess of 28%.

id: physics/0511239
title: Coupled dynamics of atoms and radiation pressure driven interferometers
authors: D. Meiser, P. Meystre
comments: 11 pages; 13 figures; two added references and other minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0511239
abstract: We consider the motion of the end mirror of a cavity in whose standing wave mode pattern atoms are trapped. The atoms and the light field strongly couple to each other because the atoms form a distributed Bragg mirror with a reflectivity that can be fairly high. We analyze how the dipole potential in which the atoms move is modified due to this backaction of the atoms. We show that the position of the atoms can become bistable. These results are of a more general nature and can be applied to any situation where atoms are trapped in an optical lattice inside a cavity and where the backaction of the atoms on the light field cannot be neglected. We analyze the dynamics of the coupled system in the adiabatic limit where the light field adjusts to the position of the atoms and the light field instantaneously and where the atoms move much faster than the mirror. We calculate the side band spectrum of the light transmitted through the cavity and show that these spectra can be used to detect the coupled motion of the atoms and the mirror.

id: q-bio/0511007
title: Evolution as context-driven actualization of potential: Toward an interdisciplinary theory of change of state
authors: Liane Gabora, Diederik Aerts
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: Gabora, L. & Aerts, D. (2005). Evolution as context-driven actualization of potential: Toward an interdisciplinary theory of change of state. Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, 30(1), 69-88
subjects: Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/q-bio/0511007
abstract: It is increasingly evident that there is more to biological evolution than natural selection; moreover, the concept of evolution is not limited to biology. We propose an integrative framework for characterizing how entities evolve, in which evolution is viewed as a process of context-driven actualization of potential (CAP). Processes of change differ according to the degree of nondeterminism, and the degree to which they are sensitive to, internalize, and depend upon a particular context. The approach enables us to embed phenomena across disciplines into a broad conceptual framework. We give examples of insights into physics, biology, culture and cognition that derive from this unifying framework.

id: q-bio/0511037
title: Nonlinear brain dynamics as macroscopic manifestation of underlying many-body field dynamics
authors: Walter J. Freeman, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: 31 pages
journal: Physics of Life Reviews 3, 93-118 (2006)
subjects: Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/q-bio/0511037
abstract: Neural activity patterns related to behavior occur at many scales in time and space from the atomic and molecular to the whole brain. Here we explore the feasibility of interpreting neurophysiological data in the context of many-body physics by using tools that physicists have devised to analyze comparable hierarchies in other fields of science. We focus on a mesoscopic level that offers a multi-step pathway between the microscopic functions of neurons and the macroscopic functions of brain systems revealed by hemodynamic imaging. We use electroencephalographic (EEG) records collected from high-density electrode arrays fixed on the epidural surfaces of primary sensory and limbic areas in rabbits and cats trained to discriminate conditioned stimuli (CS) in the various modalities. High temporal resolution of EEG signals with the Hilbert transform gives evidence for diverse intermittent spatial patterns of amplitude (AM) and phase modulations (PM) of carrier waves that repeatedly re-synchronize in the beta and gamma ranges at near zero time lags over long distances. The dominant mechanism for neural interactions by axodendritic synaptic transmission should impose distance-dependent delays on the EEG oscillations owing to finite propagation velocities. It does not. EEGs instead show evidence for anomalous dispersion: the existence in neural populations of a low velocity range of information and energy transfers, and a high velocity range of the spread of phase transitions. This distinction labels the phenomenon but does not explain it. In this report we explore the analysis of these phenomena using concepts of energy dissipation, the maintenance by cortex of multiple ground states corresponding to AM patterns, and the exclusive selection by spontaneous breakdown of symmetry (SBS) of single states in sequences.

