id: quant-ph/0512001
title: Momentum diffusion for coupled atom-cavity oscillators
authors: K. Murr, P. Maunz, P.W.H. Pinkse, T. Puppe, I. Schuster, D. Vitali, G. Rempe
comments: More information added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 043412 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512001
abstract: It is shown that the momentum diffusion of free-space laser cooling has a natural correspondence in optical cavities when the internal state of the atom is treated as a harmonic oscillator. We derive a general expression for the momentum diffusion which is valid for most configurations of interest: The atom or the cavity or both can be probed by lasers, with or without the presence of traps inducing local atomic frequency shifts. It is shown that, albeit the (possibly strong) coupling between atom and cavity, it is sufficient for deriving the momentum diffusion to consider that the atom couples to a mean cavity field, which gives a first contribution, and that the cavity mode couples to a mean atomic dipole, giving a second contribution. Both contributions have an intuitive form and present a clear symmetry. The total diffusion is the sum of these two contributions plus the diffusion originating from the fluctuations of the forces due to the coupling to the vacuum modes other than the cavity mode (the so called spontaneous emission term). Examples are given that help to evaluate the heating rates induced by an optical cavity for experiments operating at low atomic saturation. We also point out intriguing situations where the atom is heated although it cannot scatter light.

id: quant-ph/0512002
title: Optimal cloning of single photon polarization by coherent feedback of beam splitter losses
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Toshiki Ide
comments: 10 pages, including 1 figure, extended from letter to full paper, to be published in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 8 (2006) 130
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512002
abstract: Light fields can be amplified by measuring the field amplitude reflected at a beam splitter of reflectivity R and adding a coherent amplitude proportional to the measurement result to the transmitted field. By applying the quantum optical realization of this amplification scheme to single photon inputs, it is possible to clone the polarization states of photons. We show that optimal cloning of single photon polarization is possible when the gain factor of the amplification is equal to the inverse squareroot of 1-R.

id: quant-ph/0512003
title: Regularized One Dimensional Coulomb Potential Induced by the Presence of Minimal Lengths
authors: Khireddine Nouicer
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512003
abstract: In this paper we address the problem of a particle moving in singular one dimensional potentials in the framework of quantum mechanics with minimal length. Using the momentum space representation we solve exactly the Schrodinger equation for the Dirac delta potential and Coulomb potential. The effect of the minimal length is revealed by a computation of effective generalized Dirac delta potential and Coulomb potential.

id: quant-ph/0512004
title: Remote preparation of arbitrary time-encoded single-photon ebits
authors: Alessandro Zavatta, Milena D'Angelo, Valentina Parigi, Marco Bellini
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication on Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: PRL 96, 020502 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512004
abstract: We propose and experimentally verify a novel method for the remote preparation of entangled bits (ebits) made of a single-photon coherently delocalized in two well-separated temporal modes. The proposed scheme represents a remotely tunable source for tailoring arbitrary ebits, whether maximally or non-maximally entangled, which is highly desirable for applications in quantum information technology. The remotely prepared ebit is studied by performing homodyne tomography with an ultra-fast balanced homodyne detection scheme recently developed in our laboratory.

id: quant-ph/0512005
title: Fidelities for transformations of unknown quantum states
authors: Lars Bojer Madsen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 8 pages, no figures, accepted for publication In Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512005
abstract: We present a general theoretical formalism to compute the fidelity of transformations of unknown quantum states. We then focus on the case of Gaussian transformations of continuous variable quantum systems, where, for the case of a Gaussian distribution of displaced coherent states, the theory is readily tractable by a covariance matrix formalism. We present analytical results for recently implemented teleportation and memory storage protocols for continuous variables.

id: quant-ph/0512006
title: Time-resolved and state-selective detection of single freely falling atoms
authors: Torsten Bondo, Markus Hennrich, Thomas Legero, Gerhard Rempe, Axel Kuhn
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Optics Communications 264 (2006) 271-277
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512006
abstract: We report on the detection of single, slowly moving Rubidium atoms using laser-induced fluorescence. The atoms move at 3 m/s while they are detected with a time resolution of 60 microseconds. The detection scheme employs a near-resonant laser beam that drives a cycling atomic transition, and a highly efficient mirror setup to focus a large fraction of the fluorescence photons to a photomultiplier tube. It counts on average 20 photons per atom.

id: quant-ph/0512007
title: Entanglement and dephasing of quantum dissipative systems
authors: T. Stauber, F. Guinea
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 042110 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512007
abstract: The von Neumann entropy of various quantum dissipative models is calculated in order to discuss the entanglement properties of these systems. First, integrable quantum dissipative models are discussed, i.e., the quantum Brownian motion and the quantum harmonic oscillator. In case of the free particle, the related entanglement of formation shows no non-analyticity. In case of the dissipative harmonic oscillator, there is a non-analyticity at the transition of underdamped to overdamped oscillations. We argue that this might be a general property of dissipative systems. We show that similar features arise in the dissipative two level system and study different regimes using sub-Ohmic, Ohmic and and super-Ohmic baths, within a scaling approach.

id: quant-ph/0512008
title: A modified quantum adiabatic evolution for the Deutsch-Jozsa problem
authors: Zhaohui Wei, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 2 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512008
abstract: Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm has been implemented via a quantum adiabatic evolution by S. Das et al. [Phys. Rev. A 65, 062310 (2002)]. This adiabatic algorithm gives rise to a quadratic speed up over classical algorithms. We show that a modified version of the adiabatic evolution in that paper can improve the performance to constant time.

id: quant-ph/0512009
title: Lasing without inversion in a closed four-level system
authors: Li-Feng Cai
comments: 15pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512009
abstract: We show lasing without population inversion in a closed four-level atomic system which is no longer incoherently pumped on the transition at which lasing occurs. The four-level system can overcome some limits in the typical lambda-type and V-type three-level systems, furthermore it is possible to achieve lasing even in the absence of the inversion condition for the thermal radiation fields or of the inversion of spontaneous decay rate. We find that when the detuning of probe field is equal to that of coherent coupling field, there is a peak value along with the increase of the detuning. To explain it, we bring forward that there are adiabatic and nonadiabatic stimulated Raman processes when a three-level atomic system is interacted with two coherent fields, so there are two mechanisms influencing the change of probe field. We believe that it can explain more general lasing without inversion processes because of quantum interference induced by coherent fields.

id: quant-ph/0512010
title: Generating conditional atomic entanglement by measuring photon number in a single output channel
authors: C. Genes P. R. Berman
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 013801 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512010
abstract: The polarization analysis of quantized probe light transmitted through an atomic ensemble has been used to prepare entangled collective atomic states. In a "balanced" detection configuration, where the difference signal from two detection ports is analyzed, the continuous monitoring of a component of the Stokes field vector provides a means for conditional projective measurements on the atomic system. Here, we make use of classical driving fields, in the pulsed regime, and of an "unbalanced" detection setup (single detector) where the effective photon number of scattered photons is the detected observable. Conditional atomic spin squeezed states and superpositions of such squeezed states can be prepared in this manner.

id: quant-ph/0512011
title: On Series of Multiqubit Bell's Inequalities
authors: Tomasz Paterek, Wieslaw Laskowski, Marek Zukowski
comments: 10 pages
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A. 21, 111 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512011
abstract: We overview series of multiqubit Bell's inequalities which apply to correlation functions. We present conditions that quantum states must satisfy to violate such inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0512012
title: Schmidt balls around the identity
authors: Lieven Clarisse
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 4239-4249
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512012
abstract: Robustness measures as introduced by Vidal and Tarrach [PRA, 59, 141-155] quantify the extent to which entangled states remain entangled under mixing. Analogously, we introduce here the Schmidt robustness and the random Schmidt robustness. The latter notion is closely related to the construction of Schmidt balls around the identity. We analyse the situation for pure states and provide non-trivial upper and lower bounds. Upper bounds to the random Schmidt-2 robustness allow us to construct a particularly simple distillability criterion. We present two conjectures, the first one is related to the radius of inner balls around the identity in the convex set of Schmidt number n-states. We also conjecture a class of optimal Schmidt witnesses for pure states.

id: quant-ph/0512013
title: Efficiency of coherent state quantum cryptography in the presence of loss: Influence of realistic error correction
authors: Matthias Heid, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 73, 052316 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512013
abstract: We investigate the performance of continuous variable quantum key distribution scheme in a practical setting. More specifically, we take non-ideal error reconciliation procedure into account. The quantum channel connecting the two honest parties is assumed to be lossy but noiseless. Secret key rates are given for the case that the measurement outcomes are postselected or a reverse reconciliation scheme is applied. The reverse reconciliation scheme loses its initial advantage in the practical setting. If one combines postselection with reverse reconciliation however, much of this advantage can be recovered.

id: quant-ph/0512014
title: Quantum secure direct communication with quantum encryption based on pure entangled states
authors: Xi-Han Li, Chun-Yan Li, Fu-Guo Deng, Ping Zhou, Yu-Jie Liang, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: Chinese Physics 16, 2149-2153 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512014
abstract: We present a scheme for quantum secure direct communication with quantum encryption. The two authorized users use repeatedly a sequence of the pure entangled pairs (quantum key) shared for encrypting and decrypting the secret message carried by the traveling photons directly. For checking eavesdropping, the two parties perform the single-photon measurements on some decoy particles before each round. This scheme has the advantage that the pure entangled quantum signal source is feasible at present and any eavesdropper cannot steal the message.

id: quant-ph/0512015
title: A Resource Framework for Quantum Shannon Theory
authors: I. Devetak, A.W. Harrow, A. Winter
comments: 60 pages
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th. vol. 54, no. 10, pp. 4587-4618, Oct 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512015
abstract: Quantum Shannon theory is loosely defined as a collection of coding theorems, such as classical and quantum source compression, noisy channel coding theorems, entanglement distillation, etc., which characterize asymptotic properties of quantum and classical channels and states. In this paper we advocate a unified approach to an important class of problems in quantum Shannon theory, consisting of those that are bipartite, unidirectional and memoryless. We formalize two principles that have long been tacitly understood. First, we describe how the Church of the larger Hilbert space allows us to move flexibly between states, channels, ensembles and their purifications. Second, we introduce finite and asymptotic (quantum) information processing resources as the basic objects of quantum Shannon theory and recast the protocols used in direct coding theorems as inequalities between resources. We develop the rules of a resource calculus which allows us to manipulate and combine resource inequalities. This framework simplifies many coding theorem proofs and provides structural insights into the logical dependencies among coding theorems. We review the above-mentioned basic coding results and show how a subset of them can be unified into a family of related resource inequalities. Finally, we use this family to find optimal trade-off curves for all protocols involving one noisy quantum resource and two noiseless ones.

id: quant-ph/0512016
title: New Structural Quantum Circuit Simulating a Toffoli Gate
authors: Masanari Asano, Chikara Ishii
comments: 12pages, 4figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512016
abstract: A Toffoli gate ($C^{n}$-NOT gate) is regarded as an important unitary gate in quantum computation, and is simulated by a quantum circuit composed of $C^{2}$-NOT gates. This paper presents a quantum circuit with a new configuration of $C^{2}$-NOT gates simulating a $C^{2m+1}$-NOT operation under the condition $m=2^{n}$ ($n=1,2,...$). The circuit is composed of units called multi-qubits gates (MQGs), each of which performs $m$ $C^{2}$-NOT operations simultaneously on $3m$ qubits. Simultaneous operations eliminate the need to manipulate qubits individually, as required in conventional quantum circuits. The proposed circuit thus represents a more realistic mode of operation for practical computing systems. A nuclear magnetic resonance implementation of the circuit is presented as a demonstration of the feasibility of MQG operations for practical systems.

id: quant-ph/0512017
title: Default-off inter-qubit interactions in NMR quantum computing in rotating solids
authors: Kazuyuki Takeda, Hiromitsu Tanabe, Masahiro Kitagawa
comments: 4 pages, 5 fugures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512017
abstract: A dipolar recoupling technique is introduced as a new approach to quantum gate operation in solid-state NMR under magic angle spinning. The default-off property of inter-qubit interaction provides a simple way to controlled operation without requiring elaborate qubit-decoupling pulses.

id: quant-ph/0512018
title: Eigenlevel statistics of the quantum adiabatic algorithm
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 8 pages, 10 ps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 052336 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512018
abstract: We study the eigenlevel spectrum of quantum adiabatic algorithm for 3-satisfiability problem, focusing on single-solution instances. The properties of the ground state and the associated gap, crucial for determining the running time of the algorithm, are found to be far from the predictions of random matrix theory. The distribution of gaps between the ground and the first excited state shows an abundance of small gaps. Eigenstates from the central part of the spectrum are, on the other hand, well described by random matrix theory.

id: quant-ph/0512019
title: Quantum Interrogation with particles
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: 7 pages. 7 figures. Comments are welcome. V2: Errata are corrected. Simpler model
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512019
abstract: Interaction-free measurement and quantum interrogation schemes can help in the detection of particles without interacting with them in a classical sense. We present a density matrix study of a quantum interrogation system designed for particles that need not to be perfectly absorptive and compare the results to those of the usual setup.

id: quant-ph/0512020
title: An Interaction-Free Quantum Shutter
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: 7 pages. 3 figures. Early version. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512020
abstract: We give a proposal for the physical implementation of a quantum shutter. This shutter is a mechanism able to close the passage of light through a slit when present. As it must be a quantum mechanical object, able to show superposition, interesting quantum effects are observed. Finally, we review some applications of the quantum shutter to build quantum memories and a CNOT gate.

id: quant-ph/0512021
title: Locking of accessible information and implications for the security of quantum cryptography
authors: Robert Koenig, Renato Renner, Andor Bariska, Ueli Maurer
comments: 5 pages; minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 140502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512021
abstract: The unconditional security of a quantum key distribution protocol is often defined in terms of the accessible information, that is, the maximum mutual information between the distributed key S and the outcome of an optimal measurement on the adversary's (quantum) system. We show that, even if this quantity is small, certain parts of the key S might still be completely insecure when S is used in applications, such as for one-time pad encryption. This flaw is due to a locking property of the accessible information: one additional (physical) bit of information might increase the accessible information by more than one bit.

id: quant-ph/0512022
title: Quantum superposition and entanglement of mesoscopic plasmons
authors: Sylvain Fasel, Matthaeus Halder, Nicolas Gisin, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 13 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512022
abstract: Quantum superpositions and entanglement are at the heart of the quantum information science. There have been only a few investigations of these phenomena at the mesoscopic level, despite the fact that these systems are promising for quantum state storage and processing. Here we present two novel experiments with surface plasmons propagating on cm-long metallic stripe waveguides. We demonstrate that two plasmons can be entangled at remote places. In addition, we create a single plasmon in a temporal superposition state: it exists in a superposition of two widely separated moments. These quantum states, created using photons at telecom wavelength, are collectively held by a mesoscopic number of electrons coding a single quantum bit of information; They are shown to be very robust against decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0512023
title: Characterization of single photons using two-photon interference
authors: T. Legero, T. Wilk, A. Kuhn, G. Rempe
comments: 17 pages, 12 figures
journal: Adv. At. Mol. Opt. Phys., 53:253, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512023
abstract: Adiabatic passage techniques allow the generation of single photons which are very long compared to the typical detector time resolution. Therefore the detection time of a photon can be measured within the duration of the single-photon wavepacket. As a consequence, two-photon interference can be investigated in a time-resolved manner, i.e., the coincidence rate can be measured as a function of the time between photodetections. The theoretical analysis shows that this method not only gives information about the duration of single photons, but also about their coherence time. Here we discuss how to use this method for a spectral or temporal characterization of a single-photon source.

id: quant-ph/0512024
title: Experimental implementation of heat-bath algorithmic cooling using solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance
authors: Jonathan Baugh, Osama Moussa, Colm A. Ryan, Ashwin Nayak, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature 438, 470-473 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512024
abstract: We report here the experimental realization of multi-step cooling of a quantum system via heat-bath algorithmic cooling. The experiment was carried out using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) of a solid-state ensemble three-qubit system.

id: quant-ph/0512025
title: Nonlocality without inequality for almost all two-qubit entangled state based on Cabello's nonlocality argument
authors: Samir Kunkri, Sujit K. Choudhary, Ali Ahanj, Promod Joag
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512025
abstract: Here we deal with a nonlocality argument proposed by Cabello which is more general than Hardy's nonlocality argument but still maximally entangled states do not respond. However, for most of the other entangled states maximum probability of success of this argument is more than that of the Hardy's argument.

id: quant-ph/0512026
title: Comments on "The Casimir effect upon a single plate"
authors: A. Kwang-Hua Chu
comments: 3 pages with one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512026
abstract: We make remarks on Hoodbhoy's paper [J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 10253-10256] by pointing out the single plate considered could be elastic and there will be deformations once the net (one-sided) force being upon the plate which will change the position-dependent potential imposed by Hoodbhoy.

id: quant-ph/0512027
title: Validity of adiabaticity in Cavity QED
authors: J. Larson, S. Stenholm
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512027
abstract: This paper deals with the concept of adiabaticity for fully quantum mechanically cavity QED models. The physically interesting cases of Gaussian and standing wave shapes of the cavity mode are considered. An analytical approximate measure for adiabaticity is given and compared with numerical wave packet simulations. Good agreement is obtained where the approximations are expected to be valid. Usually for cavity QED systems, the large atom-field detuning case is considered as the adiabatic limit. We, however, show that adiabaticity is also valid, for the Gaussian mode shape, in the opposite limit. Effective semiclassical time dependent models, which do not take into account the shape of the wave packet, are derived. Corrections to such an effective theory, which are purely quantum mechanical, are discussed. It is shown that many of the results presented can be applied to time dependent two-level systems.

id: quant-ph/0512028
title: Non-Integer Quantum Transitions
authors: Qi-Ren Zhang
comments: one tex file and four figures
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys.47(2007) 1017-1023
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512028
abstract: We show that in the quantum transition of a system induced by the interaction with an intense laser of circular frequency $\omega$, the energy difference between the initial and the final states of the system is not necessarily being an integer multiple of the quantum energy $\hbar\omega$.

id: quant-ph/0512029
title: Optimal universal programmable detectors for unambiguous discrimination
authors: Chi Zhang, Mingsheng Ying, Bo Qiao
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 74, 042308, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512029
abstract: We discuss the problem of designing unambiguous programmable discriminators for any n unknown quantum states in an m-dimensional Hilbert space. The discriminator is a fixed measurement that has two kinds of input registers: the program registers and the data register. The quantum state in the data register is what users want to identify, which is confirmed to be among the n states in program registers. The task of the discriminator is to tell the users which state stored in the program registers is equivalent to that in the data register. First, we give a necessary and sufficient condition for judging an unambiguous programmable discriminator. Then, if $m=n$, we present an optimal unambiguous programmable discriminator for them, in the sense of maximizing the worst-case probability of success. Finally, we propose a universal unambiguous programmable discriminator for arbitrary n quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0512030
title: Collapse of the Entangled State and the Entropy Increase in an Isolated System
authors: Qi-Ren Zhang
comments: 6 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys.49(2008) 863-865
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512030
abstract: We show that the collapse of the entangled quantum state makes the entropy increase in an isolated system. The second law of thermodynamics is thus proven in its most general form.

id: quant-ph/0512031
title: Linking entanglement and quantum phase transitions via density functional theory
authors: L.-A. Wu, M. S. Sarandy, D. A. Lidar, L. J. Sham
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052335 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512031
abstract: Density functional theory (DFT) is shown to provide a novel conceptual and computational framework for entanglement in interacting many-body quantum systems. DFT can, in particular, shed light on the intriguing relationship between quantum phase transitions and entanglement. We use DFT concepts to express entanglement measures in terms of the first or second derivative of the ground state energy. We illustrate the versatility of the DFT approach via a variety of analytically solvable models. As a further application we discuss entanglement and quantum phase transitions in the case of mean field approximations for realistic models of many-body systems.

id: quant-ph/0512032
title: Narrow-band single-photon emission in the near infrared for quantum key distribution
authors: E. Wu, Vincent Jacques, Heping Zeng, Philippe Grangier, Fran?ois Treussart, Jean-Fran?ois Roch
comments: 9 pages
journal: Optics express 14, 3 (2006) 1296-1303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512032
abstract: We report on the observation of single colour centers in natural diamond samples emitting in the near infrared region when optically excited. Photoluminescence of these single emitters have several striking features, such as a narrow-band fully polarized emission (FWHM 2 nm) around 780 nm, a short excited-state lifetime of about 2 ns, and perfect photostability at room temperature under our excitation conditions. We present a detailed study of their photophysical properties. Development of a triggered single-photon source relying on this single colour centre is discussed in the prospect of its application to quantum key distribution.

id: quant-ph/0512033
title: Application of an all-solid-state, frequency-doubled Nd:YAP laser to the generation of twin beams at 1080 nm
authors: Ruixiang Guo, Julien Laurat, Jiangrui Gao, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: Published on April 2002
journal: Applied Optics 41 (2002) 2304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512033
abstract: A laser-diode-pumped intracavity frequency-doubled Nd:YAP/KTP laser is presented. Over 110 mw of TEM00 single-frequency output power at 540-nm wavelength was obtained. The output green laser was employed to pump a semimonolithic nondegenerate optical parametric oscillator to produce intensity quantum correlated twin beams at 1080 nm, and the maximum quantum noise squeezing of 74 %(5.9 dB) on the intensity difference fluctuation between the twin beams is observed. The threshold was reduced and the stability was increased significantly when compared with similar lamp-pumped systems.

id: quant-ph/0512034
title: Quantum Information Processing with Low-Dimensional Systems
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: Comment: LaTeX, 8 pages
journal: NATO Science Series, III: Comp. Syst. Sciences 199, p 103 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512034
abstract: A `register' in quantum information processing -- is composition of k quantum systems, `qudits'. The dimensions of Hilbert spaces for one qudit and whole quantum register are d and d^k respectively, but we should have possibility to prepare arbitrary entangled state of these k systems. Preparation and arbitrary transformations of states are possible with universal set of quantum gates and for any d may be suggested such gates acting only on single systems and neighbouring pairs. Here are revisited methods of construction of Hamiltonians for such universal set of gates and as a concrete new example is considered case with qutrits. Quantum tomography is also revisited briefly.

id: quant-ph/0512035
title: Explicit Solutions for N-Dimensional Schrodinger Equations with Position-Dependent Mass
authors: B. Gonul, M. Kocak
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: J.Math.Phys.47:102101,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512035
abstract: With the consideration of spherical symmetry for the potential and mass function, one-dimensional solutions of non-relativistic Schrodinger equations with spatially varying effective mass are successfully extended to arbitrary dimensions within the frame of recently developed elegant non-perturbative technique, where the BenDaniel-Duke effective Hamiltonian in one-dimension is assumed like the unperturbed piece, leading to well-known solutions, whereas the modification term due to possible use of other effective Hamiltonians in one-dimension and, together with, the corrections coming from the treatments in higher dimensions are considered as an additional term like the perturbation. Application of the model and its generalization for the completeness are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0512036
title: Experimental implementation of high-fidelity unconventional geometric quantum gates using NMR interferometer
authors: J. Du, P. Zou, Z. D. Wang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 020302 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512036
abstract: Following a key idea of unconventional geometric quantum computation developed earlier [Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 197902 (2003)], here we propose a more general scheme in such an intriguing way: $\gamma_{d}=\alpha_{g}+\eta \gamma _{g}$, where $\gamma_{d}$ and $\gamma_{g}$ are respectively the dynamic and geometric phases accumulated in the quantum gate operation, with $\eta$ as a constant and $\alpha_{g}$ being dependent only on the geometric feature of the operation. More arrestingly, we demonstrate the first experiment to implement a universal set of such kind of generalized unconventional geometric quantum gates with high fidelity in an NMR system.

id: quant-ph/0512037
title: Optimal estimation of a physical observable's expectation value for pure states
authors: A. Hayashi, M. Horibe, T. Hashimoto
comments: v2: 5pages, typos corrected, journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062322 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512037
abstract: We study the optimal way to estimate the quantum expectation value of a physical observable when a finite number of copies of a quantum pure state are presented. The optimal estimation is determined by minimizing the squared error averaged over all pure states distributed in a unitary invariant way. We find that the optimal estimation is "biased", though the optimal measurement is given by successive projective measurements of the observable. The optimal estimate is not the sample average of observed data, but the arithmetic average of observed and "default nonobserved" data, with the latter consisting of all eigenvalues of the observable.

id: quant-ph/0512038
title: Thermal breakdown of coherent backscattering: a case study of quantum duality
authors: Christian Wickles, Cord Mueller
comments: published version with minor changes and an added figure
journal: Europhys. Lett. 74, 240-246 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512038
abstract: We investigate coherent backscattering of light by two harmonically trapped atoms in the light of quantitative quantum duality. Including recoil and Doppler shift close to an optical resonance, we calculate the interference visibility as well as the amount of which-path information, both for zero and finite temperature.

id: quant-ph/0512039
title: Joint spectrum of photon pairs measured by coincidence Fourier spectroscopy
authors: Wojciech Wasilewski, Piotr Wasylczyk, Piotr Kolenderski, Konrad Banaszek, Czeslaw Radzewicz
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 31, Issue 8, pp. 1130-1132 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512039
abstract: We propose and demonstrate a method for measuring the joint spectrum of photon pairs via Fourier spectroscopy. The biphoton spectral intensity is computed from a two-dimensional interferogram of coincidence counts. The method has been implemented for a type-I downconversion source using a pair of common-path Mach-Zender interferometers based on Soleil compensators. The experimental results agree well with calculated frequency correlations that take into account the effects of coupling into single-mode fibers. The Fourier method is advantageous over scanning spectrometry when detectors exhibit high dark count rates leading to dominant additive noise.

id: quant-ph/0512040
title: An algebraic study of unitary one dimensional quantum cellular automata
authors: Pablo Arrighi
comments: 18 pages, llncs. V1: full version. V2: essential results only, close to published version, with proofs. Explanatory pdf slides available at this http URL
journal: Proceedings of MFCS 2006, LNCS 4162, (2006), pp122-133
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512040
abstract: We provide algebraic criteria for the unitarity of linear quantum cellular automata, i.e. one dimensional quantum cellular automata. We derive these both by direct combinatorial arguments, and by adding constraints into the model which do not change the quantum cellular automata's computational power. The configurations we consider have finite but unbounded size.

id: quant-ph/0512041
title: Trellises for stabilizer codes: definition and uses
authors: Harold Ollivier, Jean-Pierre Tillich
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512041
abstract: Trellises play an important theoretical and practical role for classical codes. Their main utility is to devise complexity-efficient error estimation algorithms. Here, we describe trellis representations for quantum stabilizer codes. We show that they share the same properties as their classical analogs. In particular, for any stabilizer code it is possible to find a minimal trellis representation. Our construction is illustrated by two fundamental error estimation algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0512042
title: Manipulation of Two-Color Stationary Light Using Coherence Moving Gratings
authors: S. A. Moiseev, B. S. Ham
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512042
abstract: We propose the dynamic control of two-color stationary light in a double-lambda four-level system using electromagnetically induced transparency. We demonstrate the complete localization of two-color quantum fields inside a medium using coherence moving gratings resulting from slow-light based atom-field interactions in backward nondegenerate four-wave mixing processes. The quantum coherent control of the two-color stationary light opens a door to deterministic quantum information science which needs a quantum nondemolition measurement, where the two-color stationary light scheme would greatly enhance nonlinearity with increased interaction time.

id: quant-ph/0512043
title: Exploring surface interactions with atom chips
authors: Carsten Henkel
comments: to be submitted to Rev Mod Phys; comments and additions are welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512043
abstract: We review the current status of the field of atom-surface interactions, with an emphasis on the regimes specific to atom chips. Recent developments in theory and experiment are highlighted. In particular, atom-surface interactions define physical limits for miniaturization and coherent operation. This implies constraints for applications in quantum information processing or matter wave interferometry. We focus on atom-surface interaction potentials induced by vacuum fluctuations (Van der Waals and Casimir-Polder forces), and on transitions between atomic quantum states that are induced by thermally excited magnetic near fields. Open questions and current challenges are sketched.

id: quant-ph/0512044
title: Reduction of Guided Acoustic Wave Brillouin Scattering in Photonic Crystal Fibers
authors: D. Elser, U. L. Andersen, A. Korn, O. Gloeckl, S. Lorenz, Ch. Marquardt, G. Leuchs
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures; added numerical simulations, added references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 133901 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512044
abstract: Guided Acoustic Wave Brillouin Scattering (GAWBS) generates phase and polarization noise of light propagating in glass fibers. This excess noise affects the performance of various experiments operating at the quantum noise limit. We experimentally demonstrate the reduction of GAWBS noise in a photonic crystal fiber in a broad frequency range using cavity sound dynamics. We compare the noise spectrum to the one of a standard fiber and observe a 10-fold noise reduction in the frequency range up to 200 MHz. Based on our measurement results as well as on numerical simulations we establish a model for the reduction of GAWBS noise in photonic crystal fibers.

id: quant-ph/0512045
title: Noncyclic geometric changes of quantum states
authors: David Kult, Johan ?berg, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Extended version, new title, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022106 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512045
abstract: Non-Abelian quantum holonomies, i.e., unitary state changes solely induced by geometric properties of a quantum system, have been much under focus in the physics community as generalizations of the Abelian Berry phase. Apart from being a general phenomenon displayed in various subfields of quantum physics, the use of holonomies has lately been suggested as a robust technique to obtain quantum gates; the building blocks of quantum computers. Non-Abelian holonomies are usually associated with cyclic changes of quantum systems, but here we consider a generalization to noncyclic evolutions. We argue that this open-path holonomy can be used to construct quantum gates. We also show that a structure of partially defined holonomies emerges from the open-path holonomy. This structure has no counterpart in the Abelian setting. We illustrate the general ideas using an example that may be accessible to tests in various physical systems.

id: quant-ph/0512046
title: Hamiltonians with position-dependent mass, deformations and supersymmetry
authors: C. Quesne, B. Bagchi, A. Banerjee, V.M. Tkachuk
comments: 11 pages, no figure, presented at IV International Symposium Quantum Theory and Symmetries, Varna, Bulgaria, 15-21 August 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512046
abstract: A new method for generating exactly solvable Schr\"odinger equations with a position-dependent mass is proposed. It is based on a relation with some deformed Schr\"odinger equations, which can be dealt with by using a supersymmetric quantum mechanical approach combined with a deformed shape-invariance condition. The solvability of the latter is shown to impose the form of both the deformed superpotential and the position-dependent mass. The conditions for the existence of bound states are determined. A lot of examples are provided and the corresponding bound-state spectrum and wavefunctions are reviewed.

id: quant-ph/0512047
title: Some remarks about mass and Zitterbewegung substructure of electron
authors: P. Brovetto, V. Maxia, M. Salis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512047
abstract: It is shown that the electron Zitterbewegung, that is, the high-frequency microscopic oscillatory motion of electron about its centre of mass, originates a spatial distribution of charge. This allows the point-like electron behave like a particle of definite size whose self-energy, that is, energy of its electromagnetic field, owns a finite value. This has implications for the electron mass, which, in principle, might be derived from Zitterbewegung physics.

id: quant-ph/0512048
title: Entangled Photon Pairs from Semiconductor Quantum Dots
authors: N. Akopian, N. H. Lindner, E. Poem, Y. Berlatzky, J. Avron, D. Gershoni, B. D. Gerardot, P. M. Petroff
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 130501 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512048
abstract: Tomographic analysis demonstrates that the polarization state of pairs of photons emitted from a biexciton decay cascade becomes entangled when spectral filtering is applied. The measured density matrix of the photon pair satisfies the Peres criterion for entanglement by more than 3 standard deviations of the experimental uncertainty and violates Bell's inequality. We show that the spectral filtering erases the ``which path'' information contained in the photons color and that the remanent information in the quantum dot degrees of freedom is negligible.

id: quant-ph/0512049
title: On the conection between the Liouville equation and the Schrodinger equation
authors: Edelver Carnovali Jr., Humberto M. Franca
comments: Submitted to Physics Letters A. 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512049
abstract: We derive a classical Schrodinger type equation from the classical Liouville equation in phase space. The derivation is based on a Wigner type Fourier transform of the classical phase space probability distribution, which depends on an arbitrary constant $\alpha$ with dimension of action. In order to achieve this goal two requirements are necessary: 1) It is assumed that the classical probability amplitude $\Psi(x,t)$ can be expanded in a complete set of functions $\Phi_n(x)$ defined in the configuration space; 2) the classical phase space distribution $W(x,p,t)$ obeys the Liouville equation and is a real function of the position, the momentum and the time. We show that the constant $\alpha$ appearing in the Fourier transform of the classical phase space distribution, and also in the classical Schrodinger type equation, has its origin in the spectral distribution of the vacuum zero-point radiation, and is identified with the Planck's constant $\hbar$.

id: quant-ph/0512050
title: A Question of Self-consistent Semifactuality
authors: Ken Williams
comments: 41 pages, 22 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512050
abstract: This article is intended as a compendium and guide to the variety of Bell Inequality derivations that have appeared in the literature in recent years, classifying them into six broad categories, revealing the underlying, often hidden, assumption common to each - semifactuality. Evaluation of the attendant conditional brings to light a significant EPR loophole that has not appeared in the literature. Semantics for the inequality in the ongoing philosophic debate that led to its discovery is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0512051
title: Quantum Direct Communication with Authentication
authors: Hwayean Lee, Jongin Lim, HyungJin Yang
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures and 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512051
abstract: We propose two Quantum Direct Communication (QDC) protocols with user authentication. Users can identify each other by checking the correlation of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states. Alice can directly send a secret message to Bob using the remaining GHZ states after authentication. Our second QDC protocol can be used even though there is no quantum link between Alice and Bob. The security of the transmitted message is guaranteed by properties of entanglement of GHZ states.

id: quant-ph/0512052
title: Contextual Value-definiteness and the Kochen-Specker Paradox
authors: Ken Williams
comments: 46 pages, 26 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512052
abstract: Compatibility between the realist tenants of value-definiteness and causality is called into question by several realism impossibility proofs in which their formal elements are shown to conflict. We review how this comes about in the Kochen-Specker and von Neumann proofs and point out a connection between their key assumptions: a constraint on realist causality via additivity in the latter proof, noncontextuality in the former. We conclude that value-definiteness and contextuality are indeed not mutually exclusive.

id: quant-ph/0512053
title: Syntactic and Semantic Distribution in Quantum Measurement
authors: Ken Williams
comments: 42 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512053
abstract: The nondistributivity of compound quantum mechanical propositions leads to a theorem that rules out the possibility of microscopic deterministic hidden variables, the Logical No-Go Theorem. We observe that there appear in fact two distinct nondistributivity relations in the derivation: one with a semantics governed by an empirical conjunctive syntax, the other composed of conjunctive primitives in the quantum mechanical probability calculus. We venture to speculate how the two come to be confused in the derivation of the theorem.

id: quant-ph/0512054
title: GHz QKD at telecom wavelengths using up-conversion detectors
authors: R. T. Thew, S. Tanzilli, L. Krainer, S. C. Zeller, A. Rochas, I. Rech, S. Cova, H. Zbinden, N. Gisin
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys., Vol 8, 32 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512054
abstract: We have developed a hybrid single photon detection scheme for telecom wavelengths based on nonlinear sum-frequency generation and silicon single-photon avalanche diodes (SPADs). The SPAD devices employed have been designed to have very narrow temporal response, i.e. low jitter, which we can exploit for increasing the allowable bit rate for quantum key distribution. The wavelength conversion is obtained using periodically poled Lithium niobate waveguides (W/Gs). The inherently high efficiency of these W/Gs allows us to use a continuous wave laser to seed the nonlinear conversion so as to have a continuous detection scheme. We also present a 1.27GHz qubit repetition rate, one-way phase encoding, quantum key distribution experiment operating at telecom wavelengths that takes advantage of this detection scheme. The proof of principle experiment shows a system capable of MHz raw count rates with a QBER less than 2% and estimated secure key rates greater than 100 kbit/s over 25 km.

id: quant-ph/0512055
title: Operator equations and Moyal products -- metrics in quasi-hermitian quantum mechanics
authors: F G Scholtz, H B Geyer
comments: References added
journal: Phys. Lett B 634 (2006) 84
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512055
abstract: The Moyal product is used to cast the equation for the metric of a non-hermitian Hamiltonian in the form of a differential equation. For Hamiltonians of the form $p^2+V(ix)$ with $V$ polynomial this is an exact equation. Solving this equation in perturbation theory recovers known results. Explicit criteria for the hermiticity and positive definiteness of the metric are formulated on the functional level.

id: quant-ph/0512056
title: Paramagnetic Faraday rotation with spin-polarized ytterbium atoms
authors: M. Takeuchi, T. Takano, S. Ichihara, Y. Takasu, M. Kumakura, T. Yabuzaki, Y. Takahashi
comments: 8 pages, 20 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512056
abstract: We report observation of the paramagnetic Faraday rotation of spin-polarized ytterbium (Yb) atoms. As the atomic samples, we used an atomic beam, released atoms from a magneto-optical trap (MOT), and trapped atoms in a far-off-resonant trap (FORT). Since Yb is diamagnetic and includes a spin-1/2 isotope, it is an ideal sample for the spin physics, such as quantum non-demolition measurement of spin (spin QND), for example. From the results of the rotation angle, we confirmed that the atoms were almost perfectly polarized.

id: quant-ph/0512057
title: Quantum algorithm for optical template recognition with noise filtering
authors: Gernot Schaller, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, relation to optimal POVM added, proposal for experimental setup added, minor typos removed, references added, for higher-Quality Images please use journal ref or contact authors
journal: Physical Review A 74, 012303 and Virtual Journal of Quantum Information 6(7), (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512057
abstract: We propose a probabilistic quantum algorithm that decides whether a monochrome picture matches a given template (or one out of a set of templates). As a major advantage to classical pattern recognition, the algorithm just requires a few incident photons and is thus suitable for very sensitive pictures (similar to the Elitzur-Vaidman problem). Furthermore, for a $2^{n}\times 2^{m}$ image, $\ord(n+m)$ qubits are sufficient. Using the quantum Fourier transform, it is possible to improve the fault tolerance of the quantum algorithm by filtering out small-scale noise in the picture. For example images with $512\times512$ pixels, we have numerically simulated the unitary operations in order to demonstrate the applicability of the algorithm and to analyze its fault tolerance.

id: quant-ph/0512058
title: A universally programmable Quantum Cellular Automaton
authors: D. J. Shepherd, T. Franz, R. F. Werner
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, minor changes in introduction, fixed typos, accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512058
abstract: We discuss the role of classical control in the context of reversible quantum cellular automata. Employing the structure theorem for quantum cellular automata, we give a general construction scheme to turn an arbitrary cellular automaton with external classical control into an autonomous one, thereby proving the computational equivalence of these two models. We use this technique to construct a universally programmable cellular automaton on a one-dimensional lattice with single cell dimension 12.

id: quant-ph/0512059
title: Dephasing of quantum bits by a quasi-static mesoscopic environment
authors: J. M. Taylor, M. D. Lukin
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures, QUPON conference proceedings, v2: updated references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512059
abstract: We examine coherent processes in a two-state quantum system that is strongly coupled to a mesoscopic spin bath and weakly coupled to other environmental degrees of freedom. Our analysis is specifically aimed at understanding the quantum dynamics of solid-state quantum bits such as electron spins in semiconductor structures and superconducting islands. The role of mesoscopic degrees of freedom with long correlation times (local degrees of freedom such as nuclear spins and charge traps) in qubit-related dephasing is discussed in terms of a quasi-static bath. A mathemat- ical framework simultaneously describing coupling to the slow mesoscopic bath and a Markovian environment is developed and the dephasing and decoherence properties of the total system are investigated. The model is applied to several specific examples with direct relevance to current ex- periments. Comparisons to experiments suggests that such quasi-static degrees of freedom play an important role in current qubit implementations. Several methods of mitigating the bath-induced error are considered.

id: quant-ph/0512060
title: Time evolution of the classical and quantum mechanical versions of diffusive anharmonic oscillator: an example of Lie algebraic techniques
authors: J. G. Peixoto de Faria
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures, 2 tables
journal: European Physical Journal D 42, 153-162 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512060
abstract: We present the general solutions for the classical and quantum dynamics of the anharmonic oscillator coupled to a purely diffusive environment. In both cases, these solutions are obtained by the application of the Baker-Campbell-Hausdorff (BCH) formulas to expand the evolution operator in an ordered product of exponentials. Moreover, we obtain an expression for the Wigner function in the quantum version of the problem. We observe that the role played by diffusion is to reduce or to attenuate the the characteristic quantum effects yielded by the nonlinearity, as the appearance of coherent superpositions of quantum states (Schr\"{o}dinger cat states) and revivals.

id: quant-ph/0512061
title: Highly versatile atomic micro traps generated by multifrequency magnetic field modulation
authors: Ph.W. Courteille, B. Deh, J. Fort¨¢gh, A. G¨¹nther, S. Kraft, C. Marzok, S. Slama, C. Zimmermann
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512061
abstract: We propose the realization of custom-designed adiabatic potentials for cold atoms based on multimode radio frequency radiation in combination with static inhomogeneous magnetic fields. For example, the use of radio frequency combs gives rise to periodic potentials acting as gratings for cold atoms. In strong magnetic field gradients the lattice constant can be well below 1 micrometer. By changing the frequencies of the comb in time the gratings can easily be propagated in space, which may prove useful for Bragg scattering atomic matter waves. Furthermore, almost arbitrarily shaped potential are possible such as disordered potentials on a scale of several 100 nm or lattices with a spatially varying lattice constant. The potentials can be made state selective and, in the case of atomic mixtures, also species selective. This opens new perspectives for generating tailored quantum systems based on ultra cold single atoms or degenerate atomic and molecular quantum gases.

id: quant-ph/0512062
title: Schmidt information and entanglement in quantum systems
authors: A.Yu. Bogdanov, Yu.I. Bogdanov, K.A. Valiev
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512062
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to study entanglement of quantum states by means of Schmidt decomposition. The notion of Schmidt information which characterizes the non-randomness of correlations between two observers that conduct measurements of EPR-states is proposed. In two important particular cases - a finite number of Schmidt modes with equal probabilities and Gaussian correlations- Schmidt information is equal to Shannon information. A universal measure of a dependence of two variables is proposed. It is based on Schmidt number and it generalizes the classical Pearson correlation coefficient. It is demonstrated that the analytical model obtained can be applied to testing the numerical algorithm of Schmidt modes extraction. A thermodynamic interpretation of Schmidt information is given. It describes the level of entanglement and correlations of micro-system with its environment

id: quant-ph/0512063
title: Quantum Heat Engines Using Superconducting Quantum Circuits
authors: H.T. Quan, Y.D. Wang, Yu-xi Liu, C.P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 180402 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512063
abstract: We propose a quantum analog of the internal combustion engine used in most cars. Specifically, we study how to implement the Otto-type quantum heat engine (QHE) with the assistance of a Maxwell's demon. Three steps are required: thermalization, quantum measurement, and quantum feedback controlled by the Maxwell demon. We derive the positive-work condition of this composite QHE. Our QHE can be constructed using superconducting quantum circuits. We explicitly demonstrate the essential role of the demon in this macroscopic QHE.

id: quant-ph/0512064
title: An Algorithm for Constructing Polynomial Systems Whose Solution Space Characterizes Quantum Circuits
authors: Vladimir P.Gerdt, Vasily M. Severyanov
comments: 10 pages, 9 Postscript figures, report presented on QI 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512064
abstract: An algorithm and its first implementation in C# are presented for assembling arbitrary quantum circuits on the base of Hadamard and Toffoli gates and for constructing multivariate polynomial systems over the finite field Z_2 arising when applying the Feynman's sum-over-paths approach to quantum circuits. The matrix elements determined by a circuit can be computed by counting the number of common roots in Z_2 for the polynomial system associated with the circuit. To determine the number of solutions in Z_2 for the output polynomial system, one can use the Groebner bases method and the relevant algorithms for computing Groebner bases.

id: quant-ph/0512065
title: Relativistic Bohmian interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 9 pages, revised, talk given at conference "On the Present Status of Quantum Mechanics", Mali Losinj, Croatia, September 7-9, 2005
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.844:272-280,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512065
abstract: I present a relativistic covariant version of the Bohmian interpretation of quantum mechanics and discuss the corresponding measurable predictions. The covariance is incoded in the fact that the nonlocal quantum potential transforms as a scalar, which is a consequence of the fact that the nonlocal wave function transforms as a scalar. The measurable predictions that can be obtained with the deterministic Bohmian interpretation cannot be obtained with the conventional interpretation simply because the conventional probabilistic interpretation does not work in the case of relativistic quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0512066
title: Entanglement and Adiabatic Quantum Computation
authors: Daria Ahrensmeier
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, to appear in special edition of Can. J. Phys, Proc. of Theory Canada 1; typos corrected and minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512066
abstract: Adiabatic quantum computation provides an alternative approach to quantum computation using a time-dependent Hamiltonian. The time evolution of entanglement during the adiabatic quantum search algorithm is studied, and its relevance as a resource is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0512067
title: Cluster-state preparation and multipartite entanglement analyzer with fermions
authors: X. L. Zhang, M. Feng, K. L. Gao
comments: 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 014301 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512067
abstract: Quantum cluster states and entangled state analyzers are essential to measurement-based quantum computing. We propose to generate a quantum cluster-state and to make multipartite entanglement analyzer by using noninteracting free electrons or conduction electrons in quantum dots, based on polarizing beam splitters, charge detectors and single-spin rotations. Our schemes are deterministic without the need of qubit-qubit interaction.

id: quant-ph/0512068
title: The classical capacity for the quantum Markov channel of continuous variables
authors: Tao Qin, Meisheng Zhao, Yongde Zhang
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, some corrections have been made, figures replotted
journal: Physics Letters A 355, 308 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512068
abstract: Quantum communications using continuous variables are quite mature experimental techniques and the relevant theories have been extensively investigated with various methods. In this paper, we study the continuous variable quantum channels from a different angle, i.e., by exploring master equations. And we finally give explicitly the capacity of the channel we are studying. By the end of this paper, we derive the criterion for the optimal capacities of the Gaussian channel versus its fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0512069
title: Entanglement evaluation of non-Gaussian states generated by photon subtraction from squeezed states
authors: Akira Kitagawa, Masahiro Takeoka, Masahide Sasaki, Anthony Chefles
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 042310 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512069
abstract: We consider the problem of evaluating the entanglement of non-Gaussian mixed states generated by photon subtraction from entangled squeezed states. The entanglement measures we use are the negativity and the logarithmic negativity. These measures possess the unusual property of being computable with linear algebra packages even for high-dimensional quantum systems. We numerically evaluate these measures for the non-Gaussian mixed states which are generated by photon subtraction with on/off photon detectors. The results are compared with the behavior of certain operational measures, namely the teleportation fidelity and the mutual information in the dense coding scheme. It is found that all of these results are mutually consistent, in the sense that whenever the enhancement is seen in terms of the operational measures, the negativity and the logarithmic negativity are also enhanced.

id: quant-ph/0512070
title: Photon number resolving detection at telecom wavelength with a charge integration photon detector
authors: Mikio Fujiwara, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. to appear in Optics Letters
journal: Optics letters Vol. 31, 691 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512070
abstract: We demonstrate multiphoton discrimination at telecom wavelength with the readout frequency of 40 Hz by charge integration photon detector (CIPD). The CIPD consists of an InGaAs pin photodiode and a GaAs junction field effect transistor as a pre-amplifier in a charge integration circuit, which is cooled to 4.2 K to reduce thermal noise. The quantum efficiency of the CIPD (detector itself) is 80% for 1530 nm light, and the readout noise is measured as 0.26 electrons at 40 Hz. We can construct Poisson distributions of photo-carriers with distinguished peaks at each photo-carrier number corresponding to the signal to noise ratio of about 3.

id: quant-ph/0512071
title: Review article: Linear optical quantum computing
authors: Pieter Kok, W.J. Munro, Kae Nemoto, T.C. Ralph, Jonathan P. Dowling, G.J. Milburn
comments: 41 pages, 37 figures, many small changes, added references, and improved discussion on error correction and fault tolerance
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 79, 135 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512071
abstract: Linear optics with photon counting is a prominent candidate for practical quantum computing. The protocol by Knill, Laflamme, and Milburn [Nature 409, 46 (2001)] explicitly demonstrates that efficient scalable quantum computing with single photons, linear optical elements, and projective measurements is possible. Subsequently, several improvements on this protocol have started to bridge the gap between theoretical scalability and practical implementation. We review the original theory and its improvements, and we give a few examples of experimental two-qubit gates. We discuss the use of realistic components, the errors they induce in the computation, and how these errors can be corrected.

id: quant-ph/0512072
title: Decay of Quantum Accelerator Modes
authors: Michael Sheinman, Shmuel Fishman, Italo Guarneri, Laura Rebuzzini
comments: 16 pages, 11 encapsulated postscript figures (figures with a better resolution are available upon request to the authors); added reference for section 1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 052110 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512072
abstract: Experimentally observable Quantum Accelerator Modes are used as a test case for the study of some general aspects of quantum decay from classical stable islands immersed in a chaotic sea. The modes are shown to correspond to metastable states, analogous to the Wannier-Stark resonances. Different regimes of tunneling, marked by different quantitative dependence of the lifetimes on 1/hbar, are identified, depending on the resolution of KAM substructures that is achieved on the scale of hbar. The theory of Resonance Assisted Tunneling introduced by Brodier, Schlagheck, and Ullmo [9], is revisited, and found to well describe decay whenever applicable.

id: quant-ph/0512073
title: Multimode theory of measurement-induced non-Gaussian operation on wideband squeezed light
authors: M. Sasaki, S. Suzuki
comments: 20 pages, 14 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512073
abstract: We present a multimode theory of non-Gaussian operation induced by an imperfect on/off-type photon detector on a splitted beam from a wideband squeezed light. The events are defined for finite time duration $T$ in the time domain. The non-Gaussian output state is measured by the homodyne detector with finite bandwidh $B$. Under this time- and band-limitation to the quantm states, we develop a formalism to evaluate the frequency mode matching between the on/off trigger channel and the conditional signal beam in the homodyne channel. Our formalism is applied to the CW and pulsed schemes. We explicitly calculate the Wigner function of the conditional non-Gaussian output state in a realistic situation. Good mode matching is achieved for $BT\alt1$, where the discreteness of modes becomes prominant, and only a few modes become dominant both in the on/off and the homodyne channels. If the trigger beam is projected nearly onto the single photon state in the most dominant mode in this regime, the most striking non-classical effect will be observed in the homodyne statistics. The increase of $BT$ and the dark counts degrades the non-classical effect.

id: quant-ph/0512074
title: Time Minimal Trajectories for a Spin 1/2 Particle in a Magnetic Field
authors: Ugo Boscain, Paolo Mason
comments: 31 pages, 10 figures, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512074
abstract: In this paper we consider the minimum time population transfer problem for the $z$-component of the spin of a (spin 1/2) particle driven by a magnetic field, controlled along the x axis, with bounded amplitude. On the Bloch sphere (i.e. after a suitable Hopf projection), this problem can be attacked with techniques of optimal syntheses on 2-D manifolds. Let $(-E,E)$ be the two energy levels, and $|\Omega(t)|\leq M$ the bound on the field amplitude. For each couple of values $E$ and $M$, we determine the time optimal synthesis starting from the level $-E$ and we provide the explicit expression of the time optimal trajectories steering the state one to the state two, in terms of a parameter that can be computed solving numerically a suitable equation. For $M/E<<1$, every time optimal trajectory is bang-bang and in particular the corresponding control is periodic with frequency of the order of the resonance frequency $\omega_R=2E$. On the other side, for $M/E>1$, the time optimal trajectory steering the state one to the state two is bang-bang with exactly one switching. Fixed $E$ we also prove that for $M\to\infty$ the time needed to reach the state two tends to zero. In the case $M/E>1$ there are time optimal trajectories containing a singular arc. Finally we compare these results with some known results of Khaneja, Brockett and Glaser and with those obtained by controlling the magnetic field both on the $x$ and $y$ directions (or with one external field, but in the rotating wave approximation). As byproduct we prove that the qualitative shape of the time optimal synthesis presents different patterns, that cyclically alternate as $M/E\to0$, giving a partial proof of a conjecture formulated in a previous paper.

id: quant-ph/0512075
title: Local asymptotic normality for qubit states
authors: Madalin Guta, Jonas Kahn
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 73, 052108 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512075
abstract: We consider n identically prepared qubits and study the asymptotic properties of the joint state \rho^{\otimes n}. We show that for all individual states \rho situated in a local neighborhood of size 1/\sqrt{n} of a fixed state \rho^0, the joint state converges to a displaced thermal equilibrium state of a quantum harmonic oscillator. The precise meaning of the convergence is that there exist physical transformations T_{n} (trace preserving quantum channels) which map the qubits states asymptotically close to their corresponding oscillator state, uniformly over all states in the local neighborhood. A few consequences of the main result are derived. We show that the optimal joint measurement in the Bayesian set-up is also optimal within the pointwise approach. Moreover, this measurement converges to the heterodyne measurement which is the optimal joint measurement of position and momentum for the quantum oscillator. A problem of local state discrimination is solved using local asymptotic normality.

id: quant-ph/0512076
title: Dispersion and uncertainty in multislit matter wave diffraction
authors: G. Glionna, A. H. Blin, B. Hiller, M. C. Nemes, Marcos Sampaio, A. F. R. de Toledo Piza
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, revised manuscript
journal: PhysicaA387:1485-1490,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512076
abstract: We show that single and multislit experiments involving matter waves may be constructed to assess correlations between the position and momentum of a single free particle. These correlations give rise to position dependent phases which develop dynamically and may play an important role in the interference patterns. For large enough transverse coherence lenght such interference patterns are noticeably different from those of a classical dispersion free wave.

id: quant-ph/0512077
title: Angular minimum uncertainty states with large uncertainties
authors: Joerg B. Goette, Paul M. Radmore, Roberta Zambrini, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: v1: 14 pages, 7 figures v2: 15 pages, 7 figures, added references to other angular momentum uncertainties, added content on large uncertainties
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39 (2006) 2791-2801
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512077
abstract: The uncertainty relation for angle and angular momentum has a lower bound which depends on the form of the state. Surprisingly, this lower bound can be very large. We derive the states which have the lowest possible uncertainty product for a given uncertainty in the angle or in the angular momentum. We show that, if the given angle uncertainty is close to its maximum value, the lowest possible uncertainty product tends to infinity.

id: quant-ph/0512078
title: Roots and Fruits of Decoherence
authors: H. D. Zeh
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures: Talk given at the Seminaire Poincare (Paris, November 2005)- version 2 is a slightly extended and updated version of the proceedings (identical to v1)
journal: Quantum Decoherence, Duplantier, B., Raimond, J.-M., and Rivasseau, V., edts. (Birkh\"auser, 2006), p. 151-175
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512078
abstract: The concept of decoherence is defined, and discussed in a historical context. This is illustrated by some of its essential consequences which may be relevant for the interpretation of quantum theory. Various aspects of the formalism are also reviewed for this purpose. Contents: 1. Definition of concepts. 2. Roots in nuclear physics. 3. The quantum-to-classical transition. 4. Quantum mechanics without observables. 5. Rules versus tools. 6. Nonlocality. 7. Information loss (paradox?). 8. Dynamics of entanglement. 9. Irreversibility. 10. Concluding remarks.

id: quant-ph/0512079
title: Dynamical Consequences of Strong Entanglement
authors: Erich Joos
comments: 12 pages - Contribution to the Seminaire Poincare (Paris, November 2005)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512079
abstract: This review analyzes and compares two consequences of strong decoherence: The quantum Zeno effect and macroscopic motion described by master equations.

id: quant-ph/0512080
title: Time-shift attack in practical quantum cryptosystems
authors: Bing Qi, Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Xiongfeng Ma
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, vol. 7, pp. 073-082 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512080
abstract: Recently, a new type of attack, which exploits the efficiency mismatch of two single photon detectors (SPD) in a quantum key distribution (QKD) system, has been proposed. In this paper, we propose another "time-shift" attack that exploits the same imperfection. In our attack, Eve shifts the arrival time of either the signal pulse or the synchronization pulse or both between Alice and Bob. In particular, in a QKD system where Bob employs time-multiplexing technique to detect both bit "0" and bit "1" with the same SPD, Eve, in principle, could acquire full information on the final key without introducing any error. Finally, we discuss some counter measures against our and earlier attacks.

id: quant-ph/0512081
title: Relativity and Lorentz Invariance of Entanglement Distillability
authors: L. Lamata, M.A. Martin-Delgado, E. Solano
comments: 4 pages and 2 figures, minor modifications, published in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 250502 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512081
abstract: We study entanglement distillability of bipartite mixed spin states under Wigner rotations induced by Lorentz transformations. We define weak and strong criteria for relativistic isoentangled and isodistillable states to characterize relative and invariant behavior of entanglement and distillability. We exemplify these criteria in the context of Werner states, where fully analytical methods can be achieved and all relevant cases presented.

id: quant-ph/0512082
title: Qubit Complexity of Continuous Problems
authors: A. Papageorgiou, J. F. Traub
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512082
abstract: The number of qubits used by a quantum algorithm will be a crucial computational resource for the foreseeable future. We show how to obtain the classical query complexity for continuous problems. We then establish a simple formula for a lower bound on the qubit complexity in terms of the classical query complexity

id: quant-ph/0512083
title: Multipartite states under local unitary transformations
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Laura Cattaneo, Shao-Ming Fei, Xiao-Hong Wang
comments: Latex, 10 pages
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 56 (2005) 341-350
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512083
abstract: The equivalence problem under local unitary transformation for $n$--partite pure states is reduced to the one for $(n-1)$--partite mixed states. In particular, a tripartite system $\mathcal{H}_A\otimes\mathcal{H}_B\otimes\mathcal{H}_C$, where $\mathcal{H}_j$ is a finite dimensional complex Hilbert space for $j=A,B,C$, is considered and a set of invariants under local transformations is introduced, which is complete for the set of states whose partial trace with respect to $\mathcal{H}_A$ belongs to the class of generic mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0512084
title: Decoherence-free manipulation of photonic memories for quantum computation
authors: N. Sangouard
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 022304 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512084
abstract: We present a protocol to construct an arbitrary quantum circuit. The quantum bits (qubits) are encoded in polarisation states of single photons. They are stored in spatially separated dense media deposed in an optical cavity. Specific sequences of pulses address individually the storage media to encode the qubits and to implement a universal set of gates. The proposed protocol is decoherence-free in the sense that spontaneous emission and cavity damping are avoided. We discuss a coupling scheme for experimental implementation in Neon atoms.

id: quant-ph/0512085
title: Random measurement bases, quantum state distinction and applications to the hidden subgroup problem
authors: Pranab Sen
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512085
abstract: We show that measuring any two quantum states by a random POVM, under a suitable definition of randomness, gives probability distributions having total variation distance at least a universal constant times the Frobenius distance between the two states, with high probability. This result gives us the first sufficient condition and an information-theoretic solution for the following quantum state distinction problem: given an a priori known ensemble of quantum states, is there a single POVM that gives reasonably large total variation distance between every pair of states from the ensemble? Our random POVM method also gives us the first information-theoretic upper bound on the number of copies required to solve the quantum state identification problem for general ensembles, i.e., given some number of independent copies of a quantum state from an a priori known ensemble, identify the state. The standard quantum approach to solving the hidden subgroup problem (HSP) is a special case of the state identification problem where the ensemble consists of so-called coset states of candidate hidden subgroups. Combining Fourier sampling with our random POVM result gives us single register algorithms using polynomially many copies of the coset state that identify hidden subgroups having polynomially bounded rank in every representation of the ambient group. These HSP algorithms complement earlier results about the powerlessness of random Fourier sampling when the ranks are exponentially large, which happens for example in the HSP over the symmetric group. The drawback of random Fourier sampling based algorithms is that they are not efficient because measuring in a random basis is not. This leads us to the open question of efficiently implementable pseudo-random measurement bases.

id: quant-ph/0512086
title: Arnol'd Tongues and Quantum Accelerator Modes
authors: Italo Guarneri, Laura Rebuzzini, Shmuel Fishman
comments: 20 pages, 6 encapsulated postscript figures
journal: Nonlinearity 19 (2006) 1141-1164
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512086
abstract: The stable periodic orbits of an area-preserving map on the 2-torus, which is formally a variant of the Standard Map, have been shown to explain the quantum accelerator modes that were discovered in experiments with laser-cooled atoms. We show that their parametric dependence exhibits Arnol'd-like tongues and perform a perturbative analysis of such structures. We thus explain the arithmetical organisation of the accelerator modes and discuss experimental implications thereof.

id: quant-ph/0512087
title: Application of the Frobenius method to the Schrodinger equation for a spherically symmetric potential: anharmonic oscillator
authors: Przemyslaw Koscik, Anna Okopinska
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, published in J. Phys A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 7743-7755 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512087
abstract: The power series method has been adapted to compute the spectrum of the Schrodinger equation for central potential of the form $V(r)={d_{-2}\over r^2}+{d_{-1}\over r}+\sum_{i=0}^{\infty} d_{i}r^i$. The bound-state energies are given as zeros of a calculable function, if the potential is confined in a spherical box. For an unconfined potential the interval bounding the energy eigenvalues can be determined in a similar way with an arbitrarily chosen precision. The very accurate results for various spherically symmetric anharmonic potentials are presented.

id: quant-ph/0512088
title: Genuine three-partite entangled states with a local hidden variable model
authors: Geza Toth, Antonio Acin
comments: 5 pages including 2 figures + 1 page appendix, revtex4; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 030306(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512088
abstract: We present a family of three-qubit quantum states with a basic local hidden variable model. Any von Neumann measurement can be described by a local model for these states. We show that some of these states are genuine three-partite entangled and also distillable. The generalization for larger dimensions or higher number of parties is also discussed. As a byproduct, we present symmetric extensions of two-qubit Werner states.

id: quant-ph/0512089
title: Fast polarimetry system for the application to spin quantum non-demolition measurement
authors: M. Takeuchi, T. Takano, S. Ichihara, A. Yamaguchi, M. Kumakura, T. Yabuzaki, Y. Takahashi
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512089
abstract: We report the development of a fast pulse polarimeter for the application to quantum non-demolition measurement of atomic spin (Spin QND). The developed system was tunable to the atomic resonance of ytterbium atom and has narrow laser linewidth suitable for spin QND. Using the developed polarimeter, we successfully demonstrated the measurement of the vacuum noise, with 10^6 to 10^7 photon number per pulse.

id: quant-ph/0512090
title: Quantum "Pathfinder"
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeX 5 pp 2 fig (10 July 2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512090
abstract: It is discussed an opportunity to introduce new class of quantum algorithms based on possibility to express amplitude of transition between two states of quantum system as sum of some function along all possible classical paths. Continuous analogue of the property with integral on all possible paths is well known due to Feynman approach and ensures the correspondence with classical minimal action principle. It is less technical and rather popular introduction to earlier work about application of Lagrangian methods in quantum computing [quant-ph/0308017].

id: quant-ph/0512091
title: Quantum Filtering of Markov Signals with White Quantum Noise
authors: V. P. Belavkin
comments: Translated from Russian by R.V. Belavkin for Proceedings of an International Workshop, held July 1994, in Nottingham
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512091
abstract: Time-continuous non-anticipating quantum processes of nondemolition measurements are introduced as the dynamical realizations of the causal quasi-measurements, which are described in this paper by the adapted operator-valued probability measures on the trajectory spaces of the generalized temporal observations in quantum open systems. In particular, the notion of physically realizable quantum filter is defined and the problem of its optimization to obtain the best a posteriori quantum state is considered. It is proved that the optimal filtering of a quantum Markovian Gaussian signal with the Gaussian white quantum noise is described as a coherent Markovian linear filter generalizing the classical Kalman filter. As an example, the problem of optimal measurement of complex amplitude for a quantum Markovian open oscillator, loaded to a quantum wave communication line, is considered and solved.

id: quant-ph/0512092
title: Secure Ping-Pong quantum key distribution protocol with 33.3% bit error rate
authors: Kai Wen, Gui Lu Long
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512092
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn and replaced by quant-ph/0609207.

id: quant-ph/0512093
title: Experimental Demonstration of Quantum Entanglement Between Frequency-Nondegenerate Optical Twin Beams
authors: Xiaolong Su, Aihong Tan, Xiaojun Jia*, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: Accepted in Opt. Lett
journal: Opt. Lett. 31, 1133(2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512093
abstract: The quantum entanglement of amplitude and phase quadratures between two intense optical beams with the total intensity of 22mW and the frequency difference of 1nm, which are produced from an optical parametric oscillator operating above threshold, is experimentally demonstrated with two sets of unbalanced Mach-Zehnder interferometers. The measured quantum correlations of intensity and phase are in reasonable agreement with the results calculated based on a semi-classical analysis of the noise characteristics given by C. Fabre et al.

id: quant-ph/0512094
title: Quantum State Engineering with Continuous-Variable Post-Selection
authors: Andrew M. Lance, Hyunseok Jeong, Nicolai B. Grosse, Thomas Symul, Timothy C. Ralph, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, published
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 041801 (R) 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512094
abstract: We present a scheme to conditionally engineer an optical quantum system via continuous-variable measurements. This scheme yields high-fidelity squeezed single photon and superposition of coherent states, from input single and two photon Fock states respectively. The input Fock state is interacted with an ancilla squeezed vacuum state using a beam-splitter. We transform the quantum system by post-selecting on the continuous-observable measurement outcome of the ancilla state. We experimentally demonstrate the principles of this scheme using displaced coherent states and measure experimentally fidelities that are only achievable using quantum resources.

id: quant-ph/0512095
title: Explaining the unobserved: why quantum mechanics is not only about information
authors: Amit Hagar, Meir Hemmo
comments: 34 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512095
abstract: A remarkable theorem by Clifton, Bub and Halvorson (2003)(CBH) characterizes quantum theory in terms of information--theoretic principles. According to Bub (2004, 2005) the philosophical significance of the theorem is that quantum theory should be regarded as a ``principle'' theory about (quantum) information rather than a ``constructive'' theory about the dynamics of quantum systems. Here we criticize Bub's principle approach arguing that if the mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics remains intact then there is no escape route from solving the measurement problem by constructive theories. We further propose a (Wigner--type) thought experiment that we argue demonstrates that quantum mechanics on the information--theoretic approach is incomplete.

id: quant-ph/0512096
title: Confined Quantum Time of Arrival for Vanishing Potential
authors: Eric A. Galapon, Roland F. Caballar, Ricardo Bahague
comments: accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512096
abstract: We give full account of our recent report in [E.A. Galapon, R. Caballar, R. Bahague {\it Phys. Rev. Let.} {\bf 93} 180406 (2004)] where it is shown that formulating the free quantum time of arrival problem in a segment of the real line suggests rephrasing the quantum time of arrival problem to finding a complete set of states that evolve to unitarily arrive at a given point at a definite time. For a spatially confined particle, here it is shown explicitly that the problem admits a solution in the form of an eigenvalue problem of a class of compact and self-adjoint time of arrival operators derived by a quantization of the classical time of arrival. The eigenfunctions of these operators are numerically demonstrated to unitarilly arrive at the origin at their respective eigenvalues.

id: quant-ph/0512097
title: Quantization of Light Energy Directly from Classical Electromagnetic Theory in Vacuum
authors: Wei-Long She
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Published in Chinese Physics 14, 2514-2521(2005); Online www.iop.org/journals/cp
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512097
abstract: It is currently believed that light quantum or the quantization of light energy is beyond classical physics and the picture of wave-particle duality, which was criticized by Einstein but attracted a number of experimental researches, is necessary for the description of light. We show in this paper, however, that the quantization of light energy in vacuum, which is the same as that in quantum electrodynamics, can be derived directly from the classical electromagnetic theory through the consideration of statistics based on classical physics. Therefore, the quantization of energy is an intrinsic property of light as a classical electromagnetic wave and has no need of being related to particles.

id: quant-ph/0512098
title: Can the Quantum Measurement Problem be resolved within the framework of Schroedinger Dynamics?
authors: Geoffrey Sewell
comments: 15 pages, based on a lecture at the J. T. Lewis Memorial Conference held in Dublin, June 14-17, 2005. To be published in "Markov Processes and Related Fields"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512098
abstract: We formulate the dynamics of the generic quantum system S_{c} comprising a microsystem S and a macroscopic measuring instrument I, whose pointer positions are represented by orthogonal subspaces of the Hilbert space of its pure states. These subspaces are simultaneous eigenspaces of a set of coarse grained intercommuting macroscopic observables and, most crucially, their dimensionalities are astronomically large, increasing exponentially with the number, N, of particles comprising I. We formulate conditions under which the conservative dynamics of S_{c} yields both a reduction of the wave packet describing the state of S and a one-to-one correspondence, following a measurement, between the pointer position of I and the resultant eigenstate of S; and we show that these conditions are fulfilled, up to utterly negligible corrections that decrease exponentially with N, by the finite version of the Coleman-Hepp model.

id: quant-ph/0512099
title: Stochastic resonance effects in quantum channels
authors: Garry Bowen, Stefano Mancini
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 352 (2006), 272-275
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512099
abstract: We provide some examples of quantum channels where the addition of noise is able to enhance the information transmission rate. This may happen for both quantum and classical uses and realizes stochastic resonance effects.

id: quant-ph/0512100
title: Extremal quantum correlations for N parties with two dichotomic observables per site
authors: Ll. Masanes
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512100
abstract: Consider a scenario where $N$ separated quantum systems are measured, each with one among two possible dichotomic observables. Assume that the $N$ events corresponding to the choice and performance of the measurement in each site are space-like separated. In the present paper, the correlations among the measurement outcomes that arise in this scenario are analyzed. It is shown that all extreme points of this convex set are attainable by measuring $N$-qubit pure-states with projective observables. This result allows the possibility of using known algorithms in order decide whether some correlations are achievable within quantum mechanics or not. It is also proven that if an $N$-partite state $\rho$ violates a given Bell inequality, then, $\rho$ can be transformed by stochastic local operations into an $N$-qubit state that violates the same Bell inequality by an equal or larger amount.

id: quant-ph/0512101
title: Entanglement driven self-organization via a quantum seesaw mechanism
authors: Christoph Maschler, Helmut Ritsch, Andras Vukics, Peter Domokos
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512101
abstract: Atom-field entanglement is shown to play a crucial role for the onset of spatial self-organization of ultracold atoms in an optical lattice within a high-Q cavity. Like particles on a seesaw, the atoms feel a different potential depending on their spatial distribution. The system possesses two stable configurations, where all atoms occupy either only even or only odd lattice sites. While for a classical cavity field description a distribution balanced between even and odd sites is a stationary equilibrium state at zero temperature, the possibility of atom-field entanglement in a quantum field description yields an instant simultaneous decay of the homogeneous atomic cloud into an entangled superposition of the two stable atomic patterns correlated with different cavity fields. This effect could be generic for a wide class of quantum phase transitions, whenever the quantum state can act back on the control parameter.

id: quant-ph/0512102
title: Relationship of Quantum Entanglement to Density Functional Theory
authors: A. K. Rajagopal, R. W. Rendell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512102
abstract: The maximum von Neumann entropy principle subject to given constraints of mean values of some physical observables determines the density matrix. Similarly the stationary action principle in the case of time-dependent (dissipative) situations under similar constraints yields the density matrix. The free energy and measures of entanglement are expressed in terms of such a density matrix and thus define respective functionals of the mean values. In the light of several model calculations, it is found that the density matrix contains information about both quantum entanglement and phase transitions even though there may not be any direct relationship implied by one on the other.

id: quant-ph/0512103
title: Decoherence modes of entangled qubits within neutron interferometry
authors: Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Katharina Durstberger, Yuji Hasegawa
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 022111 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512103
abstract: We study two different decoherence modes for entangled qubits by considering a Liouville - von Neumann master equation. Mode A is determined by projection operators onto the eigenstates of the Hamiltonian and mode B by projectors onto rotated states. We present solutions for general and for Bell diagonal states and calculate for the later the mixedness and the amount of entanglement given by the concurrence. We propose a realization of the decoherence modes within neutron interferometry by applying fluctuating magnetic fields. An experimental test of the Kraus operator decomposition describing the evolution of the system for each mode is presented.

id: quant-ph/0512104
title: Linear Optics Quantum Computation: an Overview
authors: C.R. Myers, R. Laflamme
comments: 53 pages, 44 figures. Lecture notes for the International School of Physics ``Enrico Fermi'' on ``Quantum Computers, Algorithms and Chaos'', Varenna, Italy, July, 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512104
abstract: We give an overview of linear optics quantum computing, focusing on the results from the original KLM paper. First we give a brief summary of the advances made with optics for quantum computation prior to KLM. We next discuss the KLM linear optics scheme, giving detailed examples. Finally we go through quantum error correction for the LOQC theory, showing how to obtain the threshold when dealing with Z-measurement errors.

id: quant-ph/0512105
title: Deriving Landauer's erasure principle from statistical mechanics
authors: Kurt Jacobs
comments: 3 pages, revtex4. Comments appreciated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512105
abstract: We present a concise derivation of Landauer's erasure principle from the postulates of statistical mechanics, along with a small number of additional but uncontroversial axioms.

id: quant-ph/0512106
title: A class of entanglement monotones for general pure multipartite states based on complex projective variety
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 5 pages
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, Vol. 46, No. 11 (2007) 2801-2807.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512106
abstract: We construct a measure of entanglement for general pure multipartite states based on Segre variety. We also construct a class of entanglement monotones based on the Pl\"{u}cker coordinate equations of the Grassmann variety. Moreover, we discuss and compare these measures of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0512107
title: Observation of the Preservation of the Two-Photon Coherence in Plasmon-assisted Transmission
authors: Guo-Ping Guo, Xi-Feng Ren, Yun-Feng Huang, Chuan-Feng Li, Zhe-Yu Ou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages,5 figures,corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512107
abstract: We experimentally study two-photon coherence in plasmon-assisted transmission with a two-photon Mach-Zehnder (MZ) interferometer. Two collinear photons of identical or orthogonal polarization are simultaneously incident on one optically thick metal film, perforated with a periodic array of subwavelength holes. The de Broglie wavelength of plasmon-assisted transmitted photons is measured, which shows that two photons are re-eradiated by the plasmons and the quantum coherence of biphoton is preserved in the conversion process of transforming biphoton to plasmons and then back to biphoton.

id: quant-ph/0512108
title: Image method solutions for free-particle wave packets
authors: R. W. Robinett
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Eur. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512108
abstract: Using analogs of familiar image methods in electrostatics and optics, we show how to construct closed form wave packet solutions of the two-dimensional free-particle Schrodinger equation in geometries restricted by two infinite wall barriers separated by an angle Theta = pi/N. As an example, we evaluate probability densities and expectation values for a zero-momentum wave packet solution initially localized in a pi/3 = 60 degree wedge. We review the time-development of zero-momentum wave packets placed near a single infinite wall barrier in an Appendix.

id: quant-ph/0512109
title: A Lower Bound for the Sturm-Liouville Eigenvalue Problem on a Quantum Computer
authors: Arvid J. Bessen
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures; Major changes in Theorem 3 to previous version. To be published in the Journal of Complexity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512109
abstract: We study the complexity of approximating the smallest eigenvalue of a univariate Sturm-Liouville problem on a quantum computer. This general problem includes the special case of solving a one-dimensional Schroedinger equation with a given potential for the ground state energy. The Sturm-Liouville problem depends on a function q, which, in the case of the Schroedinger equation, can be identified with the potential function V. Recently Papageorgiou and Wozniakowski proved that quantum computers achieve an exponential reduction in the number of queries over the number needed in the classical worst-case and randomized settings for smooth functions q. Their method uses the (discretized) unitary propagator and arbitrary powers of it as a query ("power queries"). They showed that the Sturm-Liouville equation can be solved with O(log(1/e)) power queries, while the number of queries in the worst-case and randomized settings on a classical computer is polynomial in 1/e. This proves that a quantum computer with power queries achieves an exponential reduction in the number of queries compared to a classical computer. In this paper we show that the number of queries in Papageorgiou's and Wozniakowski's algorithm is asymptotically optimal. In particular we prove a matching lower bound of log(1/e) power queries, therefore showing that log(1/e) power queries are sufficient and necessary. Our proof is based on a frequency analysis technique, which examines the probability distribution of the final state of a quantum algorithm and the dependence of its Fourier transform on the input.

id: quant-ph/0512110
title: Efficient Construction of Photonic Quantum Computational Clusters
authors: Gerald Gilbert, Michael Hamrick, Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73 064303 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512110
abstract: We demonstrate a method of creating photonic two-dimensional cluster states that is considerably more efficient than previously proposed approaches. Our method uses only local unitaries and type-I fusion operations. The increased efficiency of our method compared to previously proposed constructions is obtained by identifying and exploiting local equivalence properties inherent in cluster states.

id: quant-ph/0512111
title: Self-Testing of Quantum Circuits
authors: Frederic Magniez, Dominic Mayers, Michele Mosca, Harold Ollivier
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512111
abstract: We prove that a quantum circuit together with measurement apparatuses and EPR sources can be fully verified without any reference to some other trusted set of quantum devices. Our main assumption is that the physical system we are working with consists of several identifiable sub-systems, on which we can apply some given gates locally. To achieve our goal we define the notions of simulation and equivalence. The concept of simulation refers to producing the correct probabilities when measuring physical systems. To enable the efficient testing of the composition of quantum operations, we introduce the notion of equivalence. Unlike simulation, which refers to measured quantities (i.e., probabilities of outcomes), equivalence relates mathematical objects like states, subspaces or gates. Using these two concepts, we prove that if a system satisfies some simulation conditions, then it is equivalent to the one it is purposed to implement. In addition, with our formalism, we can show that these statements are robust, and the degree of robustness can be made explicit (unlike the robustness results of [DMMS00]). In particular, we also prove the robustness of the EPR Test [MY98]. Finally, we design a test for any quantum circuit whose complexity is linear in the number of gates and qubits, and polynomial in the required precision.

id: quant-ph/0512112
title: Evolution of the superposition of displaced number states with the two-atom multiphoton Jaynes-Cummings model: interference and entanglement
authors: Faisal Aly Aly El-Orany
comments: 18 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 74 (2006) 563-571
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512112
abstract: In this paper we study the evolution of the two two-level atoms interacting with a single-mode quantized radiation field, namely, two-atom multiphoton Jaynes-Cummings model when the radiation field and atoms are initially prepared in the superpostion of displaced number states and excited atomic states, respectively. For this system we investigate the atomic inversion, Wigner function, phase distribution and entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0512113
title: Deriving Spin within a discrete-time theory
authors: Erasmo Recami, Giovanni Salesi
comments: 10 pages; LaTeX file
journal: Found. Phys. 37 (2007) 277-294
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512113
abstract: We prove that the classical theory with a discrete time (chronon) is a particular case of a more general theory in which spinning particles are associated with generalized Lagrangians containing time-derivatives of any order (a theory that has been called "Non-Newtonian Mechanics"). As a consequence, we get, for instance, a classical kinematical derivation of Hamiltonian and spin vector for the mentioned chronon theory (e.g., in Caldirola et al.'s formulation).

id: quant-ph/0512114
title: A Categorical Quantum Logic
authors: Samson Abramsky, Ross Duncan
comments: 23 pages, 15 figures; presented at QPL 2004
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512114
abstract: We define a strongly normalising proof-net calculus corresponding to the logic of strongly compact closed categories with biproducts. The calculus is a full and faithful representation of the free strongly compact closed category with biproducts on a given category with an involution. This syntax can be used to represent and reason about quantum processes.

id: quant-ph/0512115
title: Time evolution of the relativistic excited state in the unified formulation of quantum and kinetics dynamics
authors: S.Eh.Shirmovsky
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512115
abstract: Description of time evolution of the relativistic unstable electromagnetic system consisting of Fermi-Dirac particle interacting with electromagnetic field, in the framework of the Liouville space extension of quantum mechanics is done. The work was carried out on the basis of Prigogine's unified formulation of quantum and kinetic dynamics. The eigenvalues problem for the relativistic Hamiltonian of the electromagnetic system was solved. The obtained results can be used as the ground for the further studies of the observed physical processes such as bremsstrahlung, relaxation of excited states of atoms and atomic nuclei, particles decay.

id: quant-ph/0512116
title: Spintronic devices as quantum networks
authors: Radu Ionicioiu
comments: 6+ pages, many figs
journal: Laser Physics 16, 1444 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512116
abstract: We explore spintronics from a quantum information (QI) perspective. We show that QI specific methods can be an effective tool in designing new devices. Using the formalism of quantum gates acting on spin and mode degrees of freedom, we provide a solution to a reverse engineering problem, namely how to design a device performing a given transformation between input and output. Among these, we describe an orientable Stern-Gerlach device and a new scheme to entangle two spins by transferring the entanglement from orbital to spin degrees of freedom. Finally, we propose a simple scheme to produce hyper-entangle electrons, i.e., particles entangled in both spin and mode degrees of freedom.

id: quant-ph/0512117
title: Quantum computation using weak nonlinearities: robustness against decoherence
authors: Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, 1 table, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 052320 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512117
abstract: We investigate decoherence effects in the recently suggested quantum computation scheme using weak nonlinearities, strong probe coherent fields, detection and feedforward methods. It is shown that in the weak-nonlinearity-based quantum gates, decoherence in nonlinear media it can be made arbitrarily small simply by using arbitrarily strong probe fields, if photon number resolving detection is used. On the contrary, we find that homodyne detection with feedforward is not appropriate for this scheme because in this case decoherence rapidly increases as the probe field gets larger.

id: quant-ph/0512118
title: Reference potential approach to the inverse Schr?dinger problem: explicit demonstration of Levinson theorem and a solution scheme for Krein equation
authors: Matti Selg
comments: A comparison with WKB phase shift is made (the end of Section II) and a corresponding figure added (Fig. 3)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512118
abstract: A recently proposed reference potential approach to the inverse Schr\"{o}dinger problem is further developed. As previously, theoretical developments are demonstrated on example of diatomic xenon molecule in its ground electronic state. An exactly solvable reference potential for this quantum system is used, which enables to solve the related energy eigenvalue problem exactly. Moreover, the full energy dependence of the phase shift can also be calculated analytically, and as a particular result, full agreement with Levinson theorem has been achieved and explicitly demonstrated. In principle, this important spectral information can be reused to calculate an improved potential for the system, and such possibilities are discussed in the paper. Aiming at this goal, one may calculate an auxiliary potential with no bound states, whose spectral density for positive energies is exactly the same as that of the reference potential. To this end, one may solve Krein equation, which in the present context is simpler than using Gelfand-Levitan method. General solution of Krein equation can be expressed as a Neumann series. Convergence of this series of multi-dimensional integrals at distances not close to the origin is hard to achieve without a simple asymptotic formula for calculating the kernel of Krein equation. As proven in this paper, such an asymptotic formula exists, and its parameters can be easily ascertained.

id: quant-ph/0512119
title: On the Generators of Quantum Stochastic Master Equation
authors: V. P. Belavkin
comments: 14 pages. See also relevant papers at this http URL and this http URL
journal: Theoretical and Mathematical Physics, 110 (1997) No 1, 46--60
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512119
abstract: A characterisation of the stochastic bounded generators of quantum irreversible Master equations is given. This suggests the general form of quantum stochastic evolution with respect to the Poisson (jumps), Wiener (diffusion) or general Quantum Noise. The corresponding irreversible Heisenberg evolution in terms of stochastic completely positive (CP) maps is found and the general form of the stochastic completely dissipative (CD) operator equation is discovered.

id: quant-ph/0512120
title: The General Quantum Interference Principle and the Duality Computer
authors: Gui Lu Long
comments: 26 pages including 14 figures
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 45(5) (2006) 825-844
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512120
abstract: In this article, we propose a general principle of quantum interference for quantum system, and based on this we propose a new type of computing machine, the duality computer, that may outperform in principle both classical computer and the quantum computer. According to the general principle of quantum interference, the very essence of quantum interference is the interference of the sub-waves of the quantum system itself. A quantum system considered here can be any quantum system: a single microscopic particle, a composite quantum system such as an atom or a molecule, or a loose collection of a few quantum objects such as two independent photons. In the duality computer, the wave of the duality computer is split into several sub-waves and they pass through different routes, where different computing gate operations are performed. These sub-waves are then re-combined to interfere to give the computational results. The quantum computer, however, has only used the particle nature of quantum object. In a duality computer, it may be possible to find a marked item from an unsorted database using only a single query, and all NP-complete problems may have polynomial algorithms. Two proof-of-the-principle designs of the duality computer are presented: the giant molecule scheme and the nonlinear quantum optics scheme. We also proposed thought experiment to check the related fundamental issues, the measurement efficiency of a partial wave function

id: quant-ph/0512121
title: Normal mode splitting and mechanical effects of an optical lattice in a ring cavity
authors: Julian Klinner, Malik Lindholdt, Boris Nagorny, Andreas Hemmerich
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512121
abstract: A novel regime of atom-cavity physics is explored, arising when large atom samples dispersively interact with high-finesse optical cavities. A stable far detuned optical lattice of several million rubidium atoms is formed inside an optical ring resonator by coupling equal amounts of laser light to each propagation direction of a longitudinal cavity mode. An adjacent longitudinal mode, detunedby about 3 GHz, is used to perform probe transmission spectroscopy of the system. The atom-cavity coupling for the lattice beams and the probe is dispersive and dissipation results only from the finite photon-storage time. The observation of two well-resolved normal modes demonstrates the regime of strong cooperative coupling. The details of the normal mode spectrum reveal mechanical effects associated with the retroaction of the probe upon the optical lattice.

id: quant-ph/0512122
title: Anonymous Transmission of Quantum Information
authors: Jan Bouda, Josef Sprojcar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512122
abstract: We propose a protocol for anonymous distribution of quantum information which can be used in two modifications. In the first modification the receiver of the message is publicly known, but the sender remains unknown (even to receiver). In the second modification the sender is known, but the receiver is unknown (even to sender). Our protocol achieves this goal with unconditional security using classical anonymous message transfer proposed by Chaum as a subprotocol.

id: quant-ph/0512123
title: Afshar's Experiment does not show a Violation of Complementarity
authors: Ole Steuernagel
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512123
abstract: A recent experiment performed by S. Afshar [first reported by M. Chown, New Scientist {\bf 183}, 30 (2004)] is analyzed. It was claimed that this experiment could be interpreted as a demonstration of a violation of the principle of complementarity in quantum mechanics. Instead, it is shown here that it can be understood in terms of classical wave optics and the standard interpretation of quantum mechanics. Its performance is quantified and it is concluded that the experiment is suboptimal in the sense that it does not fully exhaust the limits imposed by quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0512124
title: Multipartite entanglement in three-mode Gaussian states of continuous variable systems: Quantification, sharing structure and decoherence
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Alessio Serafini, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures. (v2) References updated, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032345 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512124
abstract: We present a complete analysis of multipartite entanglement of three-mode Gaussian states of continuous variable systems. We derive standard forms which characterize the covariance matrix of pure and mixed three-mode Gaussian states up to local unitary operations, showing that the local entropies of pure Gaussian states are bound to fulfill a relationship which is stricter than the general Araki-Lieb inequality. Quantum correlations will be quantified by a proper convex roof extension of the squared logarithmic negativity (the contangle), satisfying a monogamy relation for multimode Gaussian states, whose proof will be reviewed and elucidated. The residual contangle, emerging from the monogamy inequality, is an entanglement monotone under Gaussian local operations and classical communication and defines a measure of genuine tripartite entanglement. We analytically determine the residual contangle for arbitrary pure three-mode Gaussian states and study the distribution of quantum correlations for such states. This will lead us to show that pure, symmetric states allow for a promiscuous entanglement sharing, having both maximum tripartite residual entanglement and maximum couplewise entanglement between any pair of modes. We thus name these states GHZ/$W$ states of continuous variable systems because they are simultaneous continuous-variable counterparts of both the GHZ and the $W$ states of three qubits. We finally consider the action of decoherence on tripartite entangled Gaussian states, studying the decay of the residual contangle. The GHZ/$W$ states are shown to be maximally robust under both losses and thermal noise.

id: quant-ph/0512125
title: Quantum information and computation
authors: Jeffrey Bub
comments: 103 pages, no figures. Forthcoming as a chapter in Handbook of Philosophy of Physics, edited by John Earman and Jeremy Butterfield (Elsevier/NH)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512125
abstract: This article deals with theoretical developments in the subject of quantum information and quantum computation, and includes an overview of classical information and some relevant quantum mechanics. The discussion covers topics in quantum communication, quantum cryptography, and quantum computation, and concludes by considering whether a perspective in terms of quantum information sheds new light on the conceptual problems of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0512126
title: Study on Dynamics of N Level System of Atom by Laser Fields
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex; 20 pages; 3 figures. The paper was corrected considerably by use of (quant-ph/0604115)
journal: Contemporary Mathematics and Its Applications (in Russian), 44(2007), 3-15
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512126
abstract: This paper is an extension of Fujii et al (quant--ph/0307066) and in this one we again treat a model of atom with n energy levels interacting with n(n-1)/2 external laser fields, which is a natural extension of usual two level system. Then the rotating wave approximation (RWA) is assumed from the beginning. To solve the Schr{\" o}dinger equation we set the {\bf consistency condition} in our terminology and reduce it to a matrix equation with symmetric matrix $Q$ consisting of coupling constants. However, to calculate $\exp(-itQ)$ {\bfexplicitly} is not easy. In the case of three and four level systems we determine it in a complete manner, so our model in these levels becomes realistic. In last, we make a comment on Cavity QED quantum computation based on three energy levels of atoms as a forthcoming target.

id: quant-ph/0512127
title: A Possible Generalization of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Yu Tian
comments: 5 pages, revtex4; largely revised with the time-ordering-modified Feynman path integral (Eq. (7)) added and the original example replaced by an interesting model of a point particle in a background gauge field, where the gauge invariance is naturally realized by a Wilson line structure, minor corrections and additions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512127
abstract: A "minimal" generalization of Quantum Mechanics is proposed, where the Lagrangian or the action functional is a mapping from the (classical) states of a system to the Lie algebra of a general compact Lie group, and the wave function takes values in the corresponding group algebra. This formalism admits a probability interpretation and a suitable dynamics, but has no obvious classical correspondence. Allowing the Lagrangian or the action functional to take values in a general Lie algebra instead of only the real number field (actually the u(1) algebra) enlarges the extent of possible physical laws that can describe the real world. The generalized quantum dynamics of a point particle in a background gauge field is given as an example, which realizes the gauge invariance by a Wilson line structure and shows that some Schrodinger-like equation can be deduced within this formalism. Some possible developments of this formalism are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0512128
title: Long-Distance Quantum Communication with Neutral Atoms
authors: Mohsen Razavi, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512128
abstract: The architecture proposed by Duan, Lukin, Cirac, and Zoller (DLCZ) for long-distance quantum communication with atomic ensembles is analyzed. Its fidelity and throughput in entanglement distribution, entanglement swapping, and quantum teleportation is derived within a framework that accounts for multiple excitations in the ensembles as well as loss and asymmetries in the channel. The DLCZ performance metrics that are obtained are compared to the corresponding results for the trapped-atom quantum communication architecture that has been proposed by a team from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Northwestern University (MIT/NU). Both systems are found to be capable of high-fidelity entanglement distribution. However, the DLCZ scheme only provides conditional teleportation and repeater operation, whereas the MIT/NU architecture affords full Bell-state measurements on its trapped atoms. Moreover, it is shown that achieving unity conditional fidelity in DLCZ teleportation and repeater operation requires ideal photon-number resolving detectors. The maximum conditional fidelities for DLCZ teleportation and repeater operation that can be realized with non-resolving detectors are 1/2 and 2/3, respectively.

id: quant-ph/0512129
title: Quantum motion of a neutron in a wave-guide in the gravitational field
authors: A.Yu. Voronin, H. Abele, S. Baessler, V.V. Nesvizhevsky, A.K. Petukhov, K.V. Protasov, A. Westphal
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev. D73 (2006) 044029
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512129
abstract: We study theoretically the quantum motion of a neutron in a horizontal wave-guide in the gravitational field of the Earth. The wave-guide in question is equipped with a mirror below and a rough absorber above. We show that such a system acts as a quantum filter, i.e. it effectively absorbs quantum states with sufficiently high transversal energy but transmits low-energy states. The states transmitted are mainly determined by the potential well formed by the gravitational field of the Earth and the mirror. The formalism developed for quantum motion in an absorbing wave-guide is applied to the description of the recent experiment on the observation of the quantum states of neutrons in the Earth's gravitational field.

id: quant-ph/0512130
title: Cluster state quantum computation for many-level systems
authors: William Hall
comments: 26 pages, 9 figures, LaTeX. Some streamlining of presentation and improved example. To appear in Quantum Information and Computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512130
abstract: The cluster state model for quantum computation [Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 5188] outlines a scheme that allows one to use measurement on a large set of entangled quantum systems in what is known as a cluster state to undertake quantum computations. The model itself and many works dedicated to it involve using entangled qubits. In this paper we consider the issue of using entangled qudits instead. We present a complete framework for cluster state quantum computation using qudits, which not only contains the features of the original qubit model but also contains the new idea of adaptive computation: via a change in the classical computation that helps to correct the errors that are inherent in the model, the implemented quantum computation can be changed. This feature arises through the extra degrees of freedom that appear when using qudits. Finally, for prime dimensions, we give a very explicit description of the model, making use of mutually unbiased bases.

id: quant-ph/0512131
title: Decoherence according to Environment and Self Induced Decoherences
authors: M. Castagnino, R. Laura
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512131
abstract: A generalized decoherence formalism that can be used both in open (using Environment Induced Decoherence-EID) and closed (using Self Induced Decoherence-SID) quantum systems is sketched

id: quant-ph/0512132
title: Towards bringing Quantum Mechanics and General Relativity together
authors: Elemer E Rosinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512132
abstract: Two questions are suggested as having priority when trying to bring together Quantum Mechanics and General Relativity. Both questions have a scope which goes well beyond Physics, and in particular Quantum Mechanics and General Relativity.

id: quant-ph/0512133
title: Broadband Spectrally Correlated Light - Properties, Sources and Applications (Ph.D Thesis)
authors: Avi Pe'er
comments: 62 pages. Includes also several published papers
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512133
abstract: The coherence properties of broadband down converted light are investigated theoretically and experimentally in both the classical and quantum mechanical frameworks. Although broadband down converted light is one-photon incoherent noise, it possesses unique two-photon coherence. Thus, for performing two-photon processes, down-converted light is equivalent to coherent ultrashort pulses in some aspects and to coherent CW laser radiation in others. This equivalence is theoretically established and experimentally demonstrated in the classical, high-power regime. Two applications that take advantage of multi-photon coherence are then described in detail; one for optical spread spectrum communication and the other for sub-diffraction limit optical lithography. A key part of this research is the design and implementation of an efficient source that generates high-power broadband down conversion in a cavity. A broadband oscillation in the cavity is ensured by a mechanism very similar to passive mode-locking of ultrashort pulse laser sources, which we term as pair-wise mode locking, thus extending the equivalence to ultrashort pulses to the light generating sources also. Finally, the quantum mechanical properties of broadband down-conversion are explored experimentally, by performing a two-photon process (sum frequency generation) at the low power level of entangled photon pairs. The non-classical nature of the light is expressed by a linear intensity dependence of the non-linear process. Temporal shaping with femtosecond resolution of the entangled photon pairs is demonstrated using this non-linear interaction.

id: quant-ph/0512134
title: Present status of controversies regarding the thermal Casimir force
authors: V.M.Mostepanenko, V.B.Bezerra, R.S.Decca, B.Geyer, E.Fischbach, G.L.Klimchitskaya, D.E.Krause, D.Lopez, C.Romero
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure, iopart.cls is used, to appear in J. Phys. A (special issue: Proceedings of QFEXT05, Barcelona, Sept. 5-9, 2005)
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 6589-6600
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512134
abstract: It is well known that, beginning in 2000, the behavior of the thermal correction to the Casimir force between real metals has been hotly debated. As was shown by several research groups, the Lifshitz theory, which provides the theoretical foundation for the calculation of both the van der Waals and Casimir forces, leads to different results depending on the model of metal conductivity used. To resolve these controversies, the theoretical considerations based on the principles of thermodynamics and new experimental tests were invoked. We analyze the present status of the problem (in particular, the advantages and disadvantages of the approaches based on the surface impedance and on the Drude model dielectric function) using rigorous analytical calculations of the entropy of a fluctuating field. We also discuss the results of a new precise experiment on the determination of the Casimir pressure between two parallel plates by means of a micromechanical torsional oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0512135
title: Effective Hamiltonians in quantum physics: resonances and geometric phase
authors: A.R.P.Rau, D.Uskov
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 74, C31 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512135
abstract: Effective Hamiltonians are often used in quantum physics, both in time dependent and time independent contexts. Analogies are drawn between the two usages, the discussion framed particularly for the geometric phase of a time-dependent Hamiltonian and for resonances as stationary states of a time-independent Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0512136
title: A New Wave Equation For a Continuous Nondemolition Measurement
authors: V. P. Belavkin
comments: 7 pages. See also related papers at this http URL and this http URL
journal: Physics Letters A, 140 (1989), No 7,8, pp 355--358
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512136
abstract: A stochastic model for nondemolition continuous measurement in a quantum system is given. It is shown that the posterior dynamics, including a continuous collapse of the wave function, is described by a nonlinear stochastic wave equation. For a particle in an electromagnetic field it reduces the Schroedinger equation with extra imaginary stochastic potentials.

id: quant-ph/0512137
title: A Quantum Particle Undergoing Continuous Observation
authors: V.P. Belavkin, P. Staszewski
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A, 140 (1989) No 7,8, pp 359 --362
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512137
abstract: A stochastic model for the continuous nondemolition ohservation of the position of a quantum particle in a potential field and a boson reservoir is given. lt is shown that any Gaussian wave function evolving according to the posterior wave equation with a quadratic potential collapses to a Gaussian wave packet given by the stationary solution of this equation.

id: quant-ph/0512138
title: Nondemolition observation of a free quantum particle
authors: V. P. Belavkin, P. Staszewski
comments: 14 pages. See more related papers at the URL: this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 45 (1992) No 3, 1347--1356
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512138
abstract: A stochastic model of a continuous nondemolition observation of a free quantum Brownian motion is presented. The nonlinear stochastic wave equation describing the posterior dynamics of the observed quantum system is solved in a Gaussian case for a free particle of mass m. It is shown that the dispersion of the wave packet does not increase to infinity like for the free unobserved particle but tends to the finite limit.

id: quant-ph/0512139
title: Entanglement of Assistance is not a bipartite measure nor a tripartite monotone
authors: Gilad Gour, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 5 pages, revised, title changed, added a discussion explaining why entanglement of assistance can not be considered as a bipartite measure, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062331 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512139
abstract: The entanglement of assistance quantifies the entanglement that can be generated between two parties, Alice and Bob, given assistance from a third party, Charlie, when the three share a tripartite state and where the assistance consists of Charlie initially performing a measurement on his share and communicating the result to Alice and Bob through a one-way classical channel. We argue that if this quantity is to be considered an operational measure of entanglement, then it must be understood to be a tripartite rather than a bipartite measure. We compare it with a distinct tripartite measure that quantifies the entanglement that can be generated between Alice and Bob when they are allowed to make use of a two-way classical channel with Charlie. We show that the latter quantity, which we call the entanglement of collaboration, can be greater than the entanglement of assistance. This demonstrates that the entanglement of assistance (considered as a tripartite measure of entanglement), and its multipartite generalizations such as the localizable entanglement, are not entanglement monotones, thereby undermining their operational significance.

id: quant-ph/0512140
title: A Simple Five-Dimensional Wave Equation for a Dirac Particle
authors: N. Redington, M.A.K. Lodhi
comments: 17 pages. Added section discussing prediction of new scalar field
journal: J.Math.Phys.48:022303,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512140
abstract: A first-order relativistic wave equation is constructed in five dimensions. Its solutions are eight-component spinors, which are interpreted as single-particle fermion wave functions in four-dimensional spacetime. Use of a ``cylinder condition'' (the removal of explicit dependence on the fifth coordinate) reduces each eight-component solution to a pair of degenerate four-component spinors obeying the Dirac equation. This five-dimensional method is used to obtain solutions for a free particle and for a particle moving in the Coulomb potential. It is shown that, under the cylinder condition, the results are the same as those from the Dirac equation. Without the cylinder condition, on the other hand, the equation predicts some interesting new phenomena. It implies the existence of a scalar potential, and for zero-mass particles it leads to a four-dimensional fermionic equation analogous to Maxwell's equation with sources.

id: quant-ph/0512141
title: Homodyne detection and optical parametric amplification: a classical approach applied to proposed "loophole-free" Bell tests
authors: Caroline H Thompson
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures. Submitted 28 November 2005 to J. Phys. B. For related material see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512141
abstract: Recent proposed ``loophole-free'' Bell tests are discussed in the light of classical models for the relevant features of optical parametric amplification and homodyne detection. The Bell tests themselves are uncontroversial: there are no obvious loopholes that might cause bias and hence, if the world does, after all, obey local realism, no violation of a Bell inequality will be observed. Interest centres around the question of whether or not the proposed criterion for ``non-classical'' light is valid. If it is not, then the experiments will fail in their initial concept, since both quantum theorists and local realists will agree that we are seeing a purely classical effect. The Bell test, though, is not the only criterion by which the quantum-mechanical and local realist models can be judged. It is suggested that the quantum-mechanical models given in the proposals will also fail in their detailed predictions. If the experiments are extended by including a range of parameter values and by analysing, in addition to the proposed digitised voltage differences, the raw voltages, the models can be compared in their overall performance and plausibility.

id: quant-ph/0512142
title: Unambiguous discrimination among quantum operations
authors: Guoming Wang, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 042301(2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512142
abstract: We address the problem of unambiguous discrimination among a given set of quantum operations. The necessary and sufficient condition for them to be unambiguously distinguishable is derived in the cases of single use and multiple uses respectively. For the latter case we explicitly construct the input states and corresponding measurements that accomplish the task. It is found that the introduction of entanglement can improve the discrimination.

id: quant-ph/0512143
title: Exploring Quantum Phase Transitions with a Novel Sublattice Entanglement Scenario
authors: Y. Chen, Z. D. Wang, F. C. Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B73, 224414(2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512143
abstract: We introduce a new measure called reduced entropy of sublattice to quantify entanglement in spin, electron and boson systems. By analyzing this quantity, we reveal an intriguing connection between quantum entanglement and quantum phase transitions in various strongly correlated systems: the local extremes of reduced entropy and its first derivative as functions of the coupling constant coincide respectively with the first and second order transition points. Exact numerical studies merely for small lattices reproduce several well-known results, demonstrating that our scenario is quite promising for exploring quantum phase transitions.

id: quant-ph/0512144
title: Heisenberg limited measurements with superconducting circuits
authors: Alexandre Guillaume, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: RevTex4, 4 pages. Accepted for publication as a Rapid Communication in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512144
abstract: We describe an assembly of N superconducting qubits contained in a single-mode cavity. In the dispersive regime, the correlation between the cavity field and each qubit results in an effective interaction between qubits that can be used to dynamically generate maximally entangled states. With only collective manipulations, we show how to create maximally entangled quantum states and how to use these states to reach the Heisenberg limit in the determination of the qubit bias control parameter (gate charge for charge qubits, external magnetic flux for rf-SQUIDs).

id: quant-ph/0512145
title: Persistent single-photon production by tunable on-chip micromaser with a superconducting quantum circuit
authors: J. Q. You, Yu-xi Liu, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 104516 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512145
abstract: We propose a tunable on-chip micromaser using a superconducting quantum circuit (SQC). By taking advantage of externally controllable state transitions, a state population inversion can be achieved and preserved for the two working levels of the SQC and, when needed, the SQC can generate a single photon. We can regularly repeat these processes in each cycle when the previously generated photon in the cavity is decaying, so that a periodic sequence of single photons can be produced persistently. This provides a controllable way for implementing a persistent single-photon source on a microelectronic chip.

id: quant-ph/0512146
title: The limits of the rotating wave approximation in the electromagnetic field propagation in a cavity
authors: I. Dolce, R. Passante, F. Persico
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512146
abstract: We consider three two-level atoms inside a one-dimensional cavity, interacting with the electromagnetic field in the rotating wave approximation (RWA), commonly used in the atom-radiation interaction. One of the three atoms is initially excited, and the other two are in their ground state. We numerically calculate the propagation of the field spontaneously emitted by the excited atom and scattered by the second atom, as well as the excitation probability of the second and third atom. The results obtained are analyzed from the point of view of relativistic causality in the atom-field interaction. We show that, when the RWA is used, relativistic causality is obtained only if the integrations over the field frequencies are extended to $-\infty$; on the contrary, noncausal tails remain even if the number of field modes is increased. This clearly shows the limit of the RWA in dealing with subtle problems such as relativistic causality in the atom-field interaction.

id: quant-ph/0512147
title: The Problem of Quantum Measurement and Entangled States: Interactions Among States and Formation of Detector Images
authors: Fariel Shafee
comments: A comprehensive review has been added and Bell's inequality has been explained in terms of image formation as explained in our previous model. This paper is based on some of my personal published papers and the draft I am replacing (all dated drafts can be found in arxiv), that were written as personal projects while I was at Princeton. I have now left Princeton
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512147
abstract: We first review and critically examine some basic concepts and ambiguities related to quantum mechanics and quantum measurement to understand the success and shortcomings of current theories. We also touch on ideas regarding expression of variables within a complex system. Then we discuss a model for quantum measurement proposed by us, in which the quantum system is allowed to interact with its image created within the detector, followed by a first passage random walk in the Hilbert space. Definitions and ideas from the first part are used in the context of the model. In the end, we discuss the puzzling question of entanglement. We propose how borrowing concepts from our model for quantum measurement may enable us to formulate a hidden variable scenario that does not violate Bell's inequality.

id: quant-ph/0512148
title: Quantum teleportation between nanomechanical modes
authors: L. Tian, S. M. Carr
comments: submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74, 125314 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512148
abstract: We study a quantum teleportation scheme between two nanomechanical modes without local interaction. The nanomechanical modes are linearly coupled to and connected by the continuous variable modes of a superconducting circuit consisting of a transmission line and Josephson junctions. We calculate the fidelity of transferring Gaussian states at finite temperature and non-unit detector efficiency. For coherent state, a fidelity above the classical limit of 1/2 can be achieved for a large range of parameters.

id: quant-ph/0512149
title: Quantum state transfer from light to molecules via coherent two-color photo-association in an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Hui Jing, Ming-Sheng Zhan
comments: 1 figure, accepted by Eur.Phys.J.D on Dec.15,2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512149
abstract: By using a quantized input light, we theoretically revisit the coherent two-color photo-association process in an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate. Under the single-mode approximations, we show two interesting regimes of the light transmission and the molecular generation. The quantum state transfer from light to molecules is exhibited, without or with the depletion of trapped atoms.

id: quant-ph/0512150
title: Statistical Separability and the Consistency between Quantum Theory, Relativity and the Causality
authors: Qi-Ren Zhang
comments: 2 pages 0 figure
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys.47(2007) 826-828
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512150
abstract: We show that the non-locality together with the statistical character makes the world statistically separable. The super-luminal signal transmission is impossible. The quantum theory is therefore consistent with the relativity and the causality.

id: quant-ph/0512151
title: Quantum measurements of spatial conjugate variables: Displacement and tilt of a Gaussian beam
authors: Vincent Delaubert, Nicolas Treps, Charles C. Harb, Ping Koy Lam, Hans A. Bachor
comments: 3 pages
journal: Optics Letters 31 (2006) 1537
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512151
abstract: We consider the problem of measurement of optical transverse profile parameters and their conjugate variable. Using multi-mode analysis, we introduce the concept of detection noise-modes. For Gaussian beams, displacement and tilt are a pair of transverse profile conjugate variables. We experimentally demonstrate their optimal encoding and detection with a spatial homodyning scheme. Using higher order spatial mode squeezing, we show the sub-shot noise measurements for the displacement and tilt of a Gaussian beam.

id: quant-ph/0512152
title: Optical storage of high density information beyond the diffraction limit : a quantum study
authors: Vincent Delaubert, Nicolas Treps, Gao Bo, Claude Fabre
comments: 9 pages
journal: Physical Review A 73 (2006) 013820
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512152
abstract: We propose an optical read-out scheme allowing a demonstration of principle of information extraction below the diffraction limit. This technique, which could lead to improvement in data read-out density onto optical discs, is independent from the wavelength and numerical aperture of the reading apparatus, and involves a multi-pixel array detector. Furthermore, we show how to use non classical light in order to perform bit discrimination beyond the quantum noise limit.

id: quant-ph/0512153
title: Asymptotic violation of Bell inequalities and distillability
authors: Ll. Masanes
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 050503 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512153
abstract: A multipartite quantum state violates a Bell inequality asymptotically if, after jointly processing by general local operations an arbitrarily large number of copies of it, the result violates the inequality. In the bipartite case we show that asymptotic violation of the CHSH-inequality is equivalent to distillability. Hence, bound entangled states do not violate it. In the multipartite case we consider the complete set of full-correlation Bell inequalities with two dichotomic observables per site, also called WWZB-inequalities. We show that asymptotic violation of any of these inequalities by a multipartite state implies that pure-state entanglement can be distilled from it, although the corresponding distillation protocol may require that some of the parties join into several groups. We also obtain the extreme points of the set of distributions generated by measuring $N$ quantum systems with two dichotomic observables per site. It is shown that when considering the violation of any Bell inequality after preprocessing, either deterministic LOCC or stochastic local operations (without communication) is enough.

id: quant-ph/0512154
title: A concise guide to complex Hadamard matrices
authors: Wojciech Tadej, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 56 pages, no figures, an updated on line version at this http URL
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 13, 133-177 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO); Rings and Algebras (math.RA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512154
abstract: Complex Hadamard matrices, consisting of unimodular entries with arbitrary phases, play an important role in the theory of quantum information. We review basic properties of complex Hadamard matrices and present a catalogue of inequivalent cases known for dimension N=2,...,16. In particular, we explicitly write down some families of complex Hadamard matrices for N=12,14 and 16, which we could not find in the existing literature.

id: quant-ph/0512155
title: Valence bond solid formalism for d-level one-way quantum computation
authors: Sean Clark
comments: 26 pages, 9 figures. Published in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 2701-2721
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512155
abstract: The d-level or qudit one-way quantum computer (d1WQC) is described using the valence bond solid formalism and the generalised Pauli group. This formalism provides a transparent means of deriving measurement patterns for the implementation of quantum gates in the computational model. We introduce a new universal set of qudit gates and use it to give a constructive proof of the universality of d1WQC. We characterise the set of gates that can be performed in one parallel time step in this model.

id: quant-ph/0512156
title: More on the Asymmetric Infinite Square Well: Energy Eigenstates with Zero Curvature
authors: L. P. Gilbert, M. Belloni, M. A. Doncheski, R. W. Robinett
comments: 17 pages, 5 .eps figures
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 26, 815-825 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512156
abstract: We extend the standard treatment of the asymmetric infinite square well to include solutions that have zero curvature over part of the well. This type of solution, both within the specific context of the asymmetric infinite square well and within the broader context of bound states of arbitrary piecewise-constant potential energy functions, is not often discussed as part of quantum mechanics texts at any level. We begin by outlining the general mathematical condition in one-dimensional time-independent quantum mechanics for a bound-state wave function to have zero curvature over an extended region of space and still be a valid wave function. We then briefly review the standard asymmetric infinite square well solutions, focusing on zero-curvature solutions as represented by energy eigenstates in position and momentum space.

id: quant-ph/0512157
title: Pairwise entanglement and readout of atomic-ensemble and optical wave-packet modes in traveling-wave Raman interactions
authors: Wojciech Wasilewski, M. G. Raymer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 063816 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512157
abstract: We analyze quantum entanglement of Stokes light and atomic electronic polarization excited during single-pass, linear-regime, stimulated Raman scattering in terms of optical wave-packet modes and atomic-ensemble spatial modes. The output of this process is confirmed to be decomposable into multiple discrete, bosonic mode pairs, each pair undergoing independent evolution into a two-mode squeezed state. For this we extend the Bloch-Messiah reduction theorem, previously known for discrete linear systems (S. L. Braunstein, Phys. Rev. A, vol. 71, 055801 (2005)). We present typical mode functions in the case of one-dimensional scattering in an atomic vapor. We find that in the absence of dispersion, one mode pair dominates the process, leading to a simple interpretation of entanglement in this continuous-variable system. However, many mode pairs are excited in the presence of dispersion-induced temporal walkoff of the Stokes, as witnessed by the photon-count statistics. We also consider the readout of the stored atomic polarization using the anti-Stokes scattering process. We prove that the readout process can also be decomposed into multiple mode pairs, each pair undergoing independent evolution analogous to a beam-splitter transformation. We show that this process can have unit efficiency under realistic experimental conditions. The shape of the output light wave packet can be predicted. In case of unit readout efficiency it contains only excitations originating from a specified atomic excitation mode.

id: quant-ph/0512158
title: Nonlinear evolution as a possible explanation for quantum mechanical statevector reduction
authors: Henrik Brusheim-Johansson
comments: 36 pages, 8 figures, M.Sc. Thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512158
abstract: A non-local toy-model is proposed for the purpose of modelling the ``wave function collapse'' of a two-state quantum system. The collapse is driven by a nonlinear evolution equation with an extreme sensitivity to absolute phase. It is hypothesized that the phase, or a part of it, is displaying chaotic behaviour. This chaotic behaviour can then be responsible for the indeterminacy we are experiencing for a single quantum system. Through this randomness, we no longer need the statistical ``ensemble'' behaviour to describe a single quantum system. A brief introduction to the ``measurement problem'' is also given.

id: quant-ph/0512159
title: How to Make the Quantum Adiabatic Algorithm Fail
authors: Edward Farhi, Jeffrey Goldstone, Sam Gutmann, Daniel Nagaj
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 6, No. 3 (2008), 503-516
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512159
abstract: The quantum adiabatic algorithm is a Hamiltonian based quantum algorithm designed to find the minimum of a classical cost function whose domain has size N. We show that poor choices for the Hamiltonian can guarantee that the algorithm will not find the minimum if the run time grows more slowly than square root of N. These poor choices are nonlocal and wash out any structure in the cost function to be minimized and the best that can be hoped for is Grover speedup. These failures tell us what not to do when designing quantum adiabatic algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0512160
title: Time Extended Measurement of the Position of a Particle
authors: Francesc S. Roig
comments: 35 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512160
abstract: The von Neumann interaction between a particle and an apparatus has been considered in the measurement of the position of a particle when the interaction lasts for a finite amount of time. When the measurement has finite duration, both the motion of the pointer and the particle influence the result of the measurement. Provided that the particle is in an eigenstate of its position at the start of the measurement, the pointer will indicate the arithmetic average between the initial and final position of the particle. Furthermore, the probability that the pointer will indicate a given average value is equal to the transition probability for the undisturbed particle to experience the change in position. If the initial state of the pointer is a narrow wavepacket, then for any initial state of the particle, the measurement yields, approximately, the undisturbed probability distribution for the position of the particle at the end of the measurement.

id: quant-ph/0512161
title: Rigorous approach to the comparison between experiment and theory in Casimir force measurements
authors: G.L.Klimchitskaya, F.Chen, R.S.Decca, E.Fischbach, D.E.Krause, D.Lopez, U.Mohideen, V.M.Mostepanenko
comments: 10 pages, iopart.cls is used, to appear in J. Phys. A (special issue: Proceedings of QFEXT05, Barcelona, Sept. 5-9, 2005)
journal: J. Phys. A, v.39, N21, pp.6485-6493 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512161
abstract: In most experiments on the Casimir force the comparison between measurement data and theory was done using the concept of the root-mean-square deviation, a procedure that has been criticized in literature. Here we propose a special statistical analysis which should be performed separately for the experimental data and for the results of the theoretical computations. In so doing, the random, systematic, and total experimental errors are found as functions of separation, taking into account the distribution laws for each error at 95% confidence. Independently, all theoretical errors are combined to obtain the total theoretical error at the same confidence. Finally, the confidence interval for the differences between theoretical and experimental values is obtained as a function of separation. This rigorous approach is applied to two recent experiments on the Casimir effect.

id: quant-ph/0512162
title: Nonlocality I: Nonlocality, singularity, and elastic scattering in quantum fields
authors: Hai-Jhun Wanng
comments: 6 pages, 2 graphes. Changes added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512162
abstract: Using path integrals we express the quantum nonlocality of AB-effect type in the form of singularity. The gauge-fixing term in path integrals induce the AB effect in ordinary scattering processes. This means that all scattering processes are accompanied by nonlocal effect. The formulae are then extended to theory of fields that additionally include a scalar potential. It turns out that the degree of freedom of nonlocality in quantum fields is just the degree of the ghosts. Furthermore, renormalization method can be related to this type of nonlocal effect.

id: quant-ph/0512163
title: Long-distance distribution of time-bin entanglement generated in a cooled fiber
authors: Hiroki Takesue
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Express 14, 3453 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512163
abstract: This paper reports the first demonstration of the generation and distribution of entangled photon pairs in the 1.5-um band using spontaneous four-wave mixing in a cooled fiber. Noise photons induced by spontaneous Raman scattering were suppressed by cooling a dispersion shifted fiber with liquid nitrogen, which resulted in a significant improvement in the visibility of two-photon interference. By using this scheme, time-bin entangled qubits were successfully distributed over 60 km of optical fiber with a visibility of 76%, which was obtained without removing accidental coincidences.

id: quant-ph/0512164
title: Nonlinear entanglement witnesses
authors: Otfried G¨¹hne, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, v3: small changes, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 170502 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512164
abstract: Entanglement detection typically relies on linear inequalities for mean values of certain observables (entanglement witnesses), where violation indicates entanglement. We provide a general method to improve any of these inequalities for bipartite systems via nonlinear expressions. The nonlinearities are of different orders and can be directly measured in experiments, often without any extra effort.

id: quant-ph/0512165
title: Quantum manipulation of two-color stationary light: Quantum wavelength conversion
authors: S. A. Moiseev, B. S. Ham
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512165
abstract: We present a quantum manipulation of a traveling light pulse using double atomic coherence for two-color stationary light and quantum frequency conversion. The quantum frequency conversion rate of the traveling light achieved by the two-color stationary light phenomenon is near unity. We theoretically discuss the two-color stationary light for the frequency conversion process in terms of pulse area, energy transfer and propagation directions. The resulting process may apply the coherent interactions of a weak field to nonlinear quantum optics such as quantum nondemolition measurement.

id: quant-ph/0512166
title: Asymptotic expansion of Gaussian integrals of analytic functionals on infinite-dimensional spaces and quantum averages
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: Mathematically rigorous presentation of previous results on Prequantum Classical Statistical Field Theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512166
abstract: We study asymptotic expansions of Gaussian integrals of analytic functionals on infinite-dimensional spaces (Hilbert and nuclear Frechet). We obtain an asymptotic equality coupling the Gaussian integral and the trace of the composition of scaling of the covariation operator of a Gaussian measure and the second (Frechet) derivative of a functional. In this way we couple classical average (given by an infinite-dimensional Gaussian integral) and quantum average (given by the von Neumann trace formula). We can interpret this mathematical construction as a procedure of ``dequantization'' of quantum mechanics. We represent quantum mechanics as an asymptotic projection of classical statistical mechanics with infinite-dimensional phase-space. This space can be represented as the space of classical fields, so quantum mechanics is represented as a projection of ``Prequantum Classical Statistical Field Theory''.

id: quant-ph/0512167
title: Physical accessibility of non-completely positive maps
authors: Hilary Carteret, Daniel R. Terno, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 8 pages, 1 eps figure. Final version
journal: Phys. Rev A 77, 042113 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512167
abstract: Maps that are not completely positive (CP) are often useful to describe the dynamics of open systems. An apparent violation of complete positivity can occur because there are prior correlations of the principal system with the environment, or if the applied transformation is correlated with the state of the system. We provide a physically motivated definition of accessible non-CP maps and derive two necessary conditions for a map to be accessible. We also show that entanglement between the system and the environment is not necessary to generate a non-CP dynamics. We describe two simple approximations that may be sufficient for some problems in process tomography, and then outline what these methods may be able to tell us in other situations where non-CP dynamics naturally arise.

id: quant-ph/0512168
title: Can relativity be considered complete ? From Newtonian nonlocality to quantum nonlocality and beyond
authors: Nicolas Gisin
comments: 12 pages, inspired by talks I gave in 2005 at the IOP conference on Einstein in Warwick, the QUPON conference in Vienna, the {\it Annus Mirabilis} Symposium in Zurich, le s\'eminaire de l'Observatoire de Paris and the Ehrenfest Colloquium in Leiden
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512168
abstract: We review the long history of nonlocality in physics with special emphasis on the conceptual breakthroughs over the last few years. For the first time it is possible to study "nonlocality without signaling" {\it from the outside}, that is without all the quantum physics Hilbert space artillery. We emphasize that physics has always given a nonlocal description of Nature, except during a short 10 years gap. We note that the very concept of "nonlocality without signaling" is totally foreign to the spirit of relativity, the only strictly local theory.

id: quant-ph/0512169
title: Deterministic and Unambiguous Dense Coding
authors: Shengjun Wu, Scott M. Cohen, Yuqing Sun, Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Short new section VII added. Latex 23 pages, 1 PSTricks figure in text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 042311 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512169
abstract: Optimal dense coding using a partially-entangled pure state of Schmidt rank $\bar D$ and a noiseless quantum channel of dimension $D$ is studied both in the deterministic case where at most $L_d$ messages can be transmitted with perfect fidelity, and in the unambiguous case where when the protocol succeeds (probability $\tau_x$) Bob knows for sure that Alice sent message $x$, and when it fails (probability $1-\tau_x$) he knows it has failed. Alice is allowed any single-shot (one use) encoding procedure, and Bob any single-shot measurement. For $\bar D\leq D$ a bound is obtained for $L_d$ in terms of the largest Schmidt coefficient of the entangled state, and is compared with published results by Mozes et al. For $\bar D > D$ it is shown that $L_d$ is strictly less than $D^2$ unless $\bar D$ is an integer multiple of $D$, in which case uniform (maximal) entanglement is not needed to achieve the optimal protocol. The unambiguous case is studied for $\bar D \leq D$, assuming $\tau_x>0$ for a set of $\bar D D$ messages, and a bound is obtained for the average $\lgl1/\tau\rgl$. A bound on the average $\lgl\tau\rgl$ requires an additional assumption of encoding by isometries (unitaries when $\bar D=D$) that are orthogonal for different messages. Both bounds are saturated when $\tau_x$ is a constant independent of $x$, by a protocol based on one-shot entanglement concentration. For $\bar D > D$ it is shown that (at least) $D^2$ messages can be sent unambiguously. Whether unitary (isometric) encoding suffices for optimal protocols remains a major unanswered question, both for our work and for previous studies of dense coding using partially-entangled states, including noisy (mixed) states.

id: quant-ph/0512170
title: Error correcting codes for adiabatic quantum computation
authors: Stephen P. Jordan, Edward Farhi, Peter W. Shor
comments: Errors corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052322 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512170
abstract: Recently, there has been growing interest in using adiabatic quantum computation as an architecture for experimentally realizable quantum computers. One of the reasons for this is the idea that the energy gap should provide some inherent resistance to noise. It is now known that universal quantum computation can be achieved adiabatically using 2-local Hamiltonians. The energy gap in these Hamiltonians scales as an inverse polynomial in the problem size. Here we present stabilizer codes which can be used to produce a constant energy gap against 1-local and 2-local noise. The corresponding fault-tolerant universal Hamiltonians are 4-local and 6-local respectively, which is the optimal result achievable within this framework.

id: quant-ph/0512171
title: Kaonic Qubits
authors: Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, version 2 minor changes. to be published in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Springer Science+Business Media (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512171
abstract: Quantum mechanics can also be tested in high energy physics; in particular, the neutral kaon system is very well suited. We show that these massive particles can be considered as qubits --kaonic qubits-- in the very same way as spin-1/2 particles or polarized photons. But they also have other important properties, namely they are instable particles and they violate the CP symmetry (C...charge conjugation, P...parity). We consider a Bell inequality and, surprisingly, the premises of local realistic theories require strict CP conservation, in contradiction to experiment. Furthermore we investigate Bohr's complementary relation in order to describe the physics of the time evolution of kaons. Finally, we discuss quantum marking and eraser experiments with kaons, which prove in a new way the very concept of a quantum eraser.

id: quant-ph/0512172
title: Optical Quantum Cloning - a Review
authors: Nicolas J. Cerf, Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 76 pages, 14 figures, invited contribution to Progress in Optics, Ed. E. Wolf, in press
journal: Progress in Optics, vol. 49, Edt. E. Wolf (Elsevier, 2006), p. 455.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512172
abstract: After a brief introduction to the quantum no-cloning theorem and its link with the linearity and causality of quantum mechanics, the concept of quantum cloning machines is sketched, following, whenever possible, the chronology of the main results. The important classes of quantum cloning machines are reviewed, in particular state-independent and state-dependent cloning machines. The 1-to-2 cloning problem is then studied from a formal point of view, using the isomorphism between completely positive maps and operators, which leads to the so-called double-Bell ansatz. This also yields an efficient numerical approach to quantum cloning, based on semidefinite programming methods. The derivation of the optimal N-to-M universal cloning machine in d dimensions is then detailed, as well as the notion of asymmetric cloning machines. In the second part of this review, the optical implementation of cloning machines is considered. It is shown that the universal cloning of photons can be achieved by parametric amplification of light or by symmetrization via the Hong-Ou-Mandel effect. The various experimental demonstrations of quantum cloning machines are reviewed. The cloning of orthogonally polarized photons is also considered, as well as the asymmetric and phase-covariant cloning of photons. Finally, the extension of quantum cloning to continuous variables is analyzed. The optimal cloning of coherent states of light by phase-insensitive amplification is explained, as well as the experimental realization of continuous-variable quantum cloning with linear optics, measurement, and feed-forward operations.

id: quant-ph/0512173
title: Entanglement purification for high dimensional multipartite systems
authors: Yong Wook Cheong, Seung-Woo Lee, Jinhyoung Lee, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: 7pages, 1figure, Replaced with final version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512173
abstract: We propose an entanglement purification protocol for high-dimensional multipartite systems. In the protocol we can select a subensemble in a pure generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state. This post-selection can be made by detecting the noise which contaminated the initial pure ensemble when the systems past through a noisy environment. For the detection of noise we investigate correlation properties of GHZ states and analyze their possible errors due to a noisy environment. We show that the presented protocol is more efficient than a simple generalization of the purification protocol for a bipartite state in high dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0512174
title: Implementation of quantum logic operations and creation of entanglement in a silicon-based quantum computer with constant interaction
authors: G. P. Berman, G. W. Brown, M. E. Hawley, D. I. Kamenev, V. I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 30 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512174
abstract: We describe how to implement quantum logic operations in a silicon-based quantum computer with phosphorus atoms serving as qubits. The information is stored in the states of nuclear spins and the conditional logic operations are implemented through the electron spins using nuclear-electron hyperfine and electron-electron exchange interactions. The electrons in our computer should stay coherent only during implementation of one Control-Not gate. The exchange interaction is constant and selective excitations are provided by a magnetic field gradient. The quantum logic operations are implemented by rectangular radio-frequency pulses. This architecture is scalable and does not require manufacturing nanoscale electronic gates. As shown in this paper parameters of a quantum protocol can be derived analytically even for a computer with a large number of qubits using our perturbation approach. We present the protocol for initialization of the nuclear spins and the protocol for creation of entanglement. All analytical results are tested numerically using a two-qubit system.

id: quant-ph/0512175
title: Dynamics of a pulsed continuous variable quantum memory
authors: Aurelien Dantan, Jean Cviklinski, Michel Pinard, Philippe Grangier
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 73 (2006) 032338
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512175
abstract: We study the transfer dynamics of non-classical fluctuations of light to the ground-state collective spin components of an atomic ensemble during a pulsed quantum memory sequence, and evaluate the relevant physical quantities to be measured in order to characterize such a quantum memory. We show in particular that the fluctuations stored into the atoms are emitted in temporal modes which are always different than those of the readout pulse, but which can nevertheless be retrieved efficiently using a suitable temporal mode-matching technique. We give a simple toy model - a cavity with variable transmission - which accounts for the behavior of the atomic quantum memory.

id: quant-ph/0512176
title: A generalized structure of Bell inequalities for bipartite arbitrary dimensional systems
authors: Seung-Woo Lee, Yong Wook Cheong, Jinhyoung Lee
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032108 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512176
abstract: We propose a generalized structure of Bell inequalities for arbitrary d-dimensional bipartite systems, which includes the existing two types of Bell inequalities introduced by Collins-Gisin-Linden-Massar-Popescu [Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 040404 (2002)] and Son-Lee-Kim [Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 060406 (2006)]. We analyze Bell inequalities in terms of correlation functions and joint probabilities, and show that the coefficients of correlation functions and those of joint probabilities are in Fourier transform relations. We finally show that the coefficients in the generalized structure determine the characteristics of quantum violation and tightness.

id: quant-ph/0512177
title: Separable Measurement Estimation of Density Matrices and its Fidelity Gap with Collective Protocols
authors: E. Bagan, M. A. Ballester, R. D. Gill, R. Munoz-Tapia, O. Romero-Isart
comments: version published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 130501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512177
abstract: We show that there exists a gap between the performance of separable and collective measurements in qubit mixed-state estimation that persists in the large sample limit. We characterize such gap in terms of the corresponding bounds on the mean fidelity. We present an adaptive protocol that attains the separable-measurement bound. This (optimal separable) protocol uses von Neumann measurements and can be easily implemented with current technology.

id: quant-ph/0512178
title: Quantum nonlocality or nonergodicity? A critical study of Bell's arguments
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512178
abstract: We pay attention that through Bell's arguments one can not distinguish quantum nonlocality and nonergodicity. Therefore experimental violations of Bell's inequality can be as well interpreted as supporting the hypothesis that stochastic processes induced by quantum measurements could be nonergodic.

id: quant-ph/0512179
title: An AB effect without closing a loop
authors: A. Retzker, Y. Aharonov, A. Botero, S. Nussinov, B. Reznik
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032106 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512179
abstract: We discuss the consequences of the Aharonov-Bohm effect in setups involving several charged particles, wherein none of the charged particles encloses a closed loop around the magnetic flux. We show that in such setups, the AB phase is encoded either in the relative phase of a bi-partite or multi-partite entangled photons states, or alternatively, gives rise to an overall AB phase that can be measured relative to another reference system. These setups involve processes of annihilation or creation of electron/hole pairs. We discuss the relevance of such effects in "vacuum Birefringence" in QED, and comment on their connection to other known effects.

id: quant-ph/0512180
title: Entanglement criteria via the uncertainty relations in su(2) and su(1,1) algebra: detection of non-Gaussian entangled states
authors: Hyunchul Nha, Jaewan Kim
comments: published version, presentation polished with references added, 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 012317 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512180
abstract: We derive a class of inequalities, from the uncertainty relations of the SU(1,1) and the SU(2) algebra in conjunction with partial transposition, that must be satisfied by any separable two-mode states. These inequalities are presented in terms of the su(2) operators J_x, J_y, and the total photon number N_a+N_b. They include as special cases the inequality derived by Hillery and Zubairy [Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 050503 (2006)], and the one by Agarwal and Biswas [New J. Phys. 7, 211 (2005)]. In particular, optimization over the whole inequalities leads to the criterion obtained by Agarwal and Biswas. We show that this optimal criterion can detect entanglement for a broad class of non-Gaussian entangled states, i.e., the su(2) minimum-uncertainty states. Experimental schemes to test the optimal criterion are also discussed, especially the one using linear optical devices and photodetectors.

id: quant-ph/0512181
title: Detecting entanglement with a thermometer
authors: Janet Anders, Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Christian Lunkes, Toshio Ohshima, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, v2: replaced with published version, use .pdf if possible
journal: New Journal of Physics 8 (2006) 140
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512181
abstract: We present a general argument showing that the temperature as well as other thermodynamical state variables can qualify as entanglement witnesses for spatial entanglement. This holds for a variety of systems and we exemplify our ideas using a simple free non-interacting Bosonic gas. We find that entanglement can exist at arbitrarily high temperatures, provided that we can probe smaller and smaller regions of space. We then discuss the relationship between the occurrence of Bose-Einstein condensation and our conditions for the presence of entanglement and compare the respective critical temperatures. We close with a short discussion of the idea of seeing entanglement as a macroscopic property in thermodynamical systems and its possible relation to phase transitions in general.

id: quant-ph/0512182
title: Nonlocality II: Nonlocality as the dynamical origin of the non-markovian process in quantum isolated system
authors: Hai-Jhun Wanng
comments: 5 pages, no figures; The version may be updated in resent days
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512182
abstract: In the previous paper, it has been proved that elastic scattering processes of two quantum particles are always accompanied with nonlocal processes. Furthermore, it is found that setting an additional Hamiltonian after the originally scattering one can help to describe the two type of processes in a united frame. Here we discuss the contribution of this additional Hamiltonian to irreversible process in isolated quantum systems. The use of the Hamiltonian can induce the non-Markovian Langevin equation, showing a complex memory effect, and thus revealing the irreversible essence of isolated system without appealing to reservoir or approximate methods (e.g. coarse grain) as usually done.

id: quant-ph/0512183
title: A finite element analysis of a silicon based double quantum dot structure
authors: S. Rahman, J. Gorman, C. H. W. Barnes, D. A. Williams, H. P. Langtangen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 233307, (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512183
abstract: We present the results of a finite-element solution of the Laplace equation for the silicon-based trench-isolated double quantum-dot and the capacitively-coupled single-electron transistor device architecture. This system is a candidate for charge and spin-based quantum computation in the solid state, as demonstrated by recent coherent-charge oscillation experiments. Our key findings demonstrate control of the electric potential and electric field in the vicinity of the double quantum-dot by the electric potential applied to the in-plane gates. This constitutes a useful theoretical analysis of the silicon-based architecture for quantum information processing applications.

id: quant-ph/0512184
title: Quantum-state input-output relations for absorbing cavities
authors: M. Khanbekyan, D.-G. Welsch, A. A. Semenov, W. Vogel
comments: 12 pages, 5 eps figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7 (2005) S689-S694
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512184
abstract: The quantized electromagnetic field inside and outside an absorbing high-$Q$ cavity is studied, with special emphasis on the absorption losses in the coupling mirror and their influence on the outgoing field. Generalized operator input-output relations are derived, which are used to calculate the Wigner function of the outgoing field. To illustrate the theory, the preparation of the outgoing field in a Schr\"{o}dinger cat-like state is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0512185
title: New multiplicativity results for qubit maps
authors: Christopher King, Nilufer Koldan
comments: 14 pages; original proof simplified by using Gorini and Sudarshan's classification of extreme affine maps on R^3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512185
abstract: Let $\Phi$ be a trace-preserving, positivity-preserving (but not necessarily completely positive) linear map on the algebra of complex $2 \times 2$ matrices, and let $\Omega$ be any finite-dimensional completely positive map. For $p=2$ and $p \geq 4$, we prove that the maximal $p$-norm of the product map $\Phi \ot \Omega$ is the product of the maximal $p$-norms of $\Phi$ and $\Omega$. Restricting $\Phi$ to the class of completely positive maps, this settles the multiplicativity question for all qubit channels in the range of values $p \geq 4$.

id: quant-ph/0512186
title: Squeezing and entangling nuclear spins in helium 3
authors: Gael Reinaudi, Alice Sinatra, Aurelien Dantan, Michel Pinard
comments: 
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 54, 675 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512186
abstract: We present a realistic model for transferring the squeezing or the entanglement of optical field modes to the collective ground state nuclear spin of $^3$He using metastability exchange collisions. We discuss in detail the requirements for obtaining good quantum state transfer efficiency and study the possibility to readout the nuclear spin state optically.

id: quant-ph/0512187
title: On the Dynamical Solution of Quantum Measurement Problem
authors: V. P. Belavkin
comments: 16 pages. International Conference Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations -02, 1-7 June 2003, Vaxjo (Sweeden). See also ://www.maths.nott.ac.uk/personal/vpb/research/cau_idy.html and this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512187
abstract: The development of quantum measurement theory, initiated by von Neumann, only indicated a possibility for resolution of the interpretational crisis of quantum mechanics. We do this by divorcing the algebra of the dynamical generators and the algebra of the actual observables, or beables. It is shown that within this approach quantum causality can be rehabilitated in the form of a superselection rule for compatibility of the past beables with the potential future. This rule, together with the self-compatibility of the measurements insuring the consistency of the histories, is called the nondemolition, or causality principle in modern quantum theory. The application of this rule in the form of the dynamical commutation relations leads in particular to the derivation of the von Neumann projection postulate. This gives a quantum stochastic solution, in the form of the dynamical filtering equations, of the notorious measurement problem which was tackled unsuccessfully by many famous physicists starting with Schroedinger and Bohr.

id: quant-ph/0512188
title: Nondemolition Principle of Quantum Measurement Theory
authors: V. P. Belavkin
comments: 23 pages. See also related papers at this http URL and this http URL
journal: Foundations of Physics, 24 (1994) No 5, 685--714
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512188
abstract: We give an explicit axiomatic formulation of the quantum measurement theory which is free of the projection postulate. It is based on the generalized nondemolition principle applicable also to the unsharp, continuous-spectrum and continuous-in-time observations. The "collapsed state-vector" after the "objectification" is simply treated as a random vector of the a posteriori state given by the quantum filtering, i.e., the conditioning of the a priori induced state on the corresponding reduced algebra. The nonlinear phenomenological equation of "continuous spontaneous localization" has been derived from the Schroedinger equation as a case of the quantum filtering equation for the diffusive nondemolition measurement. The quantum theory of measurement and filtering suggests also another type of the stochastic equation for the dynamical theory of continuous reduction, corresponding to the counting nondemolition measurement, which is more relevant for the quantum experiments.

id: quant-ph/0512189
title: Measurements continuous in time and a posteriori states in quantum
authors: A. Barchielli, V. P. Belavkin
comments: 31 page. See also related papers at this http URL and this http URL
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 24 (1991) 1495--1514
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512189
abstract: Measurements continuous in time were consistently introduced in quantum mechanics and applications worked out, mainly in quantum optics. In this context a quantum filtering theory has been developed giving the reduced state after the measurement when a certain trajectory of the measured observables is registered (the a posteriori states). In this paper a new derivation of filtering equations is presented, in the cases of counting processes and of measurement processes of diffusive type. It is also shown that the equation for the a posteriori dynamics in the diffusive case can be obtained, by a suitable limit, from that one in the counting case. Moreover, the paper is intended to clarify the meaning of the various concepts involved and to discuss the connections among them. As an illustration of the theory, simple models are worked out.

id: quant-ph/0512190
title: Weakened linearity for quantum fields
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: 10 pages. v2: relationship of the method to renormalization outlined
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512190
abstract: There are still no interacting models of the Wightman axioms, suggesting that the axioms are too tightly drawn. Here a weakening of linearity for quantum fields is proposed, with the algebra still linear but with the quantum fields no longer required to be tempered distributions, allowing explicit interacting quantum field models. Interacting quantum fields should be understood to be nonlinear quantum fields in this sense, because a set of effective field theories encodes a dependence on the energy scale of measurement -- which is a nontrivial property of the test functions -- so that correlation functions are implicitly nonlinear functions of test functions in the conventional formalism. In Local Quantum Physics terms, the algebraic models constructed here do not satisfy the additivity property. Finite nonlinear deformations of quantized electromagnetism are constructed as examples.

id: quant-ph/0512191
title: Nonlocality III: General Nonlocality in Quantum Fields
authors: Hai-Jhun Wanng
comments: 30 pages, 2 figures; will appear in J. Math. Phys. of Feb issue
journal: J.Math.Phys.49:033513,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512191
abstract: The waves of fermions display nonlocality in low energy limit of quantum fields. In this \QTR{it}{ab initio} paper we propose a complex-geometry model that reveals the affection of nonlocality on the interaction between material particles of spin-1/2. To make nonlocal properties appropriately involved in a quantum theory, the special unitary group SU(n) and spinor representation $D^{(1/2,1/2)}$ of Lorentz group are generalized by making complex spaces--which are spanned by wave functions of quantum particles--curved. The curved spaces are described by the geometry used in General Relativity by replacing the real space with complex space and additionally imposing the analytic condition on the space. The field equations for fermions and for bosons are respectively associated with geodesic motion equations and with local curvature of the considered space. The equation for fermions can restore all the terms of quadratic form of Dirac equation. According to the field equation it is found that, for the U(1) field [generalized Quantum Electrodynamics (QED)], when the electromagnetic fields $\vec E$ and $\vec B$ satisfy $\vec E^2-\vec B^2\neq 0$, the bosons will gain masses. In this model, a physical region is empirically defined, which can be characterized by a determinant occurring in boson field equation. Applying the field equation to U(3) field [generalized Quantum Chromodynamics (QCD)], the quark-confining property can be understood by carrying out the boundary of physical region.

id: quant-ph/0512192
title: A Stochastic Hamiltonian Approach for Quantum Jumps, Spontaneous Localizations, and Continuous Trajectories
authors: V. P. Belavkin, O. Melsheimer
comments: 32 pages. See also related papers at this http URL and this http URL
journal: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 8 (1996) 167--187
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512192
abstract: We give an explicit stochastic Hamiltonian model of discontinuous unitary evolution for quantum spontaneous jumps like in a system of atoms in quantum optics, or in a system of quantum particles that interacts singularly with "bubbles" which admit a continual counting observation. This model allows to watch a quantum trajectory in a photodetector or in a cloud chamber by spontaneous localisations of the momentums of the scattered photons or bubbles. Thus, the continuous reduction and spontaneous localization theory is obtained from a Hamiltonian singular interaction as a result of quantum filtering, i.e., a sequential time continuous conditioning of an input quantum process by the output measurement data. We show that in the case of indistinguishable particles or atoms the a posteriori dynamics is mixing, giving rise to an irreversible Boltzmann-type reduction equation. The latter coincides with the nonstochastic Schroedinger equation only in the mean field approximation, whereas the central limit yelds Gaussian mixing fluctuations described by a quantum state reduction equation of diffusive type.

id: quant-ph/0512193
title: Quantum state tomography of molecular rotation
authors: Anders S. Mouritzen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512193
abstract: We show how the rotational quantum state of a linear or symmetric top rotor can be reconstructed from finite time observations of the polar angular distribution under certain conditions. The presented tomographic method can reconstruct the complete rotational quantum state in many non-adiabatic alignment experiments. Our analysis applies for measurement data available with existing measurement techniques.

id: quant-ph/0512194
title: The role of initial state reconstruction in short and long time deviations from exponential decay
authors: J. G. Muga, F. Delgado, A. del Campo, G. Garcia-Calderon
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 73, 052112 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512194
abstract: We consider the role of the reconstruction of the initial state in the deviation from exponential decay at short and long times. The long time decay can be attributed to a wave that was, in a classical-like, probabilistic sense, fully outside the initial state or the inner region at intermediate times, i.e., to a completely reconstructed state, whereas the decay during the exponential regime is due instead to a non-reconstructed wave. At short times quantum interference between regenerated and non-regenerated paths is responsible for the deviation from the exponential decay. We may thus conclude that state reconstruction is a ``consistent history'' for long time deviations but not for short ones.

id: quant-ph/0512195
title: Locality of quantum entanglement
authors: Wang Guowen
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512195
abstract: This article presents a local realistic interpretation of quantum entanglement. The entanglement is explained as innate interference between the non-empty state associated with the peaked piece of one particle and the empty states associated with the non-peaked pieces of the others of entangled particles, which inseparably join together. The correlation of the results of measurements on the ensemble of composite entangled systems is related to this kind of interference. Consequently, there is no nonlocal influence between entangled particles in measurements. Particularly, this explanation thus rules out the possibility of quantum teleportation which is nowadays considered as one of cornerstones of quantum information processing. Besides, likewise, communication and computation schemes based on alleged spooky action at a distance are unlikely to be promising.

id: quant-ph/0512196
title: On the Dynamical Interpretation for the Quantum-Measurement Projection Postulate
authors: R. L. Stratonovich, V. P. Belavkin
comments: 16 pages. See also related papers at this http URL and this http URL
journal: Intern. Journal of Theoretical Physics 35 (1996) No 11, 2215 - 2228
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512196
abstract: An apparatus model with discrete momentum space suitable for the exact solution of the problem is considered. The special Hamiltonian of its interaction with the object system under consideration is chosen. In this simple case it is easy to illustrate how difficulties in constructing the dynamical interpretation of selective collapse could be overcomed without any limiting procedure. For this purpose one can apply either averaging with respect to a non-quantum parameter or reducing the algebra of the joint system operators (i. e. passing to the quantum system subalgebra). The latter procedure effectively implies averaging with respect to apparatus quantum variables not belonging to the system.

id: quant-ph/0512197
title: Measurable entanglement
authors: Alexander Klyachko, Bar?? ?ztop, Alexander S. Shumovsky
comments: 3 pages, submitted to Applied Physics Letters
journal: Applied Physics Letters, 88, 124102 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512197
abstract: Amount of entanglement carried by a quantum bipartite state is usually evaluated in terms of concurrence (see Ref. 1). We give a physical interpretation of concurrence that reveals a way of its direct measurement and discuss possible generalizations.

id: quant-ph/0512198
title: Bohm-Aharonov type effects in dissipative atomic systems
authors: Allan I. Solomon, Sonia G. Schirmer
comments: 9 pages, 4 references. Presented at the 23rd International Conference on Differential Geometric Methods in Theoretical Physics,August 20-26, Nankai Institute of Mathematics, Tianjin, China
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512198
abstract: A state in quantum mechanics is defined as a positive operator of norm 1. For finite systems, this may be thought of as a positive matrix of trace 1. This constraint of positivity imposes severe restrictions on the allowed evolution of such a state. From the mathematical viewpoint, we describe the two forms of standard dynamical equations - global (Kraus) and local (Lindblad) - and show how each of these gives rise to a semi-group description of the evolution. We then look at specific examples from atomic systems, involving 3-level systems for simplicity, and show how these mathematical constraints give rise to non-intuitive physical phenomena, reminiscent of Bohm-Aharonov effects. In particular, we show that for a multi-level atomic system it is generally impossible to isolate the levels, and this leads to observable effects on the population relaxation and decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0512199
title: Multiparticle entanglement and ranks of density matrices
authors: Bo Chong, Hellmut Keiter, Joachim Stolze
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512199
abstract: Based on the ranks of reduced density matrices, we derive necessary conditions for the separability of multiparticle arbitrary-dimensional mixed states, which are equivalent to sufficient conditions for entanglement. In a similar way we obtain necessary conditions for the separability of a given mixed state with respect to partitions of all particles of the system into subsets. The special case of pure states is discussed separately.

id: quant-ph/0512200
title: Capacities of noiseless quantum channels for massive indistinguishable particles: Bosons vs. fermions
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Bartosz Gromek, Dagmar Bruss, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 16 pages, 8 eps figures, RevTeX4; v2: small change in a figure; v3: significant new additions about quantum capacity, previous results unchanged, title changed, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022331 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512200
abstract: We consider information transmission through a noiseless quantum channel, where the information is encoded into massive indistinguishable particles: bosons or fermions. We study the situation in which the particles are noninteracting. The encoding input states obey a set of physically motivated constraints on the mean values of the energy and particle number. In such a case, the determination of both classical and quantum capacity reduces to a constrained maximization of entropy. In the case of noninteracting bosons, signatures of Bose Einstein condensation can be observed in the behavior of the capacity. A major motivation for these considerations is to compare the information carrying capacities of channels that carry bosons with those that carry fermions. We show analytically that fermions generally provide higher channel capacity, i.e., they are better suited for transferring bits as well as qubits, in comparison to bosons. This holds for a large range of power law potentials, and for moderate to high temperatures. Numerical simulations seem to indicate that the result holds for all temperatures. Also, we consider the low temperature behavior for the three-dimensional box and harmonic trap, and again we show that the fermionic capacity is higher than the bosonic one for sufficiently low temperatures.

id: quant-ph/0512201
title: On the logical structure of Bell theorems without inequalities
authors: Anne Broadbent, Hilary A. Carteret, Andre Allan Methot, Jonathan Walgate
comments: 8 pages, text clarified, explicit LHV model provided for flawed nonlocality test
journal: New Journal of Physics 8 302 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512201
abstract: Bell theorems show how to experimentally falsify local realism. Conclusive falsification is highly desirable as it would provide support for the most profoundly counterintuitive feature of quantum theory - nonlocality. Despite the preponderance of evidence for quantum mechanics, practical limits on detector efficiency and the difficulty of coordinating space-like separated measurements have provided loopholes for a classical worldview; these loopholes have never been simultaneously closed. A number of new experiments have recently been proposed to close both loopholes at once. We show some of these novel designs fail in the most basic way, by not ruling out local hidden variable models, and we provide an explicit classical model to demonstrate this. They share a common flaw, which reveals a basic misunderstanding of how nonlocality proofs work. Given the time and resources now being devoted to such experiments, theoretical clarity is essential. Our explanation is presented in terms of simple logic and should serve to correct misconceptions and avoid future mistakes. We also show a nonlocality proof involving four participants which has interesting theoretical properties.

id: quant-ph/0512202
title: Tachyons and EPR correlations
authors: Bruno Cocciaro
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures, submitted to "Foundations of Physics"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512202
abstract: No causal paradoxes will occur if a preferred reference frame for tachyons propagation is assumed, and results of Bell's inequality experiments may be well explained without using any telepathyc effect. We can read G. Faraci's and others' results, Lettere al Nuovo Cimento, 15, 607-611 (1974), as a first quantitive indication on the tachyons preferred reference frame velocity with respect to the Earth, as well as on the tachyons velocity in their preferred reference frame. In order to experimentally prove this assumption's validity, Aspect-like experiments should be slightly modified.

id: quant-ph/0512203
title: "Quantum-states-as-information" meets Wigner's friend: A comment on Hagar and Hemmo
authors: J. Finkelstein
comments: 6 pages, LaTeX, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512203
abstract: This is a comment on the paper by Hagar and Hemmo (quant-ph/0512095) in which they suggest that information-theoretic approaches to quantum theory are incomplete.

id: quant-ph/0512204
title: Study of localization in the quantum sawtooth map emulated on a quantum information processor
authors: Michael K. Henry, Joseph Emerson, Rudy Martinez, David G. Cory
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review A, Vol. 74, No. 6, Article 062317, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512204
abstract: Quantum computers will be unique tools for understanding complex quantum systems. We report an experimental implementation of a sensitive, quantum coherence-dependent localization phenomenon on a quantum information processor (QIP). The localization effect was studied by emulating the dynamics of the quantum sawtooth map in the perturbative regime on a three-qubit QIP. Our results show that the width of the probability distribution in momentum space remained essentially unchanged with successive iterations of the sawtooth map, a result that is consistent with localization. The height of the peak relative to the baseline of the probability distribution did change, a result that is consistent with our QIP being an ensemble of quantum systems with a distribution of errors over the ensemble. We further show that the previously measured distributions of control errors correctly account for the observed changes in the probability distribution.

id: quant-ph/0512205
title: The Nondemolition Measurement of Quantum Time
authors: V. P. Belavkin, M. G. Perkins
comments: 6 pages. See also relevant papers at this http URL and this http URL
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics 37 (1998) No 1, 219 - 226
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512205
abstract: The problem of time operator in quantum mechanics is revisited. The unsharp measurement model for quantum time based on the dynamical system-clock interaction, is studied. Our analysis shows that the problem of the quantum time operator with continuous spectrum cannot be separated from the measurement problem for quantum time.

id: quant-ph/0512206
title: Quantum Stochastics, Dirac Boundary Value Problem, and the Ultra Relativistic Limit
authors: V. P. Belavkin
comments: 20 pages. See other related papers at this http URL and this http URL
journal: Rep. on Math. Phys. 46 (2000) No 3, 359 - 382
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512206
abstract: We prove that a single-jump quantum stochastic unitary evolution is equivalent to a Dirac boundary value problem on the half line in an extra dimension. This amounts to the equivalence of the quantum measurement boundary-value problem in infinite number particles space to the stochastic calculus in Fock space. It is shown that this exactly solvable model can be obtained from a Schroedinger boundary value problem for a positive relativistic Hamiltonian in the half-line as the inductive ultra relativistic limit, correspondent to the input flow of Dirac particles with asymptotically infinite momenta. Thus the stochastic limit can be interpreted in terms of quantum stochastic scheme for time-continuous non-demolition observation. The question of microscopic time reversibility is also studied for this paper.

id: quant-ph/0512207
title: Random Delayed-Choice Quantum Eraser via Two-Photon Imaging
authors: Giuliano Scarcelli, Yu Zhou, Yanhua Shih
comments: European Physical Journal D (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512207
abstract: We report on a delayed-choice quantum eraser experiment based on a two-photon imaging scheme using entangled photon pairs. After the detection of a photon which passed through a double-slit, a random delayed choice is made to erase or not erase the which-path information by the measurement of its distant entangled twin; the particle-like and wave-like behavior of the photon are then recorded simultaneously and respectively by only one set of joint detection devices. The present eraser takes advantage of two-photon imaging. The complete which-path information of a photon is transferred to its distant entangled twin through a "ghost" image. The choice is made on the Fourier transform plane of the ghost image between reading "complete information" or "partial information" of the double-path.

id: quant-ph/0512208
title: Quantum Noise, Bits and Jumps: Uncertainties, Decoherence, Trajectories and Filtering
authors: V. P. Belavkin
comments: 47 pages. In celebration of the 100th anniversary of the discovery of quanta. See also this http URL and the lecture presentation at this http URL
journal: Progress in Quantum Electronics 25 (2001) No 1, 1 - 53
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512208
abstract: It is shown that many dissipative phenomena of "old" quantum mechanics which appeared 100 years ago in the form of the statistics of quantum thermal noise and quantum spontaneous jumps, have never been explained by the "new" conservative quantum mechanics discovered 75 years ago by Heisenberg and Schroedinger. This led to numerous quantum paradoxes which are reconsidered in this paper. The development of quantum measurement theory, initiated by von Neumann, indicated a possibility for resolution of this interpretational crisis by divorcing the algebra of the dynamical generators from the algebra of the actual observables. It is shown that within this approach quantum causality can be rehabilitated in the form of a superselection rule for compatibility of past observables with the potential future. This rule, together with the self-compatibility of measurements insuring the consistency of histories, is called the nondemolition principle. The application of this causality condition in the form of the dynamical commutation relations leads to the derivation of the generalized von Neumann reductions, usharp, instantaneous, spontaneous, and even continuous in time. This gives a quantum probabilistic solution, in the form of the dynamical filtering equations, of the notorious measurement problem which was tackled unsuccessfully by many famous physicists starting with Schroedinger and Bohr. The simplest Markovian quantum stochastic model for the continuous in time measurements involves a boundary-value problem in second quantization for input "offer" waves in one extra dimension, and a reduction of the algebra of "actual" observables to an Abelian subalgebra for the output waves.

id: quant-ph/0512209
title: Quantum Computation, Complexity, and Many-Body Physics
authors: Rolando D. Somma
comments: PhD Thesis; Figures compressed; If needed, contact the author for a version in spanish. (Full abstract is in the thesis file)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512209
abstract: Recently developed quantum algorithms suggest that quantum computers can solve certain problems and perform certain tasks more efficiently than conventional computers. Among other reasons, this is due to the possibility of creating non-classical correlations, or quantum entanglement, which is a phenomena hard or impossible to reproduce by classical-information methods. In this thesis I first investigate the simulation of quantum systems on a quantum computer constructed of two-level quantum elements or qubits. For this purpose, I present algebra mappings that allow one to obtain physical properties and compute correlation functions of fermionic, anyonic, and bosonic systems with such a computer. The results obtained show that the complexity of preparing a quantum state which contains the desired information for the computation is crucial. Second, I present a wide class of quantum computations, which could involve entangled states, that can be simulated with the same efficiency on both types of computers. The notion of generalized quantum entanglement then naturally emerges. This generalization of entanglement is based on the idea that entanglement is an observer-dependent concept, that is, relative to a set of preferred observables.

id: quant-ph/0512210
title: Decoherence assisting a measurement-driven quantum evolution process
authors: L. Roa, G. Olivares
comments: Four pages, three figures included (lroa@udec.cl)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512210
abstract: We study the problem of driving an unknown initial mixed quantum state onto a known pure state without using unitary transformations. This can be achieved, in an efficient manner, with the help of sequential measurements on at least two unbiased bases. However here we found that, when the system is affected by a decoherence mechanism, only one observable is required in order to achieve the same goal. In this way the decoherence can assist the process. We show that, depending on the sort of decoherence, the process can converge faster or slower than the method implemented by means of two complementary observables.

id: quant-ph/0512211
title: A position dependent atom-atom entanglement in real-time Cavity QED system
authors: Yan-Qing Guo, Hai-Jing Cao, He-Shan Song
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512211
abstract: We study a special two-atom entanglement case in assumed Cavity QED experiment in which only one atom effectively exchanges a single photon with a cavity mode. We compute diatom entanglement under position-dependent atomic resonant dipole-dipole interaction (RDDI) for large interatomic separation limit. We show that the RDDI, even which is much smaller than the maximal atomic Rabi frequency, can induce distinct diatom entanglement. The peak entanglement (PE) reaches a maximum when RDDI strength can compare with the Rabi frequency of an atom.

id: quant-ph/0512212
title: Observation of Four-Photon de Broglie Wavelength by State Projection Measurement
authors: F. W. Sun, B. H. Liu, Y. F. Huang, Z. Y. Ou, G. C. Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512212
abstract: A measurement process is constructed to project an arbitrary two-mode $N$-photon state to a maximally entangled $N$-photon state (the {\it NOON}-state). The result of this projection measurement shows a typical interference fringe with an $N$-photon de Broglie wavelength. For an experimental demonstration, this measurement process is applied to a four-photon superposition state from two perpendicularly oriented type-I parametric down-conversion processes. Generalization to arbitrary $N$-photon states projection measurement can be easily made and may have wide applications in quantum information. As an example, we formulate it for precision phase measurement.

id: quant-ph/0512213
title: General entanglement
authors: Alexander A. Klyachko, Alexander S Shumovsky
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure,1 tabe, will be published in special issue of Journal of Physics (Conference Series) with Proceedings of CEWQO-2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512213
abstract: The paper contains a brief review of an approach to quantum entanglement based on analysis of dynamic symmetry of systems and quantum uncertainties, accompanying the measurement of mean value of certain basic observables. The latter are defined in terms of the orthogonal basis of Lie algebra, corresponding to the dynamic symmetry group. We discuss the relativity of entanglement with respect to the choice of basic observables and a way of stabilization of robust entanglement in physical systems.

id: quant-ph/0512214
title: Infinite qubit rings with maximal nearest neighbor entanglement: the Bethe ansatz solution
authors: U. V. Poulsen, T. Meyer, D. Bruss, M. Lewenstein
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures; Eq. (45) and Fig. 3 corrected, no qualitative change in conclusions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 052326 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512214
abstract: We search for translationally invariant states of qubits on a ring that maximize the nearest neighbor entanglement. This problem was initially studied by O'Connor and Wootters [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 63}, 052302 (2001)]. We first map the problem to the search for the ground state of a spin 1/2 Heisenberg XXZ model. Using the exact Bethe ansatz solution in the limit of an infinite ring, we prove the correctness of the assumption of O'Connor and Wootters that the state of maximal entanglement does not have any pair of neighboring spins ``down'' (or, alternatively spins ``up''). For sufficiently small fixed magnetization, however, the assumption does not hold: we identify the region of magnetizations for which the states that maximize the nearest neighbor entanglement necessarily contain pairs of neighboring spins ``down''.

id: quant-ph/0512215
title: Pulsed squeezed light: simultaneous squeezing of multiple modes
authors: Wojciech Wasilewski, A. I. Lvovsky, Konrad Banaszek, Czeslaw Radzewicz
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 063819 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512215
abstract: We analyze the spectral properties of squeezed light produced by means of pulsed, single-pass degenerate parametric down-conversion. The multimode output of this process can be decomposed into characteristic modes undergoing independent squeezing evolution akin to the Schmidt decomposition of the biphoton spectrum. The main features of this decomposition can be understood using a simple analytical model developed in the perturbative regime. In the strong pumping regime, for which the perturbative approach is not valid, we present a numerical analysis, specializing to the case of one-dimensional propagation in a beta-barium borate waveguide. Characterization of the squeezing modes provides us with an insight necessary for optimizing homodyne detection of squeezing. For a weak parametric process, efficient squeezing is found in a broad range of local oscillator modes, whereas the intense generation regime places much more stringent conditions on the local oscillator. We point out that without meeting these conditions, the detected squeezing can actually diminish with the increasing pumping strength, and we expose physical reasons behind this inefficiency.

id: quant-ph/0512216
title: Equivalence of two alternative approaches to Schrodinger equations
authors: B. Gonul, K. Koksal
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Scripta 73 (2006) 629-631
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512216
abstract: Recently developed simple approach for the exact/approximate solution of Schrodinger equations with constant/position-dependent mass, in which the potential is considered as in the perturbation theory, is shown to be equivalent to the one leading to the construction of exactly solvable potentials via the solution of second-order differential equations in terms of known special functions. The formalism in the former solves difficulties encountered in the latter in revealing the corrections explicitly to the unperturbed piece of the solutions whereas the other obviate cumbersome procedures used in the calculations of the former.

id: quant-ph/0512217
title: Efficient Simulation of Random Quantum States and Operators
authors: Christoph Dankert
comments: University of Waterloo MMath Thesis, 167 pages, double-sided
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512217
abstract: We investigate the generation of quantum states and unitary operations that are ``random'' in certain respects. We show how to use such states to estimate the average fidelity, an important measure in the study of implementations of quantum algorithms. We re-discover the result that the states of a maximal set of mutually-unbiased bases serve this purpose. An efficient circuit is presented that generates an arbitrary state out of such a set. Later on, we consider unitary operations that can be used to turn any quantum channel into a depolarizing channel. It was known before that the Clifford group serves this and a related purpose, and we show that these are actually the same. We also show that a small subset of the Clifford group is already sufficient to accomplish this. We conclude with an efficient construction of the elements of that subset. This thesis is based on joint work with Richard Cleve, Joseph Emerson, and Etera Livine.

id: quant-ph/0512218
title: Quantum communication cost of preparing multipartite entanglement
authors: Caroline Kruszynska, Simon Anders, Wolfgang D¨¹r, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 21 pages, 17 figures; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A; v2: corrections in figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062328 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512218
abstract: We study the preparation and distribution of high-fidelity multi-party entangled states via noisy channels and operations. In the particular case of GHZ and cluster states, we study different strategies using bipartite or multipartite purification protocols. The most efficient strategy depends on the target fidelity one wishes to achieve and on the quality of transmission channel and local operations. We show the existence of a crossing point beyond which the strategy making use of the purification of the state as a whole is more efficient than a strategy in which pairs are purified before they are connected to the final state. We also study the efficiency of intermediate strategies, including sequences of purification and connection. We show that a multipartite strategy is to be used if one wishes to achieve high fidelity, whereas a bipartite strategy gives a better yield for low target fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0512219
title: Steady state entanglement in open and noisy quantum systems at high temperature
authors: L. Hartmann, W. D¨¹r, H.-J. Briegel
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 74, 052304 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512219
abstract: We show that quantum mechanical entanglement can prevail even in noisy open quantum systems at high temperature and far from thermodynamical equilibrium, despite the deteriorating effect of decoherence. The system consists of a number N of interacting quantum particles, and it can interact and exchange particles with some environment. The effect of decoherence is counteracted by a simple mechanism, where system particles are randomly reset to some standard initial state, e.g. by replacing them with particles from the environment. We present a master equation that describes this process, which we can solve analytically for small N. If we vary the interaction strength and the reset against decoherence rate, we find a threshold below which the equilibrium state is classically correlated, and above which there is a parameter region with genuine entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0512220
title: Quantum mechanics as a space-time theory
authors: J. Corbett, T. Durt
comments: 27 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512220
abstract: We show how quantum mechanics can be understood as a space-time theory provided that its spatial continuum is modelled by a variable real number (qrumber) continuum. Such a continuum can be constructed using only standard Hilbert space entities. The geometry of atoms and subatomic objects differs from that of classical objects. The systems that are non-local when measured in the classical space-time continuum may be localized in the quantum continuum. We compare this new description of space-time with the Bohmian picture of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0512221
title: Coherent generation of EPR-entangled light pulses mediated by a single trapped atom
authors: Giovanna Morigi, J¨¹rgen Eschner, Stefano Mancini, David Vitali
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 033822 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512221
abstract: We show that a single, trapped, laser-driven atom in a high-finesse optical cavity allows for the quantum-coherent generation of entangled light pulses on demand. Schemes for generating simultaneous and temporally separated pulse pairs are proposed. The mechanical effect of the laser excitation on the quantum motion of the cold trapped atom mediates the entangling interaction between two cavity modes and between the two subsequent pulses, respectively. The entanglement is of EPR-type, and its degree can be controlled through external parameters. At the end of the generation process the atom is decorrelated from the light field. Possible experimental implementations of the proposals are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0512222
title: A toolbox for lattice spin models with polar molecules
authors: A. Micheli, G.K. Brennen, P. Zoller
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. v2 includes minor changes to text and new suplemental information in the form of one new figure and an appendix
journal: Nature Physics, 2, 341-347 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512222
abstract: There is growing interest to investigate states of matter with topological order, which support excitations in the form of anyons, and which underly topological quantum computing. Examples of such systems include lattice spin models in two dimensions. Here we show that relevant Hamiltonians can be systematically engineered with polar molecules stored in optical lattices, where the spin is represented by a single electron outside a closed shell of a heteronuclear molecule in its rotational ground state. Combining microwave excitation with the dipole-dipole interactions and spin-rotation couplings allows us to build a complete toolbox for effective two-spin interactions with designable range and spatial anisotropy, and with coupling strengths significantly larger than relevant decoherence rates. As an illustration we discuss two models: a 2D square lattice with an energy gap providing for protected quantum memory, and another on stacked triangular lattices leading to topological quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0512223
title: The time-energy certainty relation
authors: Zbyszek P. Karkuszewski
comments: 5 pages, no figures. Contains the derivation of results presented in quant-ph/0412073 and quant-ph/0304206
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512223
abstract: All energy measurements of a quantum system are prone to inaccuracies. In particular, if such measurements are carried over a finite period of time the accuracy of the result is affected by the length of that period. Here I show an upper bound on such inaccuracies and point out that the bound can be arbitrarily small if many copies of the system are available.

id: quant-ph/0512224
title: Are quantum correlations symmetric ?
authors: Karol Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki
comments: 5 pages, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512224
abstract: To our knowledge, all known bipartite entanglement measures are symmetric under exchange of subsystems. We ask if an entanglement measure that is not symmetric can exist. A related question is if there is a state that cannot be swapped by means of LOCC. We show, that in general one cannot swap states by LOCC. This allows to construct nonsymmetric measure of entanglement, and a parameter that reports asymmetry of entanglement contents of quantum state. We propose asymptotic measure of asymmetry of entanglement, and show that states for which it is nonzero, contain necessarily bound entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0512225
title: Husimi distribution function and one-dimensional Ising model
authors: F. Kheirandish
comments: 6 pages, accepted for publication in CJP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512225
abstract: Husimi distribution function for the one-dimensional Ising model is obtained. One-point and joint distribution functions are calculated and their thermal behaviour are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0512226
title: Efficient quantum memory and entanglement between light and an atomic ensemble using magnetic fields
authors: Christine A. Muschik, Klemens Hammerer, Eugene S. Polzik, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73 062329 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512226
abstract: We present two protocols, one for the storage of light in an atomic ensemble and the subsequent retrieval, and another one for the generation of entanglement between light and atoms. They rely on two passes of a single pulse through the ensemble, Larmor precessing in an external field. Both protocols work deterministically and the relevant figures of merit - such as the fidelity or the EPR variance - scale exponentially in the coupling strength. We solve the corresponding Maxwell-Bloch equations describing the scattering process and determine the resulting input-output relations which only involve one relevant light mode that, in turn, can be easily accessed experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0512227
title: All possible bipartite positive-operator-value measurements of two-photon polarization states
authors: S. E. Ahnert, M. C. Payne
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 022333 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512227
abstract: Here we propose an implementation of all possible Positive Operator Value Measures (POVMs) of two-photon polarization states. POVMs are the most general class of quantum measurements. Our setup requires linear optics, Bell State measurements and an entangled three-photon ancilla state, which can be prepared separately and in advance (or 'off-line'). As an example we give the detailed settings for a simultaneous measurement of all four Bell States for an arbitrary two-photon polarization state, which is impossible with linear optics alone.

id: quant-ph/0512228
title: Representations of U(2\infty) and the Value of the Fine Structure Constant
authors: William H. Klink
comments: Published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 1:028,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512228
abstract: A relativistic quantum mechanics is formulated in which all of the interactions are in the four-momentum operator and Lorentz transformations are kinematic. Interactions are introduced through vertices, which are bilinear in fermion and antifermion creation and annihilation operators, and linear in boson creation and annihilation operators. The fermion-antifermion operators generate a unitary Lie algebra, whose representations are fixed by a first order Casimir operator (corresponding to baryon number or charge). Eigenvectors and eigenvalues of the four-momentum operator are analyzed and exact solutions in the strong coupling limit are sketched. A simple model shows how the fine structure constant might be determined for the QED vertex.

id: quant-ph/0512229
title: Speedup of quantum state transfer by three- qubit interactions: Implementation by nuclear magnetic resonance
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Xinhua Peng, Dieter Suter
comments: Comments are welcome to Jingfu@e3.physik.uni-dortmund.de or zhangjfu2000@yahoo.com. More experimental results are added
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 73, 062325 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512229
abstract: Universal quantum information processing requires single-qubit rotations and two-qubit interactions as minimal resources. A possible step beyond this minimal scheme is the use of three-qubit interactions. We consider such three-qubit interactions and show how they can reduce the time required for a quantum state transfer in an XY spin chain. For the experimental implementation, we use liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), where three-qubit interactions can be implemented by sequences of radio-frequency pulses.

id: quant-ph/0512230
title: Implementation of quantum algorithms with resonant interactions
authors: Zhuo-Liang Cao, Ping Dong
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 765
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512230
abstract: We propose a scheme for implementing quantum algorithms with resonant interactions. Our scheme only requires resonant interactions between two atoms and a cavity mode, which is simple and feasible. Moreover, the implementation would be an important step towards the fabrication of quantum computers in cavity QED system.

id: quant-ph/0512231
title: Proof of Security of a High-Capacity Quantum Key Distribution Protocol
authors: Xiao-Wei Zhang, Kai Wen, Gui Lu Long
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512231
abstract: We prove the security of a high-capacity quantum key distribution protocol over noisy channels. By using entanglement purification protocol, we construct a modified version of the protocol in which we separate it into two consecutive stages. We prove their securities respectively and hence the security of the whole protocol.

id: quant-ph/0512232
title: Giant enhancement of quantum decoherence by frustrated environments
authors: S. Yuan, M. I. Katsnelson, H. De Raedt
comments: 
journal: JETP Letters, Volume 84, Issue 2, pp.99-103 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512232
abstract: This Letter studies the decoherence in a system of two antiferromagnetically coupled spins that interact with a spin bath environment. Systems are considered that range from the rotationally invariant to highly anisotropic spin models, have different topologies and values of parameters that are fixed or are allowed to fluctuate randomly. We explore the conditions under which the two-spin system clearly shows an evolution from the initial spin-up - spin-down state towards the maximally entangled singlet state. We demonstrate that frustration and, especially, glassiness of the spin environment strongly enhances the decoherence of the two-spin system.

id: quant-ph/0512233
title: Efficient data processing and quantum phenomena: Single-particle systems
authors: H. De Raedt, K. De Raedt, K. Michielsen, S. Miyashita
comments: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512233
abstract: We study the relation between the acquisition and analysis of data and quantum theory using a probabilistic and deterministic model for photon polarizers. We introduce criteria for efficient processing of data and then use these criteria to demonstrate that efficient processing of the data contained in single events is equivalent to the observation that Malus' law holds. A strictly deterministic process that also yields Malus' law is analyzed in detail. We present a performance analysis of the probabilistic and deterministic model of the photon polarizer. The latter is an adaptive dynamical system that has primitive learning capabilities. This additional feature has recently been shown to be sufficient to perform event-by-event simulations of interference phenomena, without using concepts of wave mechanics. We illustrate this by presenting results for a system of two chained Mach-Zehnder interferometers, suggesting that systems that perform efficient data processing and have learning capability are able to exhibit behavior that is usually attributed to quantum systems only.

id: quant-ph/0512234
title: Spatially Separated and Correlated Atom-molecule Lasers from a Bose Condensate
authors: Hui Jing, Wei Cai, Jing-Jun Xu, Ming-Sheng Zhan
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512234
abstract: We propose a feasible scheme to create two spatially separated atomic and molecular beams from an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate by combining the Raman-type atom laser output and the two-color photo-association processes. We examine the quantum dynamics and statistical properties of the system under short-time limits, especially the quadrature-squeezed and mode-correlated behaviors of two output beams for different initial state of the condensate. The possibility to generate the entangled atom-molecule lasers by an optical technique was also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0512235
title: Spatiotemporally-localized-stationary typical wave function satisfying Klein-Gordon equation with emergent mass
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: 10 pages, content changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512235
abstract: Starting from relativistic mass-less Madelung fluid, we shall develop a class of typical wave functions by imposing it to maximize Shannon entropy given its finite average quantum potential. We show that there is a class of solutions in which the wave function is spatiotemporally localized with finite spacetime support, uniformly moving hence stationary. It turns out that the quantum amplitude satisfies Klein-Gordon equation with emergent mass term proportional to the square root of average quantum potential. We show that there is physical time uncertainty which decreases as the mass increases. We also rederive the classical energy-momentum relation provided the de Broglie-Einstein relation holds. In this case, the time uncertainty is proportional to the inverse of classical energy.

id: quant-ph/0512236
title: Nonclassicality of noisy quantum states
authors: A.A. Semenov, D.Yu. Vasylyev, B.I. Lev
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39 (2006) 905-916
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512236
abstract: Nonclassicality conditions for an oscillator-like system interacting with a hot thermal bath are considered. Nonclassical properties of quantum states can be conserved up to a certain temperature threshold only. In this case, affection of the thermal noise can be compensated via transformation of an observable, which tests the nonclassicality (witness function). Possibilities for experimental implementations based on unbalanced homodyning are discussed. At the same time, we demonstrate that the scheme based on balanced homodyning cannot be improved for noisy states with proposed technique and should be applied directly.

id: quant-ph/0512237
title: Quadrature entanglement and photon-number correlations accompanied by phase-locking
authors: H.H. Adamyan, N.H. Adamyan, S.B. Manvelyan, G.Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: Subm. to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512237
abstract: We investigate quantum properties of phase-locked light beams generated in a nondegenerate optical parametric oscillator (NOPO) with an intracavity waveplate. This investigation continuous our previous analysis presented in Phys.Rev.A 69, 05814 (2004), and involves problems of continuous-variable quadrature entanglement in the spectral domain, photon-number correlations as well as the signatures of phase-locking in the Wigner function. We study the role of phase-localizing processes on the quantum correlation effects. The peculiarities of phase-locked NOPO in the self-pulsing instability operational regime are also cleared up. The results are obtained in both the P-representation as a quantum-mechanical calculation in the framework of stochastic equations of motion, and also by using numerical simulation based on the method of quantum state diffusion.

id: quant-ph/0512238
title: Efficient Preparation of Quantum States With Exponential Precision
authors: Peter Jaksch
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512238
abstract: It has been shown that, starting from the state |0>, in the general case, an arbitrary quantum state |\psi> cannot be prepared with exponential precision in polynomial time. However, we show that for the important special case when |\psi> represents discrete values of some real, continuous function \psi(x), efficient preparation is possible by applying the eigenvalue estimation algorithm to a Hamiltonian which has \psi(x) as an eigenstate. We construct the required Hamiltonian explicitly and present an iterative algorithm for removing unwanted superpositions from the output state in order to reach |\psi> within exponential accuracy. The method works under very general conditions and can be used to provide the quantum simulation algorithm with very accurate and general starting states.

id: quant-ph/0512239
title: Irregular Dynamics in a Solvable One-Dimensional Quantum Graph
authors: Pavel Hejcik, Taksu Cheon
comments: 4 pages ReVTeX with 3 figures. Full analytical expressions for both T_N(k) and R_N(k) are included, with revised Figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A356 (2006) 290-293
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512239
abstract: We show that the quantum single particle motion on a one-dimensional line with Fulop-Tsutsui point interactions exhibits characteristics usually associated with nonintegrable systems both in bound state level statistics and scattering amplitudes. We argue that this is a reflection of the underlying stochastic dynamics which persists in classical domain.

id: quant-ph/0512240
title: Shelving according to the NRules
authors: Richard A Mould
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures; v3. Retraction in the first paragraph
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512240
abstract: When a weak photon decay competes with a strong photon decay in a 3-level atom, the weak occasionally prevails over the strong photon. This is the shelving phenomenon. It is assumed in this paper to occur objectively and autonomously, independent of external observation or lack of observation. We here consider an auxiliary rule-set called the nRules that triggers a non-unitary mechanism that applies to all macroscopic measurements, as well as to many microscopic processes including shelving. These rules are shown below to describe the shelving process in complete detail without resorting to the notion of null measurement, or to an external measurement of any kind. They describe the V and the Lambda shelving configurations, as well as the two cascade configurations.

id: quant-ph/0512241
title: The Quantum Query Complexity of Elliptic PDE
authors: Stefan Heinrich
comments: 45 pages, submitted to the Journal of Complexity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512241
abstract: The complexity of the following numerical problem is studied in the quantum model of computation: Consider a general elliptic partial differential equation of order 2m in a smooth, bounded domain Q\subset \R^d with smooth coefficients and homogeneous boundary conditions. We seek to approximate the solution on a smooth submanifold M\subseteq Q of dimension 0\le d_1 \le d. With the right hand side belonging to C^r(Q), and the error being measured in the L_\infty(M) norm, we prove that the n-th minimal quantum error is (up to logarithmic factors) of order n^{-min((r+2m)/d_1,r/d+1)}. For comparison, in the classical deterministic setting the n-th minimal error is known to be of order n^{-r/d}, for all d_1, while in the classical randomized setting it is (up to logarithmic factors) n^{-min((r+2m)/d_1,r/d+1/2)}.

id: quant-ph/0512242
title: Resonance expansions in quantum mechanics
authors: R. de la Madrid, G. Garcia-Calderon, J.G. Muga
comments: 10 pages and 1 figure; presented at the Istanbul workshop on pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians
journal: Czech.J.Phys. 55 (2005) 1141-1150
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512242
abstract: The goal of this contribution is to discuss various resonance expansions that have been proposed in the literature.

id: quant-ph/0512243
title: Spatial dispersion in Casimir forces: A brief review
authors: R Esquivel-Sirvent, C Villarreal, W L Moch¨¢n, A M Contreras-Reyes, V B Svetovoy
comments: Proceedings of QFEXT05, Barcelona, Sept. 5-9, 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512243
abstract: We present the basic principles of non-local optics in connection with the calculation of the Casimir force between half-spaces and thin films. At currently accessible distances $L$, non-local corrections amount to about half a percent, but they increase roughly as 1/L at smaller separations. Self consistent models lead to corrections with the opposite sign as models with abrupt surfaces.

id: quant-ph/0512244
title: The Effect of Local Structure and Non-uniformity on Decoherence-Free States of Charge Qubits
authors: Tetsufumi Tanamoto, Shinobu Fujita
comments: 
journal: Physica E34, 530 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512244
abstract: We analyze robustness of decoherence-free (DF) subspace in charge qubits when there are a local structure and non-uniformity that violate collective decoherence measurement condition. We solve master equations of up to four charge qubits and a detector as two serially coupled quantum point contacts (QPC) with an island structure. We show that robustness of DF states is strongly affected by local structure as well as by non-uniformities of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0512245
title: Threshold bounds for noisy bipartite states
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: 9 pages; v.2: minor editing corrections; to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006), 5115-5123.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512245
abstract: For a nonseparable bipartite quantum state violating the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality, we evaluate amounts of noise breaking the quantum character of its statistical correlations under any generalized quantum measurements of Alice and Bob. Expressed in terms of the reduced states, these new threshold bounds can be easily calculated for any concrete bipartite state. A noisy bipartite state, satisfying the extended CHSH inequality and the perfect correlation form of the original Bell inequality for any quantum observables, neither necessarily admits a local hidden variable model nor exhibits the perfect correlation of outcomes whenever the same quantum observable is measured on both "sides".

id: quant-ph/0512246
title: Equivalence of Tripartite Quantum States under Local Unitary Transformations
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Laura Cattaneo, Shao-Ming Fei, Xiao-Hong Wang
comments: 7 pages
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 3, No. 4 (2005) 603-609
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512246
abstract: The equivalence of tripartite pure states under local unitary transformations is investigated. The nonlocal properties for a class of tripartite quantum states in $\Cb^K \otimes \Cb^M \otimes \Cb^N$ composite systems are investigated and a complete set of invariants under local unitary transformations for these states is presented. It is shown that two of these states are locally equivalent if and only if all these invariants have the same values.

id: quant-ph/0512247
title: Quantum state merging and negative information
authors: Michal Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim, Andreas Winter
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 269, 107 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512247
abstract: We consider a quantum state shared between many distant locations, and define a quantum information processing primitive, state merging, that optimally merges the state into one location. As announced in [Horodecki, Oppenheim, Winter, Nature 436, 673 (2005)], the optimal entanglement cost of this task is the conditional entropy if classical communication is free. Since this quantity can be negative, and the state merging rate measures partial quantum information, we find that quantum information can be negative. The classical communication rate also has a minimum rate: a certain quantum mutual information. State merging enabled one to solve a number of open problems: distributed quantum data compression, quantum coding with side information at the decoder and sender, multi-party entanglement of assistance, and the capacity of the quantum multiple access channel. It also provides an operational proof of strong subadditivity. Here, we give precise definitions and prove these results rigorously.

id: quant-ph/0512248
title: Can quantum computing solve classically unsolvable problems?
authors: Andrew Hodges
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512248
abstract: T. D. Kieu has claimed that a quantum computing procedure can solve a classically unsolvable problem. Recent work of W. D. Smith has shown that Kieu's central mathematical claim cannot be sustained. Here, a more general critique is given of Kieu's proposal and some suggestions are made regarding the Church-Turing thesis.

id: quant-ph/0512249
title: Ground state overlap and quantum phase transitions
authors: Paolo Zanardi, Nikola Paunkovi?
comments: 5 pages. Version to be published, title changed
journal: Phys. Rev. E 74, 031123 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512249
abstract: We present a characterization of quantum phase transitions in terms of the the overlap function between two ground states obtained for two different values of external parameters. On the examples of the Dicke and XY models, we show that the regions of criticality of a system are marked by the extremal points of the overlap and functions closely related to it. Further, we discuss the connections between this approach and the Anderson orthogonality catastrophe as well as with the dynamical study of the Loschmidt echo for critical systems.

id: quant-ph/0512250
title: Temperature effects on mixed state geometric phase
authors: A. T. Rezakhani, P. Zanardi
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 052117 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512250
abstract: Geometric phase of an open quantum system that is interacting with a thermal environment (bath) is studied through some simple examples. The system is considered to be a simple spin-half particle which is weakly coupled to the bath. It is seen that even in this regime the geometric phase can vary with temperature. In addition, we also consider the system under an adiabatically time-varying magnetic field which is weakly coupled to the bath. An important feature of this model is that it reveals existence of a temperature-scale in which adiabaticity condition is preserved and beyond which the geometric phase is varying quite rapidly with temperature. This temperature is exactly the one in which the geometric phase vanishes. This analysis has some implications in realistic implementations of geometric quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0512251
title: Entropy: An inherent, nonstatistical property of any system in any state
authors: Elias P. Gyftopoulos
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512251
abstract: Entropy is the distinguishing and most important concept of our efforts to understand and regularize our observations of a very large class of natural phenomena, and yet, it is one of the most contentious concepts of physics. In this article, we review two expositions of thermodynamics, one without reference to quantum theory, and the other quantum mechanical without probabilities of statistical mechanics. In the first, we show that entropy is an inherent property of any system in any state, and that its analytical expression must conform to eight criteria. In the second, we recognize that quantum thermodynamics: (i) admits quantum probabilities described either by wave functions or by nonstatistical density operators; and (ii) requires a nonlinear equation of motion that is delimited by but more general than the Schroedinger equation, and that accounts for both reversible and irreversible evolutions of the state of the system in time. Both the more general quantum probabilities, and the equation of motion have been defined, and the three laws of thermodynamics are shown to be theorems of this equation.

id: quant-ph/0512252
title: Optical response of a misaligned and suspended Fabry-Perot cavity
authors: G. Cella, A. Di Virgilio, P. La Penna, V. D'Auria, A. Porzio, I. Ricciardi, S. Solimeno
comments: 14 pages (4 figures) submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74:380114 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512252
abstract: The response to a probe laser beam of a suspended, misaligned and detuned optical cavity is examined. A five degree of freedom model of the fluctuations of the longitudinal and transverse mirror coordinates is presented. Classical and quantum mechanical effects of radiation pressure are studied with the help of the optical stiffness coefficients and the signals provided by an FM sideband technique and a quadrant detector, for generic values of the product $\varpi \tau $ of the fluctuation frequency times the cavity round trip. A simplified version is presented for the case of small misalignments. Mechanical stability, mirror position entanglement and ponderomotive squeezing are accommodated in this model. Numerical plots refer to cavities under test at the so-called Pisa LF facility.

id: quant-ph/0512253
title: Degree of entanglement as a physically ill-posed problem: The case of entanglement with vacuum
authors: Marcin Pawlowski, Marek Czachor
comments: This paper is basically a reply to quant-ph/0507189 by S. J. van Enk and to the remarks we got from L. Vaidman after our preliminary quant-ph/0507151. Version accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 042111 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512253
abstract: We analyze an example of a photon in superposition of different modes, and ask what is the degree of their entanglement with vacuum. The problem turns out to be ill-posed since we do not know which representation of the algebra of canonical commutation relations (CCR) to choose for field quantization. Once we make a choice, we can solve the question of entanglement unambiguously. So the difficulty is not with mathematics, but with physics of the problem. In order to make the discussion explicit we analyze from this perspective a popular argument based on a photon leaving a beam splitter and interacting with two two-level atoms. We first solve the problem algebraically in Heisenberg picture, without any assumption about the form of representation of CCR. Then we take the $\infty$-representation and show in two ways that in two-mode states the modes are maximally entangled with vacuum, but single-mode states are not entangled. Next we repeat the analysis in terms of the representation of CCR taken from Berezin's book and show that two-mode states do not involve the mode-vacuum entanglement. Finally, we switch to a family of reducible representations of CCR recently investigated in the context of field quantization, and show that the entanglement with vacuum is present even for single-mode states. Still, the degree of entanglement is here difficult to estimate, mainly because there are $N+2$ subsystems, with $N$ unspecified and large.

id: quant-ph/0512254
title: How Time Works in Quantum Systems: Overview of time ordering and time correlation in weakly perturbed atomic collisions and in strongly perturbed qubits
authors: J. H. McGuire, L. Kaplan, Kh. Kh. Shakov, A. Chalastaras, A. M. Smith, A. Godunov, H. Schmidt-B?cking, D. Uskov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512254
abstract: Time ordering may be defined by first defining the limit of no time ordering (NTO) in terms of a time average of an external interaction, V(t). Previously, time correlation was defined in terms of a similar limit called the independent time approximation (ITA). Experimental evidence for time correlation has not yet been distinguished from experimental evidence for time ordering.

id: quant-ph/0512255
title: Applications of coherent classical communication and the Schur transform to quantum information theory
authors: Aram W. Harrow
comments: 176 pages. Chapters 1 and 4 are a slightly older version of quant-ph/0512015. Chapter 2 is quant-ph/0205057 plus unpublished extensions (slightly outdated by quant-ph/0511219) and chapter 3 is quant-ph/0307091, quant-ph/0412126 and change. Chapters 5-8 are based on quant-ph/0407082, but go much further
journal: Ph.D thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512255
abstract: Quantum mechanics has led not only to new physical theories, but also a new understanding of information and computation. Quantum information began by yielding new methods for achieving classical tasks such as factoring and key distribution but also suggests a completely new set of quantum problems, such as sending quantum information over quantum channels or efficiently performing particular basis changes on a quantum computer. This thesis contributes two new, purely quantum, tools to quantum information theory--coherent classical communication in the first half and an efficient quantum circuit for the Schur transform in the second half.

id: quant-ph/0512256
title: Quasi multipartite entanglement measure based on quadratic functions
authors: Jing Zhang, Chun-Wen Li, Re-Bing Wu, Tzyh-Jong Tarn, Jian-Wu Wu
comments: 10pages,1 figure
journal: Physical Review A, 2006, 73(2): 022319.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512256
abstract: We develop a new entanglement measure by extending Jaeger's Minkowskian norm entanglement measure. This measure can be applied to a much wider class of multipartite mixed states, although still "quasi" in the sense that it is still incapable of dividing precisely the sets of all separable and entangled states. As a quadratic scalar function of the system density matrix, the quasi measure can be easily expressed in terms of the so-called coherence vector of the system density matrix, by which we show the basic properties of the quasi measure including (1) zero-entanglement for all separable states, (2) invariance under local unitary operations, and (3) non-increasing under local POVM (positive operator-valued measure) measurements. These results open up perspectives in further studies of dynamical problems in open systems, especially the dynamic evolution of entanglement, and the entanglement preservation against the environment-induced decoherence effects.

id: quant-ph/0512257
title: Optical-state truncation and teleportation of qudits by conditional eight-port interferometry
authors: Adam Miranowicz
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Opt. B 7, 142-150 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512257
abstract: Quantum scissors device of Pegg et al. (1998 Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 1604) enables truncation of the Fock-state expansion of an input optical field to qubit and qutrit (three-dimensional) states only. Here, a generalized scissors device is proposed using an eight-port optical interferometer. Upon post-selection based on photon counting results, the interferometer implements generation and teleportation of qudit (d-dimensional) states by truncation of an input field at the (d-1)th term of its Fock-state expansion up to d=6. Examples of selective truncations, which can be interpreted as a Fock-state filtering and hole burning in the Fock space of an input optical field, are discussed. Deterioration of the truncation due to imperfect photon counting is discussed including inefficiency, dark counts and realistic photon-number resolutions of photodetectors.

id: quant-ph/0512258
title: Security of Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Renato Renner
comments: PhD thesis; index added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512258
abstract: We propose various new techniques in quantum information theory, including a de Finetti style representation theorem for finite symmetric quantum states. As an application, we give a proof for the security of quantum key distribution which applies to arbitrary protocols.

id: quant-ph/0512259
title: Experimental Constraints of Using Slow-Light in Sodium Vapor for Light-Drag Enhanced Relative Rotation Sensing
authors: Renu Tripathi, G.S. Pati, M. Messall, K. Salit, M.S. Shahriar
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512259
abstract: We report on experimental observation of electromagnetically induced transparency and slow-light (vg ~ c/607) in atomic sodium vapor, as a potential medium for a recently proposed experiment on slow-light enhanced relative rotation sensing [11]. We have performed an interferometric measurement of the index variation associated with a two-photon resonance to estimate the dispersion characteristics of the medium that is relevant to the slow-light based rotation sensing scheme. We also show that the presence of counter-propagating pump beams in an optical Sagnac loop produces a backward optical phase conjugation beam that can generate spurious signals, which may complicate the measurement of small rotations in the slow-light enhanced gyroscope. We identify techniques for overcoming this constraint.

id: quant-ph/0512260
title: Controllable Anomalous Dispersion and Group Index Nulling via Bi-Frequency Raman Gain in Rb Vapor for application to Ultraprecision Rotation Sensing
authors: G.S. Pati, Renu Tripathi, M. Messall, K. Salit, M.S. Shahriar
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0512260
abstract: We have recently proposed [9], the use of fast-light media to obtain ultrahigh precision rotation sensing capabilities. The scheme relies on producing a critically anomalous dispersion, in a suitable dispersive medium, which is introduced in the arms of a Sagnac interferometer. We present here an experimental investigation of the anomalous dispersion properties of bi-frequency Raman gain in rubidium vapor, with the goal of using this medium for producing the critically anomalous dispersion condition. A heterodyne phase measurement technique is used to measure accurately the index variation associated with the dispersion. The slope of the negative linear dispersion (or group index) is experimentally varied by more than two orders of magnitude while changing the frequency separation between pump fields, responsible for producing gain. Using this result, we have identified the experimental parameters for achieving a null value of the group index, corresponding to the critically anomalous dispersion condition necessary for enhanced rotational sensitivity.

id: cond-mat/0512064
title: Monte Carlo studies of quantum and classical annealing on a double-well
authors: Lorenzo Stella, Giuseppe E. Santoro, Erio Tosatti
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures, REVTex 4
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 144302 (2006)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512064
abstract: We present results for a variety of Monte Carlo annealing approaches, both classical and quantum, benchmarked against one another for the textbook optimization exercise of a simple one-dimensional double-well. In classical (thermal) annealing, the dependence upon the move chosen in a Metropolis scheme is studied and correlated with the spectrum of the associated Markov transition matrix. In quantum annealing, the Path-Integral Monte Carlo approach is found to yield non-trivial sampling difficulties associated with the tunneling between the two wells. The choice of fictitious quantum kinetic energy is also addressed. We find that a ``relativistic'' kinetic energy form, leading to a higher probability of long real space jumps, can be considerably more effective than the standard one.

id: cond-mat/0512097
title: Quantum dynamics in view of Einstein's theory of Brownian motion
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512097
abstract: A quantum-mechanical version of Einstein's 1905 theory of Brownian motion is presented. Starting from the Hamiltonian dynamics of an isolated composite of objective and environmental systems, subdynamics for the objective system is derived in the spirit of Einstein. The resulting master equation is found to have the Lindblad structure.

id: cond-mat/0512121
title: Quantum computing without qubit-qubit interactions
authors: Almut Beige
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, proceedings for the conference Quantum Theory and Symmetries 4 in Varna, August 2005
journal: in: Quantum Theory and Symmetries IV, edited by V. K. Dobrev, Heron Press, Sofia (2006), p. 22.
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512121
abstract: Quantum computing tries to exploit entanglement and interference to process information more efficiently than the best known classical solutions. Experiments demonstrating the feasibility of this approach have already been performed. However, finding a really scalable and robust quantum computing architecture remains a challenge for both, experimentalists and theoreticians. In most setups decoherence becomes non-negligible when one tries to perform entangling gate operations using the coherent control of qubit-qubit interactions. However, in this proceedings we show that two-qubit gate operations can be implemented even without qubit-qubit interactions and review a recent quantum computing scheme by Lim et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 030505 (2005)] using only single photon sources (e.g. atom-cavity systems, NV colour centres or quantum dots) and photon pair measurements.

id: cond-mat/0512148
title: Zitterbewegung of electrons and holes in III-V semiconductor quantum wells
authors: John Schliemann, Daniel Loss, R.M. Westervelt
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures included
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 085323 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512148
abstract: The notion of zitterbewegung is a long-standing prediction of relativistic quantum mechanics. Here we extend earlier theoretical studies on this phenomenon for the case of III-V zinc-blende semiconductors which exhibit particularly strong spin-orbit coupling. This property makes nanostructures made of these materials very favorable systems for possible experimental observations of zitterbewegung. Our investigations include electrons in n-doped quantum wells under the influence of both Rashba and Dresselhaus spin-orbit interaction, and also the two-dimensional hole gas. Moreover, we give a detailed anaysis of electron zitterbewegung in quantum wires which appear to be particularly suited for experimentally observing this effect.

id: cond-mat/0512165
title: Entanglement renormalization
authors: Guifre Vidal
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, updated version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 220405 (2007)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512165
abstract: In the context of real-space renormalization group methods, we propose a novel scheme for quantum systems defined on a D-dimensional lattice. It is based on a coarse-graining transformation that attempts to reduce the amount of entanglement of a block of lattice sites before truncating its Hilbert space. Numerical simulations involving the ground state of a 1D system at criticality show that the resulting coarse-grained site requires a Hilbert space dimension that does not grow with successive rescaling transformations. As a result we can address, in a quasi-exact way, tens of thousands of quantum spins with a computational effort that scales logarithmically in the system's size. The calculations unveil that ground state entanglement in extended quantum systems is organized in layers corresponding to different length scales. At a quantum critical point, each rellevant length scale makes an equivalent contribution to the entanglement of a block with the rest of the system.

id: cond-mat/0512180
title: Quantum phase transitions in matrix product systems
authors: Michael M. Wolf, Gerardo Ortiz, Frank Verstraete, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 110403 (2006)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512180
abstract: We investigate quantum phase transitions (QPTs) in spin chain systems characterized by local Hamiltonians with matrix product ground states. We show how to theoretically engineer such QPT points between states with predetermined properties. While some of the characteristics of these transitions are familiar, like the appearance of singularities in the thermodynamic limit, diverging correlation length, and vanishing energy gap, others differ from the standard paradigm: In particular, the ground state energy remains analytic, and the entanglement entropy of a half-chain stays finite. Examples demonstrate that these kinds of transitions can occur at the triple point of `conventional' QPTs.

id: cond-mat/0512269
title: Knight Field Enabled Nuclear Spin Polarization in Single Quantum Dots
authors: C. W. Lai, P. Maletinsky, A. Badolato, A. Imamoglu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 167403 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512269
abstract: We demonstrate dynamical nuclear spin polarization in the absence of an external magnetic field, by resonant circularly polarized optical excitation of a single electron or hole charged quantum dot. Optical pumping of the electron spin induces an effective inhomogeneous magnetic (Knight) field that determines the direction along which nuclear spins could polarize and enables nuclear-spin cooling by suppressing depolarization induced by nuclear dipole-dipole interactions. Our observations suggest a new mechanism for spin-polarization where spin exchange with an electron reservoir plays a crucial role. These experiments constitute a first step towards quantum measurement of the Overhauser field.

id: cond-mat/0512321
title: Exchange coupling in semiconductor nanostructures: Validity and limitations of the Heitler-London approach
authors: M.J. Calderon, Belita Koiller, S. Das Sarma
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. As accepted in Physical Review B
journal: Physical Review B 74, 045310 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512321
abstract: The exchange coupling of the spins of two electrons in double well potentials in a semiconductor background is calculated within the Heitler-London (HL) approximation. Atomic and quantum dot types of confining potentials are considered, and a systematic analysis for the source of inaccuracies in the HL approach is presented. For the strongly confining coulombic atomic potentials in the H2 molecule, the most dramatic failure occurs at very large interatomic distances, where HL predicts a triplet ground state, both in 3D and in 2D, coming from the absence of electron-electron correlation effects in this approach. For a 2D double well potential, failures are identified at relatively smaller interdot distances, and may be attributed to the less confining nature of the potential, leading to larger overlap and consequently an inadequate representation of the two-particle states written, within HL, in terms of the ground state orbital at each isolated well. We find that in the double dot case, the range of validity of HL is improved (restricted) in a related 3D (1D) model, and that results always tend to become more reliable as the interdot distance increases. Our calculated exchange coupling is of relevance to the exchange gate quantum computer architectures in semiconductors.

id: cond-mat/0512323
title: Quantum theory for electron spin decoherence induced by nuclear spin dynamics in semiconductor quantum computer architectures: Spectral diffusion of localized electron spins in the nuclear solid-state environment
authors: W. M. Witzel, S. Das Sarma
comments: 23 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74, 035322 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512323
abstract: We consider the decoherence of a single localized electron spin due to its coupling to the lattice nuclear spin bath in a semiconductor quantum computer architecture. In the presence of an external magnetic field and at low temperatures, the dominant decoherence mechanism is the spectral diffusion of the electron spin resonance frequency due to the temporally fluctuating random magnetic field associated with the dipolar interaction induced flip-flops of nuclear spin pairs. The electron spin dephasing due to this random magnetic field depends intricately on the quantum dynamics of the nuclear spin bath, making the coupled decoherence problem difficult to solve. We provide a formally exact solution of this non-Markovian quantum decoherence problem which numerically calculates accurate spin decoherence at short times, which is of particular relevance in solid-state spin quantum computer architectures. A quantum cluster expansion method is developed, motivated, and tested for the problem of localized electron spin decoherence due to dipolar fluctuations of lattice nuclear spins. The method is presented with enough generality for possible application to other types of spin decoherence problems. We present numerical results which are in quantitative agreement with electron spin echo measurements in phosphorus doped silicon. We also present spin echo decay results for quantum dots in GaAs which differ qualitatively from that of the phosphorus doped silicon system. Our theoretical results provide the ultimate limit on the spin coherence (at least, as characterized by Hahn spin echo measurements) of localized electrons in semiconductors in the low temperature and the moderate to high magnetic field regime of interest in scalable semiconductor quantum computer architectures.

id: cond-mat/0512362
title: Enhancement of electron spin coherence by optical preparation of nuclear spins
authors: Dimitrije Stepanenko, Guido Burkard, Geza Giedke, Atac Imamoglu
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 136401 (2006).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512362
abstract: We study a large ensemble of nuclear spins interacting with a single electron spin in a quantum dot under optical excitation and photon detection. When a pair of applied laser fields satisfy two-photon resonance between the two ground electronic spin states, detection of light scattering from the intermediate exciton state acts as a weak quantum measurement of the effective magnetic (Overhauser) field due to the nuclear spins. If the spin were driven into a coherent population trapping state where no light scattering takes place, then the nuclear state would be projected into an eigenstate of the Overhauser field operator and electron decoherence due to nuclear spins would be suppressed: we show that this limit can be approached by adapting the laser frequencies when a photon is detected. We use a Lindblad equation to describe the time evolution of the driven system under photon emission and detection. Numerically, we find an increase of the electron coherence time from 5 ns to 500 ns after a preparation time of 10 microseconds.

id: cond-mat/0512371
title: Permanent magnetic lattices for ultracold atoms and quantum degenerate gases
authors: Saeed Ghanbari, Tien D. Kieu, Andrei Sidorov, Peter Hannaford
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures, to appear in Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics
journal: 2006 J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39 847-860
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512371
abstract: We propose the use of periodic arrays of permanent magnetic films for producing magnetic lattices of microtraps for confining, manipulating and controlling small clouds of ultracold atoms and quantum degenerate gases. Using analytical expressions and numerical calculations we show that periodic arrays of magnetic films can produce one-dimensional (1D) and two-dimensional (2D) magnetic lattices with non-zero potential minima, allowing ultracold atoms to be trapped without losses due to spin flips. In particular, we show that two crossed layers of periodic arrays of parallel rectangular magnets plus bias fields, or a single layer of periodic arrays of square-shaped magnets with three different thicknesses plus bias fields, can produce 2D magnetic lattices of microtraps having non-zero potential minima and controllable trap depth. For arrays with micron-scale periodicity, the magnetic microtraps can have very large trap depths ($\sim$0.5 mK for the realistic parameters chosen for the 2D lattice) and very tight confinement.

id: cond-mat/0512404
title: Line Broadening and Decoherence of Electron Spins in Phosphorus-Doped Silicon Due to Environmental 29^Si Nuclear Spins
authors: Eisuke Abe, Akira Fujimoto, Junichi Isoya, Satoshi Yamasaki, Kohei M. Itoh
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 121201 (2010)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512404
abstract: Phosphorus-doped silicon single crystals with 0.19 % <= f <= 99.2 %, where f is the concentration of 29^Si isotopes, are measured at 8 K using a pulsed electron spin resonance technique, thereby the effect of environmental 29^Si nuclear spins on the donor electron spin is systematically studied. The linewidth as a function of f shows a good agreement with theoretical analysis. We also report the phase memory time T_M of the donor electron spin dependent on both f and the crystal axis relative to the external magnetic field.

id: cond-mat/0512475
title: Boundary effects in the critical scaling of entanglement entropy in 1D systems
authors: Nicolas Laflorencie, Erik S. Sorensen, Ming-Shyang Chang, Ian Affleck
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 100603 (2006)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512475
abstract: We present exact diagonalization and density matrix renormalization group results for the entanglement entropy of critical spin-1/2 XXZ chains. We find that open boundary conditions induce an alternating term in both the energy density and the entanglement entropy which are approximately proportional, decaying away from the boundary with a power-law. The power varies with anisotropy along the XXZ critical line and is corrected by a logarithmic factor, which we calculate analytically, at the isotropic point. A heuristic resonating valence bond explanation is suggested.

id: cond-mat/0512481
title: Tunnelling rates for the nonlinear Wannier-Stark problem
authors: Sandro Wimberger, Peter Schlagheck, Riccardo Mannella
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39 729-740 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512481
abstract: We present a method to numerically compute accurate tunnelling rates for a Bose-Einstein condensate which is described by the nonlinear Gross-Pitaevskii equation. Our method is based on a sophisticated real-time integration of the complex-scaled Gross-Pitaevskii equation, and it is capable of finding the stationary eigenvalues for the Wannier-Stark problem. We show that even weak nonlinearities have significant effects in the vicinity of very sensitive resonant tunnelling peaks, which occur in the rates as a function of the Stark field amplitude. The mean-field interaction induces a broadening and a shift of the peaks, and the latter is explained by analytic perturbation theory.

id: cond-mat/0512565
title: Asymmetries in the tunneling probability of Bose-Einstein condensate in an accelerating optical lattice
authors: Valery S. Shchesnovich, Solange B. Cavalcanti
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures. Revised section V and changed figure 7. To appear in J. Phys. B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512565
abstract: We derive a two-band finite-dimensional model for description of the condensate tunneling in an accelerating optical lattice, taking into account the fine Bloch band structure. The model reveals a very strong dependence of the final band populations on the initial populations and phases. Most importantly, additionally to the known asymmetric dependence on the nonlinearity, there is also a notable asymmetry in the sensitivity of the tunneling probability to the nonliearity-induced initial population of the Bloch band to which the tunneling takes place. This fact can explain the experimentally observed unexpected independence of the upper-to-lower tunneling probablity on the nonlinearity. Finally, we compare the predictions of the two-band model with that of the well-known nonlinear Landau-Zener model and find disagreement when the two bands are initially populated. The disagreement can be qualitative and reveals itself even for a negligible nonlinearity. However, the two models agree remarkably well if just one band is populated initially.

id: cond-mat/0512586
title: Entanglement Entropy dynamics in Heisenberg chains
authors: G. De Chiara, S. Montangero, P. Calabrese, R. Fazio
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: J.Stat.Mech.0603:L03001,2006
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0512586
abstract: By means of the time-dependent density matrix renormalization group algorithm we study the zero-temperature dynamics of the Von Neumann entropy of a block of spins in a Heisenberg chain after a sudden quench in the anisotropy parameter. In the absence of any disorder the block entropy increases linearly with time and then saturates. We analyze the velocity of propagation of the entanglement as a function of the initial and final anisotropies and compare, wherever possible, our results with those obtained by means of Conformal Field Theory. In the disordered case we find a slower (logarithmic) evolution which may signals the onset of entanglement localization.

id: cs/0512104
title: Reversible CAM Processor Modeled After Quantum Computer Behavior
authors: John Robert Burger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Hardware Architecture (cs.AR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0512104
abstract: Proposed below is a reversible digital computer modeled after the natural behavior of a quantum system. Using approaches usually reserved for idealized quantum computers, the Reversible CAM, or State Vector Parallel (RSVP) processor can easily find keywords in an unstructured database (that is, it can solve a needle in a haystack problem). The RSVP processor efficiently solves a SAT (Satisfiability of Boolean Formulae) problem; also it can aid in the solution of a GP (Global Properties of Truth Table) problem. The power delay product of the RSVP processor is exponentially lower than that of a standard CAM programmed to perform similar operations.

id: gr-qc/0512046
title: Dirac equation from the Hamiltonian and the case with a gravitational field
authors: Mayeul Arminjon
comments: 27 pages, standard LaTeX. v2: minor style changes, accepted for publication in Found. Phys. Letters
journal: Found.Phys.Lett.19:225-247,2006
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0512046
abstract: Starting from an interpretation of the classical-quantum correspondence, we derive the Dirac equation by factorizing the algebraic relation satisfied by the classical Hamiltonian, before applying the correspondence. This derivation applies in the same form to a free particle, to one in an electromagnetic field, and to one subjected to geodesic motion in a static metric, and leads to the same, usual form of the Dirac equation--in special coordinates. To use the equation in the static-gravitational case, we need to rewrite it in more general coordinates. This can be done only if the usual, spinor transformation of the wave function is replaced by the 4-vector transformation. We show that the latter also makes the flat-space-time Dirac equation Lorentz-covariant, although the Dirac matrices are not invariant. Because the equation itself is left unchanged in the flat case, the 4-vector transformation does not alter the main physical consequences of that equation in that case. However, the equation derived in the static-gravitational case is not equivalent to the standard (Fock-Weyl) gravitational extension of the Dirac equation.

id: gr-qc/0512053
title: Vacuum Fluctuations, Geometric Modular Action and Relativistic Quantum Information Theory
authors: Rainer Verch
comments: 26 pages. Contribution for the Proceedings of a Conference on Special Relativity held at Potsdam, 2005
journal: Lect.NotesPhys.702:133-162,2006
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0512053
abstract: A summary of some lines of ideas leading to model-independent frameworks of relativistic quantum field theory is given. It is followed by a discussion of the Reeh-Schlieder theorem and geometric modular action of Tomita-Takesaki modular objects associated with the quantum field vacuum state and certain algebras of observables. The distillability concept, which is significant in specifying useful entanglement in quantum information theory, is discussed within the setting of general relativistic quantum field theory.

id: gr-qc/0512072
title: Quantum information in loop quantum gravity
authors: Daniel R. Terno
comments: RevTex, 5 pages. Proceedings of QG'05, Cala Gonone, 2005 Relations of the coarse-graining and partial tracing are clarified, and the references are updated
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser. 33 (2006) 469-474
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0512072
abstract: A coarse-graining of spin networks is expressed in terms of partial tracing, thus allowing to use tools of quantum information theory. This is illustrated by the analysis of a simple black hole model, where the logarithmic correction of the Bekenstein-Hawking entropy is shown to be equal to the total amount of correlations on the horizon. Finally other applications of entanglement to quantum gravity are briefly discussed.

id: hep-th/0512059
title: Influence on electron coherence from quantum electromagnetic fields in the presence of conducting plates
authors: Jen-Tsung Hsiang, Da-Shin Lee
comments: 29 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D73:065022,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0512059
abstract: The influence of electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations in the presence of the perfectly conducting plate on electrons is studied with an interference experiment. The evolution of the reduced density matrix of the electron is derived by the method of influence functional. We find that the plate boundary anisotropically modifies vacuum fluctuations that in turn affect the electron coherence. The path plane of the interference is chosen either parallel or normal to the plate. In the vicinity of the plate, we show that the coherence between electrons due to the boundary is enhanced in the parallel configuration, but reduced in the normal case. The presence of the second parallel plate is found to boost these effects. The potential relation between the amplitude change and phase shift of interference fringes is pointed out. The finite conductivity effect on electron coherence is discussed.

id: hep-th/0512095
title: Leading role of gravity in the structure of spinning particle
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 11 pages,2 figures, based on the talks given at the Summer conferences: ``Symmetry and Spin'' (Prague, July 2005), QFTEXT'05 (Barcelona, September 2005), Spin-05 (Dubna, September 2005)
journal: Czech.J.Phys. 56 (2006) c257
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0512095
abstract: The Kerr-Newman solution has g=2 as that of the Dirac electron and is considered as a model of spinning particle in general relativity. The Kerr geometry changes cardinally our representations on the role of gravity in the particle physics. We show that the Kerr gravitational field has a stringy local action and a topological peculiarity which are extended up to the Compton distances, and also a strong non-local action playing the key role in the mass-renormalization and regularization of singularities. The Kerr-Newman gravity determines the structure of spinning particle in the form of a relativistically rotating disk, a highly oblate bag of the Compton radius. Interior of this bag consists of an AdS or dS ``false vacuum'', depending on the correlation of the mass density and charge. In the same time, the local action of gravitational field may be considered as negligible for regularized particle.

id: hep-th/0512110
title: Exactly Solvable Two-Dimensional Complex Model with Real Spectrum
authors: F. Cannata, M.V. Ioffe, D.N. Nishnianidze
comments: 13 pages
journal: Theor.Math.Phys.148:960-967,2006; Teor.Mat.Fiz.148:102-111,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0512110
abstract: Supersymmetrical intertwining relations of second order in derivatives allow to construct a two-dimensional quantum model with complex potential, for which {\it all} energy levels and bound state wave functions are obtained analytically. This model {\it is not amenable} to separation of variables, and it can be considered as a specific complexified version of generalized two-dimensional Morse model with additional $\sinh^{-2}$ term. The energy spectrum of the model is proved to be purely real. To our knowledge, this is a rather rare example of a nontrivial exactly solvable model in two dimensions. The symmetry operator is found, the biorthogonal basis is described, and the pseudo-Hermiticity of the model is demonstrated. The obtained wave functions are found to be common eigenfunctions both of the Hamiltonian and of the symmetry operator.

id: hep-th/0512186
title: Strings, world-sheet covariant quantization and Bohmian mechanics
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 9 pages, version to appear in Eur. Phys. J. C
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C47:525-529,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0512186
abstract: The covariant canonical method of quantization based on the De Donder-Weyl covariant canonical formalism is used to formulate a world-sheet covariant quantization of bosonic strings. To provide the consistency with the standard non-covariant canonical quantization, it is necessary to adopt a Bohmian deterministic hidden-variable equation of motion. In this way, string theory suggests a solution to the problem of measurement in quantum mechanics.

id: hep-th/0512200
title: Observables in effective gravity
authors: Steven B. Giddings, Donald Marolf, James B. Hartle
comments: 43 pages, harvmac "big", minor editing changes
journal: Phys.Rev.D74:064018,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0512200
abstract: We address the construction and interpretation of diffeomorphism-invariant observables in a low-energy effective theory of quantum gravity. The observables we consider are constructed as integrals over the space of coordinates, in analogy to the construction of gauge-invariant observables in Yang-Mills theory via traces. As such, they are explicitly non-local. Nevertheless we describe how, in suitable quantum states and in a suitable limit, the familiar physics of local quantum field theory can be recovered from appropriate such observables, which we term `pseudo-local.' We consider measurement of pseudo-local observables, and describe how such measurements are limited by both quantum effects and gravitational interactions. These limitations support suggestions that theories of quantum gravity associated with finite regions of spacetime contain far fewer degrees of freedom than do local field theories.

id: hep-th/0512221
title: One loop boundary effects: techniques and applications
authors: Valery N.Marachevsky
comments: 30 pages, latex2e, Sections 3.1 and 3.7 are rewritten, new results are added to Sec.3.7, Lectures given at International V.A.Fock School for Advances of Physics IFSAP-2005, St.Petersburg, Russia, November 21-27, 2005
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0512221
abstract: A pedagogical introduction to the heat kernel technique, zeta function and Casimir effect is presented. Several applications are considered. First we derive the high temperature asymptotics of the free energy for boson fields in terms of the heat kernel expansion and zeta function. Another application is chiral anomaly for local (MIT bag) boundary conditions. Then we rederive the Casimir energies for perfectly conducting rectangular cavities using a new technique. The new results for the attractive Casimir force acting on each of the two perfectly conducting plates inside an infinite perfectly conducting waveguide of the same cross section as the plates are presented at zero and finite temperatures.

id: hep-th/0512236
title: Positronium collapse in hypercritical magnetic field and restructuring of the vacuum in QED
authors: A.E.Shabad, V.V.Usov
comments: 31 pages, LATEX requires IOPART
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0512236
abstract: \\The Bethe-Salpeter equation in a strong magnetic field is studied for positronium atom in an ultra-relativistic regime, and a (hypercritical) value for the magnetic field is determined, which provides the full compensation of the positronium rest mass by the binding energy in the maximum symmetry state. The compensation becomes possible owing to the falling to the center phenomenon. The relativistic form in two-dimensional Minkowsky space is derived for the four-dimensional Bethe-Salpeter equation in the limit of an infinitely strong magnetic field, and used for finding the above hypercritical value. Once the positronium rest mass is compensated by the mass defect the energy barrier separating the electron-positron system from the vacuum disappears. We thus describe the structure of the vacuum in terms of strongly localized states of tightly mutually bound (or confined) pairs. Their delocalization for still higher magnetic field, capable of screening its further growth, is discussed.

id: math-ph/0512048
title: Reply to comment on calculation of two-center nuclear attraction integrals over integer and noninteger n-Slater-type orbitals in nonlined-up coordinate systems
authors: Telhat Ozdogan
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0512048
abstract: The comments of Guseinov on our paper (T. Ozdogan, S. Gumus and M. Kara, J. Math. Chem., 33 (2003) 181) are critically analyzed. Contrary to his comments, it is proved that the expansion formula for the product of two normalized associated Legendre functions in ellipsoidal coordinates and the expressions for two-center nuclear attraction integrals have been obtained independently, by the use of basic mathematical rules, not by changing the summation indices of expansion relationships contained in his articles. Therefore, our algorithm is original, is not affected from possible instability problems and can be used in large-scale calculations without loss of significant figures. Meanwhile, it should be mentioned that his comment on the transformation of our formulae into his formulae proves the correctness of our algorithm and therefore can be regarded as a nice sound of science.

id: math-ph/0512066
title: Discrete spectrum of a pair of nonsymmetric waveguides coupled by a window
authors: Denis I. Borisov
comments: The original text was written in Russian. This is a translation made by the author. In the revised version just some minor changes were made
journal: Sbornik Mathematics. 2006. V. 197. No. 4. P. 475-504.
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0512066
abstract: In the paper we study the discrete spectrum of a pair of quantum two-dimensional waveguides having common boundary in which a window of finite length is cut out. We study the phenomenon of new eigenvalues emerging from the threshold of the essential spectrum when the length of window passes through critical values. We construct the asymptotics expansions for the emerging eigenvalues with respect to small parameter which is the difference between current length of the window and the nearest critical value. We also study the behaviour of the spectrum when the length of the window increases unboundedly and construct asymptotics expansions with respect to great parameter which is a length of the window.

id: math/0512427
title: Generalized probabilities taking values in non-Archimedean fields and topological groups
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: Russian J. Math. Phys. 14, N 2, 142-159 (2007)
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0512427
abstract: We develop an analogue of probability theory for probabilities taking values in topological groups. We generalize Kolmogorov's method of axiomatization of probability theory: main distinguishing features of frequency probabilities are taken as axioms in the measure-theoretic approach. We also present a review of non-Kolmogorovian probabilistic models including models with negative, complex, and $p$-adic valued probabilities. The latter model is discussed in details. The introduction of $p$-adic (as well as more general non-Archimedean) probabilities is one of the main motivations for consideration of generalized probabilities taking values in topological groups which are distinct from the field of real numbers. We discuss applications of non-Kolmogorovian models in physics and cognitive sciences. An important part of this paper is devoted to statistical interpretation of probabilities taking values in topological groups (and in particular in non-Archimedean fields).

id: math/0512443
title: Conciliation of Bayes and Pointwise Quantum State Estimation: Asymptotic information bounds in quantum statistics
authors: Richard D. Gill
comments: Accepted for publication (title: Asymptotic information bounds in quantum statistics), with suggestion to expand and include more introductory material, by Annals of Statistics. Unfortunately the dead-line passed and now I would rewrite the paper much more radically. The old version has since appeared in the conference proceedings given below
journal: R.D. Gill (2008) Conciliation of Bayes and Pointwise Quantum State Estimation, pp. 239-261 in Quantum Stochastics & Information: Statistics, Filtering & Control, V.P. Belavkin & M. Guta, eds., World Scientific
subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0512443
abstract: We derive an asymptotic lower bound on the Bayes risk when $N$ identical quantum systems whose state depends on a vector of unknown parameters are jointly measured in an arbitrary way and the parameters of interest estimated on the basis of the resulting data. The bound is an integrated version of a quantum Cram\'er-Rao bound due to Holevo (1982), and it thereby links the fixed $N$ exact Bayesian optimality usually pursued in the physics literature with the pointwise asymptotic optimality favoured in classical mathematical statistics. By heuristic arguments the bound can be expected to be sharp. This does turn out to be the case in various important examples, where it can be used to prove asymptotic optimality of interesting and useful measurement-and-estimation schemes. On the way we obtain a new family of "dual Holevo bounds" of independent interest.

id: nlin/0512002
title: Can quantum fractal fluctuations be observed in an atom-optics kicked rotor experiment?
authors: Andrea Tomadin, Riccardo Mannella, Sandro Wimberger
comments: 18 pp, 7 figs., 1 table
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 2477-2491 (2006)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0512002
abstract: We investigate the parametric fluctuations in the quantum survival probability of an open version of the delta-kicked rotor model in the deep quantum regime. Spectral arguments [Guarneri I and Terraneo M 2001 Phys. Rev. E vol. 65 015203(R)] predict the existence of parametric fractal fluctuations owing to the strong dynamical localisation of the eigenstates of the kicked rotor. We discuss the possibility of observing such dynamically-induced fractality in the quantum survival probability as a function of the kicking period for the atom-optics realisation of the kicked rotor. The influence of the atoms' initial momentum distribution is studied as well as the dependence of the expected fractal dimension on finite-size effects of the experiment, such as finite detection windows and short measurement times. Our results show that clear signatures of fractality could be observed in experiments with cold atoms subjected to periodically flashed optical lattices, which offer an excellent control on interaction times and the initial atomic ensemble.

id: nlin/0512004
title: Certain integrable system on a space associated with a quantum search algorithm
authors: Yoshio Uwano, Hideitsu Hino, Yasue Ishiwatari
comments: 15 pages, to appear in Phiscs of Atomic Nuclei
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0512004
abstract: On thinking of a Grover-type quantum search algorithm for an ordered tuple of multi-qubit states, a gradient system associated with the negative von-Neumann entropy is studied on the space of regular relative-configurations of multi-qubit states (SR${}^2$CMQ). The SR${}^2$CMQ emerges, through a geometric procedure, from the space of ordered tuples of multi-qubit states for the quantum search. The aim of this paper is to give a brief report on the integrability of the gradient dynamical system together with quantum information geometry of the underlying space, SR${}^2$CMQ, of that system.

id: physics/0512033
title: One-dimensional Bose chemistry: effects of non-integrability
authors: V. A. Yurovsky, A. Ben-Reuven, M. Olshanii
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 163201 (2006)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0512033
abstract: Three-body collisions of ultracold identical Bose atoms under tight cylindrical confinement are analyzed. A Feshbach resonance in two-body collisions is described by a two-channel zero-range interaction. Elimination of the closed channel in the three-body problem reduces the interaction to a one-channel zero-range one with an energy dependent strength. The related problem with an energy independent strength (the Lieb-Liniger-McGuire model) has an exact solution and forbids all chemical processes, such as three-atom association and diatom dissociation, as well as reflection in atom-diatom collisions. The resonant case is analyzed by a numerical solution of the Faddeev-Lovelace equations. The results demonstrate that as the internal symmetry of the Lieb-Liniger-McGuire model is lifted, the reflection and chemical reactions become allowed and may be observed in experiments.

id: physics/0512034
title: "Long live effrontery!" Albert Einstein and the birth of Quantum Theory
authors: Domenico Giulini
comments: 29 pages, 4 figures. Text in german. Contribution to the 2005-annus-mirabilis celebration at the Alte Kantonsschule Aarau
journal: "Der jugendliche Einstein und Aarau", H. Hunziker (ed.) (Birkhauser, Basel, 2005)
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0512034
abstract: From its very beginning, Quantum Theory developed contrary to the intentions of its creators. For Max Planck it marks the failure of a long-term research program, in which he tried to understand the 2nd law of thermodynamics deterministically in terms of mechanics and electrodynamics. For Albert Einstein it meant a refutation of his scientific credo. I describe parts of the early stages of this most remarkable development, up to Einstein's light-quantum hypotheis and its unfavourable reception by most other physicists.

id: physics/0512078
title: Fluctuations and Long-Term Stability: from Coherence to Chaos
authors: Maria K. Koleva
comments: 98 pp
journal: 
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0512078
abstract: Exerting fluctuations is a part of our daily life: traffic noise, heartbeat, opinion poll, currency exchange rate, electrical current, chemical reactions - they all permanently fluctuate. One of the most important questions is why the systems that exert fluctuations stay long-term stable. Is there any general functional relation that provides long-term stability despite the wide diversity of the fluctuations commence: emotions, economics, physical interactions etc? I assert that such functional relation does exist and reveal its specification: the route to the long-term stability is through coherence and boundedness as necessary conditions. It is demonstrated that the chaoticity is the hallmark of that relationship. The present contribution is a systematic study written as a book on the relation between long-term stability and exerting macroscopic fluctuations. Further attention is focused on the mechanism that guarantees the boundedness and the coherence of the local fluctuations in the physical systems. Crucial arguments that neither of the existing so far approaches to the behavior of the extended many-body systems provides boundedness and coherence of the fluctuations are put forward. It turns out that the mechanism that brings about macroscopic fluctuations has universal properties and entangles quantum decoherence, chaos and 1/f noise in a tricky interplay.

id: physics/0512236
title: Response to Comment on Electric Multipole Moments for Some First-Row Diatomic Hydride Molecules [Commun. Theor. Phys. 38 (2002) 256]
authors: Metin Orbay, Telhat Ozdogan
comments: 2 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. (Beijing, China) 39 (2003) 223-224
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0512236
abstract: The comment of Guseinov is irrelevant and also unjust. In contrast to his comment, we show that the obtained electric multipole moment values for some first-row diatomic molecules are original and better than his values (I.I. Guseinov, E. Akin, and A.M. Rzaeva, J. Mol. Struct. (Theochem) 453 (1998) 163) with respect to Hartree-Fock values. Moreover, it must be noted that all the formulas are cited in our paper (M. Orbay and T. Ozdogan, Commun. Theor. Phys. (Beijing, China) 35 (2001) 585) and corrigendum (M. Orbay and T. Ozdogan, Commun. Theor. Phys. (Beijing, China) 37 (2002) 768).

id: q-bio/0512048
title: Two-state dynamics for replicating two-strand systems
authors: Diederik Aerts, Marek Czachor
comments: revtex, 3 eps figures
journal: Open Systems & Inf. Dynamics 14, 397-410 (2007)
subjects: Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/q-bio/0512048
abstract: We propose a formalism for describing two-strand systems of a DNA type by means of soliton von Neumann equations, and illustrate how it works on a simple example exactly solvably by a Darboux transformation. The main idea behind the construction is the link between solutions of von Neumann equations and entangled states of systems consisting of two subsystems evolving in time in opposite directions. Such a time evolution has analogies in realistic DNA where the polymerazes move on leading and lagging strands in opposite directions.

id: math-ph/0512019
title: Confined One Dimensional Harmonic Oscillator as a Two-Mode System
authors: V. G. Gueorguiev, A. R. P. Rau, and J. P. Draayer
comments: 11 pages and 9 figures; Submitted to American Journal of Physics
journal: American Journal of Physics 74 (5) 394 (2006)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0512019
abstract: The one-dimensional harmonic oscillator in a box problem is possibly the simplest example of a two-mode system. This system has two exactly solvable limits, the harmonic oscillator and a particle in a (one-dimensional) box. Each of the two limits has a characteristic spectral structure describing the two different excitation modes of the system. Near each of these limits, one can use perturbation theory to achieve an accurate description of the eigenstates. Away from the exact limits, however, one has to carry out a matrix diagonalization because the basis-state mixing that occurs is typically too large to be reproduced in any other way. An alternative to casting the problem in terms of one or the other basis set consists of using an "oblique" basis that uses both sets. Through a study of this alternative in this one-dimensional problem, we are able to illustrate practical solutions and infer the applicability of the concept for more complex systems, such as in the study of complex nuclei where oblique-basis calculations have been successful. Keywords: one-dimensional harmonic oscillator, particle in a box, exactly solvable models, two-mode system, oblique basis states, perturbation theory, coherent states, adiabatic mixing.

