id: quant-ph/0601001
title: The Quantum Schur Transform: I. Efficient Qudit Circuits
authors: Dave Bacon, Isaac L. Chuang, Aram W. Harrow
comments: 24 pages
journal: Proceedings of the eighteenth annual ACM-SIAM symposium on Discrete algorithms (SODA), pp. 1235-1244, 2007.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601001
abstract: We present an efficient family of quantum circuits for a fundamental primitive in quantum information theory, the Schur transform. The Schur transform on n d-dimensional quantum systems is a transform between a standard computational basis to a labelling related to the representation theory of the symmetric and unitary groups. If we desire to implement the Schur transform to an accuracy of epsilon, then our circuit construction uses a number of gates which is polynomial in n, d and log(1/epsilon). The important insights we use to perform this construction are the selection of the appropriate subgroup adapted basis and the Wigner-Eckart theorem. Our efficient circuit construction renders numerous protocols in quantum information theory computationally tractable and is an important new efficient quantum circuit family which goes significantly beyond the standard paradigm of the quantum Fourier transform.

id: quant-ph/0601002
title: General quantization
authors: David Ritz Finkelstein
comments: 25 pages. Edited to 21 pages. References added. Typos removed
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.45:1397-1427,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601002
abstract: Segal's hypothesis that physical theories drift toward simple groups follows from a general quantum principle and suggests a general quantization process. I general-quantize the scalar meson field in Minkowski space-time to illustrate the process. The result is a finite quantum field theory over a finite quantum space-time with higher symmetry than the singular theory. Multiple quantification connects the levels of the theory.

id: quant-ph/0601003
title: The asymptotic iteration method for the angular spheroidal eigenvalues with arbitrary complex size parameter c
authors: T. Barakat, K. Abodayeh, B. Abdallah, O. M. Al-Dossary
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601003
abstract: The asymptotic iteration method is applied, to calculate the angular spheroidal eigenvalues $\lambda^{m}_{\ell}(c)$ with arbitrary complex size parameter $c$. It is shown that, the obtained numerical results of $\lambda^{m}_{\ell}(c)$ are all in excellent agreement with the available published data over the full range of parameter values $\ell$, $m$, and $c$. Some representative values of $\lambda^{m}_{\ell}(c)$ for large real $c$ are also given.

id: quant-ph/0601004
title: The coordinate transformation and the exact solutions of the Schr?dinger equation with position-dependent effective mass
authors: Guo-Xing Ju, Chang-Ying Cai, Yang Xiang, Zhong-Zhou Ren
comments: 19 pages,6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601004
abstract: Using the coordinate transformation method, we solve the one-dimensional Schr\"{o}dinger equation with position-dependent mass(PDM). The explicit expressions for the potentials, energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the systems are given. The eigenfunctions can be expressed in terms of the Jacobi, Hemite and generalized Laguerre polynomials. All potentials for these solvable systems have an extra term $V_m$ which produced from the dependence of mass on the coordinate, compared with that for the systems of constant mass. The properties of $V_m$ for several mass functions are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0601005
title: The Localization of $s$-Wave and Quantum Effective Potential of a Quasi-Free Particle with Position-Dependent Mass
authors: Guo-Xing JU, Yang Xiang, Zhong-Zhou Ren
comments: 12pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601005
abstract: The properties of the s-wave for a quasi-free particle with position-dependent mass(PDM) have been discussed in details. Differed from the system with constant mass in which the localization of the s-wave for the free quantum particle around the origin only occurs in two dimensions, the quasi-free particle with PDM can experience attractive forces in $D$ dimensions except D=1 when its mass function satisfies some conditions. The effective mass of a particle varying with its position can induce effective interaction which may be attractive in some cases. The analytical expressions of the eigenfunctions and the corresponding probability densities for the s-waves of the two- and three-dimensional systems with a special PDM are given, and the existences of localization around the origin for these systems are shown.

id: quant-ph/0601006
title: Irreversible Performance of a Quantum Harmonic Heat Engine
authors: Yair Rezek, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 25 pages, 7 figures. Revision added explicit heat-transfer expression and extended the discussion on the quantum origin of friction
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 83 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601006
abstract: The unavoidable irreversible losses of power in a heat engine are found to be of quantum origin. Following thermodynamic tradition a model quantum heat engine operating by the Otto cycle is analyzed. The working medium of the model is composed of an ensemble of harmonic oscillators. A link is established between the quantum observables and thermodynamical variables based on the concept of canonical invariance. These quantum variables are sufficient to determine the state of the system and with it all thermodynamical variables. Conditions for optimal work, power and entropy production show that maximum power is a compromise between the quasistatic limit of adiabatic following on the compression and expansion branches and a sudden limit of very short time allocation to these branches. At high temperatures and quasistatic operating conditions the efficiency at maximum power coincides with the endoreversible result. The optimal compression ratio varies from the square root of the temperature ratio in the quasistatic limit where their reversibility is dominated by heat conductance to the temperature ratio to the power of 1/4 in the sudden limit when the irreversibility is dominated by friction. When the engine deviates from adiabatic conditions the performance is subject to friction. The origin of this friction can be traced to the noncommutability of the kinetic and potential energy of the working medium.

id: quant-ph/0601007
title: Transient spectrum of a single-Cooper-pair box with binomial states
authors: Mahmoud Abdel-Aty, Hamada F. Abdel-Hameed, N. Metwally
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601007
abstract: We present an analytical expression for the response of a transient spectrum to a single-Cooper-pair box biased by a classical voltage and irradiated by a single-mode quantized field. The exact solution of the model is obtained, by means of which we analyze the analytic form of the fluorescence spectrum using the transitions among the dressed states of the system. An interesting relation between the fluorescence spectrum and the dynamical evolution is found when the initial field states are prepared in binomial states.

id: quant-ph/0601008
title: Bang-bang control of fullerene qubits using ultra-fast phase gates
authors: John J. L. Morton, Alexei M. Tyryshkin, Arzhang Ardavan, Simon C. Benjamin, Kyriakos Porfyrakis, S. A. Lyon, G. Andrew D. Briggs
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 2, 40-43 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601008
abstract: Quantum mechanics permits an entity, such as an atom, to exist in a superposition of multiple states simultaneously. Quantum information processing (QIP) harnesses this profound phenomenon to manipulate information in radically new ways. A fundamental challenge in all QIP technologies is the corruption of superposition in a quantum bit (qubit) through interaction with its environment. Quantum bang-bang control provides a solution by repeatedly applying `kicks' to a qubit, thus disrupting an environmental interaction. However, the speed and precision required for the kick operations has presented an obstacle to experimental realization. Here we demonstrate a phase gate of unprecedented speed on a nuclear spin qubit in a fullerene molecule (N@C60), and use it to bang-bang decouple the qubit from a strong environmental interaction. We can thus trap the qubit in closed cycles on the Bloch sphere, or lock it in a given state for an arbitrary period. Our procedure uses operations on a second qubit, an electron spin, in order to generate an arbitrary phase on the nuclear qubit. We anticipate the approach will be vital for QIP technologies, especially at the molecular scale where other strategies, such as electrode switching, are unfeasible.

id: quant-ph/0601009
title: Notes on phase space quantization
authors: J. Kiukas, P. Lahti, K. Ylinen
comments: 21 pages, submitted to Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: J. Math. Phys. 47, 072104 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601009
abstract: We consider questions related to a quantization scheme in which a classical variable f:\Omega\to R on a phase space \Omega is associated with a semispectral measure E^f, such that the moment operators of E^f are required to be of the form \Gamma(f^k), with \Gamma a suitable mapping from the set of classical variables to the set of (not necessarily bounded) operators in some Hilbert space. In particular, we investigate the situation where the map \Gamma is implemented by the operator integral with respect to some fixed positive operator measure. The phase space \Omega is first taken to be an abstract measurable space, then a locally compact unimodular group, and finally R^2, where we determine explicitly the relevant operators \Gamma(f^k) for certain variables f, in the case where the quantization map \Gamma is implemented by a translation covariant positive operator measure. In addition, we consider the question under what conditions a positive operator measure is projection valued.

id: quant-ph/0601010
title: Optimal Encoding of Classical Information in a Quantum Medium
authors: Noam Elron, Yonina C. Eldar
comments: Proof of Thm. 3 simplified, Sec. VI revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601010
abstract: We investigate optimal encoding and retrieval of digital data, when the storage/communication medium is described by quantum mechanics. We assume an m-ary alphabet with arbitrary prior distribution, and an n-dimensional quantum system. Under these constraints, we seek an encoding-retrieval setup, comprised of code-states and a quantum measurement, which maximizes the probability of correct detection. In our development, we consider two cases. In the first, the measurement is predefined and we seek the optimal code-states. In the second, optimization is performed on both the code-states and the measurement. We show that one cannot outperform `pseudo-classical transmission', in which we transmit n symbols with orthogonal code-states, and discard the remaining symbols. However, such pseudo-classical transmission is not the only optimum. We fully characterize the collection of optimal setups, and briefly discuss the links between our findings and applications such as quantum key distribution and quantum computing. We conclude with a number of results concerning the design under an alternative optimality criterion, the worst-case posterior probability, which serves as a measure of the retrieval reliability.

id: quant-ph/0601011
title: Opposites Attract - A Theorem About The Casimir Force
authors: Oded Kenneth, Israel Klich
comments: Final version, published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 97 (2006) 160401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601011
abstract: We consider the Casimir interaction between (non-magnetic) dielectric bodies or conductors. Our main result is a proof that the Casimir force between two bodies related by reflection is always attractive, independent of the exact form of the bodies or dielectric properties. Apart from being a fundamental property of fields, the theorem and its corollaries also rule out a class of suggestions to obtain repulsive forces, such as the two hemisphere repulsion suggestion and its relatives.

id: quant-ph/0601012
title: Two-Mode Theory of BEC Interferometry
authors: B J Dalton
comments: Four figures (7 files)
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 54, 615 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601012
abstract: A theory of BEC interferometry in an unsymmetrical double-well trap has been developed for small boson numbers, based on the two-mode approximation. The bosons are initially in the lowest mode of a single well trap, which is split into a double well and then recombined. Possible fragmentations into separate BEC states in each well during the splitting/recombination process are allowed for. The BEC is treated as a giant spin system, the fragmented states are eigenstates of S^2 and Sz. Self-consistent sets of equations for the amplitudes of the fragmented states and for the two single boson mode functions are obtained. The latter are coupled Gross-Pitaevskii equations. Interferometric effects may be measured via boson numbers in the first excited mode

id: quant-ph/0601013
title: Generalized Bloch Spheres for m-Qubit States
authors: Klaus Dietz
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601013
abstract: m-Qubit states are imbedded in $\mathfrak{Cl}_{2^m}$ Clifford algebras. Their probability spectra then depend on $O(2m)$ or $O(2m+1)$ invariants. Parameter domains for $O(2m(+1))-$ vector and tensor configurations, generalizing the notion of a Bloch sphere, are derived.

id: quant-ph/0601014
title: Bunching of Bell states
authors: H. S. Eisenberg, J. F. Hodelin, G. Khoury, D. Bouwmeester
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601014
abstract: The bunching of two single photons on a beam-splitter is a fundamental quantum effect, first observed by Hong, Ou and Mandel. It is a unique interference effect that relies only on the photons' indistinguishability and not on their relative phase. We generalize this effect by demonstrating the bunching of two Bell states, created in two passes of a nonlinear crystal, each composed of two photons. When the two Bell states are indistinguishable, phase insensitive destructive interference prevents the outcome of four-fold coincidence between the four spatial-polarization modes. For certain combinations of the two Bell states, we demonstrate the opposite effect of anti-bunching. We relate this result to the number of distinguishable modes in parametric down-conversion.

id: quant-ph/0601015
title: Controversy between Einstein and Bohr and two erroneous arguments used in supporting Copenhagen quantum mechanics
authors: Milos V. Lokajicek
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601015
abstract: The support of Copenhagen quantum mechanics in the discussion concerning EPR experiments has been based fundamentally on two mistakes. First, quantum mechanics as well as hidden-variable theory give the same predictions; the statement of Belinfante from 1973 about the significant difference must be denoted as mistake. Secondly, the experimental violation of Bell's inequalities has been erroneously interpreted as excluding the hidden-variable alternative, while they have been based on assumption corresponding to classical physics. The EPR experiments cannot bring, therefore, any decision in the controversy between Einstein and Bohr. However, the view of Einstein is strongly supported by experimental results concerning the light transmission through three polarizers.

id: quant-ph/0601016
title: Feedback control of spin systems
authors: Claudio Altafini
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601016
abstract: The feedback stabilization problem for ensembles of coupled spin 1/2 systems is discussed from a control theoretic perspective. The noninvasive nature of the bulk measurement allows for a fully unitary and deterministic closed loop. The Lyapunov-based feedback design presented does not require spins that are selectively addressable. With this method, it is possible to obtain control inputs also for difficult tasks, like suppressing undesired couplings in identical spin systems.

id: quant-ph/0601017
title: Quantum cloning of identical mixed qubits
authors: H.Fan, B.Y.Liu, K.J.Shi
comments: 4 pages,references added
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 7, 551 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601017
abstract: Quantum cloning of two identical mixed qubits $\rho \otimes \rho $ is studied. We propose the quantum cloning transformations not only for the triplet (symmetric) states but also for the singlet (antisymmetric) state. We can copy these two identical mixed qubits to M (M>2) copies. This quantum cloning machine is optimal in the sense that the shrinking factor between the input and the output single qubit achieves the upper bound. The result shows that we can copy two identical mixed qubits with the same quality as that of two identical pure states.

id: quant-ph/0601018
title: A scalable optical detection scheme for matter wave interferometry
authors: Alexander Stibor, Andre Stefanov, Fabienne Goldfarb, Elisabeth Reiger, Markus Arndt
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 7, 224 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601018
abstract: Imaging of surface adsorbed molecules is investigated as a novel detection method for matter wave interferometry with fluorescent particles. Mechanically magnified fluorescence imaging turns out to be an excellent tool for recording quantum interference patterns. It has a good sensitivity and yields patterns of high visibility. The spatial resolution of this technique is only determined by the Talbot gratings and can exceed the optical resolution limit by an order of magnitude. A unique advantage of this approach is its scalability: for certain classes of nano-sized objects, the detection sensitivity will even increase significantly with increasing size of the particle.

id: quant-ph/0601019
title: Simulating adiabatic evolution of gapped spin systems
authors: Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032321 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601019
abstract: We show that adiabatic evolution of a low-dimensional lattice of quantum spins with a spectral gap can be simulated efficiently. In particular, we show that as long as the spectral gap \Delta E between the ground state and the first excited state is any constant independent of n, the total number of spins, then the ground-state expectation values of local operators, such as correlation functions, can be computed using polynomial space and time resources. Our results also imply that the local ground-state properties of any two spin models in the same quantum phase can be efficiently obtained from each other. A consequence of these results is that adiabatic quantum algorithms can be simulated efficiently if the spectral gap doesn't scale with n. The simulation method we describe takes place in the Heisenberg picture and does not make use of the finitely correlated state/matrix product state formalism.

id: quant-ph/0601020
title: Quantum states and space-time causality
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Lane P. Hughston
comments: 9 pages, to appear in the Proceedings of the 2nd International Symposium on Information Geometry and its Applications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601020
abstract: Space-time symmetries and internal quantum symmetries can be placed on equal footing in a hyperspin geometry. Four-dimensional classical space-time emerges as a result of a decoherence that disentangles the quantum and the space-time degrees of freedom. A map from the quantum space-time to classical space-time that preserves the causality relations of space-time events is necessarily a density matrix.

id: quant-ph/0601021
title: Limitations of Quantum Simulation Examined by Simulating a Pairing Hamiltonian using Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
authors: Kenneth R. Brown, Robert J. Clark, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 6 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601021
abstract: Quantum simulation uses a well-known quantum system to predict the behavior of another quantum system. Certain limitations in this technique arise, however, when applied to specific problems, as we demonstrate with a theoretical and experimental study of an algorithm to find the low-lying spectrum of a Hamiltonian. While the number of elementary quantum gates does scale polynomially with the size of the system, it increases inversely to the desired error bound $\epsilon$. Making such simulations robust to decoherence using fault-tolerance constructs requires an additional factor of $1/ \epsilon$ gates. These constraints are illustrated by using a three qubit nuclear magnetic resonance system to simulate a pairing Hamiltonian, following the algorithm proposed by Wu, Byrd, and Lidar.

id: quant-ph/0601022
title: Composite Dipolar Recoupling: Anisotropy Compensated Coherence Transfer in Solid-State NMR
authors: N. Khaneja, C. Kehlet, S.J. Glaser, N.C. Nielsen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601022
abstract: The efficiency of dipole-dipole coupling driven coherence transfer experiments in solid-state NMR spectroscopy of powder samples is limited by dispersion of the orientation of the internuclear vectors relative to the external magnetic field. Here we introduce general design principles and resulting pulse sequences that approach full polarization transfer efficiency for all crystallite orientations in a powder in magic-angle-spinning experiments. The methods compensate for the defocusing of coherence due to orientation dependent dipolar coupling interactions and inhomogeneous radio-frequency fields. The compensation scheme is very simple to implement as a scaffold (comb) of compensating pulses in which the pulse sequence to be improved may be inserted. The degree of compensation can be adjusted and should be balanced as a compromise between efficiency and length of the overall pulse sequence. We show by numerical and experimental data that the presented compensation protocol significantly improves the efficiency of known dipolar recoupling solid-state NMR experiment.

id: quant-ph/0601023
title: Quantum control and manipulations with stationary three-color lights
authors: S. A. Moiseev, B. S. Ham
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601023
abstract: A dynamic quantum control of three-color lights in an optically dense medium is presented. We discuss how effectively to stop traveling three-color light pulses in the medium by using three control laser fields at near resonant transitions satisfying electromagnetically induced transparency. This opens a door to the quantum coherent control of multiple traveling light pulses for quantum memory and quantum switching, which are essential components in multi-party quantum optical communications.

id: quant-ph/0601024
title: An alternative implementation of the Lanczos algorithm for wave function propagation
authors: Quanlin Jie, Dunhuan Liu
comments: To appear in J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601024
abstract: We reformulate the Lanczos algorithm for quantum wave function propagation in terms of variational principle. By including some basis states of previous time steps into the variational subspace, the resultant accuracy increases by several orders. Numerical errors of the alternative method accumulate much slower than that of the original Lanczos method. There is almost no extra numeric cost for the gaining of the accuracy, i.e., the accuracy increase needs no extra operations of the Hamiltonian acting on state vectors, which are the major numeric cost for wave function propagation. A wave packet moving in a 2-dimensional H\'enon-Heiles model serves as an illustration. This method is suitable for small time step propagation of quantum wave functions in large scale time dependent calculations where the operations of the Hamiltonian acting on state vectors are expensive.

id: quant-ph/0601025
title: Decoherence and localization in tunneling process under influence of one external degree of freedom
authors: Quanlin Jie, Bambi Hu, Guangjong Dong
comments: 5 pages, 4 ps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601025
abstract: We investigate numerically the tunneling effect under influence of another particle in a double well system. Such influence from only one degree of freedom makes decoherence and quantum-classical transition, i.e., suppression of the tunneling effect. The decoherence happens even for cases that the influence is from a particle of very small mass, and it has virtually no effect in the corresponding classical dynamics. There are cases similar to dynamical localization that the suppressed tunneling rate is several times smaller than the classical counterpart. This result is relevant for understanding quantitatively the dynamical process of decoherence and quantum to classical transition.

id: quant-ph/0601026
title: Macroscopic Quantum Criticality in a Circuit QED
authors: Y.D. Wang, H.T. Quan, Yu-xi Liu, C.P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601026
abstract: Cavity quantum electrodynamic (QED) is studied for two strongly-coupled charge qubits interacting with a single-mode quantized field, which is provided by a on-chip transmission line resonator. We analyze the dressed state structure of this superconducting circuit QED system and the selection rules of electromagnetic-induced transitions between any two of these dressed states. Its macroscopic quantum criticality, in the form of ground state level crossing, is also analyzed, resulting from competition between the Ising-type inter-qubit coupling and the controllable on-site potentials.

id: quant-ph/0601027
title: On multipartite invariant states I. Unitary symmetry
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 9 pages; slight corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062313 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601027
abstract: We propose a natural generalization of bipartite Werner and isotropic states to multipartite systems consisting of an arbitrary even number of d-dimensional subsystems (qudits). These generalized states are invariant under the action of local unitary operations. We study basic properties of multipartite invariant states: separability criteria and multi-PPT conditions.

id: quant-ph/0601028
title: Preparation of nondegenerate coherent superpositions in a three-state ladder system assisted by Stark Shifts
authors: N. Sangouard, L.P. Yatsenko, B.W. Shore, T. Halfmann
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures, 1 table, submitted to PHys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 043415 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601028
abstract: We propose a technique to prepare coherent superpositions of two nondegenerate quantum states in a three-state ladder system, driven by two simultaneous fields near resonance with an intermediate state. The technique, of potential application to enhancement of nonlinear processes, uses adiabatic passage assisted by dynamic Stark shifts induced by a third laser field. The method offers significant advantages over alternative techniques: (\i) it does not require laser pulses of specific shape and duration and (\ii) it requires less intense fields than schemes based on two-photon excitation with non-resonant intermediate states. We discuss possible experimental implementation for enhancement of frequency conversion in mercury atoms.

id: quant-ph/0601029
title: Generating controllable atom-light entanglement with a Raman atom laser system
authors: S. A. Haine, M. K. Olsen, J. J. Hope
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601029
abstract: We introduce a scheme for creating continuous variable entanglement between an atomic beam and an optical field, by using squeezed light to outcouple atoms from a BEC via a Raman transition. We model the full multimode dynamics of the atom laser beam and the squeezed optical field, and show that with appropriate two-photon detuning and two-photon Rabi frequency, the transmitted light is entangled in amplitude and phase with the outcoupled atom laser beam. The degree of entanglement is controllable via changes in the two-photon Rabi frequency of the outcoupling process.

id: quant-ph/0601030
title: Efficient solvability of Hamiltonians and limits on the power of some quantum computational models
authors: Rolando Somma, Howard Barnum, Gerardo Ortiz, Emanuel Knill
comments: 6 pages; no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601030
abstract: We consider quantum computational models defined via a Lie-algebraic theory. In these models, specified initial states are acted on by Lie-algebraic quantum gates and the expectation values of Lie algebra elements are measured at the end. We show that these models can be efficiently simulated on a classical computer in time polynomial in the dimension of the algebra, regardless of the dimension of the Hilbert space where the algebra acts. Similar results hold for the computation of the expectation value of operators implemented by a gate-sequence. We introduce a Lie-algebraic notion of generalized mean-field Hamiltonians and show that they are efficiently ("exactly") solvable by means of a Jacobi-like diagonalization method. Our results generalize earlier ones on fermionic linear optics computation and provide insight into the source of the power of the conventional model of quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0601031
title: Dependences of the Casimir-Polder interaction between an atom and a cavity wall on atomic and material properties
authors: V.M.Mostepanenko, J.F.Babb, A.O.Caride, G.L.Klimchitskaya, S.I.Zanette
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, iopart.cls is used, to appear in J. Phys. A (special issue: Proceedings of QFEXT05, Barcelona, Sept. 5-9, 2005)
journal: J. Phys. A, v.39, N21, pp6583--6587 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601031
abstract: The Casimir-Polder and van der Waals interactions between an atom and a flat cavity wall are investigated under the influence of real conditions including the dynamic polarizability of the atom, actual conductivity of the wall material and nonzero temperature of the wall. The cases of different atoms near metal and dielectric walls are considered. It is shown that to obtain accurate results for the atom-wall interaction at short separations, one should use the complete tabulated optical data for the complex refractive index of the wall material and the accurate dynamic polarizability of an atom. At relatively large separations in the case of a metal wall, one may use the plasma model dielectric function to describe the dielectric properties of wall material. The obtained results are important for the theoretical interpretation of experiments on quantum reflection and Bose-Einstein condensation.

id: quant-ph/0601032
title: Casimir-Polder interaction between an atom and a cylinder with application to nanosystems
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, E. V. Blagov, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, iopart.cls is used, to appear in J. Phys. A (special issue: Proceedings of QFEXT05, Barcelona, Sept. 5-9, 2005)
journal: J. Phys. A, v.39, N21, pp.6481--6484 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601032
abstract: Recently the Lifshitz theory of dispersion forces was extended for the case of an atom (molecule) interacting with a plane surface of a uniaxial crystal or with a long solid cylinder or cylindrical shell made of isotropic material or uniaxial crystal. The obtained results are applicable to nanosystems. In particular, we investigate the Casimir-Polder interaction between hydrogen atoms (molecules) and multi-wall carbon nanotubes. It is demonstrated that the hydrogen atoms located inside multiwall carbon nanotubes have a lower free energy compared to those located outside. We also perform comparison studies of the interaction of hydrogen atoms between themselves and with multi-wall carbon nanotube. The obtained results are important for the problem of hydrogen storage.

id: quant-ph/0601033
title: Direct Characterization of Quantum Dynamics
authors: M. Mohseni, D.A. Lidar
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 170501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601033
abstract: The characterization of quantum dynamics is a fundamental and central task in quantum mechanics. This task is typically addressed by quantum process tomography (QPT). Here we present an alternative "direct characterization of quantum dynamics" (DCQD) algorithm. In contrast to all known QPT methods, this algorithm relies on error-detection techniques and does not require any quantum state tomography. We illustrate that, by construction, the DCQD algorithm can be applied to the task of obtaining partial information about quantum dynamics. Furthermore, we argue that the DCQD algorithm is experimentally implementable in a variety of prominent quantum information processing systems, and show how it can be realized in photonic systems with present day technology.

id: quant-ph/0601034
title: Direct Characterization of Quantum Dynamics: General Theory
authors: M. Mohseni, D.A. Lidar
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures, minor modifications are made
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062331 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601034
abstract: The characterization of the dynamics of quantum systems is a task of both fundamental and practical importance. A general class of methods which have been developed in quantum information theory to accomplish this task is known as quantum process tomography (QPT). In an earlier paper [M. Mohseni and D. A. Lidar, Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 170501 (2006)] we presented a new algorithm for Direct Characterization of Quantum Dynamics (DCQD) of two-level quantum systems. Here we provide a generalization by developing a theory for direct and complete characterization of the dynamics of arbitrary quantum systems. In contrast to other QPT schemes, DCQD relies on quantum error-detection techniques and does not require any quantum state tomography. We demonstrate that for the full characterization of the dynamics of n d-level quantum systems (with d a power of a prime), the minimal number of required experimental configurations is reduced quadratically from d^{4n} in separable QPT schemes to d^{2n} in DCQD.

id: quant-ph/0601035
title: Constraints on the uncertainties of entangled symmetric qubits
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, M. S. Uma, R. Prabhu, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 5 pages, REVTEX, Improved presentation; Theorem on neccessary and sufficient condition included; To appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 364, 203 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601035
abstract: We derive necessary and sufficient inseparability conditions imposed on the variance matrix of symmetric qubits. These constraints are identified by examining a structural parallelism between continuous variable states and two qubit states. Pairwise entangled symmetric multiqubit states are shown here to obey these constraints. We also bring out an elegant local invariant structure exhibited by our constraints.

id: quant-ph/0601036
title: Designing bound states in a band as a model for a quantum network
authors: S. Sree Ranjani, A.K. Kapoor, P.K. Panigrahi
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601036
abstract: We provide a model of a one dimensional quantum network, in the framework of a lattice using Von Neumann and Wigner's idea of bound states in a continuum. The localized states acting as qubits are created by a controlled deformation of a periodic potential. These wave functions lie at the band edges and are defects in a lattice. We propose that these defect states, with atoms trapped in them, can be realized in an optical lattice and can act as a model for a quantum network.

id: quant-ph/0601037
title: Engineering Quantum Jump Superoperators for Single Photon Detectors
authors: A.V. Dodonov, S.S. Mizrahi, V.V. Dodonov
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 74, 033823 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601037
abstract: We study the back-action of a single photon detector on the electromagnetic field upon a photodetection by considering a microscopic model in which the detector is constituted of a sensor and an amplification mechanism. Using the quantum trajectories approach we determine the Quantum Jump Superoperator (QJS) that describes the action of the detector on the field state immediately after the photocount. The resulting QJS consists of two parts: the bright counts term, representing the real photoabsorptions, and the dark counts term, representing the amplification of intrinsic excitations inside the detector. First we compare our results for the counting rates to experimental data, showing a good agreement. Then we point out that by modifying the field frequency one can engineer the form of QJS, obtaining the QJS's proposed previously in an ad hoc manner.

id: quant-ph/0601038
title: Generalized spin squeezing inequalities in $N$ qubit systems: theory and experiment
authors: J. K. Korbicz, O. G¨¹hne, M. Lewenstein, H. Haeffner, C. F. Roos, R. Blatt
comments: Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052319 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601038
abstract: We present detailed derivations, various improvements and application to concrete experimental data of spin squeezing inequalities formulated recently by some of us [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 95}, 120502 (2005)]. These inequalities generalize the concept of the spin squeezing parameter, and provide necessary and sufficient conditions for genuine 2-, or 3- qubit entanglement for symmetric states, and sufficient entanglement condition for general $N$-qubit states. We apply our method to theoretical study of Dicke states, and, in particular, to $W$-states of $N$ qubits. Then, we analyze the recently experimentally generated 7- and 8-ion $W$-states [Nature {\bf 438}, 643 (2005)]. We also present some novel details concerning this experiment. Finally, we improve criteria for detection of genuine tripartite entanglement based on entanglement witnesses.

id: quant-ph/0601039
title: Contributions of Vacuum and Plasmon Modes to the Force on a Small Sphere near a Plate
authors: L.H. Ford
comments: 7 pages, no figures, talk presented at "Quantum Fields under External Conditions - 2005", Barcelona, Spain, September 2005
journal: J.Phys. A 39 (2006) 6365-6370
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601039
abstract: The force on a small sphere with a plasma model dielectric function and in the presence of a perfectly reflecting plane is considered. The contribution of both the vacuum modes of the quantized electromagnetic field and of plasmon modes in the sphere are discussed. In the case that the plasmon modes are in their ground state, quasi-oscillatory terms from the vacuum and plasmon parts cancel one another, leading a monotonic attractive force. If the plasmon modes are not in the ground state, the net force is quasi-oscillatory. In both cases, the sphere behaves in the same way as does an atom in either its ground state or an excited state.

id: quant-ph/0601040
title: Infinite Divisibility in Euclidean Quantum Mechanics
authors: John R. Klauder
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601040
abstract: In simple -- but selected -- quantum systems, the probability distribution determined by the ground state wave function is infinitely divisible. Like all simple quantum systems, the Euclidean temporal extension leads to a system that involves a stochastic variable and which can be characterized by a probability distribution on continuous paths. The restriction of the latter distribution to sharp time expectations recovers the infinitely divisible behavior of the ground state probability distribution, and the question is raised whether or not the temporally extended probability distribution retains the property of being infinitely divisible. A similar question extended to a quantum field theory relates to whether or not such systems would have nontrivial scattering behavior.

id: quant-ph/0601041
title: Loss of purity by wave packet scattering at low energies
authors: Jia Wang, C. K. Law, M.-C. Chu
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601041
abstract: We study the quantum entanglement produced by a head-on collision between two gaussian wave packets in three-dimensional space. By deriving the two-particle wave function modified by s-wave scattering amplitudes, we obtain an approximate analytic expression of the purity of an individual particle. The loss of purity provides an indicator of the degree of entanglement. In the case the wave packets are narrow in momentum space, we show that the loss of purity is solely controlled by the ratio of the scattering cross section to the transverse area of the wave packets.

id: quant-ph/0601042
title: Probing tiny motions of nanomechanical resonators: classical or quantum mechanical?
authors: L.F. Wei, Yu-xi Liu, C.P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 237201 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601042
abstract: We propose a spectroscopic approach to probe tiny vibrations of a nanomechanical resonator (NAMR), which may reveal classical or quantum behavior depending on the decoherence-inducing environment. Our proposal is based on the detection of the voltage-fluctuation spectrum in a superconducting transmission line resonator (TLR), which is {\it indirectly} coupled to the NAMR via a controllable Josephson qubit acting as a quantum transducer. The classical (quantum mechanical) vibrations of the NAMR induce symmetric (asymmetric) Stark shifts of the qubit levels, which can be measured by the voltage fluctuations in the TLR. Thus, the motion of the NAMR, including if it is quantum mechanical or not, could be probed by detecting the voltage-fluctuation spectrum of the TLR.

id: quant-ph/0601043
title: Quantum Discrete Cosine Transform for Image Compression
authors: Chao Yang Pang, Zheng Wei Zhou, Guang Can Guo
comments: Modify on Jan. 22, 2006. Only Add ref. 19
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601043
abstract: Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) is very important in image compression. Classical 1-D DCT and 2-D DCT has time complexity O(NlogN) and O(N&sup2;logN) respectively. This paper presents a quantum DCT iteration, and constructs a quantum 1-D and 2-D DCT algorithm for image compression by using the iteration. The presented 1-D and 2-D DCT has time complexity O(sqrt(N)) and O(N) respectively. In addition, the method presented in this paper generalizes the famous Grover's algorithm to solve complex unstructured search problem.

id: quant-ph/0601044
title: Another convex combination of product states for the separable Werner state
authors: Hiroo Azuma, Masashi Ban
comments: 7 pages, Latex2e; v2: 9 pages, title changed, an appendix and a reference added, minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032315 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601044
abstract: In this paper, we write down the separable Werner state in a two-qubit system explicitly as a convex combination of product states, which is different from the convex combination obtained by Wootters' method. The Werner state in a two-qubit system has a single real parameter and varies from inseparable state to separable state according to the value of its parameter. We derive a hidden variable model that is induced by our decomposed form for the separable Werner state. From our explicit form of the convex combination of product states, we understand the following: The critical point of the parameter for separability of the Werner state comes from positivity of local density operators of the qubits.

id: quant-ph/0601045
title: Entanglement and Teleportation of Gaussian States of the Radiation Field
authors: Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian, Horia Scutaru
comments: With the exception of Section 5 which contains original results, this paper is an overview of some of our previous work. We hereby bring the article to the attention of a broader audience. Our results on teleportation of mixed one-mode Gaussian states compare interestingly with several recently published papers: 1) C. M. Caves and K. Wodkiewicz, Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 040506 (2004); Open Sys. & Information Dyn. 11, 309 (2004); 2) M. Ban, Phys. Rev. A 69, 054304 (2004); J. Phys. A 38, 3595 (2005); 3) L. Tian and S. M. Carr, quant-ph/0512148/2005
journal: Romanian Journal of Physics 48, 727-741 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601045
abstract: We propose a reliable entanglement measure for a two-mode squeezed thermal state of the quantum electromagnetic field in terms of its Bures distance to the set of all separable states of the same kind. The requisite Uhlmann fidelity of a pair of two-mode squeezed thermal states is evaluated as the maximal transition probability between two four-mode purifications. By applying the Peres-Simon criterion of separability we find the closest separable state. This enables us to derive an insightful expression of the amount of entanglement. Then we apply this measure of entanglement to the study of the Braunstein-Kimble protocol of teleportation. We use as input state in teleportation a mixed one-mode Gaussian state. The entangled state shared by the sender (Alice) and the receiver (Bob) is taken to be a two-mode squeezed thermal state. We find that the properties of the teleported state depend on both the input state and the entanglement of the two-mode resource state. As a measure of the quality of the teleportation process, we employ the Uhlmann fidelity between the input and output mixed one-mode Gaussian states.

id: quant-ph/0601046
title: A hemispherical, high-solid-angle optical micro-cavity for cavity-QED studies
authors: Guoqiang Cui, J. M. Hannigan, R. Loeckenhoff, F. M. Matinaga, M. G. Raymer, S. Bhongale, M. Holland, S. Mosor, S. Chatterjee, H. M. Gibbs, G. Khitrova
comments: 15 pages, 17 figures, final version
journal: Opt. Express 14, 2289-2299 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601046
abstract: We report a novel hemispherical micro-cavity that is comprised of a planar integrated semiconductor distributed Bragg reflector (DBR) mirror, and an external, concave micro-mirror having a radius of curvature $50\mathrm{\mu m}$. The integrated DBR mirror containing quantum dots (QD), is designed to locate the QDs at an antinode of the field in order to maximize the interaction between the QD and the cavity. The concave micro-mirror, with high-reflectivity over a large solid-angle, creates a diffraction-limited (sub-micron) mode-waist at the planar mirror, leading to a large coupling constant between cavity mode and QD. The half-monolithic design gives more spatial and spectral tuning abilities, relatively to fully monolithic structures. This unique micro-cavity design will potentially enable us to both reach the cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) strong coupling regime and realize the deterministic generation of single photons on demand.

id: quant-ph/0601047
title: Universal destabilization and slowing of spin transfer functions by a bath of spins
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Sougato Bose
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures; added references
journal: Physical Review A 73, 062321 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601047
abstract: We investigate the effect of a spin bath on the spin transfer functions of a permanently coupled spin system. When each spin is coupled to a seperate environment, the effect on the transfer functions in the first excitation sector is amazingly simple: the group velocity is slowed down by a factor of two, and the fidelity is destabilized by a modulation of |cos Gt|, where G is the mean square coupling to the environment.

id: quant-ph/0601048
title: Strengthened PT-symmetry with P $\neq$ P$^\dagger$
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 10 pp. + 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A 353 (2006) 463 - 468
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601048
abstract: Two alternative scenarios are shown possible in Quantum Mechanics working with non-Hermitian $PT-$symmetric form of observables. While, usually, people assume that $P$ is a self-adjoint indefinite metric in Hilbert space (and that their $P-$pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians $H$ possess the real spectra etc), we propose to relax the constraint $P=P^\dagger$ as redundant. Non-Hermitian triplet of coupled square wells is chosen for illustration purposes. Its solutions are constructed and the observed degeneracy of their spectrum is attributed to the characteristic nontrivial symmetry $S={P}^{-1} {P}^\dagger \neq I$ of the model $H$. Due to the solvability of the model the determination of the domain where the energies remain real is straightforward. A few remarks on the correct (albeit ambiguous) physical interpretation of the model are added.

id: quant-ph/0601049
title: Atomic reflection off conductor walls as a tool in cold atom traps
authors: M. Al-Amri, M. Babiker
comments: article
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601049
abstract: We explain why a system of cold $^{85}Rb$ atoms at temperatures of the order $T\approx 7.78\times 10^{-5}$ K and below, but not too low to lie in the quantum reflection regime, should be automatically repelled from the surface of a conductor without the need of an evanescent field, as in a typical atom mirror, to counteract the van der Waals attraction. The repulsive potential arises naturally outside the conductor and is effective at distances from the conductor surface of about 400nm, intermediate between the van der Waals and the Casimir-Polder regions of variation. We propose that such a field-free reflection capability should be useful as a component in cold atom traps. It should be practically free of undesirable field fluctuations and would be operative at distances for which surface roughness, dissipative effects and other finite conductivity effects should be negligibly small.

id: quant-ph/0601050
title: Braid Group, Temperley--Lieb Algebra, and Quantum Information and Computation
authors: Yong Zhang
comments: v1,v2: 50 pages, 29 figures, Latex; v3: 47 pages, 30 figures, Latex
journal: AMS Contemporary Mathematics, Vol 482 (2009) 51-92
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601050
abstract: In this paper, we explore algebraic structures and low dimensional topology underlying quantum information and computation. We revisit quantum teleportation from the perspective of the braid group, the symmetric group and the virtual braid group, and propose the braid teleportation, the teleportation swapping and the virtual braid teleportation, respectively. Besides, we present a physical interpretation for the braid teleportation and explain it as a sort of crossed measurement. On the other hand, we propose the extended Temperley--Lieb diagrammatical approach to various topics including quantum teleportation, entanglement swapping, universal quantum computation, quantum information flow, and etc. The extended Temperley--Lieb diagrammatical rules are devised to present a diagrammatical representation for the extended Temperley--Lieb category which is the collection of all the Temperley--Lieb algebras with local unitary transformations. In this approach, various descriptions of quantum teleportation are unified in a diagrammatical sense, universal quantum computation is performed with the help of topological-like features, and quantum information flow is recast in a correct formulation. In other words, we propose the extended Temperley--Lieb category as a mathematical framework to describe quantum information and computation involving maximally entangled states and local unitary transformations.

id: quant-ph/0601051
title: Quantum mechanics in general quantum systems (III): open system dynamics
authors: An Min Wang
comments: 20 pages, no figure. Citations were revised. This is the third preprint in our serial studies. The previous two manuscripts are quant-ph/0611216 and quant-ph/0611217
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601051
abstract: We investigate the exact solution, perturbation theory and master equation of open system dynamics based on our serial studies on quantum mechanics in general quantum systems [An Min Wang, quant-ph/0611216 and quant-ph/0611217]. In a system-environment separated representation, a general and explicit solution of open system dynamics is obtained, and it is an exact solution since it includes all order approximations of perturbation. In terms of the cut-off approximation of perturbation and our improved scheme of perturbation theory, the improved form of the perturbed solution of open systems absorbing the partial contributions from the high order even all order approximations is deduced. Moreover, only under the factorizing initial condition, the exact master equation including all order approximations is proposed. Correspondingly, the perturbed master equation and its improved form different from the existed master equation are given. In special, the Redfield master equation is derived out without using Born-Markov approximation. The solution of open system dynamics in the Milburn model is also gained. As examples, Zurek model of two-state open system and its extension with two transverse fields are studied.

id: quant-ph/0601052
title: Ion Trap in a Semiconductor Chip
authors: D. Stick, W. K. Hensinger, S. Olmschenk, M. J. Madsen, K. Schwab, C. Monroe
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Phys. 2 (2006) 36-39
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601052
abstract: The electromagnetic manipulation of isolated atoms has led to many advances in physics, from laser cooling and Bose-Einstein condensation of cold gases to the precise quantum control of individual atomic ion. Work on miniaturizing electromagnetic traps to the micrometer scale promises even higher levels of control and reliability. Compared with 'chip traps' for confining neutral atoms, ion traps with similar dimensions and power dissipation offer much higher confinement forces and allow unparalleled control at the single-atom level. Moreover, ion microtraps are of great interest in the development of miniature mass spectrometer arrays, compact atomic clocks, and most notably, large scale quantum information processors. Here we report the operation of a micrometer-scale ion trap, fabricated on a monolithic chip using semiconductor micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS) technology. We confine, laser cool, and measure heating of a single 111Cd+ ion in an integrated radiofrequency trap etched from a doped gallium arsenide (GaAs) heterostructure.

id: quant-ph/0601053
title: Level crossings in a cavity QED model
authors: J. Larson
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601053
abstract: In this paper I study the dynamics of a two-level atom interacting with a standing wave field. When the atom is subjected to a weak linear force, the problem can be turned into a time dependent one, and the evolution is understood from the band structure of the spectrum. The presence of level crossings in the spectrum gives rise to Bloch oscillations of the atomic motion. Here I investigate the effects of the atom-field detuning parameter. A variety of different level crossings are obtained by changing the magnitude of the detuning, and the behaviour of the atomic motion is strongly affected due to this. I also consider the situation in which the detuning is oscillating in time and its impact on the atomic motion. Wave packet simulations of the full problem are treated numerically and the results are compared with analytical solutions given by the standard Landau-Zener and the three-level Landau-Zener models.

id: quant-ph/0601054
title: Single spin measurement using cellular automata techniques
authors: Carlos A. Perez-Delgado, Michele Mosca, Paola Cappellaro, David G. Cory
comments: Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: Physical Review Letters 97, 100501 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601054
abstract: We propose an approach for single spin measurement. Our method uses techniques from the theory of quantum cellular automata to correlate a large amount of ancillary spins to the one to be measured. It has the distinct advantage of being efficient, and to a certain extent fault-tolerant. Under ideal conditions, it requires the application of only order of cube root of N steps (each requiring a constant number of rf pulses) to create a system of N correlated spins. It is also fairly robust against pulse errors, imperfect initial polarization of the ancilla spin system, and does not rely on entanglement. We study the scalability of our scheme through numerical simulation.

id: quant-ph/0601055
title: Quantum telecommunication based on atomic cascade transitions
authors: T. Chaneliere, D. N. Matsukevich, S. D. Jenkins, T. A. B. Kennedy, M. S. Chapman, A. Kuzmich
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 96, 093604 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601055
abstract: A quantum repeater at telecommunications wavelengths with long-lived atomic memory is proposed, and its critical elements are experimentally demonstrated using a cold atomic ensemble. Via atomic cascade emission, an entangled pair of 1530 nm and 780 nm photons is generated. The former is ideal for long-distance quantum communication, and the latter is naturally suited for mapping to a long-lived atomic memory. Together with our previous demonstration of photonic-to-atomic qubit conversion, both of the essential elements for the proposed telecommunications quantum repeater have now been realized.

id: quant-ph/0601056
title: Quantum Brownian motion and the Third Law of thermodynamics
authors: Peter H?nggi, Gert-Ludwig Ingold
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure, requires appolb.cls (included)
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. B 37, 1537-1550 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601056
abstract: The quantum thermodynamic behavior of small systems is investigated in presence of finite quantum dissipation. We consider the archetype cases of a damped harmonic oscillator and a free quantum Brownian particle. A main finding is that quantum dissipation helps to ensure the validity of the Third Law. For the quantum oscillator, finite damping replaces the zero-coupling result of an exponential suppression of the specific heat at low temperatures by a power-law behavior. Rather intriguing is the behavior of the free quantum Brownian particle. In this case, quantum dissipation is able to restore the Third Law: Instead of being constant down to zero temperature, the specific heat now vanishes proportional to temperature with an amplitude that is inversely proportional to the ohmic dissipation strength. A distinct subtlety of finite quantum dissipation is the result that the various thermodynamic functions of the sub-system do not only depend on the dissipation strength but depend as well on the prescription employed in their definition.

id: quant-ph/0601057
title: A Note to Article "Quantization of Light Energy Directly from Classical Electromagnetic Theory in Vacuum"
authors: Wei-Long She
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601057
abstract: Very recently we present a theory [Wei-long She, Chin. Phys. 14, 2514(2005); Online: this http URL; this http URL] to show that the quantization of light energy in vacuum can be derived directly from classical electromagnetic theory through the consideration of statistics based on classical physics and reveal that the quantization of energy is an intrinsic property of light as a classical electromagnetic wave and has no need of being related to particles. In this theory a key concept of stability of statistical distribution was involved. Here is a note to the theory, which would be helpful for understanding the concept of stability of statistical distribution.

id: quant-ph/0601058
title: EPR Beams and Photon Number Detector: Toward Synthesizing Optical Nonlinearity
authors: M. Sasaki, K. Wakui, J. Mizuno, M. Fujiwara, M. Akiba
comments: 4pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing, pp44--47, (eds. S. M. Barnett et al., AIP, New York, 2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601058
abstract: We present the two kinds of experimental results. One is a continuous variable dense coding experiment, and the other is a photon number detector with high linearity response, the so called charge integration photon detector (CIPD). They can be combined together to be a potential tool for implementing the cubic phase gate which is an important gate element to synthesize the measurement induced nonlinearity for photonic quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0601059
title: The Sampling Theorem and Coherent State Systems in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Arvind, S. Chaturvedi, N. Mukunda, R. Simon
comments: 20 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601059
abstract: The well known Poisson Summation Formula is analysed from the perspective of the coherent state systems associated with the Heisenberg--Weyl group. In particular, it is shown that the Poisson summation formula may be viewed abstractly as a relation between two sets of bases (Zak bases) arising as simultaneous eigenvectors of two commuting unitary operators in which geometric phase plays a key role. The Zak bases are shown to be interpretable as generalised coherent state systems of the Heisenberg--Weyl group and this, in turn, prompts analysis of the sampling theorem (an important and useful consequence of the Poisson Summation Formula) and its extension from a coherent state point of view leading to interesting results on properties of von Neumann and finer lattices based on standard and generalised coherent state systems.

id: quant-ph/0601060
title: Hamilton's Turns for the Lorentz Group
authors: R.Simon, S. Chaturvedi, V. Srinivasan, N. Mukunda
comments: 13 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601060
abstract: Hamilton in the course of his studies on quaternions came up with an elegant geometric picture for the group SU(2). In this picture the group elements are represented by ``turns'', which are equivalence classes of directed great circle arcs on the unit sphere $S^2$, in such a manner that the rule for composition of group elements takes the form of the familiar parallelogram law for the Euclidean translation group. It is only recently that this construction has been generalized to the simplest noncompact group $SU(1,1) = Sp(2, R) = SL(2,R)$, the double cover of SO(2,1). The present work develops a theory of turns for $SL(2,C)$, the double and universal cover of SO(3,1) and $SO(3,C)$, rendering a geometric representation in the spirit of Hamilton available for all low dimensional semisimple Lie groups of interest in physics. The geometric construction is illustrated through application to polar decomposition, and to the composition of Lorentz boosts and the resulting Wigner or Thomas rotation.

id: quant-ph/0601061
title: Quantum interference and Bayes theorem
authors: Filippo Neri
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601061
abstract: This note is a comment on the "quantum interferometry" section of Reference [1]. It points out that the methods of that section can be applied to more general states than the ones that are discussed in Ref. [1].

id: quant-ph/0601062
title: The quantum measurement problem as a witness to "It from bit"
authors: R. Srikanth
comments: 9 pages; REVTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601062
abstract: A conceptual difficulty in the foundations of quantum mechanics is the quantum measurement problem (QMP), essentially concerned with the apparent non-unitarity of the measurement process and the classicality of macroscopic systems. In an information theoretic approach proposed by us earlier (Quantum Information Processing 2, 153, 2003), which we clarify and elaborate here, QMP is understood to signal a fundamental finite resolution of quantum states, or, equivalently, a discreteness of Hilbert space. This was motivated by the notion that physical reality is a manifestation of information stored and discrete computations performed at a deeper, sub-physical layer. This model entails that states of sufficiently complex, entangled systems will be unresolvable, or, {\em computationally unstable}. Wavefunction collapse is postulated as an error preventive response to such computational instability. In effect, sufficiently complex systems turn classical because of the finiteness of the computational resources available to the physical universe. We show that this model forms a reasonable complement to decoherence for resolving QMP, both in respect of the problem of definite outcomes and of the preferred basis problem. The model suggests that QMP, as a window on the sub-physical universe, serves as a witness to Wheeler's koan ``it from bit''. Some implications for quantum computation and quantum gravity are examined.

id: quant-ph/0601063
title: Dynamics of Open Bosonic Quantum Systems in Coherent State Representation
authors: D.A.R. Dalvit, G.P. Berman, M. Vishik
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 013803 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601063
abstract: We consider the problem of decoherence and relaxation of open bosonic quantum systems from a perspective alternative to the standard master equation or quantum trajectories approaches. Our method is based on the dynamics of expectation values of observables evaluated in a coherent state representation. We examine a model of a quantum nonlinear oscillator with a density-density interaction with a collection of environmental oscillators at finite temperature. We derive the exact solution for dynamics of observables and demonstrate a consistent perturbation approach.

id: quant-ph/0601064
title: Spectrum of spontaneous emission into the mode of a cavity QED system
authors: M. L. Terraciano, R. Olson, D. L. Freimund, L. A. Orozco, P. R. Rice
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601064
abstract: We study the probe spectrum of light generated by spontaneous emission into the mode of a cavity QED system. The probe spectrum has a maximum on-resonance when the number of inverted atoms for an input drive is maximal. For a larger number of atoms N, the maximum splits and develops into a doublet, but its frequencies are different from those of the so-called vacuum Rabi splitting.

id: quant-ph/0601065
title: Black holes are almost optimal quantum cloners
authors: C. Adami, G. Ver Steeg
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. To appear in J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601065
abstract: If black holes were able to clone quantum states, a number of paradoxes in black hole physics would disappear. However, the linearity of quantum mechanics forbids exact cloning of quantum states. Here we show that black holes indeed clone incoming quantum states with a fidelity that depends on the black hole's absorption coefficient, without violating the no-cloning theorem because the clones are only approximate. Perfectly reflecting black holes are optimal universal "quantum cloning machines" and operate on the principle of stimulated emission, exactly as their quantum optical counterparts. In the limit of perfect absorption, the fidelity of clones is equal to what can be obtained via quantum state estimation methods. But for any absorption probability less than one, the cloning fidelity is nearly optimal as long as $\omega/T\geq10$, a common parameter for modest-sized black holes.

id: quant-ph/0601066
title: Noise thresholds for optical cluster-state quantum computation
authors: Christopher M. Dawson, Henry L. Haselgrove, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 28 pages. Corrections made to Table II
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 052306 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601066
abstract: In this paper we do a detailed numerical investigation of the fault-tolerant threshold for optical cluster-state quantum computation. Our noise model allows both photon loss and depolarizing noise, as a general proxy for all types of local noise other than photon loss noise. We obtain a threshold region of allowed pairs of values for the two types of noise. Roughly speaking, our results show that scalable optical quantum computing is possible for photon loss probabilities less than 0.003, and for depolarization probabilities less than 0.0001. Our fault-tolerant protocol involves a number of innovations, including a method for syndrome extraction known as telecorrection, whereby repeated syndrome measurements are guaranteed to agree. This paper is an extended version of [Dawson et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 020501].

id: quant-ph/0601067
title: Optimizing single-photon-source heralding efficiency at 1550 nm using periodically poled lithium niobate
authors: S. Castelletto, I.P. Degiovanni, V. Schettini, A. Migdall
comments: 14 pages, 2 tables and 3 figures, final version accepted by Metrologia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601067
abstract: We explore the feasibility of using high conversion-efficiency periodically-poled crystals to produce photon pairs for photon-counting detector calibrations at 1550 nm. The goal is the development of an appropriate parametric down-conversion (PDC) source at telecom wavelengths meeting the requirements of high-efficiency pair production and collection in single spectral and spatial modes (single-mode fibers). We propose a protocol to optimize the photon collection, noise levels and the uncertainty evaluation. This study ties together the results of our efforts to model the single-mode heralding efficiency of a two-photon PDC source and to estimate the heralding uncertainty of such a source.

id: quant-ph/0601068
title: Experimental implementation of time-coding quantum key distribution
authors: William Boucher, Thierry Debuisschert
comments: 27 pages, 6 figures
journal: PRA 72, 062325 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601068
abstract: We have implemented an experimental set-up in order to demonstrate the feasibility of time-coding protocols for quantum key distribution. Alice produces coherent 20 ns faint pulses of light at 853 nm. They are sent to Bob with delay 0 ns (encoding bit 0) or 10 ns (encoding bit 1). Bob directs at random the received pulses to two different arms. In the first one, a 300 ps resolution Si photon-counter allows Bob to precisely measure the detection times of each photon in order to establish the key. Comparing them with the emission times of the pulses sent by Alice allows to evaluate the quantum bit error rate (QBER). The minimum obtained QBER is 1.62 %. The possible loss of coherence in the set-up can be exploited by Eve to eavesdrop the line. Therefore, the second arm of Bob set-up is a Mach-Zender interferometer with a 10 ns propagation delay between the two path. Contrast measurement of the output beams allows to measure the autocorrelation function of the received pulses that characterizes their average coherence. In the case of an ideal set-up, the value expected with the pulses sent by Alice is 0.576. The experimental value of the pulses autocorrelation function is found to be 0.541. Knowing the resulting loss of coherence and the measured QBER, one can evaluate the mutual information between Alice and Eve and the mutual information between Alice and Bob, in the case of intercept-resend attacks and in the case of attacks with intrication. With our values, Bob has an advantage on Eve of 0.43 bit per pulse. The maximum possible QBER corresponding to equal informations for Bob and Eve is 5.8 %. With the usual attenuation of fibres at 850 nm, it shows that secure key distribution is possible up to a distance of 2.75 km, which is sufficient for local links.

id: quant-ph/0601069
title: Potential Barrier Classification by Short-Time Measurement
authors: Er'el Granot, Avi Marchewka
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601069
abstract: We investigate the short-time dynamics of a delta-function potential barrier on an initially confined wave-packet. There are mainly two conclusions: A) At short times the probability density of the first particles that passed through the barrier is unaffected by it. B) When the barrier is absorptive (i.e., its potential is imaginary) it affects the transmitted wave function at shorter times than a real potential barrier. Therefore, it is possible to distinguish between an imaginary and a real potential barrier by measuring its effect at short times only on the transmitting wavefunction.

id: quant-ph/0601070
title: Dissipative Stern-Gerlach recombination experiment
authors: Thiago R. Oliveira, A. O. Caldeira
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601070
abstract: The possibility of obtaining the initial pure state in a usual Stern-Gerlach experiment through the recombination of the two emerging beams is investigated. We have extended the previous work of Englert, Schwinger and Scully \cite{ISG1} including the fluctuations of the magnetic field generated by a properly chosen magnet. As a result we obtained an attenuation factor to the possible revival of coherence when the beams are perfectly recombined . When the source of the magnetic field is a SQUID(superconducting quantum interference device) the attenuation factor can be controlled by external circuits and the spin decoherence directly measured. For the proposed SQUID with dimensions in the scale of microns the attenuation factor has been shown unimportant when compared with the interaction time of the spin with the magnet.

id: quant-ph/0601071
title: A relation between completely bounded norms and conjugate channels
authors: Anna Jencova
comments: 5 pages, we make a connection between quant-ph/0506196 and the papers quant-ph/0509101 and quant-ph/0509126
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601071
abstract: We show a relation between a quantum channel $\Phi$ and its conjugate $\Phi^C$, which implies that the $p\to p$ Schatten norm of the channel is the same as the $1\to p$ completely bounded norm of the conjugate. This relation is used to give an alternative proof of the multiplicativity of both norms.

id: quant-ph/0601072
title: Phase sensitive adiabatic states, or does the material phase recognize the physical reality?
authors: I. G. Koprinkov
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 272, 10-19 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601072
abstract: Phase sensitive adiabatic states for a quantum system interacting with an electromagnetic field have been derived taking into account all material phase factors of the initial bare states. The adiabatic states so obtained show a traceable phase behavior, causally depending on the initial conditions and the relevant physical processes. Experimental appearance of the material phase effects has been discussed.

id: quant-ph/0601073
title: Does only the amplitude of the state vector carry the physical information?
authors: I. G. Koprinkov
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: International Conference on Quantum Information 2001 PB29
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601073
abstract: We present theoretical and experimental evidences, which show that the material phase of the state vector is causally related with the dynamic of the quantum system and becomes carrier of physical information.

id: quant-ph/0601074
title: On the Theoretical and Experimental Evidences of Material Phase Causality
authors: I. G. Koprinkov
comments: 1 page
journal: 23rd International Conference on Photonic Electronic and Atomic Collisions, ICPEAC 2003 Stockholm, Sweden,July 23-29, 2003, Mo 196
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601074
abstract: We present theoretical and experimental evidences showing that the material phase of the state vector is causally related with the dynamic of quantum system and may have observable physical consequences.

id: quant-ph/0601075
title: Criticality, the area law, and the computational power of PEPS
authors: F. Verstraete, M. M. Wolf, D. Perez-Garcia, J. I. Cirac
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 220601 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601075
abstract: The projected entangled pair state (PEPS) representation of quantum states on two-dimensional lattices induces an entanglement based hierarchy in state space. We show that the lowest levels of this hierarchy exhibit an enormously rich structure including states with critical and topological properties as well as resonating valence bond states. We prove, in particular, that coherent versions of thermal states of any local 2D classical spin model correspond to such PEPS, which are in turn ground states of local 2D quantum Hamiltonians. This correspondence maps thermal onto quantum fluctuations, and it allows us to analytically construct critical quantum models exhibiting a strict area law scaling of the entanglement entropy in the face of power law decaying correlations. Moreover, it enables us to show that there exist PEPS within the same class as the cluster state, which can serve as computational resources for the solution of NP-hard problems.

id: quant-ph/0601076
title: Topological Factors Derived From Bohmian Mechanics
authors: Detlef Duerr, Sheldon Goldstein, James Taylor, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: Annales Henri Poincare 7 (2006) 791-807
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601076
abstract: We derive for Bohmian mechanics topological factors for quantum systems with a multiply-connected configuration space Q. These include nonabelian factors corresponding to what we call holonomy-twisted representations of the fundamental group of Q. We employ wave functions on the universal covering space of Q. As a byproduct of our analysis, we obtain an explanation, within the framework of Bohmian mechanics, of the fact that the wave function of a system of identical particles is either symmetric or anti-symmetric.

id: quant-ph/0601077
title: Decay of the Loschmidt echo in a time-dependent environment
authors: Fernando M. Cucchietti, Caio H. Lewenkopf, Horacio M. Pastawski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601077
abstract: We study the decay rate of the Loschmidt echo or fidelity in a chaotic system under a time-dependent perturbation $V(q,t)$ with typical strength $\hbar/\tau_{V}$. The perturbation represents the action of an uncontrolled environment interacting with the system, and is characterized by a correlation length $\xi_0$ and a correlation time $\tau_0$. For small perturbation strengths or rapid fluctuating perturbations, the Loschmidt echo decays exponentially with a rate predicted by the Fermi Golden Rule, $1/\tilde{\tau}= \tau_{c}/\tau_{V}^2$, where typically $\tau_{c} \sim \min[\tau_{0},\xi_0/v]$ with $v$ the particle velocity. Whenever the rate $1/\tilde{\tau}$ is larger than the Lyapunov exponent of the system, a perturbation independent Lyapunov decay regime arises. We also find that by speeding up the fluctuations (while keeping the perturbation strength fixed) the fidelity decay becomes slower, and hence, one can protect the system against decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0601078
title: Universal quantum computation with unlabeled qubits
authors: Simone Severini
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Physics A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 8507-8515.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601078
abstract: We show that an n-th root of the Walsh-Hadamard transform (obtained from the Hadamard gate and a cyclic permutation of the qubits), together with two diagonal matrices, namely a local qubit-flip (for a fixed but arbitrary qubit) and a non-local phase-flip (for a fixed but arbitrary coefficient), can do universal quantum computation on n qubits. A quantum computation, making use of n qubits and based on these operations, is then a word of variable length, but whose letters are always taken from an alphabet of cardinality three. Therefore, in contrast with other universal sets, no choice of qubit lines is needed for the application of the operations described here. A quantum algorithm based on this set can be interpreted as a discrete diffusion of a quantum particle on a de Bruijn graph, corrected on-the-fly by auxiliary modifications of the phases associated to the arcs.

id: quant-ph/0601079
title: Entanglement of indistinguishable particles in condensed matter physics
authors: Mark R. Dowling, Andrew C. Doherty, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, comments welcome, published version (minor changes, added references)
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 73, 052323 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601079
abstract: The concept of entanglement in systems where the particles are indistinguishable has been the subject of much recent interest and controversy. In this paper we study the notion of entanglement of particles introduced by Wiseman and Vaccaro [Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 097902 (2003)] in several specific physical systems, including some that occur in condensed matter physics. The entanglement of particles is relevant when the identical particles are itinerant and so not distinguished by their position as in spin models. We show that entanglement of particles can behave differently to other approaches that have been used previously, such as entanglement of modes (occupation-number entanglement) and the entanglement in the two-spin reduced density matrix. We argue that the entanglement of particles is what could actually be measured in most experimental scenarios and thus its physical significance is clear. This suggests entanglement of particles may be useful in connecting theoretical and experimental studies of entanglement in condensed matter systems.

id: quant-ph/0601080
title: A new discrete view to the quantum world
authors: Wolfgang Koehler
comments: 41 pages, 1 figure, second revised and extended version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601080
abstract: Here I present a new discrete model of quantum mechanics for relativistic 1-electron systems, in which particle movement is described by a directed space-time graph with attached 4-spinors, but without any continuous wave functions. These graphs only consist of few space-like edges, e.g. the ground state of atoms is described by two nodes and one edge, and interactions only take place at the nodes. The fundament is an extremal principle for a relativistic invariant "Lagrangian sum", from which "field-equations" and "equations of motion" are derived, so the states (including the graph nodes) are completely determined. As important validations of the model, the corresponding graphs for the stationary Dirac-equation for the atom are drawn and the correct spectra are computed (Sommerfeld-levels). Also a discrete Schroedinger approximation and an associated "Hamiltonian sum" are derived and the correct equation of a classical moving particle under Lorentz-force is presented. I hope, that this new approach will help, to overcome some problems of current quantum mechanics by making the wave function superfluous.

id: quant-ph/0601081
title: Driven harmonic oscillator as a quantum simulator for open systems
authors: Jyrki Piilo, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. V2: Minor modifications and added 2 appendixes for more details about calculations
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 032303 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601081
abstract: We show theoretically how a driven harmonic oscillator can be used as a quantum simulator for non-Markovian damped harmonic oscillator. In the general framework, the results demonstrate the possibility to use a closed system as a simulator for open quantum systems. The quantum simulator is based on sets of controlled drives of the closed harmonic oscillator with appropriately tailored electric field pulses. The non-Markovian dynamics of the damped harmonic oscillator is obtained by using the information about the spectral density of the open system when averaging over the drives of the closed oscillator. We consider single trapped ions as a specific physical implementation of the simulator, and we show how the simulator approach reveals new physical insight into the open system dynamics, e.g. the characteristic quantum mechanical non-Markovian oscillatory behavior of the energy of the damped oscillator, usually obtained by the non-Lindblad-type master equation, can have a simple semiclassical interpretation.

id: quant-ph/0601082
title: Noiseless subsystems and Bell inequalities in curved spacetime
authors: Jonathan L. Ball
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601082
abstract: We examine the use of noiseless subsystems for quantum information processing between two parties who do not share a common reference frame. In particular we focus on Bell inequalities in curved spaces and outline a theoretical procedure to test a Bell inequality, demonstrating the wide applicability of noiseless subsystems.

id: quant-ph/0601083
title: Simulating high-temperature superconductivity model Hamiltonians with atoms in optical lattices
authors: Alexander Klein, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures; title, abstract and introduction changed, more examples included; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 053613 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601083
abstract: We investigate the feasibility of simulating different model Hamiltonians used in high-temperature superconductivity. We briefly discuss the most common models and then focus on the simulation of the so-called t-J-U Hamiltonian using ultra-cold atoms in optical lattices. For this purpose, previous simulation schemes to realize the spin interaction term J are extended. We especially overcome the condition of a filling factor of exactly one, which otherwise would restrict the phase of the simulated system to a Mott-insulator. Using ultra-cold atoms in optical lattices allows simulation of the discussed models for a very wide range of parameters. The time needed to simulate the Hamiltonian is estimated and the accuracy of the simulation process is numerically investigated for small systems.

id: quant-ph/0601084
title: Quantitative aspects of entanglement in the driven Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Marcelo Aparecido Marchiolli
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 53 (18) 2733 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601084
abstract: Adopting the framework of the Jaynes-Cummings model with an external quantum field, we obtain exact analytical expressions of the normally ordered moments for any kind of cavity and driving fields. Such analytical results are expressed in the integral form, with their integrands having a commom term that describes the product of the Glauber-Sudarshan quasiprobability distribution functions for each field, and a kernel responsible for the entanglement. Considering a specific initial state of the tripartite system, the normally ordered moments are then applied to investigate not only the squeezing effect and the nonlocal correlation measure based on the total variance of a pair of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen type operators for continuous variable systems, but also the Shchukin-Vogel criterion. This kind of numerical investigation constitutes the first quantitative characterization of the entanglement properties for the driven Jaynes-Cummings model.

id: quant-ph/0601085
title: The meaning of group delay in barrier tunneling: A re-examination of superluminal group velocities
authors: Herbert G. Winful
comments: 33 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 101 (2006) http://stacks.iop.org/1367-2630/8/101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601085
abstract: We show that the group delay in tunneling is not a traversal time but a lifetime of stored energy or stored probability escaping through both ends of the barrier. Because it is a lifetime associated with both forward (transmitted) and backward (reflected) fluxes, it cannot be used to define a group velocity for forward transit in cases where a wavepacket is mostly reflected. For photonic tunneling barriers the group delay is identical to the dwell time which is also a property of an entire wave function with reflected and transmitted components. Theoretical predictions and experimental reports of superluminal group velocities in barrier tunneling are re-interpreted.

id: quant-ph/0601086
title: What is semiquantum mechanics?
authors: A.J. Bracken
comments: Talk presented at IVth International Symposium on Quantum Theory and Symmetries, Varna, August, 2005. 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601086
abstract: Semiclassical approximations to quantum dynamics are almost as old as quantum mechanics itself. In the approach pioneered by Wigner, the evolution of his quasiprobability density function on phase space is expressed as an asymptotic series in increasing powers of Planck's constant, with the classical Liouvillean evolution as leading term. Successive semiclassical approximations to quantum dynamics are defined by successive terms in the series. We consider a complementary approach, which explores the quantum-clssical interface from the other direction. Classical dynamics is formulated in Hilbert space, with the Groenewold quasidensity operator as the image of the Liouville density on phase space. The evolution of the Groenewold operator is then expressed as an asymptotic series in increasing powers of Planck's constant. Successive semiquantum approximations to classical dynamics are defined by successive terms in this series, with the familiar quantum evolution as leading term.

id: quant-ph/0601087
title: An integrable optical-fiber source of polarization entangled photon-pairs in the telecom band
authors: Xiaoying Li, Chuang Liang, Kim Fook Lee, Jun Chen, Paul L. Voss, Prem Kumar
comments: 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phy. Rev. A. Vol. 73, 052301 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601087
abstract: We demonstrate an optical-fiber based source of polarization entangled photon-pairs with improved quality and efficiency, which has been integrated with off-the-shelf telecom components and is, therefore, well suited for quantum communication applications in the 1550 nm telecom band. Polarization entanglement is produced by simultaneously pumping a loop of standard dispersion-shifted fiber with two orthogonally-polarized pump pulses, one propagating in the clockwise and the other in the counter-clockwise direction. We characterize this source by investigating two-photon interference between the generated signal-idler photon-pairs under various conditions. The experimental parameters are carefully optimized to maximize the generated photon-pair correlation and to minimize contamination of the entangled photon-pairs from extraneously scattered background photons that are produced by the pump pulses for two reasons: i) spontaneous Raman scattering causes uncorrelated photons to be emitted in the signal/idler bands and ii) broadening of the pump-pulse spectrum due to self-phase modulation causes pump photons to leak into the signal/idler bands. We obtain two-photon interference with visibility $>90$% without subtracting counts caused by the background photons (only dark counts of the detectors are subtracted), when the mean photon number in the signal (idler) channel is about 0.02/pulse, while no interference is observed in direct detection of either the signal or the idler photons.

id: quant-ph/0601088
title: Quantum Network Coding
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Kazuo Iwama, Harumichi Nishimura, Rudy Raymond, Shigeru Yamashita
comments: 27pages, 11figures. The 12page version will appear in 24th International Symposium on Theoretical Aspects of Computer Science (STACS 2007)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601088
abstract: Since quantum information is continuous, its handling is sometimes surprisingly harder than the classical counterpart. A typical example is cloning; making a copy of digital information is straightforward but it is not possible exactly for quantum information. The question in this paper is whether or not quantum network coding is possible. Its classical counterpart is another good example to show that digital information flow can be done much more efficiently than conventional (say, liquid) flow. Our answer to the question is similar to the case of cloning, namely, it is shown that quantum network coding is possible if approximation is allowed, by using a simple network model called Butterfly. In this network, there are two flow paths, s_1 to t_1 and s_2 to t_2, which shares a single bottleneck channel of capacity one. In the classical case, we can send two bits simultaneously, one for each path, in spite of the bottleneck. Our results for quantum network coding include: (i) We can send any quantum state |psi_1> from s_1 to t_1 and |psi_2> from s_2 to t_2 simultaneously with a fidelity strictly greater than 1/2. (ii) If one of |psi_1> and |psi_2> is classical, then the fidelity can be improved to 2/3. (iii) Similar improvement is also possible if |psi_1> and |psi_2> are restricted to only a finite number of (previously known) states. (iv) Several impossibility results including the general upper bound of the fidelity are also given.

id: quant-ph/0601089
title: Spatial Entanglement of Bosons in Thermal Equilibrium
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Andreas Keil, Marcin Wiesniak, Frederic H. Willenboordse
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601089
abstract: We investigate spatial entanglement in a system of spinless non-interacting bosons in a one dimensional harmonic trap described by the grand canonical ensemble. We find the lower bound for the amount of spatial entanglement contained in the average state of two bosons in the trap and show that it exists for arbitrary high temperatures.

id: quant-ph/0601090
title: Identification and Distance Measures of Measurement Apparatus
authors: Zhengfeng Ji, Yuan Feng, Runyao Duan, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX, 1 figure. Revised version with more examples and a reorganization of the contents
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 200401 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601090
abstract: We propose simple schemes that can perfectly identify projective measurement apparatus secretly chosen from a finite set. Entanglements are used in these schemes both to make possible the perfect identification and to improve the efficiency significantly. A brief discussion on the problem of how to appropriately define distance measures of measurements is also provided based on the results of identification.

id: quant-ph/0601091
title: Realization of four-state qudits using biphotons
authors: E. V. Moreva, G. A. Maslennikov, S. S. Straupe, S.P. Kulik
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601091
abstract: The novel experimental realization of four-level optical quantum systems (ququarts) is presented. We exploit the polarization properties of frequency non-degenerate biphoton field to obtain such systems. A simple method that does not rely on interferometer is used to generate and measure the sequence of states that can be used in quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol.

id: quant-ph/0601092
title: A SU(2) recipe for mutually unbiased bases
authors: M. R. Kibler, M. Planat
comments: v2: abstract enlarged, a corollary added, acknowledgments added, one reference added, presentation improved; v3: two misprints corrected
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B 20 (2006) 1802-1807
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601092
abstract: A simple recipe for generating a complete set of mutually unbiased bases in dimension (2j+1)**e, with 2j + 1 prime and e positive integer, is developed from a single matrix acting on a space of constant angular momentum j and defined in terms of the irreducible characters of the cyclic group C(2j+1). As two pending results, this matrix is used in the derivation of a polar decomposition of SU(2) and of a FFZ algebra.

id: quant-ph/0601093
title: Tensor Universality, Quantum Information Flow, Coecke's Theorem, and Generalizations
authors: George Svetlichny
comments: LaTeX, 23 pages, uses amsfonts. V2 minor rewritting for clarity and fixed typos. More references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601093
abstract: We show that Coecke's compositionality theorem for quantum information flow follows by the universal property of tensor products from the case in which all relevant states are totally disentangled, for which the proof is almost trivial. With the same technique we deduce a PROP structure behind general multipartite quantum information processing and show that all such are equivalent to a canonical teleportation-type form. Some philosophical issues concerning quantum information are also touched upon.

id: quant-ph/0601094
title: Casimir effect for curved geometries: PFA validity limits
authors: Holger Gies, Klaus Klingmuller
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 96 (2006) 220401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601094
abstract: We compute Casimir interaction energies for the sphere-plate and cylinder-plate configuration induced by scalar-field fluctuations with Dirichlet boundary conditions. Based on a high-precision calculation using worldline numerics, we quantitatively determine the validity bounds of the proximity force approximation (PFA) on which the comparison between all corresponding experiments and theory are based. We observe the quantitative failure of the PFA on the 1% level for a curvature parameter a/R > 0.00755. Even qualitatively, the PFA fails to predict reliably the correct sign of genuine Casimir curvature effects. We conclude that data analysis of future experiments aiming at a precision of 0.1% must no longer be based on the PFA.

id: quant-ph/0601095
title: Causally Symmetric Bohm Model
authors: Rod Sutherland
comments: 35 pages, 5 figures, new sections 12 and 13 added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601095
abstract: A version of Bohm's model incorporating retrocausality is presented, the aim being to explain the nonlocality of Bell's theorem while maintaining Lorentz invariance in the underlying ontology. The strengths and weaknesses of this alternative model are compared with those of the standard Bohm model.

id: quant-ph/0601096
title: Entropy of a Quantum Oscillator coupled to a Heat Bath and implications for Quantum Thermodynamics
authors: G. W. Ford, R. F.O'Connell
comments: International Conference on "Frontiers of Quantum and Mesoscopic Thermodynamics"
journal: Physica E 29, 82 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601096
abstract: The free energy of a quantum oscillator in an arbitrary heat bath at a temperature T is given by a "remarkable formula" which involves only a single integral. This leads to a corresponding simple result for the entropy. The low temperature limit is examined in detail and we obtain explicit results both for the case of an Ohmic heat bath and a radiation heat bath. More general heat bath models are also examined. This enables us to determine the entropy at zero temperature in order to check the third law of thermodynamics in the quantum regime

id: quant-ph/0601097
title: Shor's algorithm with fewer (pure) qubits
authors: Christof Zalka
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601097
abstract: In this note we consider optimised circuits for implementing Shor's quantum factoring algorithm. First I give a circuit for which none of the about 2n qubits need to be initialised (though we still have to make the usual 2n measurements later on). Then I show how the modular additions in the algorithm can be carried out with a superposition of an arithmetic sequence. This makes parallelisation of Shor's algorithm easier. Finally I show how one can factor with only about 1.5n qubits, and maybe even fewer.

id: quant-ph/0601098
title: Cloning and Joint Measurements of Incompatible Components of Spin
authors: Thomas Brougham, Erika Andersson, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601098
abstract: A joint measurement of two observables is a {\it simultaneous} measurement of both quantities upon the {\it same} quantum system. When two quantum-mechanical observables do not commute, then a joint measurement of these observables cannot be accomplished by projective measurements alone. In this paper we shall discuss the use of quantum cloning to perform a joint measurement of two components of spin associated with a qubit system. We introduce a cloning scheme which is optimal with respect to this task. This cloning scheme may be thought to work by cloning two components of spin onto its outputs. We compare the proposed cloning machine to existing cloners.

id: quant-ph/0601099
title: Decoherence induced by squeezing control errors in optical and ion trap holonomic quantum computations
authors: Viatcheslav I. Kuvshinov, Andrei V. Kuzmin
comments: RevTex, 5 pages, few typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601099
abstract: We study decoherence induced by stochastic squeezing control errors considering the particular implementation of Hadamard gate on optical and ion trap holonomic quantum computers. We find the fidelity for Hadamard gate and compute the purity of the final state when the control noise is modeled by Ornstein-Uhlenbeck stochastic process. We demonstrate that in contradiction to the case of the systematic control errors the stochastic ones lead to decoherence of the final state. In the small errors limit we derive a simple formulae connecting the gate fidelity and the purity of the final state.

id: quant-ph/0601100
title: Single-qubit rotations in 2D optical lattices with multi-qubit addressing
authors: Jaewoo Joo, Yuan Liang Lim, Almut Beige, Peter L. Knight
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, revised version, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042344 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601100
abstract: Optical lattices with one atom on each site and interacting via cold controlled collisions provide an efficient way to entangle a large number of qubits with high fidelity. It has already been demonstrated experimentally that this approach is especially suited for the generation of cluster states [O. Mandel et al., Nature 425, 937 (2003)] which reduce the resource requirement for quantum computing to the ability to perform single-qubit rotations and qubit read out. In this paper, we describe how to implement these rotations in 1D and 2D optical lattices without having to address the atoms individually with a laser field.

id: quant-ph/0601101
title: Multichannel coupling with supersymmetric quantum mechanics and exactly-solvable model for Feshbach resonance
authors: J.-M. Sparenberg, B. F. Samsonov, F. Foucart, D. Baye
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) L639 - L645
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601101
abstract: A new type of supersymmetric transformations of the coupled-channel radial Schroedinger equation is introduced, which do not conserve the vanishing behavior of solutions at the origin. Contrary to usual transformations, these ``non-conservative'' transformations allow, in the presence of thresholds, the construction of potentials with coupled scattering matrices from uncoupled potentials. As an example, an exactly-solvable potential matrix is obtained which provides a very simple model of Feshbach-resonance phenomenon.

id: quant-ph/0601102
title: Reduced Deadtime and Higher Rate Photon-Counting Detection using a Multiplexed Detector Array
authors: S. Castelletto, I. P. Degiovanni, V. Schettini, A. Migdall
comments: 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601102
abstract: We present a scheme for a photon-counting detection system that can be operated at incident photon rates higher than otherwise possible by suppressing the effects of detector deadtime. The method uses an array of N detectors and a 1-by-N optical switch with a control circuit to direct input light to live detectors. Our calculations and models highlight the advantages of the technique. In particular, using this scheme, a group of N detectors provides an improvement in operation rate that can exceed the improvement that would be obtained by a single detector with deadtime reduced by 1/N, even if it were feasible to produce a single detector with such a large improvement in deadtime. We model the system for continuous and pulsed light sources, both of which are important for quantum metrology and quantum key distribution applications.

id: quant-ph/0601103
title: Optimal estimation of squeezing
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 4 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062103 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601103
abstract: We present the optimal estimation of an unknown squeezing transformation of the radiation field. The optimal estimation is unbiased and is obtained by properly considering the degeneracy of the squeezing operator. For coherent input states, the r.m.s. of the estimation scales as $(2\sqrt {\bar n})^{-1}$ versus the average photon number $\bar n$, while it can be enhanced to $(2\bar n)^{-1}$ by using displaced squeezed states.

id: quant-ph/0601104
title: Nonlinear Interferometry via Fock State Projection
authors: G. Khoury, H.S. Eisenberg, E.J.S. Fonseca, D. Bouwmeester
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601104
abstract: We use a photon-number resolving detector to monitor the photon number distribution of the output of an interferometer, as a function of phase delay. As inputs we use coherent states with mean photon number up to seven. The postselection of a specific Fock (photon-number) state effectively induces high-order optical non-linearities. Following a scheme by Bentley and Boyd [S.J. Bentley and R.W. Boyd, Optics Express 12, 5735 (2004)] we explore this effect to demonstrate interference patterns a factor of five smaller than the Rayleigh limit.

id: quant-ph/0601105
title: Two-bit Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm using an atomic ensemble
authors: Shubhrangshu Dasgupta, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, 1 table, IOP, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601105
abstract: The first optical proposal for the realization of the two-bit version of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm [D. Deutsch and R. Jozsa, Proc. R. Soc. London A {\bf 493}, 553 (1992)] is presented. The proposal uses Stark shifts in an ensemble of atoms and degenerate sources of photons. The photons interact dispersively with an atomic ensemble, leading to an effective Hamiltonian in atom-field basis, which is useful for performing the required two-qubit operations. Combining these with a set of one-qubit operations, the algorithm can be implemented. A discussion of the experimental feasibility of the proposal is given.

id: quant-ph/0601106
title: Randomized control of open quantum systems
authors: Lorenza Viola
comments: 6 pages, no figure, requires IEEEtran LaTeX
journal: Proceedings of the 44th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, and the European Control Conference 2005, Seville, Spain, December 12-15; pp. 1794-1799
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601106
abstract: The problem of open-loop dynamical control of generic open quantum systems is addressed. In particular, I focus on the task of effectively switching off environmental couplings responsible for unwanted decoherence and dissipation effects. After revisiting the standard framework for dynamical decoupling via deterministic controls, I describe a different approach whereby the controller intentionally acquires a random component. An explicit error bound on worst-case performance of stochastic decoupling is presented.

id: quant-ph/0601107
title: Bell inequality with an arbitrary number of settings and its applications
authors: Koji Nagata, Wieslaw Laskowski, Tomasz Paterek
comments: 8 pages, To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062109 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601107
abstract: Based on a geometrical argument introduced by Zukowski, a new multisetting Bell inequality is derived, for the scenario in which many parties make measurements on two-level systems. This generalizes and unifies some previous results. Moreover, a necessary and sufficient condition for the violation of this inequality is presented. It turns out that the class of non-separable states which do not admit local realistic description is extended when compared to the two-setting inequalities. However, supporting the conjecture of Peres, quantum states with positive partial transposes with respect to all subsystems do not violate the inequality. Additionally, we follow a general link between Bell inequalities and communication complexity problems, and present a quantum protocol linked with the inequality, which outperforms the best classical protocol.

id: quant-ph/0601108
title: Emission spectra and quantum efficiency of single-photon sources in the cavity-QED strong-coupling regime
authors: Guoqiang Cui, M. G. Raymer
comments: Minor corrections on Eqs. (A6), (12), and (14)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 053807 (2006) and Phys. Rev. A 78, 049904(E) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601108
abstract: We derive analytical formulas for the forward emission and side emission spectra of cavity-modified single-photon sources, as well as the corresponding normal-mode oscillations in the cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) strong-coupling regime. We investigate the effects of pure dephasing, treated in the phase-diffusion model based on a Wiener-Levy process, on the emission spectra and normal-mode oscillations. We also extend our previous calculation of quantum efficiency to include the pure dephasing process. All results are obtained in the Weisskopf-Wigner approximation for an impulse-excited emitter. We find that the spectra are broadened, the depths of the normal-mode oscillations are reduced and the quantum efficiency is decreased in the presence of pure dephasing.

id: quant-ph/0601109
title: On optimum Hamiltonians for state transformations
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Daniel W. Hook
comments: 5 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A39, L167-L170 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601109
abstract: For a prescribed pair of quantum states |psi_I> and |psi_F> we establish an elementary derivation of the optimum Hamiltonian, under constraints on its eigenvalues, that generates the unitary transformation |psi_I> --> |psi_F> in the shortest duration. The derivation is geometric in character and does not rely on variational calculus.

id: quant-ph/0601110
title: On multipartite invariant states II. Orthogonal symmetry
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 6 pages; slight corrections + new references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062314 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601110
abstract: We construct a new class of multipartite states possessing orthogonal symmetry. This new class defines a convex hull of multipartite states which are invariant under the action of local unitary operations introduced in our previous paper "On multipartite invariant states I. Unitary symmetry". We study basic properties of multipartite symmetric states: separability criteria and multi-PPT conditions.

id: quant-ph/0601111
title: Quantum secret sharing between m-party and n-party with six states
authors: Ting Gao, Feng-Li Yan, You-Cheng Li
comments: 7 pages
journal: Science in China Series G, 2009, 52 (8): 1191-1202.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601111
abstract: We propose a quantum secret sharing scheme between $m$-party and $n$-party using three conjugate bases, i.e. six states. A sequence of single photons, each of which is prepared in one of the six states, is used directly to encode classical information in the quantum secret sharing process. In this scheme, each of all $m$ members in group 1 choose randomly their own secret key individually and independently, and then directly encode their respective secret information on the states of single photons via unitary operations, then the last one (the $m$th member of group 1) sends $1/n$ of the resulting qubits to each of group 2. By measuring their respective qubits, all members in group 2 share the secret information shared by all members in group 1. The secret message shared by group 1 and group 2 in such a way that neither subset of each group nor the union of a subset of group 1 and a subset of group 2 can extract the secret message, but each whole group (all the members of each group) can. The scheme is asymptotically 100% in efficiency. It makes the Trojan horse attack with a multi-photon signal, the fake-signal attack with EPR pairs, the attack with single photons, and the attack with invisible photons to be nullification. We show that it is secure and has an advantage over the one based on two conjugate bases. We also give the upper bounds of the average success probabilities for dishonest agent eavesdropping encryption using the fake-signal attack with any two-particle entangled states. This protocol is feasible with present-day technique.

id: quant-ph/0601112
title: Frequency Spectra and Probability Distributions for Quantum Fluctuations
authors: L.H. Ford
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, to appear in the proceedings of the 10th Peyresq workshop
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.46:2218-2226,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601112
abstract: This paper discusses two distinct, but related issues in quantum fluctuation effects. The first is the frequency spectrum which can be assigned to one loop quantum processes. The formal spectrum is a flat one, but the finite quantum effects can be associated with a rapidly oscillating spectrum, as in the case of the Casimir effect. The leads to the speculation that one might be able to dramatically change the final answer by upsetting the delicate cancellation which usually occurs. The second issue is the probability distribution for quantum fluctuations. It is well known that quantities which are linear in a free quantum field have a Gaussian distribution. Here it will be argued that quadratic quantities, such as the quantum stress tensor, must have a skewed distribution. Some possible implications of this result for inflationary cosmology will be discussed. In particular, this might be a source for non-Gaussianity.

id: quant-ph/0601113
title: Shot noise in an electron waveguide square root of NOT gate
authors: Linda E. Reichl, Michael G. Snyder
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601113
abstract: We present a calculation of the shot noise in a ballistic electron waveguide square root of NOT gate. A general expression for the shot noise in the leads connected to these types of gates is shown. We then parameterize an S-matrix which qualitatively describes the action of a square root of NOT gate previously found through numerical methods for GaAs/Al_xGa_{1-x}As based waveguides systems. Using this S-matrix, the shot noise in a single output lead and across two output leads is calculated. We find that the measurement of the shot noise across two output leads allows for the determination of the fidelity of the gate itself.

id: quant-ph/0601114
title: Superbroadcasting of continuous variables mixed states
authors: Giacomo M. D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti, Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, revtex4 style, revised version
journal: New J. Phys. 8 p. 99 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601114
abstract: We consider the problem of broadcasting quantum information encoded in the average value of the field from N to M>N copies of mixed states of radiation modes. We derive the broadcasting map that preserves the complex amplitude, while optimally reducing the noise in conjugate quadratures. We find that from two input copies broadcasting is feasible, with the possibility of simultaneous purification (superbroadcasting). We prove similar results for purification (M<=N) and for phase-conjugate broadcasting.

id: quant-ph/0601115
title: Phase-Remapping Attack in Practical Quantum Key Distribution Systems
authors: Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Bing Qi, Kiyoshi Tamaki, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032314 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601115
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) can be used to generate secret keys between two distant parties. Even though QKD has been proven unconditionally secure against eavesdroppers with unlimited computation power, practical implementations of QKD may contain loopholes that may lead to the generated secret keys being compromised. In this paper, we propose a phase-remapping attack targeting two practical bidirectional QKD systems (the "plug & play" system and the Sagnac system). We showed that if the users of the systems are unaware of our attack, the final key shared between them can be compromised in some situations. Specifically, we showed that, in the case of the Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) protocol with ideal single-photon sources, when the quantum bit error rate (QBER) is between 14.6% and 20%, our attack renders the final key insecure, whereas the same range of QBER values has been proved secure if the two users are unaware of our attack; also, we demonstrated three situations with realistic devices where positive key rates are obtained without the consideration of Trojan horse attacks but in fact no key can be distilled. We remark that our attack is feasible with only current technology. Therefore, it is very important to be aware of our attack in order to ensure absolute security. In finding our attack, we minimize the QBER over individual measurements described by a general POVM, which has some similarity with the standard quantum state discrimination problem.

id: quant-ph/0601116
title: Simulation of Quantum Adiabatic Search in the Presence of Noise
authors: Frank Gaitan
comments: 15 pages, 13 figures, 6 tables
journal: Int. J. Q. Info. vol. 4, 843-870 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601116
abstract: Results are presented of a large-scale simulation of the quantum adiabatic search (QuAdS) algorithm in the presence of noise. The algorithm is applied to the NP-Complete problem Exact Cover 3 (EC3). The noise is assumed to Zeeman-couple to the qubits and its effects on the algorithm's performance is studied for various levels of noise power, and for 4 different types of noise polarization. We examine the scaling relation between the number of bits N (EC3 problem size) and the algorithm's noise-averaged median run-time <T(N)>. Clear evidence is found of the algorithm's sensitivity to noise. Two fits to the simulation results were done: (1) power-law scaling <T(N)> = aN**b; and (2) exponential scaling <T(N)> = a[exp(bN) - 1]. Both types of scaling relations provided excellent fits. We demonstrate how noise leads to decoherence in QuAdS, estimate the amount of decoherence in our simulations, and derive an upper bound for the noise-averaged QuAdS success probability in the weak noise limit appropriate for our simulations.

id: quant-ph/0601117
title: Remarkable Degenerate Quantum Stabilizer Codes Derived from Duadic Codes
authors: Salah A. Aly, Andreas Klappenecker, Pradeep Kiran Sarvepalli
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601117
abstract: Good quantum codes, such as quantum MDS codes, are typically nondegenerate, meaning that errors of small weight require active error-correction, which is--paradoxically--itself prone to errors. Decoherence free subspaces, on the other hand, do not require active error correction, but perform poorly in terms of minimum distance. In this paper, examples of degenerate quantum codes are constructed that have better minimum distance than decoherence free subspaces and allow some errors of small weight that do not require active error correction. In particular, two new families of [[n,1,>= sqrt(n)]]_q degenerate quantum codes are derived from classical duadic codes.

id: quant-ph/0601118
title: Temporal Distinguishability of an N-Photon State and Its Characterization by Quantum Interference
authors: Z. Y. Ou
comments: long version, 16 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 063808 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601118
abstract: We present a multi-mode model to describe an arbitrary N-photon state with a wide spectral range and some arbitrary temporal distribution. In general, some of the $N$ photons are spread out in time while other may overlap and become indistinguishable. From this model, we find that the temporal (in)distinguishability of photons is related to the exchange symmetry of the multi-photon wave function. We find that simple multi-photon detection scheme gives rise to a more general photon bunching effect with the famous two-photon effect as a special case. We then send this N-photon state into a recently discovered multi-photon interference scheme. We calculate the visibility of the multi-photon interference scheme and find that it is related to the temporal distinguishability of the $N$ photons. Maximum visibility of one is achieved for the indistinguishable N-photon state whereas the visibility degrades when some of the photons are separated and become distinguishable. Thus we can identify an experimentally measurable quantity that may quantitatively define the degree of indistinguishability of an N-photon state. This presents a quantitative demonstration of the complementary principle of quantum interference.

id: quant-ph/0601119
title: Secure Direct Communication Based on Secret Transmitting Order of Particles
authors: Ai-Dong Zhu, Yan Xia, Qiu-Bo Fan, Shou Zhang
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 73, 022338(2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601119
abstract: We propose the schemes of quantum secure direct communication (QSDC) based on secret transmitting order of particles. In these protocols, the secret transmitting order of particles ensures the security of communication, and no secret messages are leaked even if the communication is interrupted for security. This strategy of security for communication is also generalized to quantum dialogue. It not only ensures the unconditional security but also improves the efficiency of communication.

id: quant-ph/0601120
title: Globally controlled quantum wires for perfect qubit transport, mirroring and computing
authors: Joseph Fitzsimons, Jason Twamley
comments: Shortened 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601120
abstract: It is expected that quantum wires (q-wires), will be required to transport quantum information within many quantum computer implementations. Here we describe a new design for a q-wire with perfect transmission using a uniformly coupled Ising spin chain subject to global (homogeneously-applied) pulses. Besides allowing for perfect transport of single qubits, the design also yields the perfect ``mirroring'' of multiply encoded qubits within the wire. We further utilise this global-pulse generated perfect mirror operation as a ``clock cycle'' to perform universal quantum computation on these multiply encoded qubits. We demonstrate the operation of single and two-qubit quantum logic gates and show that only $N-1$ complete mirror cycles are required to execute a quantum Fourier transform on $N$ qubits encoded within the q-wire.

id: quant-ph/0601121
title: Superconducting Circuits and Quantum Information
authors: J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. See also: this http URL
journal: Phys. Today 58(11), 42 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601121
abstract: Superconducting circuits can behave like atoms making transitions between two levels. Such circuits can test quantum mechanics at macroscopic scales and be used to conduct atomic-physics experiments on a silicon chip.

id: quant-ph/0601122
title: Quantum Mechanical Realization of a Popescu-Rohrlich Box
authors: S. Marcovitch, B. Reznik, L. Vaidman
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022102 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601122
abstract: We consider quantum ensembles which are determined by pre- and post-selection. Unlike the case of only pre-selected ensembles, we show that in this case the probabilities for measurement outcomes at intermediate times satisfy causality only rarely; such ensembles can in general be used to signal between causally disconnected regions. We show that under restrictive conditions, there are certain non-trivial bi-partite ensembles which do satisfy causality. These ensembles give rise to a violation of the CHSH inequality, which exceeds the maximal quantum violation given by Tsirelson's bound, $B_{\rm CHSH}\le 2\sqrt2$, and obtains the Popescu-Rohrlich bound for the maximal violation, $B_{\rm CHSH}\le 4$. This may be regarded as an a posteriori realization of super-correlations, which have recently been termed Popescu-Rohrlich boxes.

id: quant-ph/0601123
title: Calculation of the Hidden Symmetry Operator for a $\cP\cT$-Symmetric Square Well
authors: Carl M. Bender, Barnabas Tan
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: J.Phys.A39:1945-1953,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601123
abstract: It has been shown that a Hamiltonian with an unbroken $\cP\cT$ symmetry also possesses a hidden symmetry that is represented by the linear operator $\cC$. This symmetry operator $\cC$ guarantees that the Hamiltonian acts on a Hilbert space with an inner product that is both positive definite and conserved in time, thereby ensuring that the Hamiltonian can be used to define a unitary theory of quantum mechanics. In this paper it is shown how to construct the operator $\cC$ for the $\cP\cT$-symmetric square well using perturbative techniques.

id: quant-ph/0601124
title: Entanglement distribution for a practical quantum-dot-based quantum processor architecture
authors: Timothy P. Spiller, Irene D'Amico, Brendon W. Lovett
comments: Replaced with Published Version
journal: New J. Phys. 9 20 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601124
abstract: We propose a quantum dot architecture for enabling universal quantum information processing. Quantum registers, consisting of arrays of vertically stacked self-assembled semiconductor quantum dots, are connected by chains of in-plane self-assembled dots. We propose an entanglement distributor, a device for producing and distributing maximally entangled qubits on demand, communicated through in-plane dot chains. This enables the transmission of entanglement to spatially separated register stacks, providing a resource for the realisation of a sizeable quantum processor built from coupled register stacks of practical size. Our entanglement distributor could be integrated into many of the present proposals for self-assembled quantum dot-based quantum computation. Our device exploits the properties of simple, relatively short, spin-chains and does not require microcavities. Utilizing the properties of self-assembled quantum dots, after distribution the entanglement can be mapped into relatively long lived spin qubits and purified, providing a flexible, distributed, off-line resource.

id: quant-ph/0601125
title: Three-party quantum secure direct communication based on Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states
authors: Xing-Ri Jin, Xin Ji, Ying-Qiao Zhang, Shou Zhang, Suc-Kyoung Hong, Kyu-Hwang Yeon, Chung-In Um
comments: To appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A,354(2006)67~70
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601125
abstract: We present a three-party simultaneous quantum secure direct communication (QSDC) scheme by using Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states. This scheme can be directly generalized to $N$-party QSDC by using $n$-particle GHZ states. We show that the many-party simultaneous QSDC scheme is secure not only against the intercept-and-resend attack but also against the disturbance attack.

id: quant-ph/0601126
title: Probabilistic Dense Coding Using a Non-symmetric Multipartite Quantum Channel
authors: Qiu-Bo Fan, Shou Zhang
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A, 348, (2006) 160-165
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601126
abstract: We investigate probabilistic dense coding in non-symmetric Hilbert spaces of the sender's and the receiver's particles. The sender and the receiver share the multipartite non-maximally quantum channel. We also discuss the average information.

id: quant-ph/0601127
title: Quantum Dialogue by Using the GHZ State
authors: Yan Xia, Chang-Bao Fu, Shou Zhang, Suc-Kyoung Hong, Kyu-Hwang Yeon, Chung-In Um
comments: 
journal: Journal of the Korean Physical Society, 48, 1 (2006) 24-27
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601127
abstract: We present a quantum dialogue protocol by using the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state. In this paper, we point out that the `quantum dialogue' communication scheme recently introduced by Nguyen can be eavesdropped on under an intercept-and-resend attack. We also give a revised control mode to detect this attack. Hence, within the present version two users can exchange their secret messages securely and simultaneously, and the efficiency of information transmission can be successfully increased.

id: quant-ph/0601128
title: Multi-Receiver Quantum Dense Coding with Non-Symmetric Quantum Channel
authors: Chang-Bao Fu, Shou Zhang, Ke Li, Kyu-Hwang Yeon, Chung-In Um
comments: To appear in Journal of the Korean Physical Society
journal: Journal of the Korean Physical Society,48,5(2006)888~891
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601128
abstract: A two-receiver quantum dense coding scheme and an $N$-receiver quantum dense coding scheme, in the case of non-symmetric Hilbert spaces of the particles of the quantum channel, are investigated in this paper. A sender can send his messages to many receivers simultaneously. The scheme can be applied to quantum secret sharing and controlled quantum dense coding.

id: quant-ph/0601129
title: Swapping and permutation operators as entanglement witnesses for quantum Heisenberg spin-$s$ systems
authors: Guang-Ming Zhang, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 8 pages, no figures, accepted by Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 8515
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601129
abstract: Using the SU($N$) representation of the group theory, we derive the general form of the spin swapping operator for the quantum Heisenberg spin-$s$ systems. We further prove that such a spin swapping operator is equal to the spin singlet pairing operator under the partial transposition. For SU(2) invariant states, it is shown that the expectation value of the spin swapping operator and its generalizations, the permutations, can be used as an entanglement witness, especially, for the formulation of observable conditions of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0601130
title: Experimentally realizable quantum comparison of coherent states and its applications
authors: Erika Andersson, Marcos Curty, Igor Jex
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, version one submitted to PRA. Version two is the final accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022304 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601130
abstract: When comparing quantum states to each other, it is possible to obtain an unambiguous answer, indicating that the states are definitely different, already after a single measurement. In this paper we investigate comparison of coherent states, which is the simplest example of quantum state comparison for continuous variables. The method we present has a high success probability, and is experimentally feasible to realize as the only required components are beam splitters and photon detectors. An easily realizable method for quantum state comparison could be important for real applications. As examples of such applications we present a "lock and key" scheme and a simple scheme for quantum public key distribution.

id: quant-ph/0601131
title: Time-optimal Control of Spin Systems
authors: Jan Swoboda
comments: 80 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601131
abstract: The paper discusses various aspects of time-optimal control of quantum spin systems, modelled as right-invariant systems on a compact Lie group G. The main results are the reduction of such a system to an equivalent system on a homogeneous space G/H, and the explicit determination of optimal trajectories on G/H in the case where G/H is a Riemannian symmetric space. These results are mainly obtained by using methods from Lie theory and geometric control.

id: quant-ph/0601132
title: Decoherence in closed and open systems
authors: Mario Castagnino, Roberto Laura, Olimpia Lombardi
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601132
abstract: A generalized formal framework for decoherence, that can be used both in open and closed quantum systems, is sketched. In this context, the relationship between the decoherence of a closed system and the decoherence of its subsystems is studied, and the corresponding decoherence times are defined: for macroscopic systems, the decoherence time of the closed system is much greater than the decoherence time of its subsystems. Finally, it is shown that the application of the new formal framework to a well-known model leads to physically adequate results.

id: quant-ph/0601133
title: Photon pair generation using four-wave mixing in a microstructured fibre: theory versus experiment
authors: O. Alibart, J. Fulconis, G. K. L. Wong, S.G. Murdoch, W. J. Wadsworth, J. G. Rarity
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601133
abstract: We develop a theoretical analysis of four-wave mixing used to generate photon pairs useful for quantum information processing. The analysis applies to a single mode microstructured fibre pumped by an ultra-short coherent pulse in the normal dispersion region. Given the values of the optical propagation constant inside the fibre, we can estimate the created number of photon pairs per pulse, their central wavelength and their respective bandwidth. We use the experimental results from a picosecond source of correlated photon pairs using a micro-structured fibre to validate the model. The fibre is pumped in the normal dispersion regime at 708nm and phase matching is satisfied for widely spaced parametric wavelengths of 586nm and 894nm. We measure the number of photons per pulse using a loss-independent coincidence scheme and compare the results with the theoretical expectation. We show a good agreement between the theoretical expectations and the experimental results for various fibre lengths and pump powers.

id: quant-ph/0601134
title: State Tomography: Hidden Differences
authors: R. B. A. Adamson, L. K. Shalm, M. W. Mitchell, A. M. Steinberg
comments: 4 pages, 2 eps figures, uses braket.sty
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 043601 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601134
abstract: We address the problem of completely characterizing multi-particle states including loss of information to unobserved degrees of freedom. In systems where non-classical interference plays a role, such as linear-optics quantum gates, such information can degrade interference in two ways, by decoherence and by distinguishing the particles. Distinguishing information, often the limiting factor for quantum optical devices, is not correctly described by previous state-reconstruction techniques, which account only for decoherence. We extend these techniques and find that a single modified density matrix can completely describe partially-coherent, partially-distinguishable states. We use this observation to experimentally characterize two-photon polarization states in single-mode optical fiber.

id: quant-ph/0601135
title: Determination of the border between "shallow" and "deep" tunneling regions for Herman-Kluk method by asymptotic approach
authors: Atushi Tanaka
comments: To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 024101 (2006) (4 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601135
abstract: The evaluation of a tunneling tail by the Herman-Kluk method, which is a quasiclassical way to compute quantum dynamics, is examined by asymptotic analysis. In the shallower part of the tail, as well as in the classically allowed region, it is shown that the leading terms of semiclassical evaluations of quantum theory and the Herman-Kluk formula agree, which is known as an asymptotic equivalence. In the deeper part, it is shown that the asymptotic equivalence breaks down, due to the emergence of unusual "tunneling trajectory", which is an artifact of the Herman-Kluk method.

id: quant-ph/0601136
title: Boundary effect of deterministic dense coding
authors: Zhengfeng Ji, Yuan Feng, Runyao Duan, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 3 pages, RevTeX, no figure. Comments, criticisms and suggestions are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 034307 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601136
abstract: We present a rigorous proof of an interesting boundary effect of deterministic dense coding first observed by Mozes et al. [Phys. Rev. A 71, 012311 (2005)]. Namely, it is shown that $d^2-1$ cannot be the maximal alphabet size of any isometric deterministic dense coding schemes utilizing $d$-level partial entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0601137
title: Theoretical study of a cold atom beam splitter
authors: Naceur Gaaloul, Annick Suzor-Weiner, Laurence Pruvost, Mourad Telmini, Eric Charron
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A / Physical Review A (General Physics); Phys Rev A Gen Phys; Physical Review A (Atomic Molecular and Optical Physics) 74, 2 (24/08/2006) 023620
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601137
abstract: A theoretical model is presented for the study of the dynamics of a cold atomic cloud falling in the gravity &#64257;eld in the presence of two crossing dipole guides. The cloud is split between the two branches of this laser guide, and we compare experimental measurements of the splitting ef&#64257;ciency with semiclassical simulations. We then explore the possibilities of optimization of this beam splitter. Our numerical study also gives access to detailed information, such as the atom temperature after the splitting.

id: quant-ph/0601138
title: Quantum and classical probability as Bayes-optimal observation
authors: Sven Aerts
comments: 30 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601138
abstract: We propose a simple abstract formalisation of the act of observation, in which the system and the observer are assumed to be in a pure state and their interaction deterministically changes the states such that the outcome can be read from the state of the observer after the interaction. If the observer consistently realizes the outcome which maximizes the likelihood ratio that the outcome pertains to the system under study (and not to his own state), he will be called Bayes-optimal. We calculate the probability if for each trial of the experiment the observer is in a new state picked randomly from his set of states, and the system under investigation is taken from an ensemble of identical pure states. For classical statistical mixtures, the relative frequency resulting from the maximum likelihood principle is an unbiased estimator of the components of the mixture. For repeated Bayes-optimal observation in case the state space is complex Hilbert space, the relative frequency converges to the Born rule. Hence, the principle of Bayes-optimal observation can be regarded as an underlying mechanism for the Born rule. We show the outcome assignment of the Bayes-optimal observer is invariant under unitary transformations and contextual, but the probability that results from repeated application is non-contextual. The proposal gives a concise interpretation for the meaning of the occurrence of a single outcome in a quantum experiment as the unique outcome that, relative to the state of the system, is least dependent on the state of the observe at the instant of measurement.

id: quant-ph/0601139
title: Quantum-classical correspondence on compact phase space
authors: Martin Horvat, Tomaz Prosen, Mirko Degli Esposti
comments: 26 pages. 9 figures (31 .epz files), submitted to Nonlinearity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601139
abstract: We propose to study the $L^2$-norm distance between classical and quantum phase space distributions, where for the latter we choose the Wigner function, as a global phase space indicator of quantum-classical correspondence. For example, this quantity should provide a key to understand the correspondence between quantum and classical Loschmidt echoes. We concentrate on fully chaotic systems with compact (finite) classical phase space. By means of numerical simulations and heuristic arguments we find that the quantum-classical fidelity stays at one up to Ehrenfest-type time scale, which is proportional to the logarithm of effective Planck constant, and decays exponentially with a maximal classical Lyapunov exponent, after that time.

id: quant-ph/0601140
title: Quantum regression theorem for non-Markovian Lindblad equations
authors: Adrian A. Budini
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures. Extended version. The GBMA is deduced from projector technique. A new appendix is added
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 131, 51 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601140
abstract: We find the conditions under which a quantum regression theorem can be assumed valid for non-Markovian master equations consisting in Lindblad superoperators with memory kernels. Our considerations are based on a generalized Born-Markov approximation, which allows us to obtain our results from an underlying Hamiltonian description. We demonstrate that a non-Markovian quantum regression theorem can only be granted in a stationary regime if the dynamics satisfies a quantum detailed balance condition. As an example we study the correlations of a two level system embedded in a complex structured reservoir and driven by an external coherent field.

id: quant-ph/0601141
title: Scalable designs for quantum computing with rare-earth-ion-doped crystals
authors: Janus H. Wesenberg, Klaus Moelmer, Lars Rippe, Stefan Kroell
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 75, 012304 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601141
abstract: Due to inhomogeneous broadening, the absorption lines of rare-earth-ion dopands in crystals are many order of magnitudes wider than the homogeneous linewidths. Several ways have been proposed to use ions with different inhomogeneous shifts as qubit registers, and to perform gate operations between such registers by means of the static dipole coupling between the ions. In this paper we show that in order to implement high-fidelity quantum gate operations by means of the static dipole interaction, we require the participating ions to be strongly coupled, and that the density of such strongly coupled registers in general scales poorly with register size. Although this is critical to previous proposals which rely on a high density of functional registers, we describe architectures and preparation strategies that will allow scalable quantum computers based on rare-earth-ion doped crystals.

id: quant-ph/0601142
title: Secret sharing of quantum information via entanglement swapping in cavity QED
authors: Ying-Qiao Zhang, Xing-Ri Jin, Shou Zhang
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A, 341, (2005)380
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601142
abstract: We proposed a scheme on secret sharing of quantum information based on entanglement swapping in cavity QED. In our scheme, the effects of cavity decay and thermal field are all eliminated.

id: quant-ph/0601143
title: Entangled States Generated via Two Superconducting Quantum Interference Devices(SQUIDs) in cavity QED
authors: Yan Li, Shou Zhang, Kyu-Hwang Yeon, Chung-In Um
comments: 
journal: Journal of the Korean Physical Society, 46, 2(2005)440
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601143
abstract: We propose a scheme for generating entangled states for two superconducting quantum interference devices in a thermal cavity with the assistance of a microwave pulse.

id: quant-ph/0601144
title: Controlled Quantum Dense Coding in a Four-particle Non-maximally Entangled State via Local Measurements
authors: Chang-Bao Fu, Yan Xia, Bo-Xue Liu, Shou Zhang, Kyu-Hwang Yeon, Chung-In Um
comments: 
journal: Journal of the Korean Physical Society, 46, 5(2005)1080
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601144
abstract: A controlled quantum dense coding scheme is investigated with a four-particle non-maximal quantum channel. The amount of classical information is shown to be capable of being controlled by the controllers through adjustments of the local measurement angles and to depend on the coefficients of the quantum channel; in addition, the four particles are distributed in two inverse ways in such an quantum channel. A restricted condition for distributing the particles to realize quantum dense coding in an arbitrary ($N+2$)-particle quantum channel is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0601145
title: Controlled Secure Direct Communication by Using GHZ Entangled State
authors: Yan Xia, Chang-Bao Fu, Feng-Yue Li, Shou Zhang, Kyu-Hwang Yeon, Chung-In Um
comments: 
journal: Journal of the Korean Physical Society, 47, 5(2005)753
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601145
abstract: We present a controlled secure direct communication protocol by using Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) entangled state via swapping quantum entanglement and local unitary operations. Since messages transferred only by using local operations and a public channel after entangled states are successfully distributed, this protocol can protect the communication against a destroying-travel-qubit-type attack. This scheme can also be generalized to a multi-party control system.

id: quant-ph/0601146
title: Fidelity of holonomic quantum computations in the case of random errors in the values of control parameters
authors: P. V. Buividovich, V. I. Kuvshinov
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73 (2006) 022336
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601146
abstract: We investigate the influence of random errors in external control parameters on the stability of holonomic quantum computation in the case of arbitrary loops and adiabatic connections. A simple expression is obtained for the case of small random uncorrelated errors. Due to universality of mathematical description our results are valid for any physical system which can be described in terms of holonomies. Theoretical results are confirmed by numerical simulations.

id: quant-ph/0601147
title: Multi-step quantum secure direct communication using multi-particle Green-Horne-Zeilinger state
authors: Chuan Wang, Fu Guo Deng, Gui Lu Long
comments: 4 pages and 1 figure. Revised version of Optics Communications 253 (2005(15
journal: Optics Communications 253 (2005) 15
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601147
abstract: A multi-step quantum secure direct communication protocol using blocks of multi-particle maximally entangled state is proposed. In this protocol, the particles in a Green-Horne-Zeilinger state are sent from Alice to Bob in batches in several steps. It has the advantage of high efficiency and high source capacity.

id: quant-ph/0601148
title: Quantum Manipulation of Trapped Ions in Two Dimensional Coulomb Crystals
authors: D. Porras, J.I. Cirac
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. We include an appendix with: (i) Details on the calculation presented in the main text. (ii) An scheme for inducing effective spin-spin interactions with a walking wave scheme for quantum simulations with trapped ions
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 250501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601148
abstract: We show that a large number of ions stored in a Penning trap, and forming a 2D Coulomb crystal, provides an almost ideal system for scalable quantum computation and quantum simulation. In particular, the coupling of the internal states to the motion of the ions transverse to the crystal plane, allows one to implement two qubit quantum gates. We analyze in detail the decoherence induced by anharmonic couplings with in--plane hot vibrational modes, and show that very high gate fidelities can be achieved with current experimental set--ups.

id: quant-ph/0601149
title: The photoelectric effect in external fields
authors: Christian Bracher, John B. Delos, Vassiliki Kanellopoulos, Manfred Kleber, Tobias Kramer
comments: Contribution to the Einstein special issue, slightly updated references
journal: Physics Letters A 347 (2005) 62-66
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601149
abstract: Atoms and negative ions interacting with laser photons yield a coherent source of photoelectrons. Applying external fields to photoelectrons gives rise to interesting and valuable interference phenomena. We analyze the spatial distribution of the photocurrent using elementary quantum methods. The photoelectric effect is shown to be an interesting example for the use of coherent particle sources in quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0601150
title: Entanglement Is Not Necessary for Perfect Discrimination between Unitary Operations
authors: Runyao Duan, Yuan Feng, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 4 pages(in Revtex4), 2 figures (eps). Corrected some typos and two equations. Main results unchanged. Essentially the journal version
journal: Physical Review Letters, vol. 98, no. 10, art. 100503, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601150
abstract: We show that a unitary operation (quantum circuit) secretely chosen from a finite set of unitary operations can be determined with certainty by sequentially applying only a finite amount of runs of the unknown circuit. No entanglement or joint quantum operations is required in our scheme. We further show that our scheme is optimal in the sense that the number of the runs is minimal when discriminating only two unitary operations.

id: quant-ph/0601151
title: Quantum Adiabatic Computation and the Travelling Salesman Problem
authors: Tien D. Kieu
comments: 7 pages. Explanation added for the derivation of the lower bound on computation time
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601151
abstract: The NP-complete problem of the travelling salesman (TSP) is considered in the framework of quantum adiabatic computation (QAC). We first derive a remarkable lower bound for the computation time for adiabatic algorithms in general as a function of the energy involved in the computation. Energy, and not just time and space, must thus be considered in the evaluation of algorithm complexity, in perfect accordance with the understanding that all computation is physical. We then propose, with oracular Hamiltonians, new quantum adiabatic algorithms of which not only the lower bound in time but also the energy requirement do not increase exponentially in the size of the input. Such an improvement in both time and energy complexity, as compared to all other existing algorithms for TSP, is apparently due to quantum entanglement. We also appeal to the general theory of Diophantine equations in a speculation on physical implementation of those oracular Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0601152
title: Bound states of the s-wave Klein-Gordon equation with equal scalar and vector Standard Eckart Potential
authors: Eser Olgar, Ramazan Koc, Hayriye Tutunculer
comments: 
journal: CHIN.PHYS.LETT. Vol. 23,No. 3 (2006) 539
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601152
abstract: A supersymmetric technique for the bound-state solutions of the s-wave Klein--Gordon equation with equal scalar and vector standard Eckart type potential is proposed. Its exact solutions are obtained. Possible generalization of our approach is outlined.

id: quant-ph/0601153
title: Detuned Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in an $N$-type Atom
authors: Bin Luo, Xiao Li, Hong Guo
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601153
abstract: The electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in an $N$ configuration is studied under both resonant and off-resonant conditions. In a certain off-resonant condition the dark state of the four level system, which is almost the same as the resonant dark state in $\Lambda$ configuration, is rebuilt. The actual system with damping is examined using optical Bloch equation, both numerically and analytically. Based on this detuned dark state, some new applications with frequency shifts can be realized.

id: quant-ph/0601154
title: Simultaneous optical trapping and detection of atoms by microdisk resonators
authors: Michael Rosenblit, Yonathan Japha, Peter Horak, Ron Folman
comments: 13 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 063805 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601154
abstract: We propose a scheme for simultaneously trapping and detecting single atoms near the surface of a substrate using whispering gallery modes of a microdisk resonator. For efficient atom-mode coupling the atom should be placed within approximately 150 nm from the disk. We show that a combination of red and blue detuned modes can form an optical trap at such distances while the back-action of the atom on the field modes can simultaneously be used for atom detection. We investigate these trapping potentials including van-der-Waals and Casimir-Polder forces and discuss corresponding atom detection efficiencies, depending on a variety of system parameters. Finally, we analyze the feasibility of non-destructive detection.

id: quant-ph/0601155
title: Noise sequences of infinite matrices and their applications to the characterization of the canonical phase and box localization observables
authors: Pekka Lahti, Maciej J. Maczynski, Egon Scheffold, Kari Ylinen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601155
abstract: Noise sequences of infinite matrices associated with covariant phase and box localization observables are defined and determined. The canonical observables are characterized within the relevant classes of observables as those with asymptotically minimal or minimal noise, i.e., the noise tending to 0 or having the value 0.

id: quant-ph/0601156
title: Information/disturbance trade-off in continuous variable Gaussian systems
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, revised version, title changed, accepted PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 012301 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601156
abstract: We address the information/disturbance trade-off for state-measurements on continuous variable Gaussian systems and suggest minimal schemes for implementations. In our schemes, the symbols from a given alphabet are encoded in a set of Gaussian signals which are coupled to a probe excited in a known state. After the interaction the probe is measured, in order to infer the transmitted state, while the conditional state of the signal is left for the subsequent user. The schemes are minimal, {\em i.e.} involve a single additional probe, and allow for the nondemolitive transmission of a continuous real alphabet over a quantum channel. The trade-off between information gain and state disturbance is quantified by fidelities and, after optimization with respect to the measurement, analyzed in terms of the energy carried by the signal and the probe. We found that transmission fidelity only depends on the energy of the signal and the probe, whereas estimation fidelity also depends on the alphabet size and the measurement gain. Increasing the probe energy does not necessarily lead to a better trade-off, the most relevant parameter being the ratio between the alphabet size and the signal width, which in turn determine the allocation of the signal energy.

id: quant-ph/0601157
title: Oblivious transfer and quantum channels
authors: Nicolas Gisin, Sandu Popescu, Valerio Scarani, Stefan Wolf, J¨¹rg Wullschleger
comments: Invited Paper at the 2006 IEEE Information Theory Workshop (ITW 2006)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601157
abstract: We show that oblivious transfer can be seen as the classical analogue to a quantum channel in the same sense as non-local boxes are for maximally entangled qubits.

id: quant-ph/0601158
title: Quantum Probability Theory
authors: Miklos Redei, Stephen J. Summers
comments: 28 pages, LaTeX, typos removed and some minor modifications for clarity and accuracy made. This is the version to appear in Studies in the History and Philosophy of Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601158
abstract: The mathematics of classical probability theory was subsumed into classical measure theory by Kolmogorov in 1933. Quantum theory as nonclassical probability theory was incorporated into the beginnings of noncommutative measure theory by von Neumann in the early thirties, as well. To precisely this end, von Neumann initiated the study of what are now called von Neumann algebras and, with Murray, made a first classification of such algebras into three types. The nonrelativistic quantum theory of systems with finitely many degrees of freedom deals exclusively with type I algebras. However, for the description of further quantum systems, the other types of von Neumann algebras are indispensable. The paper reviews quantum probability theory in terms of general von Neumann algebras, stressing the similarity of the conceptual structure of classical and noncommutative probability theories and emphasizing the correspondence between the classical and quantum concepts, though also indicating the nonclassical nature of quantum probabilistic predictions. In addition, differences between the probability theories in the type I, II and III settings are explained. A brief description is given of quantum systems for which probability theory based on type I algebras is known to be insufficient. These illustrate the physical significance of the previously mentioned differences.

id: quant-ph/0601159
title: Trapped ion quantum computation with transverse phonon modes
authors: Shi-Liang Zhu, C. Monroe, L.-M. Duan
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97,050505 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601159
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement quantum gates on any pair of trapped ions immersed in a large linear crystal, using interaction mediated by the transverse phonon modes. Compared with the conventional approaches based on the longitudinal phonon modes, this scheme is much less sensitive to ion heating and thermal motion outside of the Lamb-Dicke limit thanks to the stronger confinement in the transverse direction. The cost for such a gain is only a moderate increase of the laser power to achieve the same gate speed. We also show how to realize arbitrary-speed quantum gates with transverse phonon modes based on simple shaping of the laser pulses.

id: quant-ph/0601160
title: One-mirror Fabry-Perot and one-slit Young interferometry
authors: Daniel Rohrlich, Yakov Neiman, Yonathan Japha, Ron Folman
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601160
abstract: We describe a new and distinctive interferometry in which a probe particle scatters off a superposition of locations of a single free target particle. In one dimension, probe particles incident on superposed locations of a single "mirror" can interfere as if in a Fabry-Perot interferometer; in two dimensions, probe particles scattering off superposed locations of a single "slit" can interfere as if in a two-slit Young interferometer. The condition for interference is loss of orthogonality of the target states and reduces, in simple examples, to transfer of orthogonality from target to probe states. We analyze experimental parameters and conditions necessary for interference to be observed.

id: quant-ph/0601161
title: Localization of non-relativistic particles
authors: R. de la Madrid
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601161
abstract: This paper is a contribution to the problem of particle localization in non-relativistic Quantum Mechanics. Our main results will be (1) to formulate the problem of localization in terms of invariant subspaces of the Hilbert space, and (2) to show that the rigged Hilbert space incorporates particle localization in a natural manner.

id: quant-ph/0601162
title: Feedback control for communication with non-orthogonal states
authors: Kurt Jacobs
comments: revtex4, 6 pages, 3 eps figures
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 7, 127 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601162
abstract: Communicating classical information with a quantum system involves the receiver making a measurement on the system so as to distinguish as well as possible the alphabet of states used by the sender. We consider the situation in which this measurement takes an appreciable time. In this case the measurement must be described by a continuous measurement process. We consider a continuous implementation of the optimal measurement for distinguishing between two non-orthogonal states, and show that feedback control can be used during this measurement to increase the rate at which the information regarding the initial preparation is obtained. We show that while the maximum obtainable increase is modest, the effect is purely quantum mechanical in the sense that the enhancement is only possible when the initial states are non-orthogonal. We find further that the enhancement in the rate of information gain is achieved at the expense of reducing the total information which the measurement can extract in the long-time limit.

id: quant-ph/0601163
title: Trapping atoms on a transparent permanent-magnet atom chip
authors: A. Shevchenko, M. Heilio, T. Lindvall, A. Jaakkola, I. Tittonen, M. Kaivola, T. Pfau
comments: Modifications: A) Reference I. Barb et al., Eur. Phys. JD, 35, 75 (2005) added. B)Sentence rewritten: We routinely capture more than 10^6 atoms in a micro-MOT on a magnetized pattern. C) The magnetic field strengths are now given in Teslas. D) The second sentence in the fourth paragraph has been rewritten in order to more clearly describe the geometry and purpose of the compensation coils.E) In the seventh paragraph we have rewritten the sentence about the creation of the external magnetic field for the magnetic-domain patterning. F) In the ninth paragraph, we clarify the way to shift the trap center. G) Caption of Fig. 4 changed. H) We have modified paragraph 12 to improve the description on the guiding of the trap center along a toroidal pattern. I) The last two sentences of the manuscript have been rewritten
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601163
abstract: We describe experiments on trapping of atoms in microscopic magneto-optical traps on an optically transparent permanent-magnet atom chip. The chip is made of magnetically hard ferrite-garnet material deposited on a dielectric substrate. The confining magnetic fields are produced by miniature magnetized patterns recorded in the film by magneto-optical techniques. We trap Rb atoms on these structures by applying three crossed pairs of counter-propagating laser beams in the conventional magneto-optical trapping (MOT) geometry. We demonstrate the flexibility of the concept in creation and in-situ modification of the trapping geometries through several experiments.

id: quant-ph/0601164
title: Cloning of Gaussian states by linear optics
authors: Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062330 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601164
abstract: We analyze in details a scheme for cloning of Gaussian states based on linear optical components and homodyne detection recently demonstrated by U. L. Andersen et al. [PRL 94 240503 (2005)]. The input-output fidelity is evaluated for a generic (pure or mixed) Gaussian state taking into account the effect of non-unit quantum efficiency and unbalanced mode-mixing. In addition, since in most quantum information protocols the covariance matrix of the set of input states is not perfectly known, we evaluate the average cloning fidelity for classes of Gaussian states with the degree of squeezing and the number of thermal photons being only partially known.

id: quant-ph/0601165
title: Wigner function statistics in classically chaotic systems
authors: Martin Horvat, Tomaz Prosen
comments: 22 pages, 13 figures (20 .eps files)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36 (2003) 4015-4034
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601165
abstract: We have studied statistical properties of the values of the Wigner function W(x) of 1D quantum maps on compact 2D phase space of finite area V. For this purpose we have defined a Wigner function probability distribution P(w) = (1/V) int delta(w-W(x)) dx, which has, by definition, fixed first and second moment. In particular, we concentrate on relaxation of time evolving quantum state in terms of W(x), starting from a coherent state. We have shown that for a classically chaotic quantum counterpart the distribution P(w) in the semi-classical limit becomes a Gaussian distribution that is fully determined by the first two moments. Numerical simulations have been performed for the quantum sawtooth map and the quantized kicked top. In a quantum system with Hilbert space dimension N (similar 1/hbar) the transition of P(w) to a Gaussian distribution was observed at times t proportional to log N. In addition, it has been shown that the statistics of Wigner functions of propagator eigenstates is Gaussian as well in the classically fully chaotic regime. We have also studied the structure of the nodal cells of the Wigner function, in particular the distribution of intersection points between the zero manifold and arbitrary straight lines.

id: quant-ph/0601166
title: Entanglement of an impurity and conduction spins in the Kondo model
authors: Sangchul Oh, Jaewan Kim
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review B
journal: Physical Review B 73, 052407 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601166
abstract: Based on Yosida's ground state of the single-impurity Kondo Hamiltonian, we study three kinds of entanglement between an impurity and conduction electron spins. First, it is shown that the impurity spin is maximally entangled with all the conduction electrons. Second, a two-spin density matrix of the impurity spin and one conduction electron spin is given by a Werner state. We find that the impurity spin is not entangled with one conduction electron spin even within the Kondo screening length $\xi_K$, although there is the spin-spin correlation between them. Third, we show the density matrix of two conduction electron spins is nearly same to that of a free electron gas. The single impurity does not change the entanglement structure of the conduction electrons in contrast to the dramatic change in electrical resistance.

id: quant-ph/0601167
title: Quantum process tomography and Linblad estimation of a solid state qubit
authors: M. Howard, J. Twamley, C. Wittmann, T. Gaebel, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 20 pages, 11 figures, IOP Style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601167
abstract: We present an example of quantum process tomography (QPT) performed on a single solid state qubit. The qubit used is two energy levels of the triplet state in the Nitrogen-Vacancy defect in Diamond. Quantum process tomography is applied to a qubit which has been allowed to decohere for three different time periods. In each case the process is found in terms of the chi matrix representation and the affine map representation. The discrepancy between experimentally estimated process and the closest physically valid process is noted. The results of QPT performed after three different decoherence times are used to find the error generators, or Lindblad operators, for the system, using the technique introduced by Boulant et al. [N. Boulant, T.F. Havel, M.A. Pravia and D.G. Cory, Phys. Rev. A 67, 042322 (2003)].

id: quant-ph/0601168
title: Simulation and Implementation of Decoy State Quantum Key Distribution over 60km Telecom Fiber
authors: Yi Zhao, Bing Qi, Xiongfeng Ma, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Li Qian
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Submitted to IEEE ISIT 2006
journal: Proceedings of IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory 2006, pp. 2094-2098
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601168
abstract: Decoy state quantum key distribution (QKD) has been proposed as a novel approach to improve dramatically both the security and the performance of practical QKD set-ups. Recently, many theoretical efforts have been made on this topic and have theoretically predicted the high performance of decoy method. However, the gap between theory and experiment remains open. In this paper, we report the first experiments on decoy state QKD, thus bridging the gap. Two protocols of decoy state QKD are implemented: one-decoy protocol over 15km of standard telecom fiber, and weak+vacuum protocol over 60km of standard telecom fiber. We implemented the decoy state method on a modified commercial QKD system. The modification we made is simply adding commercial acousto-optic modulator (AOM) on the QKD system. The AOM is used to modulate the intensity of each signal individually, thus implementing the decoy state method. As an important part of implementation, numerical simulation of our set-up is also performed. The simulation shows that standard security proofs give a zero key generation rate at the distance we perform decoy state QKD (both 15km and 60km). Therefore decoy state QKD is necessary for long distance secure communication. Our implementation shows explicitly the power and feasibility of decoy method, and brings it to our real-life.

id: quant-ph/0601169
title: Quantum automata, braid group and link polynomials
authors: Silvano Garnerone, Annalisa Marzuoli, Mario Rasetti
comments: Latex, 36 pages, 11 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation Vol.7, No.5&6 (2007) 479-503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601169
abstract: The spin--network quantum simulator model, which essentially encodes the (quantum deformed) SU(2) Racah--Wigner tensor algebra, is particularly suitable to address problems arising in low dimensional topology and group theory. In this combinatorial framework we implement families of finite--states and discrete--time quantum automata capable of accepting the language generated by the braid group, and whose transition amplitudes are colored Jones polynomials. The automaton calculation of the polynomial of (the plat closure of) a link L on 2N strands at any fixed root of unity is shown to be bounded from above by a linear function of the number of crossings of the link, on the one hand, and polynomially bounded in terms of the braid index 2N, on the other. The growth rate of the time complexity function in terms of the integer k appearing in the root of unity q can be estimated to be (polynomially) bounded by resorting to the field theoretical background given by the Chern-Simons theory.

id: quant-ph/0601170
title: Decomposing a pulsed optical parametric amplifier into independent squeezers
authors: A. I. Lvovsky, W. Wasilewski, K. Banaszek
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, REVTeX. Submitted to the proceedings of the Conference Quantum Optics VI, published as a Special Issue of Jounal of Modern Optics
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 54, 721 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601170
abstract: We discuss the concept of characteristic squeezing modes applied to a travelling-wave optical parametric amplifier pumped by an ultrashort pulse. The characteristic modes undergo decoupled single-mode squeezing transformations, and therefore they form a useful basis to describe the evolution of the entire multimode system. This provides an elegant and intuitive picture of quantum statistical properties of parametric fluorescence. We analyse the efficiency of detecting quadrature squeezing, and present results of numerical calculations for a realistic nonlinear medium.

id: quant-ph/0601171
title: Transmittivity measurements by means of squeezed vacuum light
authors: V. D'Auria, C. de Lisio, A. Porzio, S. Solimeno, M. G. A. Paris
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 39, 1187 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601171
abstract: A method for measuring the transmittivity of optical samples by using squeezed--vacuum radiation is illustrated. A squeezed vacuum field generated by a below--threshold optical parametric oscillator is propagated through a nondispersive medium and detected by a homodyne apparatus. The variance of the detected quadrature is used for measuring the transmittivity. With this method it is drastically reduced the number of photons passing through the sample during the measurement interval. The results of some tests are reported.

id: quant-ph/0601172
title: Monogamy of nonlocal quantum correlations
authors: Ben Toner
comments: This is the submitted version. The refereed version, which contains an additional result about strong parallel repetition and corrects some typos, is available on my personal web site at this http URL [PDF]
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 465, 59--69 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601172
abstract: We describe a new technique for obtaining Tsirelson bounds, or upper bounds on the quantum value of a Bell inequality. Since quantum correlations do not allow signaling, we obtain a Tsirelson bound by maximizing over all no-signaling probability distributions. This maximization can be cast as a linear program. In a setting where three parties, A, B, and C, share an entangled quantum state of arbitrary dimension, we: (i) bound the trade-off between AB's and AC's violation of the CHSH inequality, and (ii) demonstrate that forcing B and C to be classically correlated prevents A and B from violating certain Bell inequalities, relevant for interactive proof systems and cryptography.

id: quant-ph/0601173
title: A microfabricated surface-electrode ion trap for scalable quantum information processing
authors: S. Seidelin, J. Chiaverini, R. Reichle, J. J. Bollinger, D. Leibfried, J. Britton, J. H. Wesenberg, R. B. Blakestad, R. J. Epstein, D. B. Hume, J. D. Jost, C. Langer, R. Ozeri, N. Shiga, D. J. Wineland
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 253003 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601173
abstract: We demonstrate confinement of individual atomic ions in a radio-frequency Paul trap with a novel geometry where the electrodes are located in a single plane and the ions confined above this plane. This device is realized with a relatively simple fabrication procedure and has important implications for quantum state manipulation and quantum information processing using large numbers of ions. We confine laser-cooled Mg-24 ions approximately 40 micrometer above planar gold electrodes. We measure the ions' motional frequencies and compare them to simulations. From measurements of the escape time of ions from the trap, we also determine a heating rate of approximately five motional quanta per millisecond for a trap frequency of 5.3 MHz.

id: quant-ph/0601174
title: Interpretation of Stationary States in Prequantum Classical Statistical Field Theory
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: Continuation of development of the prequantum classical statistical model, see also: A. Yu. Khrennikov, A pre-quantum classical statistical model with infinite-dimensional phase space. J. Phys. A: Math. Gen., 38, 9051-9073 (2005) and A. Yu. Khrennikov, Generalizations of Quantum Mechanics Inducedby Classical Statistical Field Theory. {Found. Phys. Letters, 18, 637-650
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601174
abstract: We develop a prequantum classical statistical model in that the role of hidden variables is played by classical (vector) fields. We call this model Prequantum Classical Statistical Field Theory (PCSFT). The correspondence between classical and quantum quantities is asymptotic, so we call our approach asymptotic dequantization. In this note we pay the main attention to interpretation of so called pure quantum states (wave functions) in PCSFT, especially stationary states. We show, see Theorem 2, that pure states of QM can be considered as labels for Gaussian measures concentrated on one dimensional complex subspaces of phase space that are invariant with respect to the Schr\"odinger dynamics. ``A quantum system in a stationary state $\psi$'' in PCSFT is nothing else than a Gaussian ensemble of classical fields (fluctuations of the vacuum field of a very small magnitude) which is not changed in the process of Schr\"odinger's evolution. We interpret in this way the problem of {\it stability of hydrogen atom.

id: quant-ph/0601175
title: Measuring the photon distribution by ON/OFF photodectors
authors: M. Genovese, M. Gramegna, G. Brida, M. Bondani, G. Zambra, A. Andreoni, A. R. Rossi, M. G. A. Paris
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, to appear on Laser Physics
journal: Laser Physics 16 (2006) 385
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601175
abstract: Reconstruction of photon statistics of optical states provide fundamental information on the nature of any optical field and find various relevant applications. Nevertheless, no detector that can reliably discriminate the number of incident photons is available. On the other hand the alternative of reconstructing density matrix by quantum tomography leads to various technical difficulties that are particular severe in the pulsed regime (where mode matching between signal an local oscillator is very challenging). Even if on/off detectors, as usual avalanche PhotoDiodes operating in Geiger mode, seem useless as photocounters, recently it was shown how reconstruction of photon statistics is possible by considering a variable quantum efficiency. Here we present experimental reconstructions of photon number distributions of both continuous-wave and pulsed light beams in a scheme based on on/off avalanche photodetection assisted by maximum-likelihood estimation. Reconstructions of the distribution for both semiclassical and quantum states of light (as single photon, coherent, pseudothermal and multithermal states) are reported for single-mode as well as for multimode beams. The stability and good accuracy obtained in the reconstruction of these states clearly demonstrate the interesting potentialities of this simple technique.

id: quant-ph/0601176
title: Borel quantization and nonlinear quantum mechanics. A review of developments in the series "Symmetries in Science" I - XIII
authors: H.-D. Doebner, J. Tolar
comments: Proceedings of the Bregenz Symposium, 2003
journal: In: Symmetries in Science XI (B. Gruber, G. Marmo, N. Yoshinaga, eds.) Springer, Berlin 2004, pp. 209-225
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601176
abstract: The results, different aspects and applications of our method of quantisation on configuration manifolds - called Borel Quantisation - were presented at meetings of the series `Symmetries in Science' and can be found in the published proceedings. The developments with numerous coauthors, on Borel quantisation and the related family of nonlinear Schr\"odinger equations called Doebner-Goldin equations, are reviewed and commented here.

id: quant-ph/0601177
title: Entanglement generation via scattering of two particles with hard-core repulsion
authors: Frank Schm¨¹ser, Dominik Janzing
comments: 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601177
abstract: We analyse the entanglement generation in a one dimensional scattering process. The two colliding particles have a Gaussian wave function and interact by hard--core repulsion.In our analysis results on the entanglement of two mode Gaussian states are used. The produced entanglement depends in a non-obvious way on the parameters ratio of masses and initial widths. The asymptotic wavefunction of the two particles and its associated ellipse yield additional geometric insight into these conditions. The difference to the quantitative analysis of the amount of entanglement generated by beam splitters with squeezed light is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0601178
title: Classical simulation of limited-width cluster-state quantum computation
authors: Nadav Yoran, Anthony J. Short
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601178
abstract: We present a classical protocol, using the matrix product state representation, to simulate cluster-state quantum computation at a cost polynomial in the number of qubits in the cluster and exponential in d -- the width of the cluster. We use this result to show that any log-depth quantum computation in the gate array model, with gates linking only nearby qubits, can be simulated efficiently on a classical computer.

id: quant-ph/0601179
title: Comment on "Protective measurements and Bohm's trajectories" by Y.Aharonov, B.G.Englert, and M.O.Scully
authors: A.Drezet
comments: Phys.Lett.A 350, 416 (2006). 3 pages no figure
journal: Phys.Lett.A 350, 416 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601179
abstract: In the above paper [1], it is claimed that Bohm's mechanics can be challenged by a simple gedanken experiment involving a protecting measurement. Here we show that this gedanken experiment can be justified without problem and without contradicting the axiom attributing a physical meaning to the Bohmian trajectorie

id: quant-ph/0601180
title: Analysis of photon-atom entanglement generated by Faraday rotation in a cavity
authors: S. K. Y. Lee, C. K. Law
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601180
abstract: Faraday rotation based on AC Stark shifts is a mechanism that can entangle the polarization variables of photons and atoms. We analyze the structure of such entanglement by using the Schmidt decomposition method. The time-dependence of entanglement entropy and the effective Schmidt number are derived for Gaussian amplitudes. In particular we show how the entanglement is controlled by the initial fluctuations of atoms and photons.

id: quant-ph/0601181
title: Broadcasting of Inseparability
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari, B.S.Choudhury, Indranil Chakrabarty
comments: 13 pages, 2 tables, Accepted in Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 No 26 8439-8449 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601181
abstract: Suppose we are given an entangled pair and then one can ask how well we can produce two entangled pairs starting from a given entangled pair using only local operations. To give response of the above asked question, we study broadcasting of entanglement using state dependent quantum cloning machine as a local copier. We show that the length of the interval for probability-amplitude-squared for broadcasting of entanglement using state dependent cloner can be made larger than the length of the interval for probability-amplitude-squared for broadcasting entanglement using state independent cloner. Further we show that there exists local state dependent cloner which gives better quality copy (in terms of average fidelity) of an entangled pair than the local universal cloner.

id: quant-ph/0601182
title: Why special relativity should not be a template for a fundamental reformulation of quantum mechanics
authors: Harvey R. Brown, Christopher G. Timpson
comments: 16 pages, LaTeX. Forthcoming in ``Physical Theory and Its Interpretation: Essays in Honor of Jeffrey Bub'' Demopoulos and Pitowsky (eds.) Springer
journal: Physical Theory and its Interpretation, W. Demopoulos and I. Pitowsky (eds.) Springer 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601182
abstract: In a comparison of the principles of special relativity and of quantum mechanics, the former theory is marked by its relative economy and apparent explanatory simplicity. A number of theorists have thus been led to search for a small number of postulates - essentially information theoretic in nature - that would play the role in quantum mechanics that the relativity principle and the light postulate jointly play in Einstein's 1905 special relativity theory. The purpose of the present paper is to resist this idea, at least in so far as it is supposed to reveal the fundamental form of the theory. It is argued that the methodology of Einstein's 1905 theory represents a victory of pragmatism over explanatory depth; and that its adoption only made sense in the context of the chaotic state state of physics at the start of the 20th century - as Einstein well knew.

id: quant-ph/0601183
title: Arbitrary state controlled-unitary gate by adiabatic passage
authors: X. Lacour, N. Sangouard, S. Guerin, H.R. Jauslin
comments: 6 pages, 6 figure, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 042321 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601183
abstract: We propose a robust scheme involving atoms fixed in an optical cavity to directly implement the universal controlled-unitary gate. The present technique based on adiabatic passage uses novel dark states well suited for the controlled-rotation operation. We show that these dark states allow the robust implementation of a gate that is a generalisation of the controlled-unitary gate to the case where the control qubit can be selected to be an arbitrary state. This gate has potential applications to the rapid implementation of quantum algorithms such as of the projective measurement algorithm. This process is decoherence-free since excited atomic states and cavity modes are not populated during the dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0601184
title: A deterministic cavity-QED source of polarization entangled photon pairs
authors: R. Garcia-Maraver, K. Eckert, R. Corbalan, J. Mompart
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601184
abstract: We present two cavity quantum electrodynamics proposals that, sharing the same basic elements, allow for the deterministic generation of entangled photons pairs by means of a three-level atom successively coupled to two single longitudinal mode high-Q optical resonators presenting polarization degeneracy. In the faster proposal, the three-level atom yields a polarization entangled photon pair via two truncated Rabi oscillations, whereas in the adiabatic proposal a counterintuitive Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage process is considered. Although slower than the former process, this second method is very efficient and robust under fluctuations of the experimental parameters and, particularly interesting, almost completely insensitive to atomic decay.

id: quant-ph/0601185
title: Joint reality and temporal Bell inequalities
authors: Ramon Lapiedra
comments: seven pages; submitted to Europhys. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601185
abstract: Some new temporal Bell inequalities are deduced under joint realism assumption, using some perfect correlation property. No locality condition is needed. When the measured system is a macroscopic system, joint realism assumption substitutes the non-invasive measurabilioty hypothesis advantegeously, provided that the system satisfies the perfect correlation property. The new inequalities are violated quantically. This violation can be more severe than the similar violation in the case of precedent temporal Bell inequalities. Some microscopic and mesoscopic situations in which these inequalities could be tested are roughly considered.

id: quant-ph/0601186
title: Deterministic atom-light quantum interface
authors: Jacob Sherson, Brian Julsgaard, E. S. Polzik
comments: 50 pages (bookstyle) 15 graphs, to be published in "Advances in Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics" Vol. 54. (2006)(Some of the graphs here have lower resolution than in the version to be published)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601186
abstract: The notion of an atom-light quantum interface has been developed in the past decade, to a large extent due to demands within the new field of quantum information processing and communication. A promising type of such interface using large atomic ensembles has emerged in the past several years. In this article we review this area of research with a special emphasis on deterministic high fidelity quantum information protocols. Two recent experiments, entanglement of distant atomic objects and quantum memory for light are described in detail.

id: quant-ph/0601187
title: Improved fidelity of triggered entangled photons from single quantum dots
authors: Robert J. Young, R. Mark Stevenson, Paola Atkinson, Ken Cooper, David A. Ritchie, Andrew J. Shields
comments: 9 pages. Paper is available free of charge at this http URL, see also 'A semiconductor source of triggered entangled photon pairs', R. M. Stevenson et al., Nature 439, 179 (2006)
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 29 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601187
abstract: We demonstrate the on-demand emission of polarisation-entangled photon pairs from the biexciton cascade of a single InAs quantum dot embedded in a GaAs/AlAs planar microcavity. Improvements in the sample design blue shifts the wetting layer to reduce the contribution of background light in the measurements. Results presented show that >70% of the detected photon pairs are entangled. The high fidelity of the (|HxxHx>+|VxxVx>)/2^0.5 state that we determine is sufficient to satisfy numerous tests for entanglement. The improved quality of entanglement represents a significant step towards the realisation of a practical quantum dot source compatible with applications in quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0601188
title: An Equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian for the non-Hermitian -x^4 Potential
authors: H. F. Jones, J. Mateo
comments: New reference [10] added and discussed. Minor typographical corrections
journal: Phys.Rev.D73:085002,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601188
abstract: The potential -x^4, which is unbounded below on the real line, can give rise to a well-posed bound state problem when x is taken on a contour in the lower-half complex plane. It is then PT-symmetric rather than Hermitian. Nonetheless it has been shown numerically to have a real spectrum, and a proof of reality, involving the correspondence between ordinary differential equations and integral systems, was subsequently constructed for the general class of potentials -(ix)^N. For PT-symmetric but non-Hermitian Hamiltonians the natural PT metric is not positive definite, but a dynamically-defined positive-definite metric can be defined, depending on an operator Q. Further, with the help of this operator an equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian h can be constructed. This programme has been carried out exactly for a few soluble models, and the first few terms of a perturbative expansion have been found for the potential m^2x^2+igx^3. However, until now, the -x^4 potential has proved intractable. In the present paper we give explicit, closed-form expressions for Q and h, which are made possible by a particular parametrization of the contour in the complex plane on which the problem is defined. This constitutes an explicit proof of the reality of the spectrum. The resulting equivalent Hamiltonian has a potential with a positive quartic term together with a linear term.

id: quant-ph/0601189
title: Group theoretical approach to entanglement
authors: J. K. Korbicz, M. Lewenstein
comments: Final version, REVTeX4 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022318 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601189
abstract: We present a novel, universal description of quantum entanglement using group theory and generalized characteristic functions. It leads to new reformulations of the separability problem, and the positivity of partial transpose (PPT) criterion. The latter turns out to be intimately related to a certain reality condition for group representations. Within our formalism, we also show a connection between existence of entanglement and group non-commutativity.

id: quant-ph/0601190
title: Minimal resources for linear optical one-way computing
authors: K. Kieling, D. Gross, J. Eisert
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, title changed, presentation improved, bounds improved, minor errors corrected, references updated
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 24(2), 184 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601190
abstract: We address the question of how many maximally entangled photon pairs are needed in order to build up cluster states for quantum computing using the toolbox of linear optics. As the needed gates in dual-rail encoding are necessarily probabilistic with known optimal success probability, this question amounts to finding the optimal strategy for building up cluster states, from the perspective of classical control. We develop a notion of classical strategies, and present rigorous statements on the ultimate maximal and minimal use of resources of the globally optimal strategy. We find that this strategy - being also the most robust with respect to decoherence - gives rise to an advantage of already more than an order of magnitude in the number of maximally entangled pairs when building chains with an expected length of L=40, compared to other legitimate strategies. For two-dimensional cluster states, we present a first scheme achieving the optimal quadratic asymptotic scaling. This analysis shows that the choice of appropriate classical control leads to a very significant reduction in resource consumption.

id: quant-ph/0601191
title: Quantum secret sharing between multiparty and multiparty with four states
authors: Yan Fengli, Gao Ting, Li Youcheng
comments: 7 pages
journal: Science in China Series G: Physics, Mechanics & Astronomy, 50 (2007) 572-580.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601191
abstract: An protocol of quantum secret sharing between multiparty and multiparty with four states is presented. We show that this protocol can make the Trojan horse attack with a multi-photon signal, the fake-signal attack with EPR pairs, the attack with single photons, and the attack with invisible photons to be nullification. In addition, we also give the upper bounds of the average success probabilities for dishonest agent eavesdropping encryption using the fake-signal attack with any two-particle entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0601192
title: Variation Principle for Calculation of Many-Particle Effects in Crystals
authors: Halina V. Grushevskaya, Leonid I. Gurskii
comments: 12pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601192
abstract: Variation principle has been developed to calculate many-particle effects in crystals. Within the framework of quasi-particle concept the variation principle has been used to find one-electron states with taking into account of effects due to non-locality of electronic density functional in electromagnetic fields. A secondary quantized density matrix was used to find the Green function of a quasiparticle and changes of its effective mass due to correlated motion of interacting electrons.

id: quant-ph/0601193
title: The Interface between Quantum Mechanics and General Relativity
authors: Raymond Y. Chiao
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures; Lamb medal lecture on January 5, 2006 at the Physics of Quantum Electronics Winter Colloquium at Snowbird, Utah; accepted for publication in J. Mod. Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601193
abstract: The generation, as well as the detection, of gravitational radiation by means of charged superfluids is considered. One example of such a "charged superfluid" consists of a pair of Planck-mass-scale, ultracold "Millikan oil drops," each with a single electron on its surface, in which the oil of the drop is replaced by superfluid helium. When levitated in a magnetic trap, and subjected to microwave-frequency electromagnetic radiation, a pair of such "Millikan oil drops" separated by a microwave wavelength can become an efficient quantum transducer between quadrupolar electromagnetic and gravitational radiation. This leads to the possibility of a Hertz-like experiment, in which the source of microwave-frequency gravitational radiation consists of one pair of "Millikan oil drops" driven by microwaves, and the receiver of such radiation consists of another pair of "Millikan oil drops" in the far field driven by the gravitational radiation generated by the first pair. The second pair then back-converts the gravitional radiation into detectable microwaves. The enormous enhancement of the conversion efficiency for these quantum transducers over that for electrons arises from the fact that there exists macroscopic quantum phase coherence in these charged superfluid systems.

id: quant-ph/0601194
title: Authenticated Multiuser Quantum Direct Communication using Entanglement Swapping
authors: Changho Hong, Jiin Kim, Hwayean Lee, Hyungjin Yang
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601194
abstract: We present Authenticated Multiuser Quantum Direct Communication(MQDC) protocols using entanglement swapping. Quantum direct communication is believed to be a safe way to send a secret message without quantum key distribution. The authentication process in our protocol allows only proper users to participate in communication. In the communication stage after the authentication, any two authorized users among n users can communicate each other even though there is no quantum communication channels between them. For this protocol, we need only n quantum communication channels between the authenticator and n users. It is similar to the present telephone system in which there are n communication channels between telephone company and users and any two designated users can communicate each other using telephone line through the telephone company. The securities of our protocols are analysed to be the same as those of other quantum key distribution protocols.

id: quant-ph/0601195
title: Theory of diatomic molecules in an external electromagnetic field from first quantum mechanical principles
authors: Milan Sindelka, Nimrod Moiseyev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601195
abstract: We study a general problem of the translational/rotational/vibrational/electronic dynamics of a diatomic molecule exposed to an interaction with an arbitrary external electromagnetic field. The theory developed in this paper is relevant to a variety of specific applications. Such as, alignment or orientation of molecules by lasers, trapping of ultracold molecules in optical traps, molecular optics and interferometry, rovibrational spectroscopy of molecules in the presence of intense laser light, or generation of high order harmonics from molecules. Starting from the first quantum mechanical principles, we derive an appropriate molecular Hamiltonian suitable for description of the center of mass, rotational, vibrational and electronic molecular motions driven by the field within the electric dipole approximation. Consequently, the concept of the Born-Oppenheimer separation between the electronic and the nuclear degrees of freedom in the presence of an electromagnetic field is introduced. Special cases of the dc/ac field limits are then discussed separately. Finally, we consider a perturbative regime of a weak dc/ac field, and obtain simple analytic formulas for the associated Born-Oppenheimer translational/rotational/vibrational molecular Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0601196
title: The Quantum Setting with Randomized Queries for Continuous Problems
authors: H. Wozniakowski
comments: 40 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601196
abstract: The standard setting of quantum computation for continuous problems uses deterministic queries and the only source of randomness for quantum algorithms is through measurement. This setting is related to the worst case setting on a classical computer in the sense that the number of qubits needed to solve a continuous problem must be at least equal to the logarithm of the worst case information complexity of this problem. Since the number of qubits must be finite, we cannot solve continuous problems on a quantum computer with infinite worst case information complexity. This can even happen for continuous problems with small randomized complexity on a classical computer. A simple example is integration of bounded continuous functions. To overcome this bad property that limits the power of quantum computation for continuous problems, we study the quantum setting in which randomized queries are allowed. This type of query is used in Shor's algorithm. The quantum setting with randomized queries is related to the randomized classical setting in the sense that the number of qubits needed to solve a continuous problem must be at least equal to the logarithm of the randomized information complexity of this problem.

id: quant-ph/0601197
title: Rotational Control and Selective Isotope Alignment by Ultrashort Pulses
authors: Sharly Fleischer, I.Sh. Averbukh, Yehiam Prior
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601197
abstract: Strong ultrashort laser pulses give rise to prompt molecular alignment followed by full, half and quarter quantum revivals of the rotational wave packets. In Four Wave Mixing (FWM) experiments, we make use of the long succession of repetitive alignment revivals to demonstrate isotope-selective alignment and time-resolved discrimination between different isotopic species. For two isotopes with a commensurate ratio of their moments of inertia, we observe constructive and destructive interferences of the FWM signals originating from different isotopes. Such destructive interference serves as an indication for distinct transient angular distributions of different isotopic species, paving the way to novel time-resolved analytic techniques, as well as to robust methods for isotope separation. When two pulses are used, enhancement or reduction of the degree of rotational excitation and of the corresponding molecular alignment is observed, depending on the delay between pulses. We implement the double pulse excitation scheme in a binary isotopic mixture, enhancing the rotational excitation of one isotopic component while almost totally reducing the rotational excitation of the other.

id: quant-ph/0601198
title: Inversion of exciton level splitting in quantum dots
authors: R. J. Young, R. M. Stevenson, A. J. Shields, P. Atkinson, K. Cooper, D. A. Ritchie, K. M. Groom, A. I. Tartakovskii, M. S. Skolnick
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 113305 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601198
abstract: The demonstration of degeneracy of the exciton spin states is an important step towards the production of entangled photons pairs from the biexciton cascade. We measure the fine structure of exciton and biexciton states for a large number of single InAs quantum dots in a GaAs matrix; the energetic splitting of the horizontally and vertically polarised components of the exciton doublet is shown to decrease as the exciton confinement decreases, crucially passing through zero and changing sign. Thermal annealing is shown to reduce the exciton confinement, thereby increasing the number of dots with splitting close to zero.

id: quant-ph/0601199
title: Magnetic-field-induced reduction of the exciton polarization splitting in InAs quantum dots
authors: R. M. Stevenson, R. J. Young, P. See, D. G. Gevaux, K. Cooper, P. Atkinson, I. Farrer, D. A. Ritchie, A. J. Shields
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 033306 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601199
abstract: By the application of an in-plane magnetic field, we demonstrate control of the fine structure polarisation splitting of the exciton emission lines in individual InAs quantum dots. The selection of quantum dots with certain barrier composition and confinement energies is found to determine the magnetic field dependent increase or decrease of the separation of the bright exciton emission lines, and has enabled the splitting to be tuned to zero within the resolution of our experiments. Observed behaviour allows us to determine g-factors and exchange splittings for different types of dots.

id: quant-ph/0601200
title: A comment on "A semiconductor source of entangled photons"
authors: N. H. Lindner, J. Avron, N. Akopian, D. Gershoni
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601200
abstract: When basic tools of quantum information are applied to the quantum tomography data presented in Nature 439, 179 (2006), none of their devices appears to be a source of entangled photons.

id: quant-ph/0601201
title: Separable balls around the maximally mixed state for a 3-qubit system
authors: Roland Hildebrand
comments: 9 pages, no figures; based on quant-ph/0503194
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601201
abstract: We obtain a new lower bound on the radius of the largest ball of separable unnormalized states around the identity matrix for a 3-qubit system. This also enables us to improve the corresponding lower bounds for multi-qubit systems. These bounds are approximately 5% better than the previously known ones. As a by-product, we compute the radius of the largest ball that fits into the triple projective tensor product of the unit ball in R^3.

id: quant-ph/0601202
title: Probing BEC phase fluctuations with atomic quantum dots
authors: M. Bruderer, D. Jaksch
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 8 87 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601202
abstract: We consider the dephasing of two internal states |0> and |1> of a trapped impurity atom, a so-called atomic quantum dot (AQD), where only state |1> couples to a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). A direct relation between the dephasing of the internal states of the AQD and the temporal phase fluctuations of the BEC is established. Based on this relation we suggest a scheme to probe BEC phase fluctuations nondestructively via dephasing measurements of the AQD. In particular, the scheme allows to trace the dependence of the phase fluctuations on the trapping geometry of the BEC.

id: quant-ph/0601203
title: Linear optical scheme for error-free entanglement distribution and a quantum repeater
authors: Demetrios Kalamidas
comments: Changes made in the wording of the text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 054304 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601203
abstract: We present a linear optical scheme for error-free distribution of two-photon polarization entangled Bell states over noisy channels. The scheme can be applied to an elementary quantum repeater protocol with potentially significant improvements in efficiency and system complexity. The scheme is based on the use of polarization and time-bin encoding of photons and can perform single-pair, single-step purification with currently available technology.

id: quant-ph/0601204
title: Cooperative spin decoherence and population transfer
authors: C. Genes, P. R. Berman
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 053809 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601204
abstract: An ensemble of multilevel atoms is a good candidate for a quantum information storage device. The information is encrypted in the collective ground state atomic coherence, which, in the absence of external excitation, is decoupled from the vacuum and therefore decoherence free. However, in the process of manipulation of atoms with light pulses (writing, reading), one inadvertently introduces a coupling to the environment, i.e. a source of decoherence. The dissipation process is often treated as an independent process for each atom in the ensemble, an approach which fails at large atomic optical depths where cooperative effects must be taken into account. In this paper, the cooperative behavior of spin decoherence and population transfer for a system of two, driven multilevel-atoms is studied. Not surprisingly, an enhancement in the decoherence rate is found, when the atoms are separated by a distance that is small compared to an optical wavelength; however, it is found that this rate increases even further for somewhat larger separations for atoms aligned along the direction of the driving field's propagation vector. A treatment of the cooperative modification of optical pumping rates and an effect of polarization swapping between atoms is also discussed, lending additional insight into the origin of the collective decay.

id: quant-ph/0601205
title: Bell Locality and the Nonlocal Character of Nature
authors: Travis Norsen
comments: To appear in Foundations of Physics Letters; 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Foundations of Physics Letters, 19(7), pp 633-655 (Dec. 2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601205
abstract: It is demonstrated that hidden variables of a certain type follow logically from a certain local causality requirement (``Bell Locality'') and the empirically well-supported predictions of quantum theory for the standard EPR-Bell setup. The demonstrated hidden variables are precisely those needed for the derivation of the Bell Inequalities. We thus refute the widespread view that empirical violations of Bell Inequalities leave open a choice of whether to reject (i) locality or (ii) hidden variables. Both principles are indeed assumed in the derivation of the inequalities, but since, as we demonstrate here, (ii) actually follows from (i), there is no choice but to blame the violation of Bell's Inequality on (i). Our main conclusion is thus that no Bell Local theory can be consistent with what is known from experiment about the correlations exhibited by separated particles. Aside from our conclusion being based on a different sense of locality this conclusion resembles one that has been advocated recently by H.P. Stapp. We therefore also carefully contrast the argument presented here to that proposed by Stapp.

id: quant-ph/0601206
title: Insecurity of Quantum Bit Commitment with Secret Parameters
authors: Chi-Yee Cheung
comments: 8 pages, 0 figure, REVTEX 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601206
abstract: The impossibility proof of unconditionally secure quantum bit commitment is crucially dependent on the assertion that Bob is not allowed to generate probability distributions unknown to Alice. This assertion is actually not meaningful, because Bob can always cheat without being detected. In this paper we prove that, for any concealing protocol involving secret probability distributions, there exists a cheating unitary transformation that is known to Alice. Our result closes a gap in the original impossibility proof.

id: quant-ph/0601207
title: Quantum Cryptography
authors: Miloslav Dusek, Norbert Lutkenhaus, Martin Hendrych
comments: 61 pages, To appear in Progress in Optics, vol. 49, Edt. E. Wolf (Elsevier)
journal: Progress in Optics, vol. 49, Edt. E. Wolf (Elsevier, 2006), pp. 381-454.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601207
abstract: Elementary review article on quantum cryptography.

id: quant-ph/0601208
title: Steady State Entanglement in Cavity QED
authors: P. R. Rice, J. Gea-Banacloche, M. L. Terraciano, D. L. Freimund, L. A. Orozco
comments: enhanced discussion, corrected formulas, title change, 1 added figure
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 14, Issue 10, pp. 4514-4524 (May 2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601208
abstract: We investigate steady state entanglement in an open quantum system, specifically a single atom in a driven optical cavity with cavity loss and spontaneous emission. The system reaches a steady pure state when driven very weakly. Under these conditions, there is an optimal value for atom-field coupling to maximize entanglement, as larger coupling favors a loss port due to the cavity enhanced spontaneous emission. We address ways to implement measurements of entanglement witnesses and find that normalized cross-correlation functions are indicators of the entanglement in the system. The magnitude of the equal time intensity-field cross correlation between the transmitted field of the cavity and the fluorescence intensity is proportional to the concurrence for weak driving fields.

id: quant-ph/0601209
title: Quantization as a dimensional reduction phenomenon
authors: E. Gozzi, D. Mauro
comments: 19 pages, Talk given by EG at the conference "On the Present Status of Quantum Mechanics", Mali Losinj, Croatia, September 2005. New results are contained in the last part of the paper
journal: AIP Conf.Proc. 844 (2006) 158-176
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601209
abstract: Classical mechanics, in the operatorial formulation of Koopman and von Neumann, can be written also in a functional form. In this form two Grassmann partners of time make their natural appearance extending in this manner time to a three dimensional supermanifold. Quantization is then achieved by a process of dimensional reduction of this supermanifold. We prove that this procedure is equivalent to the well-known method of geometric quantization.

id: quant-ph/0601210
title: An anomaly of non-locality
authors: A. A. Methot, V. Scarani
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 7: 157-170, 2007.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601210
abstract: Ever since the work of Bell, it has been known that entangled quantum states can rise non-local correlations. However, for almost forty years, it has been assumed that the most non-local states would be the maximally entangled ones. Surprisingly it is not the case: non-maximally entangled states are generally more non-local than maximally entangled states for all the measures of non-locality proposed to date: Bell inequalities, the Kullback-Leibler distance, entanglement simulation with communication or with non-local boxes, the detection loophole and efficiency of cryptography. In fact, one can even find simple examples in low dimensions, confirming that it is not an artefact of a specifically constructed Hilbert space or topology. This anomaly shows that entanglement and non-locality are not only different concepts, but also truly different resources. We review the present knowledge on this anomaly, point out that Hardy's theorem has the same feature, and discuss the perspectives opened by these discoveries.

id: quant-ph/0601211
title: Spin-1/2 square-root operator equation with Coulomb potential - a perturbation analysis
authors: Tobias Gleim
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601211
abstract: Seeking for a relativistic generalisation of the non-relativistic Schroedinger equation, one very soon arrives at equations with a square-root operator by having applied the quantum mechanical correspondence principle to the formula of relativistic energy. The problems of these equations are at least two fold: when coupled to an electromagnetic field, their relativistic invariance is not evident or even doubtful and due to their non-local character, it seems to be that they cannot be maintained mathematically in an easy way. For spin-1/2 particles, these difficulties can be overcome by the Dirac equation, which leads e.g. to the prediction of binding energies of an electron in a hydrogen atom that are compatible with experimental results up to the forth order of the fine structure constant, inclusively. Ignoring the problem with relativistic invariance, one may ask, if there exists a square-root equation, for which one can achieve the same good agreement with experiments for the latter physical system. It is going to be shown, that the answer to this question is affirmative and does not exceed the skills obtained in a course about non-relativistic quantum mechanics and physics of atoms, respectively.

id: quant-ph/0601212
title: Thermodynamics analogue for self-trapped spinning-stationary Madelung fluid
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: changed content, Revtex 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601212
abstract: We discuss two-dimensional Madelung fluid dynamics whose irrotational case reduces into the Schr\"odinger equation for a free single particle. We show that the self-trapped spinning-stationary Madelung fluid reported in the previous paper can be analogically identified as an equilibrium thermodynamics system. This is done by making correspondence between Shannon entropy over Madelung density and internal energy to be defined in the main text, respectively with thermal-entropy and thermal-internal energy of equilibrium thermodynamics system. This leads us to identify a Madelung fluid analog of thermal-temperature at the vanishing value of which the stationary Madelung fluid will be no more spinning and is equal to the quantum mechanical ground state of a particle trapped inside a cylindrical tube external potential.

id: quant-ph/0601213
title: Improvement by laser quenching of an "atom diode": a one-way barrier for ultra-cold atoms
authors: A Ruschhaupt, J G Muga, M G Raizen
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0601213
abstract: Different laser devices working as ``atom diodes'' or ``one-way barriers'' for ultra-cold atoms have been proposed recently. They transmit ground state level atoms coming from one side, say from the left, but reflect them when they come from the other side. We combine a previous model, consisting of the stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) from the ground to an excited state and a state-selective mirror potential, with a localized quenching laser which produces spontaneous decay back to the ground state. This avoids backwards motion, provides more control of the decay process and therefore a more compact and useful device.

id: astro-ph/0601542
title: Collapse of Positronium and Vacuum Instability
authors: A.E. Shabad, V.V. Usov
comments: Talk given at 12th Lomonosov Conference on Elementary Particle Physics, Moscow, August 25-30, 2005 to be published in Proceedings with World Scientific Publishing Co (Singapore). 5 pages. LATEX requires 12 Lomcon.sty and cite.sty
journal: 
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0601542
abstract: A hypercritical value for the magnetic field is determined, which provides the full compensation of the positronium rest mass by the binding energy in the maximum symmetry state and disappearance of the energy gap separating the electron-positron system from the vacuum. The compensation becomes possible owing to the falling to the center phenomenon. The structure of the vacuum is described in terms of strongly localized states of tightly mutually bound (or confined) pairs. Their delocalization for still higher magnetic field, capable of screening its further growth, is discussed.

id: cond-mat/0601035
title: Sensitivity and back-action in charge qubit measurements by a strongly coupled single-electron transistor
authors: Neil P. Oxtoby, H. M. Wiseman, He-Bi Sun
comments: About 11 pages, 6 figures. Changes in v2: we made general improvements to the manuscript including, but not limited to(!), the removal of one reference, and modification of the footnotes
journal: Physical Review B 74, 045328 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601035
abstract: We consider charge-qubit monitoring (continuous-in-time weak measurement) by a single-electron transistor (SET) operating in the sequential-tunneling regime. We show that commonly used master equations for this regime are not of the Lindblad form that is necessary and sufficient for guaranteeing valid physical states. In this paper we derive a Lindblad-form master equation and a corresponding quantum trajectory model for continuous measurement of the charge qubit by a SET. Our approach requires that the SET-qubit coupling be strong compared to the SET tunnelling rates. We present an analysis of the quality of the qubit measurement in this model (sensitivity versus back-action). Typically, the strong coupling when the SET island is occupied causes back-action on the qubit beyond the quantum back-action necessary for its sensitivity, and hence the conditioned qubit state is mixed. However, in one strongly coupled, asymmetric regime, the SET can approach the limit of an ideal detector with an almost pure conditioned state. We also quantify the quality of the SET using more traditional concepts such as the measurement time and decoherence time, which we have generalized so as to treat the strongly responding regime.

id: cond-mat/0601055
title: Casimir interaction between a plate and a cylinder
authors: T. Emig, R. L. Jaffe, M. Kardar, A. Scardicchio
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 96 (2006) 080403
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601055
abstract: We find the exact Casimir force between a plate and a cylinder, a geometry intermediate between parallel plates, where the force is known exactly, and the plate--sphere, where it is known at large separations. The force has an unexpectedly weak decay \sim L/(H^3 \ln(H/R)) at large plate--cylinder separations H (L and R are the cylinder length and radius), due to transverse magnetic modes. Path integral quantization with a partial wave expansion additionally gives a qualitative difference for the density of states of electric and magnetic modes, and corrections at finite temperatures.

id: cond-mat/0601195
title: Applications of density matrices in a trapped Bose gas
authors: K. Ch. Chatzisavvas, S. E. Massen, Ch. C. Moustakidis, C. P. Panos
comments: 40 pages, 14 figures, 2 Tables
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601195
abstract: An overview of the Bose-Einstein condensation of correlated atoms in a trap is presented by examining the effect of interparticle correlations to one- and two-body properties of the above systems at zero temperature in the framework of the lowest order cluster expansion. Analytical expressions for the one- and two-body properties of the Bose gas are derived using Jastrow-type correlation function. In addition numerical calculations of the natural orbitals and natural occupation numbers are also carried out. Special effort is devoted for the calculation of various quantum information properties including Shannon entropy, Onicescu informational energy, Kullback-Leibler relative entropy and the recently proposed Jensen-Shannon divergence entropy. The above quantities are calculated for the trapped Bose gases by comparing the correlated and uncorrelated cases as a function of the strength of the short-range correlations. The Gross-Piatevskii equation is solved giving the density distributions in position and momentum space, which are employed to calculate quantum information properties of the Bose gas.

id: cond-mat/0601225
title: Time-dependence of correlation functions following a quantum quench
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, John Cardy
comments: 4+ pages, Corrected Typos
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 96 (2006) 136801
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601225
abstract: We show that the time-dependence of correlation functions in an extended quantum system in d dimensions, which is prepared in the ground state of some hamiltonian and then evolves without dissipation according to some other hamiltonian, may be extracted using methods of boundary critical phenomena in d+1 dimensions. For d=1 particularly powerful results are available using conformal field theory. These are checked against those available from solvable models. They may be explained in terms of a picture, valid more generally, whereby quasiparticles, entangled over regions of the order of the correlation length in the initial state, then propagate classically through the system.

id: cond-mat/0601228
title: Small polarons in dilute gas Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Fernando M. Cucchietti, Eddy Timmermans
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601228
abstract: A neutral impurity atom immersed in a dilute Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) can have a bound ground state in which the impurity is self-localized. In this small polaron-like state, the impurity distorts the density of the surrounding BEC, thereby creating the self-trapping potential minimum. We describe the self-localization in a strong coupling approach.

id: cond-mat/0601237
title: Entanglement entropy and the Berry phase in solid states
authors: S. Ryu, Y. Hatsugai
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, new references added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 245115 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601237
abstract: The entanglement entropy (von Neumann entropy) has been used to characterize the complexity of many-body ground states in strongly correlated systems. In this paper, we try to establish a connection between the lower bound of the von Neumann entropy and the Berry phase defined for quantum ground states. As an example, a family of translational invariant lattice free fermion systems with two bands separated by a finite gap is investigated. We argue that, for one dimensional (1D) cases, when the Berry phase (Zak's phase) of the occupied band is equal to $\pi \times ({odd integer})$ and when the ground state respects a discrete unitary particle-hole symmetry (chiral symmetry), the entanglement entropy in the thermodynamic limit is at least larger than $\ln 2$ (per boundary), i.e., the entanglement entropy that corresponds to a maximally entangled pair of two qubits. We also discuss this lower bound is related to vanishing of the expectation value of a certain non-local operator which creates a kink in 1D systems.

id: cond-mat/0601242
title: Probing Non-Abelian Statistics with QuasiParticle Interferometry
authors: Parsa Bonderson, Kirill Shtengel, J. K. Slingerland
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; v2: references added, orientation convention of the modular S-matrix changed, clarification regarding particle-hole transformation added; v3: references updated, clarifying changes made to conform to the version published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 016401 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601242
abstract: We examine interferometric experiments in systems that exhibit non-Abelian braiding statistics, expressing outcomes in terms of the modular S-matrix. In particular, this result applies to FQH interferometry, and we give a detailed treatment of the Read-Rezayi states, providing explicit predictions for the recently observed nu=12/5 plateau.

id: cond-mat/0601254
title: Scale perturbation in valence bond ground states
authors: E. Rico
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601254
abstract: A simple and efficient method for calculating the ground state for a class of antiferromagnet systems is presented. It combines the valence bond structure of the ground state for this class of systems and real space renormalization group. As an example, the entire Haldane phase for a spin-1 chain is described, from the AKLT model through to the Heisenberg model, ending at the critical WZNW $SU_2(2)$ model. The picture that emerges from this new method leads us to consider the relationship between the hidden topological order that characterizes the Haldane phase and potential applications in quantum communication technology.

id: cond-mat/0601261
title: Teleportation by a Majorana Medium
authors: Gordon W. Semenoff, Pasquale Sodano
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure, latex
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601261
abstract: It is argued that Majorana zero modes in a system of quantum fermions can mediate a teleportation-like process with the actual transfer of electronic material between well separated points. The problem is formulated in the context of a quasi-realistic and exactly solvable model of a quantum wire embedded in a bulk p-wave superconductor. An explicit computation of the tunneling amplitude is given.

id: cond-mat/0601289
title: Force on a moving point impurity due to quantum fluctuations in a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: D. C. Roberts
comments: v2: corrected notation and other minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 74, 013613 (2006)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601289
abstract: An analytic expression is derived for a force on a weak point impurity arising from the scattering of quantum fluctuations in a slow-moving, weakly interacting, three-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensate at zero temperature. In an infinitely extended geometry, this force is shown to exist at any arbitrarily small flow velocity below Landau's critical velocity. Furthermore, this force is shown to be directly proportional to the flow speed.

id: cond-mat/0601372
title: Quantum phase transitions from topology in momentum space
authors: G.E. Volovik
comments: 45 pages, 17 figures, 83 references, Chapter for the book "Quantum Simulations via Analogues: From Phase Transitions to Black Holes", to appear in Springer lecture notes in physics (LNP)
journal: Lect.Notes Phys.718:31-73,2007
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601372
abstract: Many quantum condensed matter systems are strongly correlated and strongly interacting fermionic systems, which cannot be treated perturbatively. However, physics which emerges in the low-energy corner does not depend on the complicated details of the system and is relatively simple. It is determined by the nodes in the fermionic spectrum, which are protected by topology in momentum space (in some cases, in combination with the vacuum symmetry). Close to the nodes the behavior of the system becomes universal; and the universality classes are determined by the toplogical invariants in momentum space. When one changes the parameters of the system, the transitions are expected to occur between the vacua with the same symmetry but which belong to different universality classes. Different types of quantum phase transitions governed by topology in momentum space are discussed in this Chapter. They involve Fermi surfaces, Fermi points, Fermi lines, and also the topological transitions between the fully gapped states. The consideration based on the momentum space topology of the Green's function is general and is applicable to the vacua of relativistic quantum fields. This is illustrated by the possible quantum phase transition governed by topology of nodes in the spectrum of elementary particles of Standard Model.

id: cond-mat/0601420
title: Production of cold molecules via magnetically tunable Feshbach resonances
authors: Thorsten Koehler, Krzysztof Goral, Paul S. Julienne
comments: 50 pages, 26 figures, to be published in Reviews of Modern Physics, final version with updated references
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 78, 1311 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601420
abstract: Magnetically tunable Feshbach resonances were employed to associate cold diatomic molecules in a series of experiments involving both atomic Bose as well as two spin component Fermi gases. This review illustrates theoretical concepts of both the particular nature of the highly excited Feshbach molecules produced and the techniques for their association from unbound atom pairs. Coupled channels theory provides the rigorous formulation of the microscopic physics of Feshbach resonances in cold gases. Concepts of dressed versus bare energy states, universal properties of Feshbach molecules, as well as the classification in terms of entrance- and closed-channel dominated resonances are introduced on the basis of practical two-channel approaches. Their significance is illustrated for several experimental observations, such as binding energies and lifetimes with respect to collisional relaxation. Molecular association and dissociation are discussed in the context of techniques involving linear magnetic field sweeps in cold Bose and Fermi gases as well as pulse sequences leading to Ramsey-type interference fringes. Their descriptions in terms of Landau-Zener, two-level mean field as well as beyond mean field approaches are reviewed in detail, including the associated ranges of validity.

id: cond-mat/0601437
title: Momentum interferences of a freely expanding Bose-Einstein condensate in 1D due to interatomic interaction change
authors: A. Ruschhaupt, A. del Campo, J. G. Muga
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 40, 399 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601437
abstract: A Bose-Einstein condensate may be prepared in a highly elongated harmonic trap with negligible interatomic interactions using a Feshbach resonance. If a strong repulsive interatomic interaction is switched on and the axial trap is removed to let the condensate evolve freely in the axial direction, a time dependent quantum interference pattern takes place in the short time (Thomas-Fermi) regime, in which the number of peaks of the momentum distribution increases one by one, whereas the spatial density barely changes.

id: cond-mat/0601448
title: Spin-detection in a quantum electromechanical shuttle system
authors: J. Twamley, D. W. Utami, H.-S. Goan, G. J. Milburn
comments: 21 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601448
abstract: We study the electrical transport of a harmonically-bound, single-molecule endohedral fullerene shuttle operating in the Coulomb blockade regime, i.e. single electron shuttling. In particular we examine the dependance of the tunnel current on an ultra-small stationary force exerted on the shuttle. We derive a quantum master equation for the full shuttle system which includes the metallic contacts, the spatially dependent tunnel couplings to the shuttle, the electronic and motional degrees of freedom of the shuttle itself and a coupling of the shuttle's motion to a phonon bath. We analyse the resulting quantum master equation and find that, due to the exponential dependance of the tunnel probability on the shuttle-contact separation, the current is highly sensitive to very small forces. In particular we predict that the spin state of the endohedral electrons of the endohedral fullerene in a large magnetic gradient field can be distinguished from the resulting current signals within a few tens of nanoseconds. This effect could prove useful for the detection of the endohedral spin-state of individual paramagnetic molecules such as N@C60 and P@C60, or the detection of very small static forces acting on a molecular shuttle.

id: cond-mat/0601496
title: The ground state of a mixture of two species of fermionic atoms in 1D optical lattice
authors: Shi-Jian Gu, Rui Fan, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures, extended version
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601496
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the ground state properties of a mixture of two species of fermionic atoms in one-dimensional optical lattice, as described by the asymmetric Hubbard model. The quantum phase transition from density wave to phase separation is investigated by studying both the corresponding charge order parameter and quantum entanglement. A rigorous proof that even for the single hole doping case, the density wave is unstable to the phase separation in the infinite U limit, is given. Therefore, our results are quite instructive for both on-going experiments on strongly correlated cold-atomic systems and traditional heavy fermion systems.

id: cond-mat/0601535
title: Dephasing and Measurement Efficiency via a Quantum Dot Detector
authors: Gyong Luck Khym, Youngnae Lee, Kicheon Kang
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 75, 063707 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601535
abstract: We study charge detection and controlled dephasing of a mesoscopic system via a quantum dot detector (QDD), where the mesoscopic system and the QDD are capacitively coupled. The QDD is considered to have coherent resonant tunnelling via a single level. It is found that the dephasing rate is proportional to the square of the conductance of the QDD for the Breit-Wigner model, showing that the dephasing is completely different from the shot noise of the detector. The measurement rate, on the other hand, shows a dip near the resonance. Our findings are peculiar especially for a symmetric detector in the following aspect: The dephasing rate is maximum at resonance of the QDD where the detector conductance is insensitive to the charge state of the mesoscopic system. As a result, the efficiency of the detector shows a dip and vanishes at resonance, in contrast to the single-channel symmetric non-resonant detector that has always a maximum efficiency. We find that this difference originates from a very general property of the scattering matrix: The abrupt phase change exists in the scattering amplitudes in the presence of the symmetry, which is insensitive to the detector current but {\em stores} the information of the quantum state of the mesoscopic system.

id: cond-mat/0601634
title: High-contrast dispersive readout of a superconducting flux qubit using a nonlinear resonator
authors: A. Lupascu, E. F. C. Driessen, L. Roschier, C. J. P. M. Harmans, J. E. Mooij
comments: submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 127003 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601634
abstract: We demonstrate high-contrast state detection of a superconducting flux qubit. Detection is realized by probing the microwave transmission of a nonlinear resonator, based on a SQUID. Depending on the driving strength of the resonator, the detector can be operated in the monostable or the bistable mode. The bistable operation combines high-sensitivity with intrinsic latching. The measured contrast of Rabi oscillations is as high as 87 %; of the missing 13 %, only 3 % is unaccounted for. Experiments involving two consecutive detection pulses are consistent with preparation of the qubit state by the first measurement.

id: cond-mat/0601650
title: Dynamics of the Bose-Hubbard model: transition from Mott insulator to superfluid
authors: Fernando M. Cucchietti, Bogdan Damski, Jacek Dziarmaga, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 7+ pages, the Bogolubov section is completely rewritten
journal: Phys.Rev. A75 (2007) 023603
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601650
abstract: We study the dynamics of phase transitions in the one dimensional Bose-Hubbard model. To drive the system from Mott insulator to superfluid phase, we change the tunneling frequency at a finite rate. We investigate the build up of correlations during fast and slow transitions using variational wave functions, dynamical Bogoliubov theory, Kibble-Zurek mechanism, and numerical simulations. We show that time-dependent correlations satisfy characteristic scaling relations that can be measured in optical lattices filled with cold atoms.

id: cond-mat/0601698
title: Fidelity and quantum chaos in the mesoscopic device for the Josephson flux qubit
authors: Ezequiel N. Pozzo, Daniel Dominguez
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett. (4 pages, 4 figures, final version.)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 057006 (2007)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601698
abstract: We show that the three-junction SQUID device designed for the Josephson flux qubit can be used to study the dynamics of quantum chaos when operated at high energies. We determine the parameter region where the system is classically chaotic. We calculate numerically the fidelity or Loschmidt echo (LE) in the quantum dynamics under perturbations in the magnetic field and in the critical currents, and study different regimes of the LE. We discuss how the LE could be observed experimentally considering both the preparation of the initial state and the measurement procedure.

id: cond-mat/0601699
title: Charge qubit entanglement in double quantum dots
authors: S. Weiss, M. Thorwart, R. Egger
comments: revised version of the manuscript, as published in EPL, 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 76 (5) 905-911 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601699
abstract: We study entanglement of charge qubits in a vertical tunnel-coupled double quantum dot containing two interacting electrons. Exact diagonalization is used to compute the negativity characterizing entanglement. We find that entanglement can be efficiently generated and controlled by sidegate voltages, and describe how it can be detected. For large enough tunnel coupling, the negativity shows a pronounced maximum at an intermediate interaction strength within the Wigner molecule regime.

id: cond-mat/0601714
title: Spatial effects in superradiant Rayleigh scattering from Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: O. Zobay, Georgios M. Nikolopoulos
comments: 14 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 013620 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0601714
abstract: We present a detailed theoretical analysis of superradiant Rayleigh scattering from atomic Bose-Einstein condensates. A thorough investigation of the spatially resolved time-evolution of optical and matter-wave fields is performed in the framework of the semiclassical Maxwell-Schroedinger equations. Our theory is not only able to explain many of the known experimental observations, e.g., the behavior of the atomic side-mode distributions, but also provides further detailed insights into the coupled dynamics of optical and matter-wave fields. To work out the significance of propagation effects, we compare our results to other theoretical models in which these effects are neglected.

id: cs/0601014
title: Probabilistic bisimilarities between quantum processes
authors: Yuan Feng, Runyao Duan, Zhengfeng Ji, Mingsheng Ying
comments: Journal version
journal: Information and Computation 2007, 205:1608-1639
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0601014
abstract: Modeling and reasoning about concurrent quantum systems is very important both for distributed quantum computing and for quantum protocol verification. As a consequence, a general framework describing formally the communication and concurrency in complex quantum systems is necessary. For this purpose, we propose a model qCCS which is a natural quantum extension of classical value-passing CCS with the input and output of quantum states, and unitary transformations and measurements on quantum systems. The operational semantics of qCCS is given based on probabilistic labeled transition system. This semantics has many different features compared with the proposals in literature in order to describe input and output of quantum systems which are possibly correlated with other components. Based on this operational semantics, we introduce the notions of strong probabilistic bisimilarity and weak probabilistic bisimilarity between quantum processes and discuss some properties of them, such as congruence under various combinators.

id: cs/0601017
title: Weighted Norms of Ambiguity Functions and Wigner Distributions
authors: Peter Jung
comments: 5 twocolumn pages,2 figures, accepted for 2006 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, typos corrected, some additional cites, legend in Fig.2 corrected
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0601017
abstract: In this article new bounds on weighted p-norms of ambiguity functions and Wigner functions are derived. Such norms occur frequently in several areas of physics and engineering. In pulse optimization for Weyl--Heisenberg signaling in wide-sense stationary uncorrelated scattering channels for example it is a key step to find the optimal waveforms for a given scattering statistics which is a problem also well known in radar and sonar waveform optimizations. The same situation arises in quantum information processing and optical communication when optimizing pure quantum states for communicating in bosonic quantum channels, i.e. find optimal channel input states maximizing the pure state channel fidelity. Due to the non-convex nature of this problem the optimum and the maximizers itself are in general difficult find, numerically and analytically. Therefore upper bounds on the achievable performance are important which will be provided by this contribution. Based on a result due to E. Lieb, the main theorem states a new upper bound which is independent of the waveforms and becomes tight only for Gaussian weights and waveforms. A discussion of this particular important case, which tighten recent results on Gaussian quantum fidelity and coherent states, will be given. Another bound is presented for the case where scattering is determined only by some arbitrary region in phase space.

id: gr-qc/0601028
title: Constrained Mechanics and Noiseless Subsystems
authors: Tomasz Konopka, Fotini Markopoulou
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0601028
abstract: Many theories are formulated as constrained systems. We provide a mechanism that explains the origin of physical states of a constrained system by a process of selection of noiseless subsystems when the system is coupled to an external environment. Effectively, physical states that solve all the constraints are selected by a passive error correction scheme which has been developed in the context of quantum information processing. We apply this mechanism to several constrained theories including the relativistic particle, electromagnetism, and quantum gravity, and discuss some interesting (and speculative) implications on the problem of time and the status of symmetries in nature.

id: gr-qc/0601137
title: Spectral Line Broadening and Angular Blurring due to Spacetime Geometry Fluctuations
authors: R. T. Thompson, L.H. Ford
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures. Dedicated to Raphael Sorkin on the occasion of his 60th birthday. (v2: several references added and some minor errors corrected)
journal: Phys.Rev. D74 (2006) 024012
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0601137
abstract: We treat two possible phenomenological effects of quantum fluctuations of spacetime geometry: spectral line broadening and angular blurring of the image of a distance source. A geometrical construction will be used to express both effects in terms of the Riemann tensor correlation function. We apply the resulting expressions to study some explicit examples in which the fluctuations arise from a bath of gravitons in either a squeezed state or a thermal state. In the case of a squeezed state, one has two limits of interest: a coherent state which exhibits classical time variation but no fluctuations, and a squeezed vacuum state, in which the fluctuations are maximized.

id: gr-qc/0601140
title: Hamilton-Jacobi theory for Hamiltonian systems with non-canonical symplectic structures
authors: Aldo A. Martinez-Merino, Merced Montesinos
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: Annals Phys. 321 (2006) 318-330
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0601140
abstract: A proposal for the Hamilton-Jacobi theory in the context of the covariant formulation of Hamiltonian systems is done. The current approach consists in applying Dirac's method to the corresponding action which implies the inclusion of second-class constraints in the formalism which are handled using the procedure of Rothe and Scholtz recently reported. The current method is applied to the nonrelativistic two-dimensional isotropic harmonic oscillator employing the various symplectic structures for this dynamical system recently reported.

id: hep-th/0601017
title: $¦Ç$-weak-pseudo-Hermiticity generators and radially symmetric Hamiltonians
authors: Omar Mustafa, S.Habib Mazharimousavi
comments: 14 pages, content revised/regularized to cover 1D and 3D cases
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.47:2029,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0601017
abstract: A class of spherically symmetric non-Hermitian Hamiltonians and their \eta-weak-pseudo-Hermiticity generators are presented. An operators-based procedure is introduced so that the results for the 1D Schrodinger Hamiltonian may very well be reproduced. A generalization beyond the nodeless states is proposed. Our illustrative examples include \eta-weak-pseudo-Hermiticity generators for the non-Hermitian weakly perturbed 1D and radial oscillators, the non-Hermitian perturbed radial Coulomb, and the non-Hermitian radial Morse models.

id: hep-th/0601027
title: Quantum Determinism from Quantum General Covariance
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 6 pages, revised, new references, Honorable Mention of the Gravity Research Foundation 2006 Essay Competition, version to appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. D
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.D15:2171-2176,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0601027
abstract: The requirement of general covariance of quantum field theory (QFT) naturally leads to quantization based on the manifestly covariant De Donder-Weyl formalism. To recover the standard noncovariant formalism without violating covariance, fields need to depend on time in a specific deterministic manner. This deterministic evolution of quantum fields is recognized as a covariant version of the Bohmian hidden-variable interpretation of QFT.

id: hep-th/0601134
title: String triality, black hole entropy and Cayley's hyperdeterminant
authors: M. J. Duff
comments: Minor improvements. 9 pages latex
journal: Phys.Rev.D76:025017,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0601134
abstract: The four-dimensional N=2 STU model of string compactification is invariant under an SL(2,Z)_S x SL(2,Z)_T x SL(2,Z)_U duality acting on the dilaton/axion S, complex Kahler form T and the complex structure fields U, and also under a string/string/string triality S-T-U. The model admits an extremal black hole solution with four electric and four magnetic charges whose entropy must respect these symmetries. It is given by the square root of the hyperdeterminant introduced by Cayley in 1845. This also features in three-qubit quantum entanglement.

id: hep-th/0601176
title: The Auxiliary Field Method in Quantum Mechanical Four-Fermi Models -- A Study Toward Chiral Condensation in QED
authors: Taro Kashiwa, Tomohiko Sakaguchi
comments: 30 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0601176
abstract: A study for checking validity of the auxiliary field method (AFM) is made in quantum mechanical four-fermi models which act as a prototype of models for chiral symmetry breaking in Quantum Electrodynamics. It has been shown that AFM, defined by an insertion of Gaussian identity to path integral formulas and by the loop expansion, becomes more accurate when taking higher order terms into account under the bosonic model with a quartic coupling in 0- and 1-dimensions as well as the model with a four-fermi interaction in 0-dimension. The case is also confirmed in terms of two models with the four-fermi interaction among $N$ species in 1-dimension (the quantum mechanical four-fermi models): higher order corrections lead us toward the exact energy of the ground state. It is found that the second model belongs to a WKB-exact class that has no higher order corrections other than the lowest correction. Discussions are also made for unreliability on the continuous time representation of path integration and for a new model of QED as a suitable probe for chiral symmetry breaking.

id: hep-th/0601201
title: SL(3|N) Wigner quantum oscillators: examples of ferromagnetic-like oscillators with noncommutative, square-commutative geometry
authors: T. D. Palev
comments: 79 pages, TEX with input epsf.tex, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0601201
abstract: A system of $N$ non-canonical dynamically free 3D harmonic oscillators is studied. The position and the momentum operators (PM-operators) of the system do not satisfy the canonical commutation relations (CCRs). Instead they obey the weaker postulates for the oscillator to be a Wigner quantum system. In particular the PM-operators fulfil the main postulate, which is due to Wigner: they satisfy the equations of motion (the Hamiltonian's equations) and the Heisenberg equations. One of the relevant features is that the coordinate (the momentum) operators do not commute, but instead their squares do commute. As a result the space structure of the basis states corresponds to pictures when each oscillating particle is measured to occupy with equal probability only finite number of points, typically the eight vertices of a parallelepiped. The state spaces are finite-dimensional, the spectrum of the energy is finite with equally spaced energy levels. An essentially new feature is that the angular momenta of all particles are aligned. Therefore there exists a strong interaction or correlation between the particles, which is not of dynamical, but of statistical origin. Another relevant feature is that the standard deviations of, say, the $k$-th coordinate and the momenta of $\alpha$-th is $ \Delta \hat R_{\alpha k} \Delta \hat P_{\alpha k} \le {p \hbar/{|N-3|}}~(~N\ne 3,~ p -$fixed positive integer), namely instead of uncertainty relations one has "certainty" relations. The underlying Lie superalgebraic structure of the oscillator is also relevant and will be explained in the context.

id: hep-th/0601211
title: Evaluation of the Casimir Force for a Dielectric-diamagnetic Cylinder with Light Velocity Conservation Condition and the Analogue of Sellmeir's Dispersion Law
authors: Iver Brevik, August Romeo
comments: 19 pages Latex, no figures; discussion expanded. To appear in Physica Scripta
journal: Phys.Scripta 76:48-55,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0601211
abstract: We study the Casimir pressure for a dielectric-diamagnetic cylinder subject to light velocity conservation and with a dispersion law analogous to Sellmeir's rule. Similarities to and differences from the spherical case are pointed out.

id: math-ph/0601011
title: Observables III: Classical Observables
authors: Hans F. de Groote
comments: 42 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0601011
abstract: In the second part of our work on observables we have shown that quantum observables in the sense of von Neumann, i.e.bounded selfadjoint operators in some von Neumann subalgebra $R$ of $L(H)$, can be represented as bounded continuous functions on the Stone spectrum $Q(R)$ of $R$. Moreover, we have shown that this representation is linear if and only if $R$ is abelian, and that in this case it coincides with the Gelfand transformation of $R$. In this part we discuss classical observables, i.e. measurable and continuous functions, under the same point of view. We obtain results that are quite similar to the quantum case, thus showing up the common structural features of quantum and classical observables.

id: math-ph/0601031
title: Weil Representation, Deligne Sheaf, and Proof of the Kurlberg-Rudnick Conjecture
authors: Shamgar Gurevich
comments: This is my Ph.D. thesis written under the direction of Prof. Joseph Bernstein at Tel-Aviv University (Submitted: March 2005). Among other things it also includes the first constructions of "Hecke Eigenscars"
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0601031
abstract: This is my Ph.D. thesis written under the direction of Prof. Joseph Bernstein at Tel-Aviv University. Submitted: March 2005.

id: math-ph/0601038
title: The Entanglement Entropy of Solvable Lattice Models
authors: Robert Weston
comments: 6 pages; connection with boundary entropy of Affleck and Ludwig added in revised version and notation slightly changed
journal: J.Stat.Mech.0603:L03002,2006
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0601038
abstract: We consider the spin k/2 analogue of the XXZ quantum spin chain. We compute the entanglement entropy S associated with splitting the infinite chain into two semi-infinite pieces. In the scaling limit, we find S ~ c_k/6 (ln(xi))+ln(g)+... . Here xi is the correlation length and c_k=3k/(k+2) is the central charge associated with the sl_2 WZW model at level k. ln(g) is the boundary entropy of the WZW model. Our result extends previous observations and suggests that this is a simple and perhaps rather general way both of extracting the central charge of the ultraviolet CFT associated with the scaling limit of a solvable lattice model, and of matching lattice and CFT boundary conditions.

id: math-ph/0601063
title: Contractivity of positive and trace preserving maps under $L_p$ norms
authors: David Perez-Garcia, Michael M. Wolf, Denes Petz, Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 47, 083506 (2006)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0601063
abstract: We provide a complete picture of contractivity of trace preserving positive maps with respect to $p$-norms. We show that for $p>1$ contractivity holds in general if and only if the map is unital. When the domain is restricted to the traceless subspace of Hermitian matrices, then contractivity is shown to hold in the case of qubits for arbitrary $p\geq 1$ and in the case of qutrits if and only if $p=1,\infty$. In all non-contractive cases best possible bounds on the $p$-norms are derived.

id: math/0601262
title: A note on Dirac spinors in a non-flat space-time of general relativity
authors: Ruslan Sharipov
comments: AmSTeX, 22 pages, amsppt style
journal: 
subjects: Differential Geometry (math.DG); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0601262
abstract: Some aspects of Dirac spinors are resumed and studied in order to interpret mathematically the P and T operations in a gravitational field.

id: math/0601458
title: Categorified Algebra and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Jeffrey Morton
comments: LaTeX, 67 pages, 25 figures
journal: Theory and Applications of Categories, vol 16, pp 785-854, 2006
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0601458
abstract: Interest in combinatorial interpretations of mathematical entities stems from the convenience of the concrete models they provide. Finding a bijective proof of a seemingly obscure identity can reveal unsuspected significance to it. Finding a combinatorial model for some mathematical entity is a particular instance of the process called ``categorification''. Examples include the interpretation of N as the Burnside rig of the category of finite sets with product and coproduct, and the interpretation of N[x] as the category of combinatorial species. This has interesting applications to quantum mechanics, and in particular the quantum harmonic oscillator, via Joyal's ``species'', a new generalization called ``stuff types'', and operators between these, which can be represented as rudimentary Feynman diagrams for the oscillator. In quantum mechanics, we want to represent states in an algebra over the complex numbers, and also want our Feynman diagrams to carry more structure than these ``stuff operators'' can do, and these turn out to be closely related. We will show how to construct a combinatorial model for the quantum harmonic oscillator in which the group of phases, U(1), plays a special role. We describe a general notion of ``M-Stuff Types'' for any monoid M, and see that the case M=U(1) provides an interpretation of time evolution in the combinatorial setting, as well as other quantum mechanical features of the harmonic oscillator.

id: math/0601741
title: An introduction to quantum filtering
authors: Luc Bouten, Ramon van Handel, Matthew James
comments: 41 pages, 1 figure
journal: SIAM J. Control Optim. 46, 2199-2241, 2007
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0601741
abstract: This paper provides an introduction to quantum filtering theory. An introduction to quantum probability theory is given, focusing on the spectral theorem and the conditional expectation as a least squares estimate, and culminating in the construction of Wiener and Poisson processes on the Fock space. We describe the quantum It\^o calculus and its use in the modelling of physical systems. We use both reference probability and innovations methods to obtain quantum filtering equations for system-probe models from quantum optics.

id: nucl-th/0601077
title: Nuclear quantum optics with x-ray laser pulses
authors: Thomas J. Buervenich, Joerg Evers, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 5 pages, 3 eps figures, revised version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 96 (2006) 142501
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0601077
abstract: The direct interaction of nuclei with super-intense laser fields is studied. We show that present and upcoming high-frequency laser facilities, especially together with a moderate acceleration of the target nuclei, do allow for resonant laser-nucleus interaction. These direct interactions may be utilized for the optical measurement of nuclear properties such as the transition frequency and the dipole moment, thus opening the field of nuclear quantum optics. As ultimate goal, one may hope that direct laser-nucleus interactions could become a versatile tool to enhance preparation, control and detection in nuclear physics.

id: physics/0601022
title: A classical key distribution system based on Johnson (like) noise - How secure?
authors: Jacob Scheuer, Amnon Yariv
comments: Submitted to phys. lett. A minor typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0601022
abstract: We present a comprehensive analysis of the Johnson (like) noise based classical key-distribution scheme presented by Kish [1]. We suggest two passive attack strategies that enable an adversary to gain complete knowledge of the exchanged key. The first approach exploits the transient response of the voltage difference on the transmission line after the resistors are switched and the second one exploits the finite impedance of the wire connecting the two parties.

id: physics/0601055
title: Negative-Index Metamaterials: Second-Harmonic Generation, Manley-Rowe Relations and Parametric Amplification
authors: A. K. Popov, Vladimir M. Shalaev
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. B: Lasers and Optics v. 84, N1-2, 131 - 137 (2006); Optics Lett. v. 31, 2169-71(2006); Laser Phys. Lett. v. 3, N6, 293-297 (2006)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0601055
abstract: Second harmonic generation and optical parametric amplification in negative-index metamaterials (NIMs) are studied. The opposite directions of the wave vector and the Poynting vector in NIMs results in a "backward" phase-matching condition, causing significant changes in the Manley-Rowe relations and spatial distributions of the coupled field intensities. It is shown that absorption in NIMs can be compensated by backward optical parametric amplification. The possibility of distributed-feedback parametric oscillation with no cavity has been demonstrated. The feasibility of the generation of entangled pairs of left- and right-handed counter-propagating photons is discussed.

id: physics/0601073
title: Properties of quasi-one-dimensional molecules with Feshbach resonance interaction
authors: V. A. Yurovsky
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 052709 (2006)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0601073
abstract: Bound states and collisions of atoms with two-channel two-body interactions in harmonic waveguides are analyzed. The closed-channel contributions to two-atom bound states become dominant in the case of a weak resonance. At low energies and values of the non-resonant scattering length the problem can be approximated by a one-dimensional resonant model. Three-body problem becomes nonintegrable and the properties of triatomic molecules become different from those predicted by the integrable Lieb-Liniger-McGuire model.

id: physics/0601150
title: Comment to Comment on Cartesian expressions for surface and regular solid spherical harmonics using binomial coefficients and its use in the evaluation of multicenter integrals
authors: Telhat Ozdogan, Metin Orbay
comments: 4 pages see this http URL for more understanding of this papers
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0601150
abstract: The comments of Guseinov on our recent paper (Czech. J. Phys., 52 (2002)1297) have been analyzed critically. It is shown that his comments are irrelevant and also unjust. In contrast to his comment, it is proved that the presented formulae in our study are original and obtained independently, not by changing by the summation indices. It should be stressed that our algorithm is not affected from possible instability problems and also can be used in large scale calculations without loss of significant figures. Meanwhile, his comment on the transformation of our formula into his formula proves the correctness of our algorithm and therefore can be regarded as a nice sound of science.

id: physics/0601170
title: Generalization of the Schott energy in electrodynamic radiation theory
authors: Jose A. Heras, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: Am. J. Phys. 74, 150 (2006)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0601170
abstract: We discuss the origin of the Schott energy in the Abraham-Lorentz version of electrodynamic radiation theory and how it can be used to explain some apparent paradoxes. We also derive the generalization of this quantity for the Ford-O'Connell equation, which has the merit of being derived exactly from a microscopic Hamiltonian for an electron with structure and has been shown to be free of the problems associated with the Abraham-Lorentz theory. We emphasize that the instantaneous power supplied by the applied force not only gives rise to radiation (acceleration fields), but it can change the kinetic energy of the electron and change the Schott energy of the velocity fields. The important role played by boundary conditions is noted.

id: physics/0601127
title: A model of the ball lightning
authors: Vladimir K. Ignatovich
comments: 10 pages, 2 figure. 06.09.11 I improved it V.K.Ignatovich "Neutron stars without gravity" in: Neutron Spectroscopy, Nuclear Structure, Related Topics; ISINN-12 Dubna May26-29, JINR 2004, pp. 117-132; V.K. Ignatovich Neutron stars without gravity. Proceedings of the XXXVII-VIII winter school in PINPI on Physics of atomic nuclei and elementary particles, St.Petersburg, 2004, pp. 446-466
journal: Laser Physics v. 2, n. 6, p. 991-996, 1992
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0601127
abstract: The ball lightning is supposed to be a shock wave of a point explosion frozen with electrostriction forces of the internal strong laser discharge. The life time of the ball with modest parameters is calculated.

