id: quant-ph/0602001
title: Hudson's Theorem for finite-dimensional quantum systems
authors: D. Gross
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures; References updated. Title changed to match published version. See also quant-ph/0702004
journal: J. Math. Phys. 47, 122107 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602001
abstract: We show that, on a Hilbert space of odd dimension, the only pure states to possess a non-negative Wigner function are stabilizer states. The Clifford group is identified as the set of unitary operations which preserve positivity. The result can be seen as a discrete version of Hudson's Theorem. Hudson established that for continuous variable systems, the Wigner function of a pure state has no negative values if and only if the state is Gaussian. Turning to mixed states, it might be surmised that only convex combinations of stabilizer states give rise to non-negative Wigner distributions. We refute this conjecture by means of a counter-example. Further, we give an axiomatic characterization which completely fixes the definition of the Wigner function and compare two approaches to stabilizer states for Hilbert spaces of prime-power dimensions. In the course of the discussion, we derive explicit formulas for the number of stabilizer codes defined on such systems.

id: quant-ph/0602002
title: Operator Gauge Symmetry in QED
authors: Siamak Khademi, Sadollah Nasiri
comments: Published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 2:013,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602002
abstract: In this paper, operator gauge transformation, first introduced by Kobe, is applied to Maxwell's equations and continuity equation in QED. The gauge invariance is satisfied after quantization of electromagnetic fields. Inherent nonlinearity in Maxwell's equations is obtained as a direct result due to the nonlinearity of the operator gauge transformations. The operator gauge invariant Maxwell's equations and corresponding charge conservation are obtained by defining the generalized derivatives of the first and second kinds. Conservation laws for the real and virtual charges are obtained too. The additional terms in the field strength tensor are interpreted as electric and magnetic polarization of the vacuum.

id: quant-ph/0602003
title: Scaling and Suppression of Anomalous Quantum Decoherence in Ion Traps
authors: L. Deslauriers, S. Olmschenk, D. Stick, W. K. Hensinger, J. Sterk, C. Monroe
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602003
abstract: We measure and characterize anomalous motional decoherence of an atomic ion confined in the lowest quantum levels of a novel rf ion trap that features moveable electrodes. The scaling of decoherence rate with electrode proximity is measured, and when the electrodes are cooled from 300 K to 150 K, the decoherence rate is suppressed by an order of magnitude. This provides direct evidence that anomalous motional decoherence of trapped ions stems from microscopic noisy potentials on the electrodes. These observations are relevant to quantum information processing schemes using trapped ions or other charge-based systems.

id: quant-ph/0602004
title: Error models for mode-mismatch in linear optics quantum computing
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062312 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602004
abstract: One of the most significant challenges facing the development of linear optics quantum computing (LOQC) is mode-mismatch, whereby photon distinguishability is introduced within circuits, undermining quantum interference effects. We examine the effects of mode-mismatch on the parity (or fusion) gate, the fundamental building block in several recent LOQC schemes. We derive simple error models for the effects of mode-mismatch on its operation, and relate these error models to current fault tolerant threshold estimates.

id: quant-ph/0602005
title: Quantum correlations in successive spin measurements
authors: Ali Ahanj, Pramod Joag
comments: 21 pages, Paper is substantially revised. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602005
abstract: In this paper we present a new approach for testing QM against the realism aspect of hidden variable theory (HVT). We consider successive measurements of non-commuting operators on a input spin $s$ state. The key point is that, although these operators are non-commuting, they act on different states so that the joint probabilities for the outputs of successive measurements are well defined. We show that, in this scenario HVT leads to Bell type inequalities for the correlation between the outputs of successive measurements. We account for the maximum violation of these inequalities by quantum correlations by varying spin value and the number of successive measurements. Our approach can be used to obtain a measure of the deviation of QM from realism say in terms of the amount of information needed to be transferred between successive measurements in order to classically simulate the quantum correlations.

id: quant-ph/0602006
title: A cavity-QED scheme for Heisenberg-limited interferometry
authors: David Vitali, Stefan Kuhr, Michel Brune, Jean-Michel Raimond
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 54, 1551 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602006
abstract: We propose a Ramsey interferometry experiment using an entangled state of N atoms to reach the Heisenberg limit for the estimation of an atomic phase shift if the atom number parity is perfectly determined. In a more realistic situation, due to statistical fluctuations of the atom source and the finite detection efficiency, the parity is unknown. We then achieve about half the Heisenberg limit. The scheme involves an ensemble of circular Rydberg atoms which dispersively interact successively with two initially empty microwave cavities. The scheme does not require very high-Q cavities. An experimental realization with about ten entangled Rydberg atoms is achievable with state of art apparatuses.

id: quant-ph/0602007
title: Value statistics of chaotic Wigner function
authors: Martin Horvat, Tomaz Prosen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures (4 .eps files); for the proceedings of the 5th International Summer School/Conference in Maribor 2002: Let's Face Chaos through Nonlinear Dynamics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602007
abstract: We study Wigner function value statistics of classically chaotic quantum maps on compact 2D phase space. We show that the Wigner function statistics of a random state is a Gaussian, with the mean value becoming negligible compared to the width in the semi-classical limit. Using numerical example of quantized sawtooth map we demonstrate that the relaxation of time-dependent Wigner function statistics, starting from a coherent initial state, takes place on a logarithmically short log (hbar) time scale.

id: quant-ph/0602008
title: Error tolerance of two-basis quantum key-distribution protocols using qudits and two-way classical communication
authors: Georgios M. Nikolopoulos, Kedar S. Ranade, Gernot Alber
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73 (No. 3, March 2006), 032325
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602008
abstract: We investigate the error tolerance of quantum cryptographic protocols using $d$-level systems. In particular, we focus on prepare-and-measure schemes that use two mutually unbiased bases and a key-distillation procedure with two-way classical communication. For arbitrary quantum channels, we obtain a sufficient condition for secret-key distillation which, in the case of isotropic quantum channels, yields an analytic expression for the maximally tolerable error rate of the cryptographic protocols under consideration. The difference between the tolerable error rate and its theoretical upper bound tends slowly to zero for sufficiently large dimensions of the information carriers.

id: quant-ph/0602009
title: A Quantum Gate as a Physical Model of an Universal Arithmetical Algorithm without Church's Undecidability and Godel's Incompleteness
authors: Vladan Pankovic, Milan Predojevic
comments: 13 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602009
abstract: In this work we define an universal arithmetical algorithm, by means of the standard quantum mechanical formalism, called universal qm-arithmetical algorithm. By universal qm-arithmetical algorithm any decidable arithmetical formula (operation) can be decided (realized, calculated. Arithmetic defined by universal qm-arithmetical algorithm called qm-arithmetic one-to-one corresponds to decidable part of the usual arithmetic. We prove that in the qm-arithmetic the undecidable arithmetical formulas (operations) cannot exist (cannot be consistently defined). Or, we prove that qm-arithmetic has no undecidable parts. In this way we show that qm-arithmetic, that holds neither Church's undecidability nor Godel's incompleteness, is decidable and complete. Finally, we suggest that problems of the foundation of the arithmetic, can be solved by qm-arithmetic.

id: quant-ph/0602010
title: Optimized production of large Bose Einstein Condensates
authors: D. Comparat, A. Fioretti, G. Stern, E. Dimova, B. Laburthe Tolra, P. Pillet
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602010
abstract: We suggest different simple schemes to efficiently load and evaporate a ''dimple'' crossed dipolar trap. The collisional processes between atoms which are trapped in a reservoir load in a non adiabatic way the dimple. The reservoir trap can be provided either by a dark SPOT Magneto Optical Trap, the (aberrated) laser beam itself or by a quadrupolar or quadratic magnetic trap. Optimal parameters for the dimple are derived from thermodynamical equations and from loading time, including possible inelastic and Majorana losses. We suggest to load at relatively high temperature a tight optical trap. Simple evaporative cooling equations, taking into account gravity, the possible occurrence of hydrodynamical regime, Feshbach resonance processes and three body recombination events are given. To have an efficient evaporation the elastic collisional rate (in s$^{-1}$) is found to be on the order of the trapping frequency and lower than one hundred times the temperature in micro-Kelvin. Bose Einstein condensates with more than $10^7$ atoms should be obtained in much less than one second starting from an usual MOT setup.

id: quant-ph/0602011
title: Information-theoretic temporal Bell inequality and quantum computation
authors: Fumiaki Morikoshi
comments: v2: 5 pages, refereces added, discussion slightly revised, main result unchanged. v3: typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 052308 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602011
abstract: An information-theoretic temporal Bell inequality is formulated to contrast classical and quantum computations. Any classical algorithm satisfies the inequality, while quantum ones can violate it. Therefore, the violation of the inequality is an immediate consequence of the quantumness in the computation. Furthermore, this approach suggests a notion of temporal nonlocality in quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0602012
title: Nonlinear Quantum Gravity
authors: George Svetlichny
comments: Resumed version of a talk given at the XXIV Workshop On Geometric Methods In Physics, 2005, Bialowieza, Poland
journal: J.Geom.Symmetry Phys. 6 (2006) 118
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602012
abstract: Nonlinear quantum mechanics at the Planck scale can produce nonlocal effects contributing to resolution of singularities, to cosmic acceleration, and modified black-hole dynamics, while avoiding the usual causality issues.

id: quant-ph/0602013
title: Transversal laser excitation of atoms in a waveguide
authors: I. Lizuain, A. Ruschhaupt, J. G. Muga
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 053608 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602013
abstract: We investigate the effect of a laser shining perpendicularly to a waveguide channeling two-level atoms. For weak transversal coupling the excitation of transverse atomic levels occurs at avoided crossings associated with "Rabi resonances" in which the Rabi frequency coincides with the transition frequency between the transverse levels.

id: quant-ph/0602014
title: Hamiltonian engineering for quantum systems
authors: Sonia G Schirmer
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, revised version to appear in Proceedings of 3rd IFAC Workshop on Lagrangian and Hamiltonian Methods in Nonlinear Control (Nagoya, Japan, 2006)
journal: Lagrangian and Hamiltonian Methods in Nonlinear Control, Lecture Notes in Control and Information Science Series, Vol 366 (Springer, Berlin/Heidelberg, 2006), 293
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602014
abstract: We describe different strategies for using a semi-classical controller to engineer quantum Hamiltonians to solve control problems such as quantum state or process engineering or optimization of observables.

id: quant-ph/0602015
title: Demonstration of Temporal Distinguishability in a Four-Photon State and a Six-Photon State
authors: G. Y. Xiang, Y. F. Huang, F. W. Sun, P. Zhang, Z. Y. Ou, G. C. Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602015
abstract: An experiment is performed to demonstrate the temporal distinguishability of a four-photon state and a six-photon state, both from parametric down-conversion. The experiment is based on a multi-photon interference scheme in a recent discovered NOON-state projection measurement. By measuring the visibility of the interference dip, we can distinguish the various scenarios in the temporal distribution of the pairs and thus quantitatively determine the degree of temporal (in)distinguishability of a multi-photon state.

id: quant-ph/0602016
title: Inseparability of Quantum Parameters
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, S. Adhikari, Prashant, B.S. Choudhury
comments: 9 pages, Presented in Quantum Computing Back Action in IIT Kanpur (2006). Accepted in International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602016
abstract: In this work, we show that 'splitting of quantum information' [6] is an impossible task from three different but consistent principles of unitarity of Quantum Mechanics, no-signalling condition and non increase of entanglement under Local Operation and Classical Communication.

id: quant-ph/0602017
title: Controlling Polar Molecules in Optical Lattices
authors: S. Kotochigova, E. Tiesinga
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602017
abstract: We investigate theoretically the interaction of polar molecules with optical lattices and microwave fields. We demonstrate the existence of frequency windows in the optical domain where the complex internal structure of the molecule does not influence the trapping potential of the lattice. In such frequency windows the Franck-Condon factors are so small that near-resonant interaction of vibrational levels of the molecule with the lattice fields have a negligible contribution to the polarizability and light-induced decoherences are kept to a minimum. In addition, we show that microwave fields can induce a tunable dipole-dipole interaction between ground-state rotationally symmetric (J=0) molecules. A combination of a carefully chosen lattice frequency and microwave-controlled interaction between molecules will enable trapping of polar molecules in a lattice and possibly realize molecular quantum logic gates. Our results are based on ab initio relativistic electronic structure calculations of the polar KRb and RbCs molecules combined with calculations of their rovibrational motion.

id: quant-ph/0602018
title: A semiconductor source of triggered entangled photon pairs?
authors: A. Gilchrist, K. J. Resch, A. G. White
comments: 5 pages in pre-print format, 1 table
journal: Nature 445, pE4 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602018
abstract: The realisation of a triggered entangled photon source will be of great importance in quantum information, including for quantum key distribution and quantum computation. We show here that: 1) the source reported in ``A semiconductor source of triggered entangled photon pairs''[1. Stevenson et al., Nature 439, 179 (2006)]} is not entangled; 2) the entanglement indicators used in Ref. 1 are inappropriate, relying on assumptions invalidated by their own data; and 3) even after simulating subtraction of the significant quantity of background noise, their source has insignificant entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0602019
title: Computational Complexity of Continuous Variable Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Yi-Bo Zhao, You-Zhen Gui, Jin-Jian Chen, Zheng-Fu Han, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, vol. 54, no. 6, pp. 2803--2807, Jun. 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602019
abstract: The continuous variable quantum key distribution has been considered to have the potential to provide high secret key rate. However, in present experimental demonstrations, the secret key can be distilled only under very small loss rates. Here, by calculating explicitly the computational complexity with the channel transmission, we show that under high loss rate it is hard to distill the secret key in present continuous variable scheme and one of its advantages, the potential of providing high secret key rate, may therefore be limited.

id: quant-ph/0602020
title: Spherically confined isotropic harmonic oscillator
authors: K. D. Sen, Amlan K. Roy
comments: 28 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Lett.A, 357, 112-119 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602020
abstract: The generalized pseudospectral Legendre method is used to carry out accurate calculations of eigenvalues of the spherically confined isotropic harmonic oscillator with impenetrable boundaries. The energy of the confined state is found to be equal to that of the unconfined state when the radius of confinement is suitably chosen as the location of the radial nodes in the unconfined state. This incidental degeneracy condition is numerically shown to be valid in general. Further, the full set of pairs of confined states defined by the quantum numbers [(n+1, \ell) ; (n, \ell+2)], n = 1,2,.., and with the radius of confinement {(2 \ell +3)/2}^{1/2} a.u., which represents the single node in the unconfined (1, \ell) state, is found to display a constant energy level separation exactly given by twice the oscillator frequency. The results of similar numerical studies on the confined Davidson oscillator with impenetrable boundary as well as the confined isotropic harmonic oscillator with finite potential barrier are also reported .The significance of the numerical results are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0602021
title: A uniform description of electromagnetism and wave mechanics
authors: Engel Roza
comments: replaced by "the quantummechanical wave equations from a relativistic viewpoint"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602021
abstract: The paper shows the relationship between the major wave equations in quantum mechanics and electromagnetism, such as Schroedinger's equation, Dirac's equation and the Maxwell equations. It is shown that they can be derived in a striking simple way from a common root. This root is the relativistic fourvector formulation of the momentum conservation law. This is shown to be a more attractive starting-point than Einstein's energy relationship for moving particles, which is commonly used for the purpose. The theory developed gives a new interpretation for the origin of antiparticles.

id: quant-ph/0602022
title: Single-qubit operations in the double-donor structure driven by strongly detuned optical pulses
authors: Alexander V. Tsukanov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602022
abstract: We study theoretically the quantum dynamics of an electron in the singly-ionized double-donor structure in the semiconductor host under the influence of two strongly detuned laser pulses. This structure can be used as a charge qubit where the logical states are defined by the lowest two energy states of the remaining valence electron localized around one or another donor. The quantum operations are performed via Raman-like transitions between the localized (qubit) states and the manyfold of states delocalized over the structure. The possibility of realization of arbitrary single-qubit rotations, including the phase gate, the NOT gate, and the Hadamard gate, is demonstrated. The advantages of the off-resonant driving scheme for charge qubit manipulations are discussed in comparison with the resonant scheme proposed earlier.

id: quant-ph/0602023
title: Ramsey interferometry with ultracold atoms
authors: D. Seidel, J.G. Muga
comments: 5 figures, 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602023
abstract: We examine the passage of ultracold two-level atoms through two separated laser fields for the nonresonant case. We show that implications of the atomic quantized motion change dramatically the behavior of the interference fringes compared to the semiclassical description of this optical Ramsey interferometer. Using two-channel recurrence relations we are able to express the double-laser scattering amplitudes by means of the single-laser ones and to give explicit analytical results. When considering slower and slower atoms, the transmission probability of the system changes considerably from an interference behavior to a regime where scattering resonances prevail. This may be understood in terms of different families of trajectories that dominate the overall transmission probability in the weak field or in the strong field limit.

id: quant-ph/0602024
title: Probability in relativistic quantum mechanics and foliation of spacetime
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, revised, new references, to appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. A
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A22:6243-6251,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602024
abstract: The conserved probability densities (attributed to the conserved currents derived from relativistic wave equations) should be non-negative and the integral of them over an entire hypersurface should be equal to one. To satisfy these requirements in a covariant manner, the foliation of spacetime must be such that each integral curve of the current crosses each hypersurface of the foliation once and only once. In some cases, it is necessary to use hypersurfaces that are not spacelike everywhere. The generalization to the many-particle case is also possible.

id: quant-ph/0602025
title: Macroscopic superpositions of superfluid flows
authors: David W. Hallwood, Jacob Dunningham, Keith Burnett
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 8 (2006) 180
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602025
abstract: We present a scheme for creating macroscopic superpositions of the direction of superfluid flow around a loop. Using the Bose-Hubbard model we study an array of Bose-Einstein condensates trapped in optical potentials and coupled to one another to form a ring. By rotating the ring so that each particle acquires on average half a quantum of superfluid flow, it is possible to create a multiparticle superposition of all the particles rotating and all the particles stationary. Under certain conditions it is possible to scale up the number of particles to form a macroscopic superposition. The simplicity of the model has allowed us to study macroscopic superpositions at an atomic level for different variables. Here we concentrate on the tunnelling strength between the potentials. Further investigation remains important, because it could lead us to making an ultra-precise quantum-limited gyroscope.

id: quant-ph/0602026
title: Local distinguishability with preservation of entanglement
authors: Scott M. Cohen
comments: final, published version
journal: Physical Review A 75, 052313 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602026
abstract: I consider deterministic distinguishability of a set of orthogonal, bipartite states when only a single copy is available and the parties are restricted to local operations and classical communication, but with the additional requirement that entanglement must be preserved in the process. Several general theorems aimed at characterizing sets of states with which the parties can succeed in such a task are proven. These include (1) a maximum for the number of states when the Schmidt rank of every outcome must be at least a given minimum; (2) an upper bound (equal to the dimension of Hilbert space if entanglement need not be preserved) for the sum over Schmidt ranks of the initial states when only one-way classical communication is allowed; and (3) separately, a necessary and a sufficient condition on the states such that their original Schmidt ranks can always be preserved. It is shown that our bound on the sum of Schmidt ranks can be exceeded if two-way communication is permitted, and this includes the case that entanglement need not be preserved, so that this sum can exceed the dimension of Hilbert space. Such questions, concerning how the various results are effected by the resources used by the parties are addressed for each theorem. This subject is closely related to the problem of locally purifying an entangled state from a mixed state, which is of direct relevance to teleportation and dense coding using a mixed-state resource. In an appendix, I give an extremely simple and transparent proof of "non-locality without entanglement", a phenomenon originally discussed by Bennett and co-workers several years ago.

id: quant-ph/0602027
title: Spin Decoherence from Hamiltonian dynamics in Quantum Dots
authors: D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, V. Ravishankar, V. Subrahmanyam
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures Accepted for publication in Phys.Rev A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022301 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602027
abstract: The dynamics of a spin-1/2 particle coupled to a nuclear spin bath through an isotropic Heisenberg interaction is studied, as a model for the spin decoherence in quantum dots. The time-dependent polarization of the central spin is calculated as a function of the bath-spin distribution and the polarizations of the initial bath state. For short times, the polarization of the central spin shows a gaussian decay, and at later times it revives displaying nonmonotonic time dependence. The decoherence time scale dep ends on moments of the bath-spin distribuition, and also on the polarization strengths in various bath-spin channels. The bath polarizations have a tendency to increase the decoherence time scale. The effective dynamics of the central spin polarization is shown to be describ ed by a master equation with non-markovian features.

id: quant-ph/0602028
title: Simplified approach to double jumps for fluorescing dipole-dipole interacting atoms
authors: Volker Hannstein, Gerhard C. Hegerfeldt
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, typos corrected, to appear in EPJ D (as highlight paper)
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 38, 415 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602028
abstract: A simplified scheme for the investigation of cooperative effects in the quantum jump statistics of small numbers of fluorescing atoms and ions in a trap is presented. It allows the analytic treatment of three dipole-dipole interacting four-level systems which model the relevant level scheme of Ba+ ions. For the latter, a huge rate of double and triple jumps was reported in a former experiment and the huge rate was attributed to the dipole-dipole interaction. Our theoretical results show that the effect of the dipole-dipole interaction on these rates is at most 5% and that for the parameter values of the experiment there is practically no effect. Consequently it seems that the dipole-dipole interaction can be ruled out as a possible explanation for the huge rates reported in the experiment.

id: quant-ph/0602029
title: Large Cross-Phase Modulation between Slow Co-propagating Weak Pulses in Rb
authors: Zeng-Bin Wang, Karl-Peter Marzlin, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 063901 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602029
abstract: We propose a scheme to generate double electromagnetically induced transparency and optimal cross-phase modulation for two slow, copropagating pulses with matched group velocities in a single species of atom, namely 87 Rb. A single pump laser is employed and a homogeneous magnetic field is utilized to avoid cancellation effects through the nonlinear Zeeman effect. We suggest a feasible preparational procedure for the atomic initial state to achieve matched group velocities for both signal fields.

id: quant-ph/0602030
title: Schemes for robust quantum computation with polar molecules
authors: S. F. Yelin, K. Kirby, R. Cote
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602030
abstract: We propose to use a new platform - ultracold polar molecules - for quantum computing with switchable interactions. The on/off switch is accomplished by selective excitation of one of the "0" or "1" qubits - long-lived molecular states - to an "excited" molecular state with a considerably different dipole moment. We describe various schemes based on this switching of dipolar interactions where the selective excitation between ground and excited states is accomplished via optical, micro-wave, or electric fields. We also generalize the schemes to take advantage of the dipole blockade mechanism when dipolar interactions are very strong. These schemes can be realized in several recently proposed architectures.

id: quant-ph/0602031
title: Connecting the generalized robustness and the geometric measure of entanglement
authors: Daniel Cavalcanti
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Comments welcome. v2: text improved - some completely symmetric states were used to illustrate the results. Comments are always welcome! v3: minor changes. Accepted by Phys. Rev. A. v4: results on symmetric states fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 044302 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602031
abstract: The main goal of this paper is to provide a connection between the generalized robustness of entanglement ($R_g$) and the geometric measure of entanglement ($E_{GME}$). First, we show that the generalized robustness is always higher than or equal to the geometric measure. Then we find a tighter lower bound to $R_g(\rho)$ based only on the purity of $\rho$ and its maximal overlap to a separable state. As we will see it is also possible to express this lower bound in terms of $E_{GME}$.

id: quant-ph/0602032
title: Hamiltonian Oracles
authors: Carlos Mochon
comments: 16 pages, REVTeX 4 (minor corrections in v2)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042313 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602032
abstract: Hamiltonian oracles are the continuum limit of the standard unitary quantum oracles. In this limit, the problem of finding the optimal query algorithm can be mapped into the problem of finding shortest paths on a manifold. The study of these shortest paths leads to lower bounds of the original unitary oracle problem. A number of example Hamiltonian oracles are studied in this paper, including oracle interrogation and the problem of computing the XOR of the hidden bits. Both of these problems are related to the study of geodesics on spheres with non-round metrics. For the case of two hidden bits a complete description of the geodesics is given. For n hidden bits a simple lower bound is proven that shows the problems require a query time proportional to n, even in the continuum limit. Finally, the problem of continuous Grover search is reexamined leading to a modest improvement to the protocol of Farhi and Gutmann.

id: quant-ph/0602033
title: Continuous variable tripartite entanglement and Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations from triple nonlinearities
authors: M.K. Olsen, A.S. Bradley, M.D. Reid
comments: 23 pages 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602033
abstract: We compare theoretically the tripartite entanglement available from the use of three concurrent $\chi^{(2)}$ nonlinearities and three independent squeezed states mixed on beamsplitters, using the van Loock-Furusawa inequalities. We also define three-mode generalisations of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox which are an alternative for demonstrating the inseparability of the density matrix.

id: quant-ph/0602034
title: High-Purity Telecom-Band Entangled Photon-Pairs via Four-Wave Mixing in Dispersion-Shifted Fiber
authors: K. F. Lee, J. Chen, C. Liang, X. Li, P. L. Voss, P. Kumar
comments: Postdeadline paper presented at the Frontiers in Optics 2005--the 89th OSA Annual Meeting, Tucson, AZ, October 16-20,2005; paper PDP-A4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602034
abstract: We have studied the purity of entangled photon-pairs generated in a dispersion-shifted fiber at various temperatures. Two-photon interference with visibility > 98% is observed at 77K, without subtraction of the background Raman photons.

id: quant-ph/0602035
title: Elementary quantum cloning machines
authors: V.N.Dumachev
comments: 13 pages, 4 fig
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602035
abstract: The task of reception of a copy of an arbitrary quantum state with use of a minimum quantity of quantum operations is considered.

id: quant-ph/0602036
title: 7 dB quadrature squeezing at 860 nm with periodically-poled KTiOPO4
authors: Shigenari Suzuki, Hidehiro Yonezawa, Fumihiko Kannari, Masahide Sasaki, Akira Furusawa
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 89, 061116 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602036
abstract: We observed -7.2 dB quadrature squeezing at 860 nm by using a sub-threshold continuous-wave pumped optical parametric oscillator with a periodically-poled KTiOPO4 crystal as a nonlinear optical medium. The squeezing level was measured with the phase of homodyne detection locked at the quadrature. The blue light induced infrared absorption was not observed in the experiment.

id: quant-ph/0602037
title: Superbroadcasting of conjugate quantum variables
authors: Giacomo M. D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti, Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 7 pages, 1 eps figures. Accepted for publication on Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhys. Lett. 75, 195 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602037
abstract: We consider the problem of broadcasting arbitrary states of radiation modes from N to M>N copies by a map that preserves the average value of the field and optimally reduces the total noise in conjugate variables. For N>=2 the broadcasting can be achieved perfectly, and for sufficiently noisy input states one can even purify the state while broadcasting--the so-called superbroadcasting. For purification (i.e. M<=N), the reduction of noise is independent of M. Similar results are proved for broadcasting with phase-conjugation. All the optimal maps can be implemented by linear optics and linear amplification.

id: quant-ph/0602038
title: Multi-photon entanglement from distant single photon sources on demand
authors: Almut Beige, Yuan Liang Lim, Christian Schoen
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 54, 397 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602038
abstract: We describe a scheme that allows for the generation of any desired N-photon state on demand. Under ideal conditions, this requires only N single photon sources, laser pulses and linear optics elements. First, the sources should be initialised with the help of single-qubit rotations and repeat-until-success two-qubit quantum gates [Lim et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 030305 (2005)]. Afterwards, the state of the sources can be mapped onto the state of N newly generated photons whenever needed.

id: quant-ph/0602039
title: A generalized quantum microcanonical ensemble
authors: Jan Naudts, Erik Van der Straeten
comments: improved version, new title
journal: J. Stat. Mech. P06015 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602039
abstract: We discuss a generalized quantum microcanonical ensemble. It describes isolated systems that are not necessarily in an eigenstate of the Hamilton operator. Statistical averages are obtained by a combination of a time average and a maximum entropy argument to resolve the lack of knowledge about initial conditions. As a result, statistical averages of linear observables coincide with values obtained in the canonical ensemble. Non-canonical averages can be obtained by taking into account conserved quantities which are non-linear functions of the microstate.

id: quant-ph/0602040
title: Beating quantum limits in optomechanical sensor by cavity detuning
authors: Olivier Arcizet, Tristan Briant, Antoine Heidmann, Michel Pinard
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev. A73 (2006) 033819
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602040
abstract: We study the quantum limits in an optomechanical sensor based on a detuned high-finesse cavity with a movable mirror. We show that the radiation pressure exerted on the mirror by the light in the detuned cavity induces a modification of the mirror dynamics and makes the mirror motion sensitive to the signal. This leads to an amplification of the signal by the mirror dynamics, and to an improvement of the sensor sensitivity beyond the standard quantum limit, up to an ultimate quantum limit only related to the mechanical dissipation of the mirror. This improvement is somewhat similar to the one predicted in detuned signal-recycled gravitational-waves interferometers, and makes a high-finesse cavity a model system to test these quantum effects

id: quant-ph/0602041
title: The Partition Function in the Wigner-Kirkwood expansion
authors: S. G. Matinyan, B. M¨¹ller
comments: 
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) L285-L292
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602041
abstract: We study the semiclassical Wigner-Kirkwood (WK) expansion of the partition function $Z(t)$ for arbitrary even homogeneous potentials, starting from the Bloch equation. As is well known, the phase-space kernel of $Z$ satisfies the so-called Uhlenbeck-Beth equation, which depends on the gradients of the potential. We perform a chain of transformations to obtain novel forms of this equation that invite analogies with various physical phenomena and formalisms, such as diffusion processes, the Fokker-Planck equation, and supersymmetric quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0602042
title: The Electronic Ground State Energy Problem: a New Reduced Density Matrix Approach
authors: Eric Cances, Gabriel Stoltz, Mathieu Lewin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602042
abstract: We present here a formulation of the electronic ground-state energy in terms of the second order reduced density matrix, using a duality argument. It is shown that the computation of the ground-state energy reduces to the search of the projection of some two-electron reduced Hamiltonian on the dual cone of $N$-representability conditions. Some numerical results validate the approach, both for equilibrium geometries and for the dissociation curve of N$_2$.

id: quant-ph/0602043
title: Inequivalent representations of commutator or anticommutator rings of field operators and their applications
authors: Michal Matejka, Milan Noga
comments: 25 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602043
abstract: Hamiltonian of a system in quantum field theory can give rise to infinitely many partition functions which correspond to infinitely many inequivalent representations of the canonical commutator or anticommutator rings of field operators. This implies that the system can theoretically exist in infinitely many Gibbs states. The system resides in the Gibbs state which corresponds to its minimal Helmholtz free energy at a given range of the thermodynamic variables. Individual inequivalent representations are associated with different thermodynamic phases of the system. The BCS Hamiltonian of superconductivity is chosen to be an explicit example for the demonstration of the important role of inequivalent representations in practical applications. Its analysis from the inequivalent representations' point of view has led to a recognition of a novel type of the superconducting phase transition.

id: quant-ph/0602044
title: Electrodynamically trapped Yb+ ions for quantum information processing
authors: Chr. Balzer, A. Braun, T. Hannemann, Chr. Paape, M. Ettler, W. Neuhauser, Chr. Wunderlich
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 73, 041407 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602044
abstract: Highly efficient, nearly deterministic, and isotope selective generation of Yb$^+$ ions by 1- and 2-color photoionization is demonstrated. State preparation and state selective detection of hyperfine states in \ybodd is investigated in order to optimize the purity of the prepared state and to time-optimize the detection process. Linear laser cooled Yb$^+$ ion crystals ions confined in a Paul trap are demonstrated. Advantageous features of different previous ion trap experiments are combined while at the same time the number of possible error sources is reduced by using a comparatively simple experimental apparatus. This opens a new path towards quantum state manipulation of individual trapped ions, and in particular, to scalable quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0602045
title: Entangling oscillators through environment noise
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini
comments: 14 pages, plain-TeX
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 2689-2700
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602045
abstract: We consider two independent bosonic oscillators immersed in a common bath, evolving in time with a completely positive, markovian, quasi-free (Gaussian) reduced dynamics. We show that an initially separated Gaussian state can become entangled as a result of a purely noisy mechanism. In certain cases, the dissipative dynamics allows the persistence of these bath induced quantum correlations even in the asymptotic equilibrium state.

id: quant-ph/0602046
title: Mutual information and electron correlation in momentum space
authors: Robin P. Sagar, Nicolais L. Guevara
comments: 21 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 124, 134101 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602046
abstract: Mutual information and information entropies in momentum space are proposed as measures of the non-local aspects of information. Singlet and triplet state members of the helium isoelectronic series are employed to examine Coulomb and Fermi correlation, and their manifestations, in both the position and momentum space mutual information measures. The triplet state measures exemplify that the magnitude of the spatial correlations relative to the momentum correlations, depends on, and may be controlled by the strength of the electronic correlation. Examination of one and two-electron Shannon entropies in the triplet state series yields a crossover point, which is characterized by a localized momentum density. The mutual information density in momentum space illustrates that this localization is accompanied by strong correlation at small values of $p$.

id: quant-ph/0602047
title: Klein-Gordon and square-root operator equations for two-spinors and scalars: perturbation calculations for hydrogen-like systems
authors: Tobias Gleim
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602047
abstract: There exists a Klein-Gordon-like equation for a spin-1/2 particle in an electromagnetic field with 2-spinors as wave functions that is a direct consequence of the corresponding Dirac equation. Thus, it reproduces the same binding energies for an electron in a hydrogen atom as the Dirac equation. There is also a square-root equation for 2-spinors which can give the same binding energies up to the forth order of the fine structure constant, inclusively, what will be shown by means of a comparison of the non-relativistic limit plus a first relativistic correction of both equations for 2-spinors within the framework of a perturbation analysis. A parallel will also be drawn to the spin-0 case.

id: quant-ph/0602048
title: Single-Site Entanglement of Fermions at a Quantum Phase Transition
authors: Daniel Larsson, Henrik Johannesson
comments: 4 pages, no figure. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 042320 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602048
abstract: We show that the single-site entanglement of a generic spin-1/2 fermionic lattice system can be used as a reliable marker of a finite-order quantum phase transition, given certain provisos. We discuss the information contained in the single-site entanglement measure, and provide illustrations from the Mott-Hubbard metal-insulator transitions of the one-dimensional Hubbard model, and the Hubbard model with long-range hopping.

id: quant-ph/0602049
title: Pinning and transport of cyclotron/Landau orbits by electromagnetic vortices
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Tomasz Radozycki
comments: This version differs from the printed paper in having the full titles of all referenced paper
journal: Physical Review A 73, 052114 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602049
abstract: Electromagnetic waves with phase defects in the form of vortex lines combined with a constant magnetic field are shown to pin down cyclotron orbits (Landau orbits in the quantum mechanical setting) of charged particles at the location of the vortex. This effect manifests itself in classical theory as a trapping of trajectories and in quantum theory as a Gaussian shape of the localized wave functions. Analytic solutions of the Lorentz equation in the classical case and of the Schr\"odinger or Dirac equations in the quantum case are exhibited that give precise criteria for the localization of the orbits. There is a range of parameters where the localization is destroyed by the parametric resonance. Pinning of orbits allows for their controlled positioning -- they can be transported by the motion of the vortex lines.

id: quant-ph/0602050
title: A quantum violation of the second law?
authors: G. W. Ford, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Letters 96, 020402 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602050
abstract: An apparent violation of the second law of thermodynamics occurs when an atom coupled to a zero-temperature bath, being necessarily in an excited state, is used to extract work from the bath. Here the fallacy is that it takes work to couple the atom to the bath and this work must exceed that obtained from the atom. For the example of an oscillator coupled to a bath described by the single relaxation time model, the mean oscillator energy and the minimum work required to couple the oscillator to the bath are both calculated explicitly and in closed form. It is shown that the minimum work always exceeds the mean oscillator energy, so there is no violation of the second law.

id: quant-ph/0602051
title: The Entanglement in Anisotropic Heisenberg XYZ Chain with inhomogeneous magnetic field
authors: G.H. Yang, W.B. Gao, L. Zhou, H.S.Song
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602051
abstract: The thermal entanglement of a two-qubit anisotropic Heisenberg $XYZ$ chain under an inhomogeneous magnetic field b is studied. It is shown that when inhomogeneity is increased to certain value, the entanglement can exhibit a larger revival than that of less values of b. The property is both true for zero temperature and a finite temperature. The results also show that the entanglement and critical temperature can be increased by increasing inhomogeneous exteral magnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0602052
title: Decoherence and Matter Wave Interferometry
authors: Tabish Qureshi, Anu Venugopalan
comments: Sufficiently revised version, to appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. B
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, 22 (2008) 981-990
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602052
abstract: A two-slit interference of a massive particle in the presence of environment induced decoherence is theoretically analyzed using a fully quantum mechanical calculation. The Markovian Master equation, derived from coupling the particle to a harmonic-oscillator heat bath, is used to obtain exact solutions which show the existence of an interference. Interestingly, decoherence does not affect the pattern, but only leads to a reduction in the fringe visibility.

id: quant-ph/0602053
title: Combinatorial approach to multipartite quantum systems:basic formulation
authors: Ali Saif M. Hassan, Pramod Joag
comments: 55 pages,24 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 10251--10290
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602053
abstract: In this paper we give a method to associate a graph with an arbitrary density matrix referred to a standard orthonormal basis in the Hilbert space of a finite dimensional quantum system. We study the related issues like classification of pure and mixed states, Von-Neumann entropy, separability of multipartite quantum states and quantum operations in terms of the graphs associated with quantum states. In order to address the separability and entanglement questions using graphs, we introduce a modified tensor product of weighted graphs, and establish its algebraic properties. In particular, we show that Werner's definition [1] of a separable state can be written in terms of a graphs, for the states in a real or complex Hilbert space. We generalize the separability criterion (degree criterion) due to S.L. Braunstein, S. Ghosh, T. Mansour, S. Severini, R.C. Wilson [2], to a class of weighted graphs with real weights. We have given some criteria for the Laplacian associated with a weighted graph to be positive semidefinite.

id: quant-ph/0602054
title: Optimal Conditions for Atomic Homodyne Detection on Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: B. R. da Cunha, M. C. de Oliveira
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602054
abstract: The dynamics of a two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate trapped in a double-well potential results approximately in an effective Rabi oscillation regime of exchange of population between both wells for sufficiently strong overlap between the modes functions. Facing this system as a temporal atomic beam splitter we show that this regime is optimal for a nondestructive atom-number measurement allowing an atomic homodyne detection, thus yielding indirect relative phase information about one of the two-mode condensates.

id: quant-ph/0602055
title: Exact solution and perturbation theory in a general quantum system
authors: An Min Wang
comments: This is a reserch manuscript. Extendly Revised Version. 68 Pages, 580 Equations, No Figure. It has been updated to two manuscripts: quant-ph/0611216, quant-ph/0611217
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602055
abstract: By splitting a Hamiltonian into two parts, using the solvability of eigenvalue problem of one part of the Hamiltonian, proving a useful identity and deducing an expansion formula of power of operator binomials, we obtain an explicit and general form of time evolution operator in the representation of solvable part of the Hamiltonian. Further we find out an exact solution of Schr\"{o}dinger equation in a general time-independent quantum system, and write down its concrete form when the solvable part of this Hamiltonian is taken as the kinetic energy term. Comparing our exact solution with the usual perturbation theory makes some features and significance of our solution clear. Moreover, through deriving out the improved forms of the zeroth, first, second and third order perturbed solutions including the partial contributions from the higher order even all order approximations, we obtain the improved transition probability. In special, we propose the revised Fermi's golden rule. Then we apply our scheme to obtain the improved forms of perturbed energy and perturbed state. In addition, we study an easy understanding example to illustrate our scheme and show its advantage. All of this implies the physical reasons and evidences why our exact solution and perturbative scheme are formally explicit, actually calculable, operationally efficient, conclusively more accurate. Therefore our exact solution and perturbative scheme can be thought of theoretical developments of quantum dynamics. Further applications of our results in quantum theory can be expected.

id: quant-ph/0602056
title: Entangled Markov Chains generated by Symmetric Channels
authors: Takayuki Miyadera
comments: 
journal: Infinite Dimensional Analysis, Quantum Probability and Related Topics,, Vol. 8, No. 3 (2005) 497-504
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602056
abstract: A notion of entangled Markov chain was introduced by Accardi and Fidaleo in the context of quantum random walk. They proved that, in the finite dimensional case, the corresponding states have vanishing entropy density, but they did not prove that they are entangled. In the present note this entropy result is extended to the infinite dimensional case under the assumption of finite speed of hopping. Then the entanglement problem is discussed for spin 1/2, entangled Markov chains generated by a binary symmetric channel with hopping probability $1-q$. The von Neumann entropy of these states, restricted on a sublattice is explicitly calculated and shown to be independent of the size of the sublattice. This is a new, purely quantum, phenomenon. Finally the entanglement property between the sublattices ${\cal A}(\{0,1,...,N\})$ and ${\cal A}(\{N+1\})$ is investigated using the PPT criterium. It turns out that, for $q\neq 0,1,{1/2}$ the states are non separable, thus truly entangled, while for $q=0,1,{1/2}$, they are separable.

id: quant-ph/0602057
title: Information-Disturbance Theorem for Mutually Unbiased Observables
authors: Takayuki Miyadera, Hideki Imai
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 042317 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602057
abstract: We derive a novel version of information-disturbance theorems for mutually unbiased observables. We show that the information gain by Eve inevitably makes the outcomes by Bob in the conjugate basis not only erroneous but random.

id: quant-ph/0602058
title: Many-body perturbation procedure for energy-dependent perturbation: Merging many-body perturbation theory with QED
authors: Ingvar Lindgren, Sten Salomonson, Daniel Hedendahl
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602058
abstract: A formalism for energy-dependent many-body perturbation theory (MBPT), previously indicated in our recent review articles (Lindgren et al., Phys.Rep. 389,161(2004), Can.J.Phys. 83,183(2005)), is developed in more detail. The formalism allows for a mixture of energy-dependent (retarded) and energy-independent (instantaneous) interactions and hence for a merger of QED and standard (relativistic) MBPT. This combination is particularly important for light elements, such as light heliumlike ions, where electron correlation is pronounced. It can also be quite significant in the medium-heavy mass range, as recently discussed by Fritzsche et al. (J.Phys. B38,S707(2005)), with the consequence that the effects might be significant also in analyzing the data of experiments with highly charged ions. A numerical procedure for treating the combined effect is described, and some preliminary numerical results are given for heliumlike ions. This represent the first numerical evaluation of effects beyond two-photon exchange involving a retarded interaction. It is found that for heliumlike neon the effect of one retarded photon (with Coulomb interactions of all orders) represents about 99% of the non-radiative effects beyond energy-independent MBPT.

id: quant-ph/0602059
title: Dispersive forces on bodies and atoms: a unified approach
authors: Christian Raabe, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 10 pages, 2 embedded figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602059
abstract: A unified approach to the calculation of dispersive forces on ground-state bodies and atoms is given. It is based on the ground-state Lorentz force density acting on the charge and current densities attributed to the polarization and magnetization in linearly, locally, and causally responding media. The theory is applied to dielectric macro- and micro-objects, including single atoms. Existing formulas valid for weakly polarizable matter are generalized to allow also for strongly polarizable matter. In particular when micro-objects can be regarded as single atoms, well-known formulas for the Casimir-Polder force on atoms and the van der Waals interaction between atoms are recovered. It is shown that the force acting on medium atoms--in contrast to isolated atoms--is in general screened by the other medium atoms.

id: quant-ph/0602060
title: Relational interpretation of the wave function and a possible way around Bell's theorem
authors: Thomas Filk
comments: Accepted for publication in "International Journal of Theoretical Physics"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602060
abstract: The famous ``spooky action at a distance'' in the EPR-szenario is shown to be a local interaction, once entanglement is interpreted as a kind of ``nearest neighbor'' relation among quantum systems. Furthermore, the wave function itself is interpreted as encoding the ``nearest neighbor'' relations between a quantum system and spatial points. This interpretation becomes natural, if we view space and distance in terms of relations among spatial points. Therefore, ``position'' becomes a purely relational concept. This relational picture leads to a new perspective onto the quantum mechanical formalism, where many of the ``weird'' aspects, like the particle-wave duality, the non-locality of entanglement, or the ``mystery'' of the double-slit experiment, disappear. Furthermore, this picture cirumvents the restrictions set by Bell's inequalities, i.e., a possible (realistic) hidden variable theory based on these concepts can be local and at the same time reproduce the results of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0602061
title: Non-adiabatic Semiclassical Dressed States
authors: I. G. Koprinkov
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. and Opt. Phys., 34, 3679, (2001)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602061
abstract: We introduce non-adiabatic semiclassical dressed states for a quantum system interacting with an electromagnetic field of variable amplitude and phase, and presence of dumping. We also introduce a generalized adiabatic condition, which allows finding of closed form solution for the dressed states. The influence of the non-adiabatic factors on the dressed states due to the amplitude and phase field variations and dumping has been found.

id: quant-ph/0602062
title: Nonadiabatic Induced Dipole Moment by High Intensity Femtosecond Optical Pulses
authors: I. G. Koprinkov
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Applied Physics B - Lasers and Optics, 78, 821 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602062
abstract: Nonadiabtic dressed states and nonadiabatic induced dipole moment in the leading order of nonadiabaticity is proposed. The nonadiabatic induced dipole moment is studied in the femtosecond time domain.

id: quant-ph/0602063
title: Topological Quantum Error Correction with Optimal Encoding Rate
authors: H. Bombin, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: REVTEX4 file, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A73:062303,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Graphics (cs.GR); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Topology (math.AT); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602063
abstract: We prove the existence of topological quantum error correcting codes with encoding rates $k/n$ asymptotically approaching the maximum possible value. Explicit constructions of these topological codes are presented using surfaces of arbitrary genus. We find a class of regular toric codes that are optimal. For physical implementations, we present planar topological codes.

id: quant-ph/0602064
title: Winning strategies for pseudo-telepathy games using single non-local box
authors: Samir Kunkri, Guruprasad Kar, Sibasish Ghosh, Anirban Roy
comments: New game included, title and abstract change, 9 pages, Revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602064
abstract: Using a single NL-box, a winning strategy is given for the impossible colouring pseudo-telepathy game for the set of vectors having Kochen-Specker property in four dimension. A sufficient condition to have a winning strategy for the impossible colouring pseudo-telepathy game for general $d$-dimension, with single use of NL-box, is then described. It is also shown that the magic square pseudo-telepathy game of any size can be won by using just two ebits of entanglement -- for quantum strategy, and by a single NL-box -- for non-local strategy.

id: quant-ph/0602065
title: Alternative representation of N \times N density matrix
authors: Stanislaw Kryszewski, Mateusz Zachcial
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602065
abstract: We use polarization operators known from quantum theory of angular momentum to expand the $N \times N$ dimensional density operators. Thereby, we construct generalized Bloch vectors representing density matrices. We study their properties and derive positivity conditions for any $N$. We also apply the procedure to study Bloch vector space for a qubit and a qutrit.

id: quant-ph/0602066
title: On the Proof by Reductio ad Absurdum of the Hohenberg-Kohn Theorem for Ensembles of Fractionally Occupied States of Coulomb Systems
authors: E. S. Kryachko
comments: 9 pages. Int. J. Quantum Chem., to appear
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602066
abstract: It is demonstrated that the original reductio ad absurdum proof of the generalization of the Hohenberg-Kohn theorem for ensembles of fractionally occupied states for isolated many-electron Coulomb systems with Coulomb-type external potentials by Gross et al. [Phys. Rev. A 37, 2809 (1988)] is self-contradictory since the to-be-refuted assumption (negation) regarding the ensemble one-electron densities and the assumption about the external potentials are logically incompatible to each other due to the Kato electron-nuclear cusp theorem. It is however proved that the Kato theorem itself provides a satisfactory proof of this theorem.

id: quant-ph/0602067
title: Entanglement in Gaussian matrix-product states
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Marie Ericsson
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Final version to appear as a Rapid Comm. in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 030305(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602067
abstract: Gaussian matrix product states are obtained as the outputs of projection operations from an ancillary space of M infinitely entangled bonds connecting neighboring sites, applied at each of N sites of an harmonic chain. Replacing the projections by associated Gaussian states, the 'building blocks', we show that the entanglement range in translationally-invariant Gaussian matrix product states depends on how entangled the building blocks are. In particular, infinite entanglement in the building blocks produces fully symmetric Gaussian states with maximum entanglement range. From their peculiar properties of entanglement sharing, a basic difference with spin chains is revealed: Gaussian matrix product states can possess unlimited, long-range entanglement even with minimum number of ancillary bonds (M=1). Finally we discuss how these states can be experimentally engineered from N copies of a three-mode building block and N two-mode finitely squeezed states.

id: quant-ph/0602068
title: Detection of multipartite entanglement with two-body correlations
authors: Geza Toth, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 5 pages including 2 figures, LaTeX; for the proceedings of the DPG spring meeting, Berlin, March 2005
journal: Appl. Phys. B 82, 237 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602068
abstract: We show how to detect entanglement with criteria built from simple two-body correlation terms. Since many natural Hamiltonians are sums of such correlation terms, our ideas can be used to detect entanglement by energy measurement. Our criteria can straightforwardly be applied for detecting different forms of multipartite entanglement in familiar spin models in thermal equilibrium.

id: quant-ph/0602069
title: Degradation of a quantum reference frame
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Terry Rudolph, Robert W. Spekkens, Peter S. Turner
comments: 9 pages plus appendices, 4 figures, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 58 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602069
abstract: We investigate the degradation of reference frames, treated as dynamical quantum systems, and quantify their longevity as a resource for performing tasks in quantum information processing. We adopt an operational measure of a reference frame's longevity, namely, the number of measurements that can be made against it with a certain error tolerance. We investigate two distinct types of reference frame: a reference direction, realized by a spin-j system, and a phase reference, realized by an oscillator mode with bounded energy. For both cases, we show that our measure of longevity increases quadratically with the size of the reference system and is therefore non-additive. For instance, the number of measurements that a directional reference frame consisting of N parallel spins can be put to use scales as N^2. Our results quantify the extent to which microscopic or mesoscopic reference frames may be used for repeated, high-precision measurements, without needing to be reset - a question that is important for some implementations of quantum computing. We illustrate our results using the proposed single-spin measurement scheme of magnetic resonance force microscopy.

id: quant-ph/0602070
title: Continuous-time quantum walks on ultrametric spaces
authors: Norio Konno
comments: 13 pages, small corrections, Journal-ref added
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol.4, No.6, pp.1023-1035 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602070
abstract: We introduce a continuous-time quantum walk on an ultrametric space corresponding to the set of p-adic integers and compute its time-averaged probability distribution. It is shown that localization occurs for any location of the ultrametric space for the walk. This result presents a striking contrast to the classical random walk case. Moreover we clarify a difference between the ultrametric space and other graphs, such as cycle graph, line, hypercube and complete graph, for the localization of the quantum case. Our quantum walk may be useful for a quantum search algorithm on a tree-like hierarchical structure.

id: quant-ph/0602071
title: Non-classicality of photon added coherent and thermal radiations
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, R. Prabhu, M. S. Uma
comments: Version 2, minor revision; new references added, to appear in Eur. Phys. J. D, 6 pages, 10 figure ps files, RevTeX
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 40, 133-138 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602071
abstract: Production and analysis of non-Gaussian radiation fields has evinced a lot of attention recently. Simplest way of generating such non-Gaussians is through adding (subtracting) photons to Gaussian fields. Interestingly, when photons are added to classical Gaussian fields, the resulting states exhibit {\em non-classicality}. Two important classical Gaussian radiation fields are coherent and thermal states. Here, we study the non-classical features of such states when photons are added to them. Non-classicality of these states shows up in the negativity of the Wigner function. We also work out the {\em entanglement potential}, a recently proposed measure of non-classicality for these states. Our analysis reveals that photon added coherent states are non-classical for all seed beam intensities; their non-classicality increases with the addition of more number of photons. Thermal state exhibits non-classicality at all temperatures, when a photon is added; lower the temperature, higher is their non-classicality.

id: quant-ph/0602072
title: Generalized Bayesian predictive density operators
authors: Fuyuhiko Tanaka
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602072
abstract: Recently the quantum Bayesian prediction problem was formulated by Tanaka and Komaki (2005). It is shown that Bayesian predictive density operators are the best predictive density operators when we evaluate them by using the averaged quantum relative entropy based on a prior distribution. In the present paper, we adopt the quantum alpha-divergence as a wider class of loss function. The generalized Bayesian predictive density operator is defined and shown to be best among all the estimates of the unknown density operator.

id: quant-ph/0602073
title: On channels with finite Holevo capacity
authors: M.E.Shirokov
comments: 23 pages
journal: Theory of Probability and its Applications, Vol. 53, No. 4, (2008), 732-750
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602073
abstract: We consider a nontrivial class of infinite dimensional quantum channels characterized by finiteness of the Holevo capacity. Some general properties of channels of this class are described. In particular, a special sufficient condition of existence of an optimal measure is obtained and examples of channels with no optimal measure are constructed. It is shown that each channel with finite Holevo capacity has a natural extension to the set of all positive normalized functionals on the algebra of all bounded operators. General properties of such an extension are described. The class of infinite dimensional channels, for which the Holevo capacity can be explicitly determined, is considered.

id: quant-ph/0602074
title: High order non-unitary split-step decomposition of unitary operators
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Iztok Pizorn
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures (5 eps files) Submitted to J. of Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39, 5957 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602074
abstract: We propose a high order numerical decomposition of exponentials of hermitean operators in terms of a product of exponentials of simple terms, following an idea which has been pioneered by M. Suzuki, however implementing it for complex coefficients. We outline a convenient fourth order formula which can be written compactly for arbitrary number of noncommuting terms in the Hamiltonian and which is superiour to the optimal formula with real coefficients, both in complexity and accuracy. We show asymptotic stability of our method for sufficiently small time step and demonstrate its efficiency and accuracy in different numerical models.

id: quant-ph/0602075
title: A reply to P W Shor
authors: Elemer E Rosinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602075
abstract: Two additional reasons are suggested for the seeming lack of progress in producing quantum algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0602076
title: A new class of states with positive partial transposition
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 4.5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022308 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602076
abstract: We construct a new class of PPT states for bipartite "d x d" systems. This class is invariant under the maximal commutative subgroup of U(d) and contains as special cases almost all known examples of PPT states. Theses states may be used to test the atomic property of positive maps which are crucial in studying quantum entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0602077
title: Experimental distillation of squeezing from non-Gaussian quantum states
authors: J. Heersink, Ch. Marquardt, R. Dong, R. Filip, S. Lorenz, G. Leuchs, U.L. Andersen
comments: Ver. 2: minor change to references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602077
abstract: We show theoretically and experimentally that single copy distillation of squeezing from continuous variable non-Gaussian states is possible using linear optics and conditional homodyne detection. A specific non-Gaussian noise source, corresponding to a random linear displacement, is investigated. Conditioning the signal on a tap measurement, we observe probabilistic recovery of squeezing.

id: quant-ph/0602078
title: Book Review of Stephen L. Adler's, "Quantum theory as an emergent phenomenon."
authors: Philip Pearle
comments: 8 pages
journal: Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics 36, 716-723 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602078
abstract: In Stephen Adler's book, "Quantum theory as an emergent phenomenon," the author starts from a classical mechanics structure and "derives" the formalism of quantum theory, together with wave function collapse dynamics, the latter providing the interpretation of quantum theory. A detailed outline of the author's argument is presented in this book review.

id: quant-ph/0602079
title: Quantum communication, reference frames and gauge theory
authors: S.J. van Enk
comments: pretty pointless, published nonetheless
journal: Phys.Rev. A73 (2006) 042306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602079
abstract: We consider quantum communication in the case that the communicating parties not only do not share a reference frame but use imperfect quantum communication channels, in that each channel applies some fixed but unknown unitary rotation to each qubit. We discuss similarities and differences between reference frames within that quantum communication model and gauge fields in gauge theory. We generalize the concept of refbits and analyze various quantum communication protocols within the communication model.

id: quant-ph/0602080
title: Nonlocality, Bell's Ansatz and Probability
authors: A. F. Kracklauer
comments: 8&1/2 pages revtex; v2: many corrections, clairifications & extentions, all small; v3: editorial scrub
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602080
abstract: Quantum Mechanics lacks an intuitive interpretation, which is the cause of a generally formalistic approach to its use. This in turn has led to a certain insensitivity to the actual meaning of many words used in its description and interpretation. Herein, we analyze carefully the possible mathematical meanings of those terms used in analysis of EPR's contention, that Quantum Mechanics is incomplete, as well as Bell's work descendant therefrom. As a result, many inconsistencies and errors in contemporary discussions of nonlocality, as well as in Bell's Ansatz with respect to the laws of probability, are identified. Evading these errors precludes serious conflicts between Quantum Mechanics and both Special Relativity and Philosophy.

id: quant-ph/0602081
title: Short-time quantum correlations in the atom optics kicked rotor
authors: S.A. Wayper, W. Simpson, M.D. Hoogerland
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602081
abstract: We experimentally verify the analytical expressions that exist for the diffusion rate in the quantum delta kicked rotor system for small numbers of kicks. We show development of diffusion resonances from two to five kicks, and of multiple resonances for high kick strengths. Furthermore, we show that, in contrast to classical predictions, the results are purely periodic in the kick period, and reproduce the predicted quantum- and diffusion resonances.

id: quant-ph/0602082
title: Quantum hypercomputation based on the dynamical algebra su(1,1)
authors: Andr¨¦s Sicard, Juan Ospina, Mario V¨¦lez
comments: 25 pages, 1 figure, conclusions rewritten, typing and language errors corrected and latex format changed minor changes elsewhere and l
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602082
abstract: An adaptation of Kieu's hypercomputational quantum algorithm (KHQA) is presented. The method that was used was to replace the Weyl-Heisenberg algebra by other dynamical algebra of low dimension that admits infinite-dimensional irreducible representations with naturally defined generalized coherent states. We have selected the Lie algebra $\mathfrak{su}(1,1)$, due to that this algebra posses the necessary characteristics for to realize the hypercomputation and also due to that such algebra has been identified as the dynamical algebra associated to many relatively simple quantum systems. In addition to an algebraic adaptation of KHQA over the algebra $\mathfrak{su}(1,1)$, we presented an adaptations of KHQA over some concrete physical referents: the infinite square well, the infinite cylindrical well, the perturbed infinite cylindrical well, the P{\"o}sch-Teller potentials, the Holstein-Primakoff system, and the Laguerre oscillator. We conclude that it is possible to have many physical systems within condensed matter and quantum optics on which it is possible to consider an implementation of KHQA.

id: quant-ph/0602083
title: Entangled-state cycles from conditional quantum evolution
authors: M. Gu, S. Parkins, H.J. Carmichael
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602083
abstract: A system of cascaded qubits interacting via the oneway exchange of photons is studied. While for general operating conditions the system evolves to a superposition of Bell states (a dark state) in the long-time limit, under a particular resonance condition no steady state is reached within a finite time. We analyze the conditional quantum evolution (quantum trajectories) to characterize the asymptotic behavior under this resonance condition. A distinct bimodality is observed: for perfect qubit coupling, the system either evolves to a maximally entangled Bell state without emitting photons (the dark state), or executes a sustained entangled-state cycle - random switching between a pair of Bell states while emitting a continuous photon stream; for imperfect coupling, two entangled-state cycles coexist, between which a random selection is made from one quantum trajectory to another.

id: quant-ph/0602084
title: Optimality of programmable quantum measurements
authors: David Perez-Garcia
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 052315 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602084
abstract: We prove that for a programmable measurement device that approximates every POVM with an error $\le \delta$, the dimension of the program space has to grow at least polynomially with $\frac{1}{\delta}$. In the case of qubits we can improve the general result by showing a linear growth. This proves the optimality of the programmable measurement devices recently designed in [G. M. D'Ariano and P. Perinotti, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{94}, 090401 (2005)].

id: quant-ph/0602085
title: Strong coupling between single photons in semiconductor microcavities
authors: William T.M. Irvine, Kevin Hennessy, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 057405 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602085
abstract: We discuss the observability of strong coupling between single photons in semiconductor microcavities coupled by a chi(2) nonlinearity. We present two schemes and analyze the feasibility of their practical implementation in three systems: photonic crystal defects, micropillars and microdisks, fabricated out of GaAs. We show that if a weak coherent state is used to enhance the chi(2) interaction, the strong coupling regime between two modes at different frequencies occupied by a single photon is within reach of current technology. The unstimulated strong coupling of a single photon and a photon pair is very challenging and will require an improvement in mirocavity quality factors of 2-4 orders of magnitude to be observable.

id: quant-ph/0602086
title: Optimal Trade-Off: Information Gain vs Distortion Loss In Finite-Dimensional Quantum Systems
authors: Thijs van der Valk
comments: Master's Thesis, 84 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602086
abstract: In this thesis, I reflect on quantum instruments that measure the state of pure finite dimensional quantum systems. As the Heisenberg principle dictates, there exists a joint restriction to the information gain and distortion by measurement of a quantum system. I minimize the distortion of measurement and maximize the quality of the outcome by finding the optimal (covariant) instrument. In order to optimize this joint restriction, the family of covariant instruments is classified. This is an important side result.

id: quant-ph/0602087
title: A quantum secret ballot
authors: Shahar Dolev, Itamar Pitowsky, Boaz Tamir
comments: RevReX, 7 pages, minor revisions, small additions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602087
abstract: The paper concerns the protection of the secrecy of ballots, so that the identity of the voters cannot be matched with their vote. To achieve this we use an entangled quantum state to represent the ballots. Each ballot includes the identity of the voter, explicitly marked on the "envelope" containing it. Measuring the content of the envelope yields a random number which reveals no information about the vote. However, the outcome of the elections can be unambiguously decided after adding the random numbers from all envelopes. We consider a few versions of the protocol and their complexity of implementation.

id: quant-ph/0602088
title: Quantum Hardcore Functions by Complexity-Theoretical Quantum List Decoding
authors: Akinori Kawachi, Tomoyuki Yamakami
comments: 25 pages, 10 point, letter size. This is a revised version of the complete version of a conference paper that appeared in the Proceedings of the 33rd International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming (ICALP 2006), Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol.4052 (Part II), pp.216-227. Venice, Italy. July 10-14, 2006
journal: (journal version) SIAM Journal on Computing, Vol.39, pp.2941-2969, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602088
abstract: Hardcore functions have been used as a technical tool to construct secure cryptographic systems; however, little is known on their quantum counterpart, called quantum hardcore functions. With a new insight into fundamental properties of quantum hardcores, we present three new quantum hardcore functions for any (strong) quantum one-way function. We also give a "quantum" solution to Damgard's question (CRYPTO'88) on a classical hardcore property of his pseudorandom generator, by proving its quantum hardcore property. Our major technical tool is the new notion of quantum list-decoding of "classical" error-correcting codes (rather than "quantum" error-correcting codes), which is defined on the platform of computational complexity theory and computational cryptography (rather than information theory). In particular, we give a simple but powerful criterion that makes a polynomial-time computable classical block code (seen as a function) a quantum hardcore for all quantum one-way functions. On their own interest, we construct efficient quantum list-decoding algorithms for classical block codes whose associated quantum states (called codeword states) form a nearly phase-orthogonal basis.

id: quant-ph/0602089
title: Relation between concurrence and Berry phase of an entangled state of two spin 1/2 particles
authors: B. Basu
comments: 6 pages. Accepted in Europhys. Letters (likely to be published in vol 73, pp1-6 (2006))
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602089
abstract: We have studied here the influence of the Berry phase generated due to a cyclic evolution of an entangled state of two spin 1/2 particles. It is shown that the measure of formation of entanglement is related to the cyclic geometric phase of the individual spins. \\

id: quant-ph/0602090
title: Generation of bipartite spin entanglement via spin-independent scattering
authors: Lucas Lamata, Juan Leon
comments: 5 pages and 3 figures. Accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 052322 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602090
abstract: We consider the bipartite spin entanglement between two identical fermions generated in spin-independent scattering. We show how the spatial degrees of freedom act as ancillas for the creation of entanglement to a degree that depends on the scattering angle, $\theta$. The number of Slater determinants generated in the process is greater than 1, corresponding to genuine quantum correlations between the identical fermions. The maximal entanglement attainable of 1 ebit is reached at $\theta=\pi/2$. We also analyze a simple $\theta$ dependent Bell's inequality, which is violated for $\pi/4<\theta\leq\pi/2$. This phenomenon is unrelated to the symmetrization postulate but does not appear for unequal particles.

id: quant-ph/0602091
title: Berry Phases and Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: Alioscia Hamma
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602091
abstract: We study the connection between Berry phases and quantum phase transitions of generic quantum many-body systems. Consider sequences of Berry phases associated to sequences of loops in the parameter space whose limit is a point. If the sequence of Berry phases does not converge to zero, then the limit point is a quantum critical point. Quantum critical points are associated to failures of adiabaticity. We discuss the remarkable example of the anisotropic XY spin chain in a transverse magnetic field and detect the XX region of criticality.

id: quant-ph/0602092
title: Electron Spin Dynamics in a Quantum Dot due to Hyperfine Coupling with Nuclei in the Dot - An Exact Analysis
authors: A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 18 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602092
abstract: The time-dependent Schrodinger equation of a many particle spin system consisting of an electron in a quantum dot interacting with the spins of the nuclei (N) in the dot due to hyperfine interaction is solved exactly for a given arbitrary initial state. The electron spin dynamics is then expressed in terms of the reduced density matrix of the composite system by computing the marginal density matrix of the electron. This is accomplished by classifying states of the system by the total spin of the coupled electron and nuclear system that commutes with the system Hamiltonian. These states are used in enumerating and finding the exact solution of the time-dependent Schrodinger equation. In each sector of the total spin, the problem reduces to solving a linear simultaneous set of equations that are solved by matrix inversion. Such solutions enable one to make a reliable approximate scheme for purposes of numerical estimation of the various physical quantities. A methematical and physical discussion of this procedure with the density matrix approach to this problem is given here. To elucidate the procedure and its advantages, special cases of N=3,4 are given in some detail in an Appendix.

id: quant-ph/0602093
title: Optimal unambiguous discrimination of two subspaces as a case in mixed state discrimination
authors: Janos A. Bergou, Edgar Feldman, Mark Hillery
comments: 8 pages, replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 032107 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602093
abstract: We show how to optimally unambiguously discriminate between two subspaces of a Hilbert space. In particular we suppose that we are given a quantum system in either the state \psi_{1}, where \psi_{1} can be any state in the subspace S_{1}, or \psi_{2}, where \psi_{2} can be any state in the subspace S_{2}, and our task is to determine in which of the subspaces the state of our quantum system lies. We do not want to make a mistake, which means that our procedure will sometimes fail if the subspaces are not orthogonal. This is a special case of the unambiguous discrimination of mixed states. We present the POVM that solves this problem and several applications of this procedure, including the discrimination of multipartite states without classical communication.

id: quant-ph/0602094
title: Scaling Behavior of Entanglement in Two- and Three-Dimensional Free Fermions
authors: Weifei Li, Letian Ding, Rong Yu, Tommaso Roscilde, Stephan Haas
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys Rev B 74, 073103 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602094
abstract: Exactly solving a spinless fermionic system in two and three dimensions, we investigate the scaling behavior of the block entropy in critical and non-critical phases. The scaling of the block entropy crucially depends on the nature of the excitation spectrum of the system and on the topology of the Fermi surface. Noticeably, in the critical phases the scaling violates the area law and acquires a logarithmic correction \emph{only} when a well defined Fermi surface exists in the system. When the area law is violated, we accurately verify a conjecture for the prefactor of the logarithmic correction, proposed by D. Gioev and I. Klich [quant-ph/0504151].

id: quant-ph/0602095
title: Quantum capacity of channel with thermal noise
authors: Xiao-yu Chen
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602095
abstract: The quantum capacity of thermal noise channel is studied. The extremal input state is obtained at the postulation that the coherent information is convex or concave at its vicinity. When the input energy tends to infinitive, it is verified by perturbation theory that the coherent information reaches its maximum at the product of identical thermal state input. The quantum capacity is obtained for lower noise channel and it is equal the one shot capacity.

id: quant-ph/0602096
title: Entanglement in Graph States and its Applications
authors: M. Hein, W. D¨¹r, J. Eisert, R. Raussendorf, M. Van den Nest, H.-J. Briegel
comments: 99 pages, 24 figures, 5 tables, LaTeX. To appear in the Proceedings of the International School of Physics "Enrico Fermi" on "Quantum Computers, Algorithms and Chaos", Varenna, Italy, July, 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602096
abstract: Graph states form a rich class of entangled states that exhibit important aspects of multi-partite entanglement. At the same time, they can be described by a number of parameters that grows only moderately with the system size. They have a variety of applications in quantum information theory, most prominently as algorithmic resources in the context of the one-way quantum computer, but also in other fields such as quantum error correction and multi-partite quantum communication, as well as in the study of foundational issues such as non-locality and decoherence. In this review, we give a tutorial introduction into the theory of graph states. We introduce various equivalent ways how to define graph states, and discuss the basic notions and properties of these states. The focus of this review is on their entanglement properties. These include aspects of non-locality, bi-partite and multi-partite entanglement and its classification in terms of the Schmidt measure, the distillability properties of mixed entangled states close to a pure graph state, as well as the robustness of their entanglement under decoherence. We review some of the known applications of graph states, as well as proposals for their experimental implementation.

id: quant-ph/0602097
title: Universal behavior of dispersion forces between two dielectric plates in the low-temperature limit
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, B. Geyer, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 6 pages, iopart.cls is used, to appear in J. Phys. A (special issue: Proceedings of QFEXT05, Barcelona, Sept. 5-9, 2005)
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 6495-6499
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602097
abstract: The universal analytic expressions in the limit of low temperatures (short separations) are obtained for the free energy, entropy and pressure between the two parallel plates made of any dielectric. The analytical proof of the Nernst heat theorem in the case of dispersion forces acting between dielectrics is provided. This permitted us to formulate the stringent thermodynamical requirement that must be satisfied in all models used in the Casimir physics.

id: quant-ph/0602098
title: On quantum phase crossovers in finite systems
authors: Clare Dunning, Katrina E. Hibberd, Jon Links
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures. Final version accepted for publication
journal: J Stat Mech: Theor. Exp. (2006) P11005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602098
abstract: In this work we define a formal notion of a quantum phase crossover for certain Bethe ansatz solvable models. The approach we adopt exploits an exact mapping of the spectrum of a many-body integrable system, which admits an exact Bethe ansatz solution, into the quasi-exactly solvable spectrum of a one-body Schr\"odinger operator. Bifurcations of the minima for the potential of the Schr\"odinger operator determine the crossover couplings. By considering the behaviour of particular ground-state correlation functions, these may be identified as quantum phase crossovers in the many-body integrable system with finite particle number. In this approach the existence of the quantum phase crossover is not dependent on the existence of a thermodynamic limit, rendering applications to finite systems feasible. We study two examples of bosonic Hamiltonians which admit second-order crossovers.

id: quant-ph/0602099
title: Quantum String Seal Is Insecure
authors: H. F. Chau
comments: 8 pages with 2 figures, significantly expanded with a few new results, to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602099
abstract: A quantum string seal encodes the value of a (bit) string as a quantum state in such a way that everyone can extract a non-negligible amount of available information on the string by a suitable measurement. Moreover, such measurement must disturb the quantum state and is likely to be detected by an authorized verifier. In this way, the intactness of the encoded quantum state plays the role of a wax seal in the digital world. Here I analyze the security of quantum string seal by studying the information disturbance tradeoff of a measurement. This information disturbance tradeoff analysis extends the earlier results of Bechmann-Pasquinucci et al. and Chau by concluding that all quantum string seals are insecure. Specifically, I find a way to obtain non-trivial available information on the string that escapes the verifier's detection with at least 50% chance.

id: quant-ph/0602100
title: Energy translation and Proper-Time Eigenstates
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong, Ai-Lin Zhang
comments: 15 pages, No figure
journal: Foud. Phys. Lett.19, No 7, 735-745 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602100
abstract: The usual quantum mechanics describes the mass eigenstates. To describe the proper-time eigenstates, a duality theory of the usual quantum mechanics was developed. The time interval is treated as an operator on an equal footing with the space interval, and the quantization of the space-time intervals between events is obtained. As a result, one can show that there exists a zero-point time interval.

id: quant-ph/0602101
title: Irreducible second order SUSY transformations between real and complex potentials
authors: B.F. Samsonov
comments: Thanks to M.V. Ioffee Ref. [13] is corrected in the second version
journal: Physics Letters A 358 (2006) 105-114
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602101
abstract: Second order SUSY transformations between real and complex potentials for three important from physical point of view Sturm-Liouville problems, namely, problems with the Dirichlet boundary conditions for a finite interval, for a half axis and for the whole real line are analyzed. For every problem conditions on transformation functions are formulated when transformations are irreducible, i.e. when either the intermediate Hamiltonian is not well defined in the same Hilbert space as the initial and final Hamiltonians or its eigenfunctions cannot be obtained by applying transformation operator either on eigenfunctions of the initial Hamiltonian or on these of the final Hamiltonian. Obtained results are illustrated by numerous simple examples.

id: quant-ph/0602102
title: Theory of non-Markovian decay of a cascade atom in high-Q cavities and photonic band-gap materials
authors: B.M. Garraway, B.J. Dalton
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B 39, S767 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602102
abstract: The dynamics of a three-level atom in a cascade configuration with both transitions coupled to a single structured reservoir of quantized field modes is treated using Laplace transform methods applied to the coupled amplitude equations. Results are also obtained from master equations by two different approaches, that is, involving either pseudomodes or quasimodes. Two different types of reservoir are considered, namely a high-Q cavity and a photonic band-gap system, in which the respective reservoir structure functions involve Lorentzians. Non-resonant transitions are included in the model. In all cases non-Markovian behaviour for the atomic system can be found, such as oscillatory decay for the high-Q cavity case and population trapping for the photonic band-gap case. In the master equation approaches, the atomic system is augmented by a small number of pseudomodes or quasimodes, which in the quasimode approach themselves undergo Markovian relaxation into a flat reservoir of continuum quasimodes. Results from these methods are found to be identical to those from the Laplace transform method including two-photon excitation of the reservoir with both emitting sequences. This shows that complicated non-Markovian decays of an atomic system into structured EM field reservoirs can be described by Markovian models for the atomic system coupled to a small number of pseudomodes or quasimodes.

id: quant-ph/0602103
title: Trapped Particles in $PT$ Symmetric Theories
authors: C. Yuce, A. Kurt, A. Kucukaslan
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602103
abstract: $PT$ symmetric quantum mechanics for a particle trapped by the generalized non-Hermitian harmonic oscillator potential is studied. It is shown that energy and the expectation value of the position operator $x$ can not be real simultaneously, if the particle is trapped. Non-vanishing boundary conditions for the trapped particle in $PT$ symmetric theory are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0602104
title: Comments on a bound state model for a two body system
authors: L. Micu
comments: 5 pages, comments are wellcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602104
abstract: We show that in classical mechanics, as well as in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics the equation of the relative motion for a two-body bound system at rest can be replaced by individual dynamical equations of the same kind as the first one, but with different parameters. We assume that in relativistic quantum mechanics the individual equations are Dirac equations with modified parameters in agreement with the individual Schr\"odinger equations. We find that products of solutions to the individual equations with correlated arguments are the quantum analogues of the classical representation of a bound system and represent suitable models for the bound state wave functions. As validity test for the new representation of bound states we suggest to use some observable differences between this one and the representation in terms of relative coordinates.

id: quant-ph/0602105
title: Complex Periodic Potentials with a Finite Number of Band Gaps
authors: Avinash Khare, Uday Sukhatme
comments: 33 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602105
abstract: We obtain several new results for the complex generalized associated Lame potential V(x)= a(a+1)m sn^2(y,m)+ b(b+1)m sn^2(y+K(m),m) + f(f+1)m sn^2(y+K(m)+iK'(m),m)+ g(g+1)m sn^2(y+iK'(m),m), where y = x-K(m)/2-iK'(m)/2, sn(y,m) is a Jacobi elliptic function with modulus parameter m, and there are four real parameters a,b,f,g. First, we derive two new duality relations which, when coupled with a previously obtained duality relation, permit us to relate the band edge eigenstates of the 24 potentials obtained by permutations of the four parameters a,b,f,g. Second, we pose and answer the question: how many independent potentials are there with a finite number "a" of band gaps when a,b,f,g are integers? For these potentials, we clarify the nature of the band edge eigenfunctions. We also obtain several analytic results when at least one of the four parameters is a half-integer. As a by-product, we also obtain new solutions of Heun's differential equation.

id: quant-ph/0602106
title: Entanglement and dynamics of spin-chains in periodically-pulsed magnetic fields: accelerator modes
authors: T. Boness, S. Bose, T.S. Monteiro
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; minor corrections, tidied presentation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602106
abstract: We study the dynamics of a single excitation in a Heisenberg spin-chain subjected to a sequence of periodic pulses from an external, parabolic, magnetic field. We show that, for experimentally reasonable parameters, a pair of counter-propagating coherent states are ejected from the centre of the chain. We find an illuminating correspondence with the quantum time evolution of the well-known paradigm of quantum chaos, the Quantum Kicked Rotor (QKR). From this we can analyse the entanglement production and interpret the ejected coherent states as a manifestation of so-called `accelerator modes' of a classically chaotic system.

id: quant-ph/0602107
title: Localising Relational Degrees of Freedom in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Hugo Cable
comments: PhD thesis, 130 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602107
abstract: This thesis presents a wide-ranging study of localising relational degrees of freedom. Three physical systems are studied in depth, each built upon a simple measurement-based process. For each physical system - light from independent sources leaking onto a beam splitter monitored by photodetectors, spatially interfering Bose-Einstein condensates extracted from separate preparation procedures, and delocalised massive particles or mirrors scattering light which is detected in the far-field - the thesis investigates the key features of the underlying process of localisation, and explores the properties of the induced post-measurement states of the system. A range of analytical and numerical methods are used. Many new results are presented - for example, cases of mixed initial states are considered in addition to the more commonly considered pure states. Up to now there has been little attempt to develop in detail the themes common to studies concerned with specific physical examples. This thesis addresses this, and sets out a "modus operandi" that can be applied widely. A variety of specific applications are considered - both in the context of controlled laboratory experiments, and with a view to understanding processes occurring in nature. The thesis is introduced and summarised in Chapter 1. Chapter 2 studies localising relative optical phase in the canonical interference process. This discussion is extended and applied in Chapter 3. Chapter 4 discusses localising relative atomic phase in interference experiments with Bose-Einstein condensates. The emergence of relative positions between particles scattering light is explored in Chapter 5. The thesis concludes with an Outlook, Chapter 6.

id: quant-ph/0602108
title: Efficient algorithm for a quantum analogue of 2-SAT
authors: Sergey Bravyi
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602108
abstract: Complexity of a quantum analogue of the satisfiability problem is studied. Quantum k-SAT is a problem of verifying whether there exists n-qubit pure state such that its k-qubit reduced density matrices have support on prescribed subspaces. We present a classical algorithm solving quantum 2-SAT in a polynomial time. It generalizes the well-known algorithm for the classical 2-SAT. Besides, we show that for any k>=4 quantum k-SAT is complete in the complexity class QMA with one-sided error.

id: quant-ph/0602109
title: Analytic Fits to Separable Volumes and Probabilities for Qubit-Qubit and Qubit-Qutrit Systems
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 16 pages, modest revisions, retitled, some new references incorporated, including to quant-ph/0609006, "Two-Qubit Separability Probabilities and Beta Functions"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602109
abstract: We investigate the possibility of deriving analytical formulas for the 15-dimensional separable volumes, in terms of any of a number of metrics of interest (Hilbert-Schmidt [HS], Bures,...), of the two-qubit (four-level) systems. This would appear to require 15-fold symbolic integrations over a complicated convex body (defined by both separability and feasibility constraints). The associated 15-dimensional integrands -- in terms of the Tilma-Byrd-Sudarshan Euler-angle-based parameterization of the 4 x 4 density matrices \rho (math-ph/0202002) -- would be the products of 12-dimensional Haar measure \mu_{Haar} (common to each metric) and 3-dimensional measures \mu_{metric} (specific to each metric) over the 3d-simplex formed by the four eigenvalues of \rho. We attempt here to estimate/determine the 3-dimensional integrands (the products of the various [known] \mu_{metric}'s and an unknown symmetric weighting function W) remaining after the (putative) 12-fold integration of \mu_{Haar} over the twelve Euler angles. We do this by fitting W so that the conjectured HS separable volumes and hyperareas (quant-ph/0410238; cf. quant-ph/0609006) are reproduced. We further evaluate a number of possible choices of W by seeing how well they also yield the conjectured separable volumes for the Bures, Kubo-Mori, Wigner-Yanase and (arithmetic) average monotone metrics and the conjectured separable Bures hyperarea (quant-ph/0308037,Table VI). We, in fact, find two such exact (rather similar) choices that give these five conjectured (non-HS) values all within 5%. In addition to the above-mentioned Euler angle parameterization of \rho, we make extensive use of the Bloore parameterization (J. Phys. A 9 [1976], 2059) in a companion set of two-qubit separability analyses.

id: quant-ph/0602110
title: Interferometric tunability of the absorption
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. Revised in response to the comments of the referees. Section added with new material
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 14, Issue 19, pp. 8622-8629 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602110
abstract: We propose an interferometric setup that permits to tune the quantity of radiation absorbed by an object illuminated by a fixed light source. The method can be used to selectively irradiate portions of an object based on their transmissivities or to accurately estimate the transmissivities from rough absorption measurements.

id: quant-ph/0602111
title: The Role of Measurement in Quantum Games
authors: Ahmad Nawaz, A. H. Toor
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 2791
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602111
abstract: The game of Prisoner Dilemma is analyzed to study the role of measurement basis in quantum games. Four different types of payoffs for quantum games are identified on the basis of different combinations of initial state and measurement basis. A relation among these different payoffs is established.

id: quant-ph/0602112
title: Sine distance for quantum states
authors: A.E. Rastegin
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602112
abstract: We thoroughly analyse the distance between quantum states that has been applied to state-dependent cloning and partly studied in the previous work of the author [Phys. Rev. A 66, 042304 (2002)]. Elementary proofs of its significant properties are given.

id: quant-ph/0602113
title: Practical Evaluation of Security for Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: The manuscript has been modfied
journal: Physical Review A, Vol. 74, 022307 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602113
abstract: Many papers proved the security of quantum key distribution (QKD) system, in the asymptotic framework. The degree of the security has not been discussed in the finite coding-length framework, sufficiently. However, to guarantee any implemented QKD system requires, it is needed to evaluate a protocol with a finite coding-length. For this purpose, we derive a tight upper bound of the eavesdropper's information. This bound is better than existing bounds. We also obtain the exponential rate of the eavesdropper's information. Further, we approximate our bound by using the normal distribution.

id: quant-ph/0602114
title: The quantum measurement problem and physical reality: a computation theoretic perspective
authors: R. Srikanth
comments: Talk presented at "Quantum Computing: Back Action 2006", IIT Kanpur, India, March 2006
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings 864, pp. 178-193 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602114
abstract: Is the universe computable? If yes, is it computationally a polynomial place? In standard quantum mechanics, which permits infinite parallelism and the infinitely precise specification of states, a negative answer to both questions is not ruled out. On the other hand, empirical evidence suggests that NP-complete problems are intractable in the physical world. Likewise, computational problems known to be algorithmically uncomputable do not seem to be computable by any physical means. We suggest that this close correspondence between the efficiency and power of abstract algorithms on the one hand, and physical computers on the other, finds a natural explanation if the universe is assumed to be algorithmic; that is, that physical reality is the product of discrete sub-physical information processing equivalent to the actions of a probabilistic Turing machine. This assumption can be reconciled with the observed exponentiality of quantum systems at microscopic scales, and the consequent possibility of implementing Shor's quantum polynomial time algorithm at that scale, provided the degree of superposition is intrinsically, finitely upper-bounded. If this bound is associated with the quantum-classical divide (the Heisenberg cut), a natural resolution to the quantum measurement problem arises. From this viewpoint, macroscopic classicality is an evidence that the universe is in BPP, and both questions raised above receive affirmative answers. A recently proposed computational model of quantum measurement, which relates the Heisenberg cut to the discreteness of Hilbert space, is briefly discussed. A connection to quantum gravity is noted. Our results are compatible with the philosophy that mathematical truths are independent of the laws of physics.

id: quant-ph/0602115
title: Is there a prescribed parameter's space for the adiabatic geometric phase?
authors: David J Fernandez C, Nora Breton
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Europhys.Lett.21:148-152,1993
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602115
abstract: The Aharonov-Anandan and Berry phases are determined for the cyclic motions of a non-relativistic charged spinless particle evolving in the superposition of the fields produced by a Penning trap and a rotating magnetic field. Discussion about the selection of the parameter's space and the relationship between the Berry phase and the symmetry of the binding potential is given.

id: quant-ph/0602116
title: An open--quantum--system formulation of particle decay
authors: Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Walter Grimus, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A73:054101,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602116
abstract: We consider an open quantum system which contains unstable states. The time evolution of the system can be described by an effective non-hermitian Hamiltonian H_{eff}, in accord with the Wigner--Weisskopf approximation, and an additional term of the Lindblad form, the socalled dissipator. We show that, after enlarging the original Hilbert space by states which represent the decay products of the unstable states, the non-hermitian part of H_{eff} --the ``particle decay''-- can be incorporated into the dissipator of the enlarged space via a specific Lindblad operator. Thus the new formulation of the time evolution on the enlarged space has a hermitian Hamiltonian and is probability conserving. The equivalence of the new formulation with the original one demonstrates that the time evolution which is governed by a non-hermitian Hamiltonian and a dissipator of the Lindblad form is nevertheless completely positive, just as systems with hermitian Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0602117
title: A curvature dependent bound for entanglement change in classically chaotic systems
authors: Demetris P.K. Ghikas, George Stamatiou
comments: 23 pages, 12 figures, Submitted for Publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602117
abstract: Using the Calogero-Moser model and the Nakamura equations for a multi-partite quantum system, we prove an inequality between the mean bi-partite entanglement rate of change under the variation of a critical parameter and the level-curvature. This provides an upper bound for the rate of production or distraction of entanglement induced dynamically. We then investigate the dependence of the upper bound on the degree of chaos of the system, which in turn, through the inequality, gives a measure of the stability of the entangled state. Our analytical results are supported with extensive numerical calculations.

id: quant-ph/0602118
title: Highly nonclassical photon statistics in parametric down conversion
authors: Edo Waks, Barry Sanders, Eleni Diamanti, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 73, 033814 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602118
abstract: We use photon counters to obtain the joint photon counting statistics from twin-beam non-degenerate parametric down conversion, and we demonstrate directly, and with no auxiliary assumptions, that these twin beams are nonclassical.

id: quant-ph/0602119
title: Test of nonlocality for a continuos-variable state based on arbitrary number of measurement outcomes
authors: W. Son, C. Brukner, M. S. Kim
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 110401 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602119
abstract: We propose a scheme to test Bell's inequalities for an arbitrary number of measurement outcomes on entangled continuous variable states. The Bell correlation functions are expressible in terms of phase-space quasiprobability functions with complex ordering parameter, which can experimentally be determined both directly via local CV-qubit interaction or indirectly via tomographic reconstructions. We demonstrate that continuous-variable systems can give stronger violations of these Bell's inequalities than of the ones developed for two-outcome observables. Thus, while keeping the feasibility of the phase-space approach, our scheme increases its efficiency.

id: quant-ph/0602120
title: Efficiency of quantum and classical transport on graphs
authors: Oliver Muelken, Alexander Blumen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 73, 066117 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602120
abstract: We propose a measure to quantify the efficiency of classical and quantum mechanical transport processes on graphs. The measure only depends on the density of states (DOS), which contains all the necessary information about the graph. For some given (continuous) DOS, the measure shows a power law behavior, where the exponent for the quantum transport is twice the exponent of its classical counterpart. For small-world networks, however, the measure shows rather a stretched exponential law but still the quantum transport outperforms the classical one. Some finite tree-graphs have a few highly degenerate eigenvalues, such that, on the other hand, on them the classical transport may be more efficient than the quantum one.

id: quant-ph/0602121
title: Theory for quantum state of photon pairs generated from spontaneous parametric down conversion nonlinear process
authors: Ruo Peng Wang, Hui Rong Zhang
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602121
abstract: We present a theory for the quantum state of photon pairs generated from spontaneous parametric down conversion nonlinear process in which the influence of the final sizes of nonlinear optical crystals on eigen optical modes is explicitly taken into consideration. We find that these photon pairs are not in entangled quantum states. Polarization correlations between the signal beam and the idler beam are explained. We also show that the two photons generated from SPDC are not spatially separated, therefore the polarization correlation between the signal and idler beams is not an evidence for quantum non-locality.

id: quant-ph/0602122
title: Finite Quantum Dynamics
authors: David Ritz Finkelstein, Mohsen Shiri-Garakani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602122
abstract: We general-quantize the dynamics of the quantum harmonic oscillator to obtain a covariant finite quantum dynamics in a finite quantum time. The usual central (``superselected'') time results from a self-organization. Unitarity necessarily fails, imperceptibly for middle times and grossly near the beginning and end of time. Time and energy interconvert during space-time decondensation or melt-down, at a rate governed by a constant like the Planck power.

id: quant-ph/0602123
title: Fidelity of Quantum Interferometers
authors: Thomas B. Bahder, Paul A. Lopata
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602123
abstract: For a generic interferometer, the conditional probability density distribution, $p(\phi|m)$, for the phase $\phi$ given measurement outcome $m$, will generally have multiple peaks. Therefore, the phase sensitivity of an interferometer cannot be adequately characterized by the standard deviation, such as $\Delta\phi\sim 1/\sqrt{N}$ (the standard limit), or $\Delta\phi\sim 1/N$ (the Heisenberg limit). We propose an alternative measure of phase sensitivity--the fidelity of an interferometer--defined as the Shannon mutual information between the phase shift $\phi$\ and the measurement outcomes $m$. As an example application of interferometer fidelity, we consider a generic optical Mach-Zehnder interferometer, used as a sensor of a classical field. We find the surprising result that an entangled {\it N00N} state input leads to a lower fidelity than a Fock state input, for the same photon number.

id: quant-ph/0602124
title: Universal measurement of quantum correlations of radiation
authors: E. Shchukin, W. Vogel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, small misprints were corrected, accepted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 200403 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602124
abstract: A measurement technique is proposed which, in principle, allows one to observe the general space-time correlation properties of a quantized radiation field. Our method, called balanced homodyne correlation measurement, unifies the advantages of balanced homodyne detection with those of homodyne correlation measurements.

id: quant-ph/0602125
title: Universal and phase covariant superbroadcasting for mixed qubit states
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Chiara Macchiavello, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures, strictly related to quant-ph/0506251 and quant-ph/0510155
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042309 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602125
abstract: We describe a general framework to study covariant symmetric broadcasting maps for mixed qubit states. We explicitly derive the optimal N to M superbroadcasting maps, achieving optimal purification of the single-site output copy, in both the universal and the phase covariant cases. We also study the bipartite entanglement properties of the superbroadcast states.

id: quant-ph/0602126
title: Optimization and Realization of Quantum Devices
authors: Francesco Buscemi
comments: PhD thesis. Related papers: quant-ph/0304071 quant-ph/0304175 quant-ph/0305180 quant-ph/0310041 quant-ph/0407103 quant-ph/0504016 quant-ph/0504195 quant-ph/0505095 quant-ph/0510155 quant-ph/0602125
journal: PhD Thesis, Pavia, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602126
abstract: This manuscript must be intended as an informal review of the research works carried out during three years of PhD. "Informal" in the sense that technical proofs are often omitted (they can be found in the papers) as one could do for a presentation in a public talk. Clearly, some background of Quantum Mechanics is needed, even if I tried to minimize the prerequisites.

id: quant-ph/0602127
title: Entanglement dynamics of electron-electron scattering in low-dimensional semiconductor systems
authors: Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone, Andrea Bertoni
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 052312 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602127
abstract: We perform the quantitative evaluation of the entanglement dynamics in scattering events between two insistinguishable electrons interacting via Coulomb potential in 1D and 2D semiconductor nanostructures. We apply a criterion based on the von Neumann entropy and the Schmidt decomposition of the global state vector suitable for systems of identical particles. From the timedependent numerical solution of the two-particle wavefunction of the scattering carriers we compute their entanglement evolution for different spin configurations: two electrons with the same spin, with different spin, singlet, and triplet spin state. The procedure allows to evaluate the mechanisms that govern entanglement creation and their connection with the characteristic physical parameters and initial conditions of the system. The cases in which the evolution of entanglement is similar to the one obtained for distinguishable particles are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0602128
title: Local aspects of disentanglement induced by spontaneous emission
authors: Anna Jamroz
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602128
abstract: We consider spontaneous emission of two two-level atoms interacting with vacuum fluctuations. We study the process of disentanglement in this system and show the possibility of changing disentanglement time by local operations.

id: quant-ph/0602129
title: Non-catastrophic Encoders and Encoder Inverses for Quantum Convolutional Codes
authors: Markus Grassl, Martin Roetteler
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, submitted to 2006 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory
journal: Proceedings 2006 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, pp. 1109-1113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602129
abstract: We present an algorithm to construct quantum circuits for encoding and inverse encoding of quantum convolutional codes. We show that any quantum convolutional code contains a subcode of finite index which has a non-catastrophic encoding circuit. Our work generalizes the conditions for non-catastrophic encoders derived in a paper by Ollivier and Tillich (quant-ph/0401134) which are applicable only for a restricted class of quantum convolutional codes. We also show that the encoders and their inverses constructed by our method naturally can be applied online, i.e., qubits can be sent and received with constant delay.

id: quant-ph/0602130
title: One-and-a-half quantum de Finetti theorems
authors: Matthias Christandl, Robert Koenig, Graeme Mitchison, Renato Renner
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, v4: minor additions (including figures), published version
journal: Comm. Math. Phys., 273 (2), 473-498, (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602130
abstract: We prove a new kind of quantum de Finetti theorem for representations of the unitary group U(d). Consider a pure state that lies in the irreducible representation U_{mu+nu} for Young diagrams mu and nu. U_{mu+nu} is contained in the tensor product of U_mu and U_nu; let xi be the state obtained by tracing out U_nu. We show that xi is close to a convex combination of states Uv, where U is in U(d) and v is the highest weight vector in U_mu. When U_{mu+nu} is the symmetric representation, this yields the conventional quantum de Finetti theorem for symmetric states, and our method of proof gives near-optimal bounds for the approximation of xi by a convex combination of product states. For the class of symmetric Werner states, we give a second de Finetti-style theorem (our 'half' theorem); the de Finetti-approximation in this case takes a particularly simple form, involving only product states with a fixed spectrum. Our proof uses purely group theoretic methods, and makes a link with the shifted Schur functions. It also provides some useful examples, and gives some insight into the structure of the set of convex combinations of product states.

id: quant-ph/0602131
title: Slow light in paraffin-coated Rb vapor cells
authors: M. Klein, I. Novikova, D.F. Phillips, R.L. Walsworth
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, submitted to Journal of Modern Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602131
abstract: We present preliminary results from an experimental study of slow light in anti-relaxation-coated Rb vapor cells, and describe the construction and testing of such cells. The slow ground state decoherence rate allowed by coated cell walls leads to a dual-structured electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) spectrum with a very narrow (<100 Hz) transparency peak on top of a broad pedestal. Such dual-structure EIT permits optical probe pulses to propagate with greatly reduced group velocity on two time scales. We discuss ongoing efforts to optimize the pulse delay in such coated cell systems.

id: quant-ph/0602132
title: A quantum study of multi-bit phase coding for optical storage
authors: Magnus T.L. Hsu, Vincent Delaubert, Warwick P. Bowen, Claude Fabre, Hans-A. Bachor, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures (Please email author for a PDF file if the manuscript does not turn out properly)
journal: IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics 10, 1001 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602132
abstract: We propose a scheme which encodes information in both the longitudinal and spatial transverse phases of a continuous-wave optical beam. A split detector-based interferometric scheme is then introduced to optimally detect both encoded phase signals. In contrast to present-day optical storage devices, our phase coding scheme has an information storage capacity which scales with the power of the read-out optical beam. We analyse the maximum number of encoding possibilities at the shot noise limit. In addition, we show that using squeezed light, the shot noise limit can be overcome and the number of encoding possibilities increased. We discuss a possible application of our phase coding scheme for increasing the capacities of optical storage devices.

id: quant-ph/0602133
title: Zeno and anti-Zeno effects for quantum Brownian motion
authors: Sabrina Maniscalco, Jyrki Piilo, Kalle-Antti Suominen
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. v2: Replaced with the published version. Minor modifications in the text and title
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 130402 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602133
abstract: In this paper we investigate the occurrence of the Zeno and anti-Zeno effects for quantum Brownian motion. We single out the parameters of both the system and the reservoir governing the crossover between Zeno and anti-Zeno dynamics. We demonstrate that, for high reservoir temperatures, the short time behaviour of environment induced decoherence is the ultimate responsible for the occurrence of either the Zeno or the anti-Zeno effect. Finally we suggest a way to manipulate the decay rate of the system and to observe a controlled continuous passage from decay suppression to decay acceleration using engineered reservoirs in the trapped ion context .

id: quant-ph/0602134
title: Circuit analysis of quantum measurement
authors: Yuji Kurotani, Masahito Ueda
comments: 11pages, 7figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012110 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602134
abstract: We develop a circuit theory that enables us to analyze quantum measurements on a two-level system and on a continuous-variable system on an equal footing. As a measurement scheme applicable to both systems, we discuss a swapping state measurement which exchanges quantum states between the system and the measuring apparatus before the apparatus meter is read out. This swapping state measurement has an advantage in gravitational-wave detection over contractive state measurement in that the postmeasurement state of the system can be set to a prescribed one, regardless of the outcome of the measurement.

id: quant-ph/0602135
title: On the Absence of Spurious Eigenstates in an Iterative Algorithm Proposed By Waxman
authors: R. A. Andrew, H. G. Miller, A. R. Plastino
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602135
abstract: We discuss a remarkable property of an iterative algorithm for eigenvalue problems recently advanced by Waxman that constitutes a clear advantage over other iterative procedures. In quantum mechanics, as well as in other fields, it is often necessary to deal with operators exhibiting both a continuum and a discrete spectrum. For this kind of operators, the problem of identifying spurious eigenpairs which appear in iterative algorithms like the Lanczos algorithm does not occur in the algorithm proposed by Waxman.

id: quant-ph/0602136
title: Matrix Tensor Product Approach to the Equivalence of Multipartite States under Local Unitary Transformations
authors: X.H. Gao, S. Alberverio, S.M. Fei, Z.X. Wang
comments: 7 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 45 (2006) 267-270
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602136
abstract: The equivalence of multipartite quantum mixed states under local unitary transformations is studied. A criterion for the equivalence of non-degenerate mixed multipartite quantum states under local unitary transformations is presented.

id: quant-ph/0602137
title: R Function Related to Entanglement of Formation
authors: Shao-Ming Fei, Xianqing Li-Jost
comments: 3 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73 (2006) 024302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602137
abstract: By investigating the convex property of the function R, appeared in computing the entanglement of formation for isotropic states in Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2625 (2000), and a tight lower bound of entanglement of formation for arbitrary bipartite mixed states in Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 210501 (2005), we show analytically that the very nice results in these papers are valid not only for dimensions 2 and 3 but any dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0602138
title: Polarization ququarts
authors: Yu. I. Bogdanov, E. V. Moreva, G. A. Maslennikov, R. F. Galeev, S. S. Straupe, S. P. Kulik
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602138
abstract: We discuss the concept of polarization states of four-dimensional quantum systems based on frequency non-degenerate biphoton field. Several quantum tomography protocols were developed and implemented for measurement of an arbitrary state of ququart. A simple method that does not rely on interferometric technique is used to generate and measure the sequence of states that can be used for quantum communication purposes.

id: quant-ph/0602139
title: Multi-level, multi-party singlets as ground states and their role in entanglement distribution
authors: Christopher Hadley, Sougato Bose
comments: Corrected method for physical preparation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 050308(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602139
abstract: We show that a singlet of many multi-level quantum systems arises naturally as the ground state of a physically-motivated Hamiltonian. The Hamiltonian simply exchanges the states of nearest-neighbours in some network of qudits (d-level systems); the results are independent of the strength of the couplings or the network's topology. We show that local measurements on some of these qudits project the unmeasured qudits onto a smaller singlet, regardless of the choice of measurement basis at each measurement. It follows that the entanglement is highly persistent, and that through local measurements, a large amount of entanglement may be established between spatially-separated parties for subsequent use in distributed quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0602140
title: Information Transfer Implies State Collapse
authors: Bas Janssens, Hans Maassen
comments: 13 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 9845-9860
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602140
abstract: We attempt to clarify certain puzzles concerning state collapse and decoherence. In open quantum systems decoherence is shown to be a necessary consequence of the transfer of information to the outside; we prove an upper bound for the amount of coherence which can survive such a transfer. We claim that in large closed systems decoherence has never been observed, but we will show that it is usually harmless to assume its occurrence. An independent postulate of state collapse over and above Schroedinger's equation and the probability interpretation of quantum states, is shown to be redundant.

id: quant-ph/0602141
title: Detecting Broken PT-Symmetry
authors: Stefan Weigert
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 39 (2006) 10239
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602141
abstract: A fundamental problem in the theory of PT-invariant quantum systems is to determine whether a given system `respects' this symmetry or not. If not, the system usually develops non-real eigenvalues. It is shown in this contribution how to algorithmically detect the existence of complex eigenvalues for a given PT-symmetric matrix. The procedure uses classical results from stability theory which qualitatively locate the zeros of real polynomials in the complex plane. The interest and value of the present approach lies in the fact that it avoids diagonalization of the Hamiltonian at hand.

id: quant-ph/0602142
title: Generation of strong short coherent terahertz pulses in Ladder-Lambda and Double-Lambda systems
authors: Nikolai G. Kalugin, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602142
abstract: We show that coherently driven atomic or molecular media potentially yield strong controllable short pulses of THz radiation. The method is based on excitation of maximal quantum coherence in a gas medium by optical pulses and coherent scattering of infra-red radiation to produce pulses of THz radiation. The pulses have the energies range from several nJ to $\mu$J and time durations from several fs to ns at room temperature.

id: quant-ph/0602143
title: A characterization of global entanglement
authors: Peter J. Love, Alec Maassen van den Brink, A. Yu. Smirnov, M. H. S. Amin, M. Grajcar, E. Il'ichev, A. Izmalkov, A. M. Zagoskin
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, REVTeX 4, v2 Minor errors corrected, three new references, expanded discussion of extension to mixed states
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602143
abstract: We define a set of $2^{n-1}-1$ entanglement monotones for $n$ qubits and give a single measure of entanglement in terms of these. This measure is zero except on globally entangled (fully inseparable) states. This measure is compared to the Meyer-Wallach measure for two, three, and four qubits. We determine the four-qubit state, symmetric under exchange of qubit labels, which maximizes this measure. It is also shown how the elementary monotones may be computed as a function of observable quantities. We compute the magnitude of our measure for the ground state of the four-qubit superconducting experimental system investigated in [M. Grajcar et al., Phys. Rev. Lett._96_, 047006 (2006)], and thus confirm the presence of global entanglement in the ground state.

id: quant-ph/0602144
title: Self-Reduction Rate of a Microtubule
authors: Takashi Hiramatsu, Tetsuo Matsui, Kazuhiko Sakakibara
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures, Extended version
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics C19(2008)291-305.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Subcellular Processes (q-bio.SC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602144
abstract: We formulate and study a quantum field theory of a microtubule, a basic element of living cells. Following the quantum theory of consciousness by Hameroff and Penrose, we let the system to reduce to one of the classical states without measurement if certain conditions are satisfied(self-reductions), and calculate the self-reduction time $\tau_N$ (the mean interval between two successive self-reductions) of a cluster consisting of more than $N$ neighboring tubulins (basic units composing a microtubule). $\tau_N$ is interpreted there as an instance of the stream of consciousness. We analyze the dependence of $\tau_N$ upon $N$ and the initial conditions, etc. For relatively large electron hopping amplitude, $\tau_N$ obeys a power law $\tau_N \sim N^b$, which can be explained by the percolation theory. For sufficiently small values of the electron hopping amplitude, $\tau_N$ obeys an exponential law, $\tau_N \sim \exp(c' N)$. By using this law, we estimate the condition for $\tau_N $ to take realistic values $\tau_N$ \raisebox{-0.5ex}{$\stackrel{>}{\sim}$} $10^{-1}$ sec as $N$ \raisebox{-0.5ex} {$\stackrel{>}{\sim}$} 1000.

id: quant-ph/0602145
title: On the identification of the ground state based on occupation probabilities: An investigation of Smith's apparent counterexamples
authors: Tien D. Kieu
comments: This is an edited version, with updated references, of an earlier reply to Smith in July, 2005. 9 pages and 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602145
abstract: We study a set of truncated matrices, given by Smith~\cite{Smith2005}, in connection to an identification criterion for the ground state in our proposed quantum adiabatic algorithm for Hilbert's tenth problem. We identify the origin of the trouble for this truncated example and show that for a suitable choice of some parameter it can always be removed. We also argue that it is only an artefact of the truncation of the underlying Hilbert spaces, through showing its sensitivity to different boundary conditions available for such a truncation. It is maintained that the criterion, in general, should be applicable provided certain conditions are satisfied. We also point out that, apart from this one, other criteria serving the same identification purpose may also be available.

id: quant-ph/0602146
title: A mathematical proof for a ground-state identification criterion
authors: Tien D. Kieu
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602146
abstract: We give a mathematical proof for an identification criterion by a probability measure for the ground state among an infinite number of available states, or a finitely truncated number with appropriate boundary conditions, in a quantum adiabatic algorithm for Hilbert's tenth problem.

id: quant-ph/0602147
title: A possible general approach regarding the conformability of angular observables with mathematical rules of quantum mechanics
authors: S. Dumitru
comments: 15 pages LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602147
abstract: The conformability of angular observales (angular momentum and azimuthal angle) with the mathematical rules of quantum mechanics is a question which still rouses debates. It is valued negatively within the existing approaches which are restricted by two amendable presumptions. If the respective presumptions are removed one can obtain a general approach in which the mentioned question is valued positively.

id: quant-ph/0602148
title: One-step generation of high-quality squeezed and EPR states in cavity QED
authors: C. J. Villas-Boas, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 
journal: The European Physical Journal D 32, 147 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602148
abstract: We show how to generate bilinear (quadratic) Hamiltonians in cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) through the interaction of a single driven three-level atom with two (one) cavity modes. With this scheme it is possible to generate one-mode mesoscopic squeezed superpositions, two-mode entanglements, and two-mode squeezed vacuum states (such the original EPR state), without the need for Ramsey zones and external parametric amplification. The degree of squeezing achieved is up to 99% with currently feasible experimental parameters and the errors due to dissipative mechanisms become practically negligible.

id: quant-ph/0602149
title: Damped quantum harmonic oscillator
authors: A. Isar, A. Sandulescu
comments: 36 pages, review article
journal: Romanian J. Phys., Vol. 37, No. 7 (1992), p. 643
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602149
abstract: In the framework of the Lindblad theory for open quantum systems the damping of the harmonic oscillator is studied. A generalization of the fundamental constraints on quantum mechanical diffusion coefficients which appear in the master equation for the damped quantum oscillator is presented; the Schr\"odinger and Heisenberg representations of the Lindblad equation are given explicitly. On the basis of these representations it is shown that various master equations for the damped quantum oscillator used in the literature are particular cases of the Lindblad equation and that the majority of these equations are not satisfying the constraints on quantum mechanical diffusion coefficients. Analytical expressions for the first two moments of coordinate and momentum are also obtained by using the characteristic function of the Lindblad master equation. The master equation is transformed into Fokker-Planck equations for quasiprobability distributions. A comparative study is made for the Glauber $P$ representation, the antinormal ordering $Q$ representation and the Wigner $W$ representation. It is proven that the variances for the damped harmonic oscillator found with these representations are the same. By solving the Fokker-Planck equations in the steady state, it is shown that the quasiprobability distributions are two-dimensional Gaussians with widths determined by the diffusion coefficients. The density matrix is represented via a generating function, which is obtained by solving a time-dependent linear partial differential equation derived from the master equation. Illustrative examples for specific initial conditions of the density matrix are provided.

id: quant-ph/0602150
title: Tomographic test of Bell's inequality for a time-delocalized single photon
authors: Milena D'Angelo, Alessandro Zavatta, Valentina Parigi, Marco Bellini
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures: revised version with additional material; accepetd for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 74, 052114 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602150
abstract: Time-domain balanced homodyne detection is performed on two well-separated temporal modes sharing a single photon. The reconstructed density matrix of the two-mode system is used to prove and quantify its entangled nature, while the Wigner function is employed for an innovative tomographic test of Bell's inequality based on the theoretical proposal by Banaszek and Wodkiewicz [Phys. Rev. Lett. 82, 2009 (1999)]. Provided some auxiliary assumptions are made, a clear violation of Banaszek-Bell's inequality is found.

id: quant-ph/0602151
title: Quantum Mechanics of Klein-Gordon Fields I: Hilbert Space, Localized States, and Chiral Symmetry
authors: A. Mostafazadeh, F. Zamani
comments: 31 pages, part one of a series of two papers, to appear in Ann. of Phys. (NY)
journal: AnnalsPhys.321:2183-2209,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602151
abstract: We derive an explicit manifestly covariant expression for the most general positive-definite and Lorentz-invariant inner product on the space of solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation. This expression involves a one-parameter family of conserved current densities J_a^\mu, with a\in(-1,1), that are analogous to the chiral current density for spin half fields. The conservation of J_a^\mu is related to a global gauge symmetry of the Klein-Gordon fields whose gauge group is U(1) for rational a and the multiplicative group of positive real numbers for irrational a. We show that the associated gauge symmetry is responsible for the conservation of the total probability of the localization of the field in space. This provides a simple resolution of the paradoxical situation resulting from the fact that the probability current density for free scalar fields is neither covariant nor conserved. Furthermore, we discuss the implications of our approach for free real scalar fields offering a direct proof of the uniqueness of the relativistically invariant positive-definite inner product on the space of real Klein-Gordon fields. We also explore an extension of our results to scalar fields minimally coupled to an electromagnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0602152
title: Spontaneous Pair Creation Revisited
authors: P. Pickl, D. Duerr
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602152
abstract: Recently the so called Spontaneous Pair Creation of electron positron pairs in a strong external field has been rigorously established. We give here the heuristic core of the proof, since the results differ from those given in earlier works.

id: quant-ph/0602153
title: Measurement master equation
authors: James D. Cresser, Stephen M. Barnett, John Jeffers, David T. Pegg
comments: 14 pages and 8 figures, Optics Communications in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602153
abstract: We derive a master equation describing the evolution of a quantum system subjected to a sequence of observations. These measurements occur randomly at a given rate and can be of a very general form. As an example, we analyse the effects of these measurements on the evolution of a two-level atom driven by an electromagnetic field. For the associated quantum trajectories we find Rabi oscillations, Zeno-effect type behaviour and random telegraph evolution spawned by mini quantum jumps as we change the rates and strengths of measurement.

id: quant-ph/0602154
title: Geometric phases and criticality in spin systems
authors: Jiannis K. Pachos, Angelo C. M. Carollo
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 364, 3463--3476 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602154
abstract: A general formalism of the relation between geometric phases produced by circularly evolving interacting spin systems and their criticality behavior is presented. This opens up the way for the use of geometric phases as a tool to study regions of criticality without having to undergo a quantum phase transition. As a concrete example a spin-1/2 chain with XY interactions is presented and the corresponding geometric phases are analyzed. The generalization of these results to the case of an arbitrary spin system provides an explanation for the existence of such a relation.

id: quant-ph/0602155
title: Simulation of quantum dynamics via classical collective behavior
authors: Yuri Ozhigov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602155
abstract: The simple algorithm for the simulation and visualization of non relativistic quantum dynamics is proposed that is based on a collective behavior of classical particles. Any quantum particle is represented as the swarm of its classical samples which interact by simple rules including emission and absorption of samples of tied photons. The quantum dynamics results from the collective behavior of such a swarm where the eigenstates are treated as the equilibrium states relatively to emission-absorption of photons. The entanglement is treated as a correlation between samples of the different swarms that is stored in the space-time part of the model inaccessible for a user. The amplitude is always grained. The Coulomb field between quantum particles is simulated, analogously to free flow of quantum package, by the point wise interaction between its samples and scalar photon samples which propagate by diffusion. It gives square root speedup in comparison to each-with-each method. This method obviously includes decoherence and admits the natural generalization on the QED of many particles with the linear computational cost.

id: quant-ph/0602156
title: Quantum Predicative Programming
authors: Anya Tafliovich, E.C.R. Hehner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Programming Languages (cs.PL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602156
abstract: The subject of this work is quantum predicative programming -- the study of developing of programs intended for execution on a quantum computer. We look at programming in the context of formal methods of program development, or programming methodology. Our work is based on probabilistic predicative programming, a recent generalisation of the well-established predicative programming. It supports the style of program development in which each programming step is proven correct as it is made. We inherit the advantages of the theory, such as its generality, simple treatment of recursive programs, time and space complexity, and communication. Our theory of quantum programming provides tools to write both classical and quantum specifications, develop quantum programs that implement these specifications, and reason about their comparative time and space complexity all in the same framework.

id: quant-ph/0602157
title: An Introduction to Error-Correcting Codes: From Classical to Quantum
authors: Hsun-Hsien Chang
comments: This is a brief introduction to quantum error correction schemes. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602157
abstract: This report surveys quantum error-correcting codes. As Preskill claimed, 21st century would be the golden age of quantum error correction. Quantum channels behave differently from classical channels, so researchers face difficulties in developing robust quantum codes. Fortunately, the classical error control methods have been well developed. If we can learn many lessons from classical coding theory, we can expedite the development of quantum codes. Scientists have discovered that quantum error correction shares many concepts with classical counterpart. Both quantum and classical coding schemes add redundancy to information to protect against noises. They also have similar conditions for error detectability and correctability.

id: quant-ph/0602158
title: Single photon continuous variable quantum key distribution based on energy-time uncertainty relation
authors: Bing Qi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters Vol.31 p2795-2797 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602158
abstract: In previous quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols, information is encoded on either the discrete-variable of single-photon signal or continuous-variables of multi-photon signal. Here, we propose a new QKD protocol by encoding information on continuous-variables of a single photon. In this protocol, Alice randomly encodes her information on either the central frequency of a narrow-band single photon pulse or the time-delay of a broadband single photon pulse, while Bob randomly chooses to do either frequency measurement or time measurement. The security of this protocol rests on the energy-time uncertainty relation, which prevents Eve from simultaneously determining both frequency and time information with arbitrarily high resolution. In practice, this scheme may be more robust against various channel noises, such as polarization and phase fluctuations.

id: quant-ph/0602159
title: Secure quantum string seal exists
authors: Guang Ping He
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602159
abstract: It was claimed that all quantum string seals are insecure [H. F. Chau, quant-ph/0602099]. However, here it will be shown that for imperfect quantum string seals, the information obtained by the measurement proposed in that reference is trivial. Therefore imperfect quantum string seals can be unconditionally secure.

id: quant-ph/0602160
title: Efficient high-capacity quantum secret sharing with two-photon entanglement
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Xi-Han Li, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 5 pages, no figures. A inappreciable error is corrected
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (12), 1957-1962 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602160
abstract: An efficient high-capacity quantum secret sharing scheme is proposed following some ideas in quantum dense coding with two-photon entanglement. The message sender, Alice prepares and measures the two-photon entangled states, and the two agents, Bob and Charlie code their information on their photons with four local unitary operations, which makes this scheme more convenient for the agents than others. This scheme has a high intrinsic efficiency for qubits and a high capacity.

id: quant-ph/0602161
title: Quantum Mechanics of Klein-Gordon Fields II: Relativistic Coherent States
authors: A. Mostafazadeh, F. Zamani
comments: 32 pages, 17 figures, to appear in Ann. Phys. (NY)
journal: AnnalsPhys.321:2210-2241,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602161
abstract: We use the formulation of the quantum mechanics of first quantized Klein-Gordon fields given in the first of this series of papers to study relativistic coherent states. In particular, we offer an explicit construction of coherent states for both charged and neutral (real) free Klein-Gordon fields as well as for charged fields interacting with a constant magnetic field. Our construction is free from the problems associated with charge-superselection rule that complicated the previous studies. We compute various physical quantities associated with our coherent states and present a detailed investigation of their classical (nonquantum) and nonrelativistic limits.

id: quant-ph/0602162
title: Quantum Fluctuations of Coulomb Potential as a Source of Flicker Noise. The Influence of External Electric Field
authors: Kirill A. Kazakov
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 7125-7140.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602162
abstract: Fluctuations of the electromagnetic field produced by quantized matter in external electric field are investigated. A general expression for the power spectrum of fluctuations is derived within the long-range expansion. It is found that in the whole measured frequency band, the power spectrum of fluctuations exhibits an inverse frequency dependence. A general argument is given showing that for all practically relevant values of the electric field, the power spectrum of induced fluctuations is proportional to the field strength squared. As an illustration, the power spectrum is calculated explicitly using the kinetic model with the relaxation-type collision term. Finally, it is shown that the magnitude of fluctuations produced by a sample generally has a Gaussian distribution around its mean value, and its dependence on the sample geometry is determined. In particular, it is demonstrated that for geometrically similar samples, the power spectrum is inversely proportional to the sample volume. Application of the obtained results to the problem of flicker noise is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0602163
title: Towards a Landau-Zener formula for an interacting Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: D. Witthaut, E. M. Graefe, H. J. Korsch
comments: RevTeX, 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 063609 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602163
abstract: We consider the Landau-Zener problem for a Bose-Einstein condensate in a linearly varying two-level system, for the full many-particle system as well and in the mean-field approximation. The many-particle problem can be solved approximately within an independent crossings approximation, which yields an explicit Landau-Zener formula.

id: quant-ph/0602164
title: Programmable quantum state discriminators with simple programs
authors: Janos A. Bergou, Vladimir Buzek, Edgar Feldman, Ulrike Herzog, Mark Hillery
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602164
abstract: We describe a class of programmable devices that can discriminate between two quantum states. We consider two cases. In the first, both states are unknown. One copy of each of the unknown states is provided as input, or program, for the two program registers, and the data state, which is guaranteed to be prepared in one of the program states, is fed into the data register of the device. This device will then tell us, in an optimal way, which of the templates stored in the program registers the data state matches. In the second case, we know one of the states while the other is unknown. One copy of the unknown state is fed into the single program register, and the data state which is guaranteed to be prepared in either the program state or the known state, is fed into the data register. The device will then tell us, again optimally, whether the data state matches the template or is the known state. We determine two types of optimal devices. The first performs discrimination with minimum error, the second performs optimal unambiguous discrimination. In all cases we first treat the simpler problem of only one copy of the data state and then generalize the treatment to n copies. In comparison to other works we find that providing n > 1 copies of the data state yields higher success probabilities than providing n > 1 copies of the program states.

id: quant-ph/0602165
title: Bilinear and quadratic Hamiltonians in two-mode cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: F. O. Prado, N. G. de Almeida, M. H. Y. Moussa, C. J. Villas-Boas
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 043803 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602165
abstract: In this work we show how to engineer bilinear and quadratic Hamiltonians in cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) through the interaction of a single driven two-level atom with cavity modes. The validity of the engineered Hamiltonians is numerically analyzed even considering the effects of both dissipative mechanisms, the cavity field and the atom. The present scheme can be used, in both optical and microwave regimes, for quantum state preparation, the implementation of quantum logical operations, and fundamental tests of quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0602166
title: Multiparty controlled quantum secret direct communication using Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state
authors: Jian Wang, Quan Zhang, Chao-jing Tang
comments: 
journal: Opt. Commun., 2006, 266(2):732-737
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602166
abstract: Base on the idea of dense coding of three-photon entangled state and qubit transmission in blocks, we present a multiparty controlled quantum secret direct communication scheme using Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state. In the present scheme, the sender transmits her three bits of secret message to the receiver directly and the secret message can only be recovered by the receiver under the permission of all the controllers. All three-photon entangled states are used to transmit the secret messages except those chosen for eavesdropping check and the present scheme has a high source capacity because Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state forms a large Hilbert space.

id: quant-ph/0602167
title: Selective recoupling and stochastic dynamical decoupling
authors: O. Kern, G. Alber
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062302 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602167
abstract: An embedded selective recoupling method is proposed which is based on the idea of embedding the recently proposed deterministic selective recoupling scheme of Yamaguchi et al. [quant-ph/0411099] into a stochastic dynamical decoupling method, such as the recently proposed Pauli-random-error-correction-(PAREC) scheme [Eur. Phys. J. D 32, 153, quant-ph/0407262]. The recoupling scheme enables the implementation of elementary quantum gates in a quantum information processor by partial suppression of the unwanted interactions. The random dynamical decoupling method cancels a significant part of the residual interactions. Thus the time scale of reliable quantum computation is increased significantly. Numerical simulations are presented for a conditional two-qubit swap gate and for a complex iterative quantum algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0602168
title: Enhanced Convergence and Robust Performance of Randomized Dynamical Decoupling
authors: Lea F. Santos, Lorenza Viola
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, replaced with final version
journal: Physical Review Letters 97, 150501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602168
abstract: We demonstrate the advantages of randomization in coherent quantum dynamical control. For systems which are either time-varying or require decoupling cycles involving a large number of operations, we find that simple randomized protocols offer superior convergence and stability as compared to deterministic counterparts. In addition, we show how randomization always allows to outperform purely deterministic schemes at long times, including combinatorial and concatenated methods. General criteria for optimally interpolating between deterministic and stochastic design are proposed and illustrated in explicit decoupling scenarios relevant to quantum information storage.

id: quant-ph/0602169
title: Effects of Collisional Decoherence on Multipartite Entanglement - How would entanglement not be relatively common?
authors: Guang-Hao Low, Zhiming Shi, Ye Yeo
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602169
abstract: We consider the collision model of Ziman {\em et al.} and study the robustness of $N$-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ), W, and linear cluster states. Our results show that $N$-qubit entanglement of GHZ states would be extremely fragile under collisional decoherence, and that of W states could be more robust than of linear cluster states. We indicate that the collision model of Ziman {\em et al.} could provide a physical mechanism to some known results in this area of investigations. More importantly, we show that it could give a clue as to how $N$-partite distillable entanglement would be relatively rare in our macroscopic classical world.

id: quant-ph/0602170
title: Low-lying bifurcations in cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: Michael A. Armen, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602170
abstract: The interplay of quantum fluctuations with nonlinear dynamics is a central topic in the study of open quantum systems, connected to fundamental issues (such as decoherence and the quantum-classical transition) and practical applications (such as coherent information processing and the development of mesoscopic sensors/amplifiers). With this context in mind, we here present a computational study of some elementary bifurcations that occur in a driven and damped cavity quantum electrodynamics (cavity QED) model at low intracavity photon number. In particular, we utilize the single-atom cavity QED Master Equation and associated Stochastic Schrodinger Equations to characterize the equilibrium distribution and dynamical behavior of the quantized intracavity optical field in parameter regimes near points in the semiclassical (mean-field, Maxwell-Bloch) bifurcation set. Our numerical results show that the semiclassical limit sets are qualitatively preserved in the quantum stationary states, although quantum fluctuations apparently induce phase diffusion within periodic orbits and stochastic transitions between attractors. We restrict our attention to an experimentally realistic parameter regime.

id: quant-ph/0602171
title: Complementarity of Process and Substance
authors: Hartmann Roemer
comments: 24 pages
journal: Mind and Matter 4 (2006), 69-89
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602171
abstract: Process Philosophy endeavours to replace the classical ontology of substances by a process ontology centered on notions of changes and transitions. We argue, that the substantial and processual approach are mutually complementary. Here, complementarity is to be understood in the sense of a "Generalized Quantum Theory", which is not restricted to physical phenomena. From this point of view, restricting oneself to either substance or process ontology would be as ill-advised as exclusively relying on position or momentum observables in physics. A new view on Zeno's paradox lends itself. The meaning of an "internal energy observable", complementary to inner time, and its relationship to "akategorial states" of the human mind will also be discussed.

id: quant-ph/0602172
title: One-dimensional completed scattering and quantum nonlocality of entangled states
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: Latex, 25 pages, no figures; reference [63] is updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602172
abstract: Entanglement is usually associated with compound systems. We first show that a one-dimensional (1D) completed scattering of a particle on a static potential barrier represents an entanglement of two alternative one-particle sub-processes, transmission and reflection, macroscopically distinct at the final stage of scattering. The wave function for the whole ensemble of scattering particles can be uniquely presented as the sum of two isometrically evolved wave packets to describe the (to-be-)transmitted and (to-be-)reflected subensembles of particles at all stages of scattering. A noninvasive Larmor-clock timing procedure adapted to either subensemble shows that namely the dwell time gives the time spent, on the average, by a particle in the barrier region, and it denies the Hartman effect. As regards the group time, it cannot be measured and hence it cannot be accepted as a measure of the tunneling time. We argue that nonlocality of entangled states appears in quantum mechanics due to inconsistency of its superposition principle with the corpuscular properties of a particle. For example, this principle associates a 1D completed scattering with a single (one-way) process, while a particle, as an indivisible object, cannot take part in transmission and reflection, simultaneously.

id: quant-ph/0602173
title: Quantum Mechanics without Nonlocality
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: Latex, 8 pages, no figures; the text is thoroughly rewritten
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602173
abstract: We argue that quantum nonlocality of entangled states is not an actual phenomenon. It appears in quantum mechanics as a consequence of the inconsistency of its superposition principle with the corpuscular properties of a quantum particle. In the existing form, this principle does not distinguish between macroscopically distinct states of a particle and their superpositions: it implies introducing observables for a particle, even if it is in an entangled state. However, a particle cannot take part simultaneously in two or more alternative macroscopically distinct sub-processes. Thus, calculating the expectation values of the one-particle's observables, for entangled states, is physically meaningless: Born's formula is not applicable to such states. The same concerns the entangled states of compound quantum systems. In the {\it existing} quantum mechanics, introducing Bell's inequalities is fully legal. However, these inequalities imply averaging over an entangled state, and, hence, they have no basis for their clear physical interpretation. Experiments to confirm the violation of Bell's inequalities do not prove the existence of nonlocality in microcosm. They confirm only that correlations introduced in the existing theory of entangled states have no physical sense, for they contradict special relativity.

id: quant-ph/0602174
title: Universal quantum circuit for n-qubit quantum gate: A programmable quantum gate
authors: P. B. M. Sousa, R. V. Ramos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602174
abstract: Quantum computation has attracted much attention, among other things, due to its potentialities to solve classical NP problems in polynomial time. For this reason, there has been a growing interest to build a quantum computer. One of the basic steps is to implement the quantum circuit able to realize a given unitary operation. This task has been solved using decomposition of unitary matrices in simpler ones till reach quantum circuits having only single-qubits and CNOTs gates. Usually the goal is to find the minimal quantum circuit able to solve a given problem. In this paper we go in a different direction. We propose a general quantum circuit able to implement any specific quantum circuit by just setting correctly the parameters. In other words, we propose a programmable quantum circuit. This opens the possibility to construct a real quantum computer where several different quantum operations can be realized in the same hardware. The configuration is proposed and its optical implementation is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0602175
title: Randomized Dynamical Decoupling Techniques for Coherent Quantum Control
authors: Lorenza Viola, Lea F. Santos
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. Replaced with final version. Invited talk delivered at the XXXVI Winter Colloquium on the Physics of Quantum Electronics, Snowbird, Jan 2006. To be published in J. Mod. Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602175
abstract: The need for strategies able to accurately manipulate quantum dynamics is ubiquitous in quantum control and quantum information processing. We investigate two scenarios where randomized dynamical decoupling techniques become more advantageous with respect to standard deterministic methods in switching off unwanted dynamical evolution in a closed quantum system: when dealing with decoupling cycles which involve a large number of control actions and/or when seeking long-time quantum information storage. Highly effective hybrid decoupling schemes, which combine deterministic and stochastic features are discussed, as well as the benefits of sequentially implementing a concatenated method, applied at short times, followed by a hybrid protocol, employed at longer times. A quantum register consisting of a chain of spin-1/2 particles interacting via the Heisenberg interaction is used as a model for the analysis throughout.

id: quant-ph/0602176
title: Quantum states representing perfectly secure bits are always distillable
authors: Pawel Horodecki, Remigiusz Augusiak
comments: RevTeX, 5 pages, published version
journal: Physical Review A 74, 010302(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602176
abstract: It is proven that recently introduced states with perfectly secure bits of cryptographic key (private states representing secure bit) [K. Horodecki et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 160502 (2005)] as well as its multipartite and higher dimension generalizations always represent distillable entanglement. The corresponding lower bounds on distillable entanglement are provided. We also present a simple alternative proof that for any bipartite quantum state entanglement cost is an upper bound on distillable cryptographic key in bipartite scenario.

id: quant-ph/0602177
title: Nonlinear Pseudo-Supersymmetry in the Framework of N-fold Supersymmetry
authors: Artemio Gonzalez-Lopez, Toshiaki Tanaka
comments: 10 pages, no figures; typos corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 3715-3723
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602177
abstract: We recall the importance of recognizing the different mathematical nature of various concepts relating to PT-symmetric quantum theories. After clarifying the relation between supersymmetry and pseudo-supersymmetry, we prove generically that nonlinear pseudo-supersymmetry, recently proposed by Sinha and Roy, is just a special case of N-fold supersymmetry. In particular, we show that all the models constructed by these authors have type A 2-fold supersymmetry. Furthermore, we prove that an arbitrary one-body quantum Hamiltonian which admits two (local) solutions in closed form belongs to type A 2-fold supersymmetry, irrespective of whether or not it is Hermitian, PT-symmetric, pseudo-Hermitian, and so on.

id: quant-ph/0602178
title: Duality, Phase Structures and Dilemmas in Symmetric Quantum Games
authors: Tsubasa Ichikawa, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: 12 pages, 14 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. 322 (2007) 531.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602178
abstract: Symmetric quantum games for 2-player, 2-qubit strategies are analyzed in detail by using a scheme in which all pure states in the 2-qubit Hilbert space are utilized for strategies. We consider two different types of symmetric games exemplified by the familiar games, the Battle of the Sexes (BoS) and the Prisoners' Dilemma (PD). These two types of symmetric games are shown to be related by a duality map, which ensures that they share common phase structures with respect to the equilibria of the strategies. We find eight distinct phase structures possible for the symmetric games, which are determined by the classical payoff matrices from which the quantum games are defined. We also discuss the possibility of resolving the dilemmas in the classical BoS, PD and the Stag Hunt (SH) game based on the phase structures obtained in the quantum games. It is observed that quantization cannot resolve the dilemma fully for the BoS, while it generically can for the PD and SH if appropriate correlations for the strategies of the players are provided.

id: quant-ph/0602179
title: Un-equivalency Theorem of Deformed Heisenberg-Weyl's Algebra in Noncommutative Space
authors: Jian-Zu Zhang
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602179
abstract: An extensively tacit understandings of equivalency between the deformed Heisenberg-Weyl algebra in noncommutative space and the undeformed Heisenberg-Weyl algebra in commutative space is elucidated. Equivalency conditions between two algebras are clarified. It is explored that the deformed algebra related to the undeformed one by a non-orthogonal similarity transformation. Furthermore, non-existence of a unitary similarity transformation which transforms the deformed algebra to the undeformed one is demonstrated. The un-equivalency theorem between the deformed and the undeformed algebras is fully proved. Elucidation of this un-equivalency theorem has basic meaning both in theory and practice.

id: quant-ph/0602180
title: On the detectability of quantum radiation in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602180
abstract: Based on doubly detuned Raman transitions between (meta) stable atomic or molecular states and recently developed atom counting techniques, a detection scheme for sound waves in dilute Bose-Einstein condensates is proposed whose accuracy might reach down to the level of a few or even single phonons. This scheme could open up a new range of applications including the experimental observation of quantum radiation phenomena such as the Hawking effect in sonic black-hole analogues or the acoustic analogue of cosmological particle creation. PACS: 03.75.Kk, 04.70.Dy, 42.65.Dr.

id: quant-ph/0602181
title: Geometric phase in open systems: beyond the Markov approximation and weak coupling limit
authors: X. X. Yi, D. M. Tong, L. C. Wang, L. C. Kwek, C. H. OH
comments: 
journal: PRA 73,052103(2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602181
abstract: Beyond the quantum Markov approximation and the weak coupling limit, we present a general theory to calculate the geometric phase for open systems with and without conserved energy. As an example, the geometric phase for a two-level system coupling both dephasingly and dissipatively to its environment is calculated. Comparison with the results from quantum trajectory analysis is presented and discussed.

id: quant-ph/0602182
title: Contribution to understanding the mathematical structure of quantum mechanics
authors: L. Skala, V. Kapsa
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602182
abstract: Probabilistic description of results of measurements and its consequences for understanding quantum mechanics are discussed. It is shown that the basic mathematical structure of quantum mechanics like the probability amplitudes, Born rule, commutation and uncertainty relations, probability density current, momentum operator, rules for including the scalar and vector potentials and antiparticles can be obtained from the probabilistic description of results of measurement of the space coordinates and time. Equations of motion of quantum mechanics, the Klein-Gordon equation, Schrodinger equation and Dirac equation are obtained from the requirement of the relativistic invariance of the space-time Fisher information. The limit case of the delta-like probability densities leads to the Hamilton-Jacobi equation of classical mechanics. Many particle systems and the postulates of quantum mechanics are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0602183
title: Simultaneous position and state measurement of Rydberg atoms
authors: C. S. E. van Ditzhuijzen, A. F. Koenderink, L. D. Noordam, H. B. van Linden van den Heuvell
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D vol. 40, page 13-17 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602183
abstract: We present a technique for state-selective position detection of cold Rydberg atoms. Ground state Rb atoms in a magneto-optical trap are excited to a Rydberg state and are subsequently ionized with a tailored electric field pulse. This pulse selectively ionizes only atoms in e.g. the 54d state and not in the 53d state. The released electrons are detected after a slow flight towards a micro channel plate. From the time of flight of the electrons the position of the atoms is deduced. The state selectivity is about 20:1 when comparing 54d with 53d and the one-dimensional position resolution ranges from 6 to 40 $\mu$m over a range of 300 $\mu$m. This state selectivity and position resolution are sufficient to allow for the observation of coherent quantum excitation transport.

id: quant-ph/0602184
title: On the Assumption of Initial Factorization in the Master Equation for Weakly Coupled Systems I: General Framework
authors: S. Tasaki, K. Yuasa, P. Facchi, G. Kimura, H. Nakazato, I. Ohba, S. Pascazio
comments: 33 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. 322 (2007) 631-656
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602184
abstract: We analyze the dynamics of a quantum mechanical system in interaction with a reservoir when the initial state is not factorized. In the weak-coupling (van Hove) limit, the dynamics can be properly described in terms of a master equation, but a consistent application of Nakajima-Zwanzig's projection method requires that the reference (not necessarily equilibrium) state of the reservoir be endowed with the mixing property.

id: quant-ph/0602185
title: On the Assumption of Initial Factorization in the Master Equation for Weakly Coupled Systems II: Solvable Models
authors: K. Yuasa, S. Tasaki, P. Facchi, G. Kimura, H. Nakazato, I. Ohba, S. Pascazio
comments: 25 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. 322 (2007) 657-676
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602185
abstract: We analyze some solvable models of a quantum mechanical system in interaction with a reservoir when the initial state is not factorized. We apply Nakajima-Zwanzig's projection method by choosing a reference state of the reservoir endowed with the mixing property. In van Hove's limit, the dynamics is described in terms of a master equation. We observe that Markovianity becomes a valid approximation for timescales that depend both on the form factors of the interaction and on the observables of the reservoir that can be measured.

id: quant-ph/0602186
title: A simpler proof of zero-knowledge against quantum attacks using Grover's amplitude amplification
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: Talk at TQC 2006 at NTT, Atsugi, Japan
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602186
abstract: Watrous had presented the first proof of zero-knowledge property of a proof system against a quantum verifier. The key of the proof is the construction of a quantum simulator. In the construction, the 'failure state' is rotated to the 'success' state by a tricky operation which is initially developped for the amplification of QMA proof systems. This manuscript presents a new and simpler construction of a simulator. In the construction, we simply amplify the success probability of a classical simulator using Grover's amplification.

id: quant-ph/0602187
title: Moyal products -- a new perspective on quasi-hermitian quantum mechanics
authors: FG Scholtz, HB Geyer
comments: 14 pages. Submitted to J Phys A special issue on The Physics of Non-Hermitian Operators
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602187
abstract: The rationale for introducing non-hermitian Hamiltonians and other observables is reviewed and open issues identified. We present a new approach based on Moyal products to compute the metric for quasi-hermitian systems. This approach is not only an efficient method of computation, but also suggests a new perspective on quasi-hermitian quantum mechanics which invites further exploration. In particular, we present some first results which link the Berry connection and curvature to non-perturbative properties and the metric.

id: quant-ph/0602188
title: Effects of non-local initial conditions in the Quantum Walk on the line
authors: G. Abal, R. Donangelo, A. Romanelli, R. Siri
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, Elsevier style, to appear in Physica A
journal: Physica A Vol 371/1 pp 1-4 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602188
abstract: We report an enhancement of the decay rate of the survival probability when non-local initial conditions in position space are considered in the Quantum Walk on the line. It is shown how this interference effect can be understood analytically by using previously derived results. Within a restricted position subspace, the enhanced decay is correlated with a maximum asymptotic entanglement level while the normal decay rate corresponds to initial relative phases associated to a minimum entanglement level.

id: quant-ph/0602189
title: A probabilistic operator symbol framework for quantum information
authors: M. A. Man'ko, V. I. Man'ko, R. Vilela Mendes
comments: 37 pages Latex, 3 figures
journal: J. of Russian Laser Research 27 (2006) 507-532
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602189
abstract: Hilbert space operators may be mapped onto a space of ordinary functions (operator symbols) equipped with an associative (but noncommutative) star-product. A unified framework for such maps is reviewed. Because of its clear probabilistic interpretation, a particular class of operator symbols (tomograms) is proposed as a framework for quantum information problems. Qudit states are identified with maps of the unitary group into the simplex. The image of the unitary group on the simplex provides a geometrical characterization of the nature of the quantum states. Generalized measurements, typical quantum channels, entropies and entropy inequalities are discussed in this setting.

id: quant-ph/0602190
title: Comment on "Experimental motivation and empirical consistency in minimal no-collapse quantum mechanics"
authors: Fred H. Thaheld
comments: A comment on quant-ph/0506199 v3, 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602190
abstract: Schlosshauer has advanced a theory of minimal no-collapse quantum mechanics for a decoherence-based subjective resolution of the measurement problem. The basic premise being that superposition states are maintained beyond the retinal apparatus, becoming correlated with neuronal arrays located in the occipital lobe of the brain. Decoherence for these neurons in a superposition of firing and resting, leads to an irreversible dynamical decoupling of the two branches, resulting in the emergence of a single subjective perception. Based upon prior retinal research, it is shown that his theory is untenable for several reasons.

id: quant-ph/0602191
title: Decoherence of Dynamically Manipulated Qubits
authors: Vladimir Privman, Dmitry Solenov
comments: 4 pages in PDF, typos corrected
journal: Proc. Conf. IEEE-NANO 2006, Vol. 2, Pages 842-845 (IEEE Press, Monterey, CA, 2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602191
abstract: We summarize our results on decoherence for short- to intermediate-time dynamics of an externally controlled two-state quantum system - a qubit - interacting with thermal bosonic environment. The developed approximation schemes are illustrated for an adiabatic model with time-dependent gate control, and for a model with rotating-wave gate function.

id: quant-ph/0602192
title: Stark effect on a geometry defined by a cake' slice
authors: Jorge-Alejandro Reyes-Esqueda, Carlos I. Mendoza, Marcelo del Castillo-Mussot, Gerardo J. Vazquez
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Microelectronics Journal 36, 596-598 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602192
abstract: By using a variational calculation, we study the effect of an external applied electric field on the ground state of electrons confined in a quantum box with a geometry defined by a slice of a cake. This geometry is a first approximation for a tip of a cantilever of an Atomic Force Microscope (AFM). By modeling the tip with the slice, we calculate the electronic ground state energy as function of the slice's diameter, its angular aperture, its thickness and the intensity of the external electric field applied along the slice. For the applied field pointing to the wider part of the slice, a confining electronic effect in the opposite side is clearly observed. This effect is sharper as the angular slice's aperture is smaller and there is more radial space to manifest itself.

id: quant-ph/0602193
title: Stark effect in a wedge-shaped quantum box
authors: Jorge-Alejandro Reyes-Esqueda, Carlos I. Mendoza, Marcelo del Castillo-Mussot, Gerardo J. Vazquez
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures, 1 table
journal: Physica E 28, 365-373 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602193
abstract: The effect of an external applied electric field on the electronic ground state energy of a quantum box with a geometry defined by a wedge is studied by carrying out a variational calculation. This geometry could be used as an approximation for a tip of a cantilever of an atomic force microscope. We study theoretically the Stark effect as function of the parameters of the wedge: its diameter, angular aperture and thickness; as well as function of the intensity of the external electric field applied along the axis of the wedge in both directions; pushing the carrier towards the wider or the narrower parts. A confining electronic effect, which is sharper as the wedge dimensions are smaller, is clearly observed for the first case. Besides, the sign of the Stark shift changes when the angular aperture is changed from small angles to angles theta>pi. For the opposite field, the electronic confinement for large diameters is very small and it is also observed that the Stark shift is almost independent with respect to the angular aperture.

id: quant-ph/0602194
title: Supersymmetric solutions of PT-/non-PT-symmetric and non-Hermitian Screened Coulomb potential via Hamiltonian hierarchy inspired variational method
authors: Gholamreza Faridfathi, Ramazan Sever
comments: 13 pages
journal: J.Math.Chem.42:289,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602194
abstract: The supersymmetric solutions of PT-symmetric and Hermitian/non-Hermitian forms of quantum systems are obtained by solving the Schrodinger equation for the Exponential-Cosine Screened Coulomb potential. The Hamiltonian hierarchy inspired variational method is used to obtain the approximate energy eigenvalues and corresponding wave functions.

id: quant-ph/0602195
title: Direct measurement of the quantum state of the electromagnetic field in a superconducting transmission line
authors: F. de Melo, L. Aolita, F. Toscano, L. Davidovich
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review A (Rapid Communication). 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 030303(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602195
abstract: We propose an experimental procedure to directly measure the state of an electromagnetic field inside a resonator, corresponding to a superconducting transmission line, coupled to a Cooper-pair box (CPB). The measurement protocol is based on the use of a dispersive interaction between the field and the CPB, and the coupling to an external classical field that is tuned to resonance with either the field or the CPB. We present a numerical simulation that demonstrates the feasibility of this protocol, which is within reach of present technology.

id: quant-ph/0602196
title: Sudden Death of Entanglement: Classical Noise Effects
authors: Ting Yu, J. H. Eberly
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Opt. Commun. 264, 393 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602196
abstract: When a composite quantum state interacts with its surroundings, both quantum coherence of individual particles and quantum entanglement will decay. We have shown that under vacuum noise, i.e., during spontaneous emission, two-qubit entanglement may terminate abruptly in a finite time [T. Yu and J. H. Eberly, \prl {93}, 140404 (2004)], a phenomenon termed entanglement sudden death (ESD). An open issue is the behavior of mixed-state entanglement under the influence of classical noise. In this paper we investigate entanglement sudden death as it arises from the influence of classical phase noise on two qubits that are initially entangled but have no further mutual interaction.

id: quant-ph/0602197
title: Coherent Control of Stationary Light Pulses
authors: F. E. Zimmer, A. Andr¨¦, M. D. Lukin, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 27 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602197
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of the recently demonstrated technique to generate quasi-stationary pulses of light [M. Bajcsy {\it et al.}, Nature (London) \textbf{426}, 638 (2003)] based on electromagnetically induced transparency. We show that the use of counter-propagating control fields to retrieve a light pulse, previously stored in a collective atomic Raman excitation, leads to quasi-stationary light field that undergoes a slow diffusive spread. The underlying physics of this process is identified as pulse matching of probe and control fields. We then show that spatially modulated control-field amplitudes allow us to coherently manipulate and compress the spatial shape of the stationary light pulse. These techniques can provide valuable tools for quantum nonlinear optics and quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0602198
title: Generation of a superposition of odd photon number states for quantum information networks
authors: J. S. Neergaard-Nielsen, B. Melholt Nielsen, C. Hettich, K. Moelmer, E. S. Polzik
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; added and updated references, minor clarifications in the text
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 083604 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602198
abstract: We report on the experimental observation of quantum-network-compatible light described by a non-positive Wigner function. The state is generated by photon subtraction from a squeezed vacuum state produced by a continuous wave optical parametric amplifier. Ideally, the state is a coherent superposition of odd photon number states, closely resembling a superposition of weak coherent states (a Schroedinger cat), with the leading contribution from a single photon state in the low parametric gain limit. Light is generated in a nearly perfect spatial mode with a Fourier-limited frequency bandwidth which matches well atomic quantum memory requirements. The source is also characterized by high spectral brightness with about 10,000 and more events per second routinely generated. The generated state of light is the ultimate input state for testing quantum memories, quantum repeaters and linear optics quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0602199
title: Determining the optical axes of entangled Laguerre Gauss modes
authors: Daisuke Kawase, Shigeki Takeuchi, Keiji Sasaki, Atsushi Wada, Yoko Miyamoto, Mitsuo Takeda
comments: Preprint submitted to Physical Review A (23 February 2006)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602199
abstract: A method for determining the positions of hologram dislocations relative to the optical axes of entangled Laguerre Gaussian modes is proposed. In our method, the coincidence count rate distribution was obtained by scanning the position of one of the holograms in two dimensions. Then, the relative position of the hologram dislocation was determined quantitatively from the positions of the minimum and maximum coincidence count rates. The validity of the method was experimentally verified, and in addition, an experiment demonstrating the violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality was performed using the well-identified optical axes of the entangled modes.

id: quant-ph/0602200
title: Quantum teleportation of optical images with frequency conversion
authors: Liubov V. Magdenko, Ivan V. Sokolov, Mikhail I. Kolobov
comments: 4 pages, 3 Postscript figures, RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602200
abstract: We describe a new version of continuous variables quantum holographic teleportation of optical images. Unlike the previously proposed scheme, it is based on the continuous variables quantum entanglement between the light fields of different frequencies and allows for the wavelength conversion between the original and the teleported images. The frequency tunable holographic teleportation protocol can be used as a part of light-matter interface in parallel quantum information processing and parallel quantum memory

id: quant-ph/0602201
title: Density Matrix Tomography of Entangled Electron and Nuclear Spin States in 15N:C60
authors: Werner Scherer, Michael Mehring
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, fig2. and fig 9 came out corrupted; replacing fig. 2 and fig 9
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602201
abstract: We discuss details of the preparation and detection of entangled electron-nuclear spin states in 15N:C60 together with a quantitative evaluation of the complete density matrix. All four Bell states of a two qubit subsystem were analyzed. In addition we find a quantum critical temperature of Tq = 7.73 K for this system at an electron spin resonance frequency of 95 GHz.

id: quant-ph/0602202
title: Non-Gaussian states from continuous-wave Gaussian light sources
authors: Klaus Molmer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602202
abstract: We present a general analysis of the state obtained by subjecting the output from a continuous-wave (cw) Gaussian field to non-Gaussian measurements. The generic multimode state of cw Gaussian fields is characterized by an infinite dimensional covariance matrix involving the noise correlations of the source. Our theory extracts the information relevant for detection within specific temporal output modes from these correlation functions . The formalism is applied to schemes for production of non-classical light states from a squeezed beam of light.

id: quant-ph/0602203
title: Quantum information entropies of the eigenstates of the Morse potential
authors: Ekrem Aydiner, Cenk Orta, Ramazan Sever
comments: Paper has been improved
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B Vol 22 (2008) 231
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602203
abstract: The position and momentum space information entropies for the Morse potential are numerically obtained for different strengths of the potential. It is found to satisfy the bound obtained by Beckner, Bialynicki-Birula, and Mycielski. Interesting features of the entropy densities are graphically demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0602204
title: Quantum eigenstates and (pseudo-)classical accelerator modes of the Delta-Kicked Accelerator
authors: Gabriel Lemari¨¦, Keith Burnett
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602204
abstract: The quantum dynamics of a periodically driven system, the delta-kicked accelerator, is investigated in the semiclassical and pseudo-classical regimes, where quantum accelerator modes are observed. We construct the evolution operator of this classically chaotic system explicitly. If certain quantum resonance conditions are fullfilled, we show one can reduce the evolution operator to a finite matrix, whose eigenvectors are the quasi-eigenstates. These are represented by their Husimi functions. In so doing, we are able to directly compare the pure quantum states with the classical states. In the semiclassical regime, the quantum states are found to be related to the classical KAM tori and the classical accelerator modes. In contrast, the quasi-eigenstates do not lie on the $\epsilon$-classical trajectories in the pseudo-classical regime. This shows a clear and important distinction between semiclassicality and the new type of pseudo-classicality found by Fishman, Guarneri and Rebuzzini.

id: quant-ph/0602205
title: Asymptotic adaptive bipartite entanglement distillation protocol
authors: Erik Hostens, Jeroen Dehaene, Bart De Moor
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062337 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602205
abstract: We present a new asymptotic bipartite entanglement distillation protocol that outperforms all existing asymptotic schemes. This protocol is based on the breeding protocol with the incorporation of two-way classical communication. Like breeding, the protocol starts with an infinite number of copies of a Bell-diagonal mixed state. Breeding can be carried out as successive stages of partial information extraction, yielding the same result: one bit of information is gained at the cost (measurement) of one pure Bell state pair (ebit). The basic principle of our protocol is at every stage to replace measurements on ebits by measurements on a finite number of copies, whenever there are two equiprobable outcomes. In that case, the entropy of the global state is reduced by more than one bit. Therefore, every such replacement results in an improvement of the protocol. We explain how our protocol is organized as to have as many replacements as possible. The yield is then calculated for Werner states.

id: quant-ph/0602206
title: Sudden Death of Entanglement of Two Jaynes-Cummings Atoms
authors: Muhammed Yonac, Ting Yu, J. H. Eberly
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39 (2006) S621-S625
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602206
abstract: We investigate entanglement dynamics of two isolated atoms, each in its own Jaynes-Cummings cavity. We show analytically that initial entanglement has an interesting subsequent time evolution, including the so-called sudden death effect.

id: quant-ph/0602207
title: Non-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics of Non-diagonalizable Hamiltonians: puzzles with self-orthogonal states
authors: A. V. Sokolov, A. A. Andrianov, F. Cannata
comments: 25 pages, one subsection and an appendix added, terminology is refined, important refs.added
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 10207-10228
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602207
abstract: We consider QM with non-Hermitian quasi-diagonalizable Hamiltonians, i.e. the Hamiltonians having a number of Jordan cells in particular biorthogonal bases. The "self-orthogonality" phenomenon is clarified in terms of a correct spectral decomposition and it is shown that "self-orthogonal" states never jeopardize resolution of identity and thereby quantum averages of observables. The example of a complex potential leading to one Jordan cell in the Hamiltonian is constructed and its origin from level coalescence is elucidated. Some puzzles with zero-binorm bound states in continuous spectrum are unraveled with the help of a correct resolution of identity.

id: quant-ph/0602208
title: Collapse and Relativity
authors: Roderich Tumulka
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures; written for the proceedings of the conference "On the present status of quantum mechanics", 7-9 September, 2005, Mali Losinj, Croatia
journal: P. 340-352 in A. Bassi, D. Duerr, T. Weber and N. Zanghi (eds), Quantum Mechanics: Are there Quantum Jumps? and On the Present Status of Quantum Mechanics, AIP Conference Proceedings 844, American Institute of Physics (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602208
abstract: Ever since we have been in the possession of quantum theories without observers, such as Bohmian mechanics or the Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber (GRW) theory of spontaneous wave function collapse, a major challenge in the foundations of quantum mechanics is to devise a relativistic quantum theory without observers. One of the difficulties is to reconcile nonlocality with relativity. I report about recent progress in this direction based on the GRW model: A relativistic version of the model has been devised for the case of N noninteracting (but entangled) particles. A key ingredient was to focus not on the evolution of the wave function but rather on the evolution of the matter in space-time as determined by the wave function.

id: quant-ph/0602209
title: Quantum dynamics of magnetically controlled network for Bloch electrons
authors: S. Yang, Z. Song, C.P. Sun
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures, references updated
journal: Front. Phys. China (2007) 2(1): 1-16
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602209
abstract: We study quantum dynamics of wave packet motion of Bloch electrons in quantum networks with the tight-binding approach for different types of nearest-neighbor interactions. For various geometrical configurations, these networks can function as some optical devices, such as beam splitters and interferometers. When the Bloch electrons with the Gaussian wave packets input these devices, various quantum coherence phenomena can be observed, e.g., the perfect quantum state transfer without reflection in a Y-shaped beam, the multi- mode entanglers of electron wave by star shaped network and Bloch electron interferometer with the lattice Aharonov-Bohm effects. Behind these conceptual quantum devices are the physical mechanism that, for hopping parameters with some specific values, a connected quantum networks can be reduced into a virtual network, which is a direct sum of some irreducible subnetworks. Thus, the perfect quantum state transfer in each subnetwork in this virtual network can be regarded as a coherent beam splitting process. Analytical and numerical investigations show the controllability of wave packet motion in these quantum networks by the magnetic flux through some loops of these networks, or by adjusting the couplings on nodes. We find the essential differences in these quantum coherence effects when the different wave packets enter these quantum networks initially. With these quantum coherent features, they are expected to be used as quantum information processors for the fermion system based on the possible engineered solid state systems, such as the array of quantum dots that can be implemented experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0602210
title: Nonlinear Schr?dinger equations from prequantum classical statistical field theory
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: Links to theory of nonlinear Schrodinger equation; new model of physical space: Infinite-Dimensional Physical Space
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602210
abstract: We derive some important features of the standard quantum mechanics from a certain classical-like model -- prequantum classical statistical field theory, PCSFT. In this approach correspondence between classical and quantum quantities is established through asymptotic expansions. PCSFT induces not only linear Schr\"odinger's equation, but also its {\it nonlinear generalizations.} This coupling with ``nonlinear wave mechanics'' is used to evaluate the small parameter of PCSFT.

id: quant-ph/0602211
title: Stochastic mechanics, trace dynamics, and differential space - a synthesis
authors: Mark Davidson
comments: A few equations added along with some text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602211
abstract: It is shown how Adler's trace dynamics can be applied to stochastic mechanics and other complex classical dynamical systems. Emergent non-commutivity due to the fractal nature of sample trajectories is closely related to the fact that the forward and backward time derivatives are different for these diffusions. A new variational approach to stochastic mechanics based on trace dynamics is introduced. It is shown that Yasue's method and Guerra and Morato's method can both be generalized to allow for any diffusion constant in a stochastic model of Schrodinger's equation, and that they can all also describe dissipative diffusion. Then it is shown that the trace dynamical theory seems to only describe dissipative diffusion unless an extra quantum mechanical potential term is added to the Hamiltonian. The differential space theory of Wiener and Siegel is reconsidered as a useful tool in this framework, and is generalized to stochastic processes instead of deterministic ones for the hidden trajectories of observables. It is proposed that the natural measure space for Wiener-Siegel theory is Haar measure for random unitary matrices. A new interpretation of the polychotomic algorithm is given.

id: quant-ph/0602212
title: A Realist Interpretation of the Quantum Measurement Problem
authors: Xiaolei Zhang
comments: 8 pages, submiited to the Proceedings of the international conference "Albert Einstein Century", held July 2005 in Paris, France
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602212
abstract: A new, realist interpretation of the quantum measurement processes is given. In this scenario a quantum measurement is a non-equilibrium phase transition in a ``resonant cavity'' formed by the entire physical universe including all its material and energy content. Both the amplitude and the phase of the quantum mechanical wavefunction acquire substantial meaning in this picture, and the probabilistic element is removed from the foundations of quantum mechanics, its apparent presence in the quantum measurement process is viewed as a result of the sensitive dependence on initial/boundary conditions of the non-equilibrium phase transitions in a many degree-of-freedom system. The implications of adopting this realist ontology to the clarification and resolution of lingering issues in the foundations of quantum mechanics, such as wave-particle duality, Heisenberg's uncertainty relation, Schrodinger's Cat paradox, first and higher order coherence of photons and atoms, virtual particles, the existence of commutation relations and quantized behavior, etc., are also presented.

id: quant-ph/0602213
title: Continuous-Time Quantum Walks on Trees in Quantum Probability Theory
authors: Norio Konno
comments: 13 pages, Journal-ref added
journal: Infinite Dimensional Analysis, Quantum Probability and Related Topics, Vol.9, No.2, pp.287-297 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602213
abstract: A quantum central limit theorem for a continuous-time quantum walk on a homogeneous tree is derived from quantum probability theory. As a consequence, a new type of limit theorems for another continuous-time walk introduced by the walk is presented. The limit density is similar to that given by a continuous-time quantum walk on the one-dimensional lattice.

id: quant-ph/0602214
title: Reply to Andrew Hodges
authors: Tien D. Kieu
comments: now 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602214
abstract: We separate the criticisms of Hodges \cite{Hodges2005} and others into those against the algorithm itself and those against its physical implementation. We then point out that {\em all} those against the algorithm are either misleading or misunderstanding, and that the algorithm is self consistent. The only central argument against physical implementations of the algorithm, on the other hand, is based on an assumption that its Hamiltonians cannot be effectively constructed due to a lack of infinite precision. However, so far there is no known physical principle dictating why that cannot be done. To show that the criticism may not be a forgone conclusion, we point out the virtually unknown fact that, on the contrary, simple instances of Diophantine equations with apparently {\em infinitely precisely} integer coefficients have {\em already} been realised in experiments for certain quantum phase transitions. We also speculate on how central limit theorem of statistics might be of some help in the effective implementation of the required Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0602215
title: Three-Way Entanglement and Three-Qubit Phase Gate Based on a Coherent Six-Level Atomic System
authors: Chao Hang, Yun Li, Lei Ma, Guoxiang Huang
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602215
abstract: We analyze the nonlinear optical response of a six-level atomic system under a configuration of electromagnetically induced transparency. The giant fifth-order nonlinearity generated in such a system with a relatively large cross-phase modulation effect can produce efficient three-way entanglement and may be used for realizing a three-qubit quantum phase gate. We demonstrate that such phase gate can be transferred to a Toffoli gate, facilitating practical applications in quantum information and computation.

id: quant-ph/0602216
title: Quasiprobability distribution functions for periodic phase-spaces: I. Theoretical Aspects
authors: M. Ruzzi, M. A. Marchiolli, E.C. Silva, D. Galetti
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A:Math Gen 38 (2005) 6239-6251
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602216
abstract: An approach featuring $s$-parametrized quasiprobability distribution functions is developed for situations where a circular topology is observed. For such an approach, a suitable set of angle-angular momentum coherent states must be constructed in appropriate fashion.

id: quant-ph/0602217
title: Control of decoherence in open quantum systems using feedback
authors: Narayan Ganesan, Tzyh Jong Tarn
comments: 44th IEEE CDC-ECC conference held in Seville, Spain, 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602217
abstract: Quantum feedback is assuming increasingly important role in quantum control and quantum information processing. In this work we analyze the application of such feedback techniques in eliminating decoherence in open quantum systems. In order to apply such system theoretic methods we first analyze the invariance properties of quadratic forms which corresponds to expected value of a measurement and present conditions for decouplability of measurement outputs of such time-varying open quantum systems from environmental effects.

id: quant-ph/0602218
title: Exact propagators for complex SUSY partners of real potentials
authors: B.F. Samsonov, A.M. Pupasov
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 356 (2006) 210--214
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602218
abstract: A method for calculating exact propagators for those complex potentials with a real spectrum which are SUSY partners of real potentials is presented. It is illustrated by examples of propagators for some complex SUSY partners of the harmonic oscillator and zero potentials.

id: quant-ph/0602219
title: Analogue of Cavity QED for Coupling between Spin and Nanomechanical Resonator
authors: Fei Xue, Ling Zhong, Yong Li, C.P. Sun
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: A shorten version was published on Phys. Rev. B 75, 033407 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602219
abstract: We describe a cavity QED analogue for the coupling system of a spin and a nanomechanical resonator with a magnetic tip. For the quantized nanomechanical resonator, a spin-boson model for this coupling system can refer to a Jaynes-Cummings(JC) or an anti-JC model. These observations predict some quantum optical phenomena, such as squeezing and "collapse-revival" in the single oscillation mode of the nanomechanical resonator when it is initially prepared in the quasi-classical state. By modulating the phase of RF magnetic field one can switch the system between the JC and anti-JC model, which provides a potential protocol for the detection of the single spin. A damping mechanism is also analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0602220
title: Linear optics quantum Toffoli and Fredkin gates
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062313 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602220
abstract: We design linear optics multiqubit quantum logic gates. We assume the traditional encoding of a qubit onto state of a single photon in two modes (e.g. spatial or polarization). We suggest schemes allowing direct probabilistic realization of the fundamental Toffoli and Fredkin gates without resorting to a sequence of single- and two-qubit gates. This yields more compact schemes and potentially reduces the number of ancilla photons. The proposed setups involve passive linear optics, sources of auxiliary single photons or maximally entangled pairs of photons, and single-photon detectors. In particular, we propose an interferometric implementation of the Toffoli gate in the coincidence basis, which does not require any ancilla photons and is experimentally feasible with current technology.

id: quant-ph/0602221
title: Non locality and causal evolution in QFT
authors: Fabrizio Buscemi, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: Submitted to Journal of Physics B: 16 pages: 1 figure
journal: J.Phys.B.At.Mol.Opt.Phys.39:S695-S709,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602221
abstract: Non locality appearing in QFT during the free evolution of localized field states and in the Feynman propagator function is analyzed. It is shown to be connected to the initial non local properties present at the level of quantum states and then it does not imply a violation of Einstein's causality. Then it is investigated a simple QFT system with interaction, consisting of a classical source coupled linearly to a quantum scalar field, that is exactly solved. The expression for the time evolution of the state describing the system is given. The expectation value of any arbitrary ``good'' local observable, expressed as a function of the field operator and its space and time derivatives, is obtained explicitly at all order in the field-matter coupling constant. These expectation values have a source dependent part that is shown to be always causally retarded, while the non local contributions are source independent and related to the non local properties of zero point vacuum fluctuations.

id: quant-ph/0602222
title: Quantum operational measurement of amplitude and phase parameters for SU(3)-symmetry optical field
authors: A. P. Alodjants, A. Yu. Leksin, S. M. Arakelian
comments: 11 pages, 2 eps-figures, uses iopart.cls
journal: Journal of Optics B: Quantum and Semiclassical Optics 7 (2005) S745-S749
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602222
abstract: We consider a new approach to describe a quantum optical Bose-system with internal Gell-Mann symmetry by the SU(3)-symmetry polarization map in Hilbert space. The operational measurement in density (or coherency) matrix elements for the three mode optical field is discussed for the first time. We have introduced a set of operators that describes the quantum measurement procedure and the behavior of fluctuations for the amplitude and phase characteristics of three level system. The original twelve-port interferometer for parallel measurements of the Gell-Mann parameters is proposed. The quantum properties of W-qutrit states under the measurement procedure are examined.

id: quant-ph/0602223
title: Quantum Separability and Entanglement Detection via Entanglement-Witness Search and Global Optimization
authors: Lawrence M. Ioannou, Benjamin C. Travaglione
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 052314 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602223
abstract: We focus on determining the separability of an unknown bipartite quantum state $\rho$ by invoking a sufficiently large subset of all possible entanglement witnesses given the expected value of each element of a set of mutually orthogonal observables. We review the concept of an entanglement witness from the geometrical point of view and use this geometry to show that the set of separable states is not a polytope and to characterize the class of entanglement witnesses (observables) that detect entangled states on opposite sides of the set of separable states. All this serves to motivate a classical algorithm which, given the expected values of a subset of an orthogonal basis of observables of an otherwise unknown quantum state, searches for an entanglement witness in the span of the subset of observables. The idea of such an algorithm, which is an efficient reduction of the quantum separability problem to a global optimization problem, was introduced in PRA 70 060303(R), where it was shown to be an improvement on the naive approach for the quantum separability problem (exhaustive search for a decomposition of the given state into a convex combination of separable states). The last section of the paper discusses in more generality such algorithms, which, in our case, assume a subroutine that computes the global maximum of a real function of several variables. Despite this, we anticipate that such algorithms will perform sufficiently well on small instances that they will render a feasible test for separability in some cases of interest (e.g. in 3-by-3 dimensional systems).

id: quant-ph/0602224
title: Anomalously Slow Cross Symmetry Phase Relaxation, Thermalized Non-Equilibrated Matter and Quantum Computing Beyond the Quantum Chaos Border
authors: M. Bienert, J. Flores, S.Yu. Kun, T.H. Seligman
comments: Published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 2:027,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602224
abstract: Thermalization in highly excited quantum many-body system does not necessarily mean a complete memory loss of the way the system was formed. This effect may pave a way for a quantum computing, with a large number of qubits $n\simeq 100$--1000, far beyond the quantum chaos border. One of the manifestations of such a thermalized non-equilibrated matter is revealed by a strong asymmetry around 90$^\circ $ c.m. of evaporating proton yield in the Bi($\gamma$,p) photonuclear reaction. The effect is described in terms of anomalously slow cross symmetry phase relaxation in highly excited quantum many-body systems with exponentially large Hilbert space dimensions. In the above reaction this phase relaxation is about eight orders of magnitude slower than energy relaxation (thermalization).

id: quant-ph/0602225
title: Production of heralded pure single photons from imperfect sources using cross phase modulation
authors: Thomas Konrad, Michael Nock, Artur Scherer, Juergen Audretsch
comments: 8 pages, 8 EPS figures, RevTeX4. Following changes have been made in v.3: Title and abstract slightly changed; numerous minor revisions and clarifications within the text; an appendix with three new figures has been added. In version v4 we have included a supplementary analysis of our scheme that takes into account absorption losses. Our analysis is heuristic and based on a phenomenological model, which is independent of the physical realization of the proposed scheme. We have estimated upper bounds up to which absorption losses can be tolerated, so as our scheme to improve the efficiency of single photon sources still works. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 032331 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602225
abstract: Realistic single-photon sources do not generate single photons with certainty. Instead they produce statistical mixtures of photons in Fock states $\ket{1}$ and vacuum (noise). We describe how to eliminate the noise in the output of the sources by means of another noisy source or a coherent state and cross phase modulation (XPM). We present a scheme which announces the production of pure single photons and thus eliminates the vacuum contribution. This is done by verifying a XPM related phase shift with a Mach-Zehnder interferometer.

id: quant-ph/0602226
title: Pre- and post-selection, weak values, and contextuality
authors: Jeff Tollaksen
comments: Identical content; stream-lined verbal presentation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602226
abstract: By analyzing the concept of contextuality (Bell-Kochen-Specker) in terms of pre-and-post-selection (PPS), it is possible to assign definite values to observables in a new and surprising way. Physical reasons are presented for restrictions on these assignments. When measurements are performed which do not disturb the pre- and post-selection (i.e. weak measurements), then novel experimental aspects of contextuality can be demonstrated including a proof that every PPS-paradox with definite predictions implies contextuality. Certain results of these measurements (eccentric weak values with e.g. negative values outside the spectrum), however, cannot be explained by a "classical-like" hidden variable theory.

id: quant-ph/0602227
title: Stationary quantum Markov process for the Wigner function
authors: T. Hashimoto, M. Horibe, A. Hayashi
comments: 12 pages, no figures; replaced with version accepted for publication in J. Phys. A, title changed, an example added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 14253-14262.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602227
abstract: As a stochastic model for quantum mechanics we present a stationary quantum Markov process for the time evolution of the Wigner function on a lattice phase space Z_N x Z_N with N odd. By introducing a phase factor extension to the phase space, each particle can be treated independently. This is an improvement on earlier methods that require the whole distribution function to determine the evolution of a constituent particle. The process has branching and vanishing points, though a finite time interval can be maintained between the branchings. The procedure to perform a simulation using the process is presented.

id: quant-ph/0602228
title: Relations Between Quantum Maps and Quantum States
authors: M. Asorey, A. Kossakowski, G. Marmo, E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 
journal: Open.Syst.Info.Dyn. 12 (2006) 319-329
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602228
abstract: The relation between completely positive maps and compound states is investigated in terms of the notion of quantum conditional probability.

id: quant-ph/0602229
title: A new pilot-wave model for quantum field theory
authors: W. Struyve, H. Westman
comments: 21 pages, no figures, LaTex, talk given at the conference "On the present status of quantum mechanics", 7-9 September, 2005, Mali Losinj, Croatia
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 844, 321-339 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602229
abstract: We present a way to construct a pilot-wave model for quantum field theory. The idea is to introduce beables corresponding only to the bosonic degrees of freedom and not to the fermionic degrees of freedom of the quantum state. We illustrate this idea for quantum electrodynamics. The beables will be field beables corresponding to the electromagnetic field and they will be introduced in a similar way to that of Bohm's model for the free electromagnetic field. Our approach is analogous to the situation in non-relativistic quantum theory, where Bell treated spin not as a beable but only as a property of the wavefunction.

id: quant-ph/0602230
title: Ground state approximation for strongly interacting systems in arbitrary dimension
authors: S. Anders, M. B. Plenio, W. D¨¹r, F. Verstraete, H.-J. Briegel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 107206 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602230
abstract: We introduce a variational method for the approximation of ground states of strongly interacting spin systems in arbitrary geometries and spatial dimensions. The approach is based on weighted graph states and superpositions thereof. These states allow for the efficient computation of all local observables (e.g. energy) and include states with diverging correlation length and unbounded multi-particle entanglement. As a demonstration we apply our approach to the Ising model on 1D, 2D and 3D square-lattices. We also present generalizations to higher spins and continuous-variable systems, which allows for the investigation of lattice field theories.

id: quant-ph/0602231
title: Quasi-exact minus-quartic oscillators in strong-core regime
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 359 (2006) 21 - 25
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602231
abstract: PT-symmetric potentials $V({x}) = -{x}^4 +\j B {x}^3 + C {x}^2+\j D {x} +\j F/{x} +G/{x}^2$ are quasi-exactly solvable, i.e., a specific choice of a small $G=G^{(QES)}= integer/4$ is known to lead to wave functions $\psi^{(QES)}(x)$ in closed form at certain charges $F=F^{(QES)}$ and energies $E=E^{(QES)}$. The existence of an alternative, simpler and non-numerical version of such a construction is announced here in the new dynamical regime of very large $G^{(QES)} \to \infty$.

id: quant-ph/0602232
title: Quantum exam
authors: Nguyen Ba An
comments: RevTex4, no figs
journal: Phys. Lett. A 350, 174 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602232
abstract: Absolutely and asymptotically secure protocols for organizing an exam in a quantum way are proposed basing judiciously on multipartite entanglement. The protocols are shown to stand against common types of eavesdropping attack.

id: quant-ph/0602233
title: Entanglement properties of quantum spin chains
authors: Stein Olav Skr?vseth
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022327 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602233
abstract: We investigate the entanglement properties of a finite size 1+1 dimensional Ising spin chain, and show how these properties scale and can be utilized to reconstruct the ground state wave function. Even at the critical point, few terms in a Schmidt decomposition contribute to the exact ground state, and to physical properties such as the entropy. Nevertheless the entanglement here is prominent due to the lower-lying states in the Schmidt decomposition.

id: quant-ph/0602234
title: First verification of generic fidelity recovery in a dynamical system
authors: Carlos Pineda, Rudi Schaefer, Tomaz Prosen, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 73(6), 066120 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602234
abstract: We study the time evolution of fidelity in a dynamical many body system, namely a kicked Ising model, modified to allow for a time reversal invariance breaking. We find good agreement with the random matrix predictions in the realm of strong perturbations. In particular for the time-reversal symmetry breaking case the predicted revival at Heisenberg time is clearly seen.

id: quant-ph/0602235
title: Robust observer for uncertain linear quantum systems
authors: Naoki Yamamoto
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 74, 032107 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602235
abstract: In the theory of quantum dynamical filtering, one of the biggest issues is that the underlying system dynamics represented by a quantum stochastic differential equation must be known exactly in order that the corresponding filter provides an optimal performance; however, this assumption is generally unrealistic. Therefore, in this paper, we consider a class of linear quantum systems subjected to time-varying norm-bounded parametric uncertainties and then propose a robust observer such that the variance of the estimation error is guaranteed to be within a certain bound. Although in the linear case much of classical control theory can be applied to quantum systems, the quantum robust observer obtained in this paper does not have a classical analogue due to the system's specific structure with respect to the uncertainties. Moreover, by considering a typical quantum control problem, we show that the proposed robust observer is fairly robust against a parametric uncertainty of the system even when the other estimators--the optimal Kalman filter and risk-sensitive observer--fail in the estimation.

id: quant-ph/0602236
title: Quantum Revivals in Periodically Driven Systems close to nonlinear resonance
authors: Farhan Saif, Mauro Fortunato
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 65, 013401 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602236
abstract: We calculate the quantum revival time for a wave-packet initially well localized in a one-dimensional potential in the presence of an external periodic modulating field. The dependence of the revival time on various parameters of the driven system is shown analytically. As an example of application of our approach, we compare the analytically obtained values of the revival time for various modulation strengths with the numerically computed ones in the case of a driven gravitational cavity. We show that they are in very good agreement.

id: cond-mat/0602040
title: Coherent exciton transport in dendrimers and continuous-time quantum walks
authors: Oliver Muelken, Veronika Bierbaum, Alexander Blumen
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, accepted for publication in J. Chem. Phys
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 124, 124905 (2006)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602040
abstract: We model coherent exciton transport in dendrimers by continuous-time quantum walks (CTQWs). For dendrimers up to the second generation the coherent transport shows perfect recurrences, when the initial excitation starts at the central node. For larger dendrimers, the recurrence ceases to be perfect, a fact which resembles results for discrete quantum carpets. Moreover, depending on the initial excitation site we find that the coherent transport to certain nodes of the dendrimer has a very low probability. When the initial excitation starts from the central node, the problem can be mapped onto a line which simplifies the computational effort. Furthermore, the long time average of the quantum mechanical transition probabilities between pairs of nodes show characteristic patterns and allow to classify the nodes into clusters with identical limiting probabilities. For the (space) average of the quantum mechanical probability to be still or again at the initial site, we obtain, based on the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality, a simple lower bound which depends only on the eigenvalue spectrum of the Hamiltonian.

id: cond-mat/0602063
title: Non-equilibrium Entanglement and Noise in Coupled Qubits
authors: N. Lambert, R. Aguado, T. Brandes
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 045340 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602063
abstract: We study charge entanglement in two Coulomb-coupled double quantum dots in thermal equilibrium and under stationary non-equilibrium transport conditions. In the transport regime, the entanglement exhibits a clear switching threshold and various limits due to suppression of tunneling by Quantum Zeno localisation or by an interaction induced energy gap. We also calculate quantum noise spectra and discuss the inter-dot current correlation as an indicator of the entanglement in transport experiments.

id: cond-mat/0602077
title: Entanglement scaling in critical two-dimensional fermionic and bosonic systems
authors: Thomas Barthel, Ming-Chiang Chung, Ulrich Schollwoeck
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022329 (2006)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602077
abstract: We relate the reduced density matrices of quadratic bosonic and fermionic models to their Green's function matrices in a unified way and calculate the scaling of bipartite entanglement of finite systems in an infinite universe exactly. For critical fermionic 2D systems at T=0, two regimes of scaling are identified: generically, we find a logarithmic correction to the area law with a prefactor dependence on the chemical potential that confirms earlier predictions based on the Widom conjecture. If, however, the Fermi surface of the critical system is zero-dimensional, we find an area law with a sublogarithmic correction. For a critical bosonic 2D array of coupled oscillators at T=0, our results show that entanglement follows the area law without corrections.

id: cond-mat/0602103
title: A lattice of double wells for manipulating pairs of cold atoms
authors: J. Sebby-Strabley, M. Anderlini, P. S. Jessen, J. V. Porto
comments: 9 pages, 11 figures Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602103
abstract: We describe the design and implementation of a 2D optical lattice of double wells suitable for isolating and manipulating an array of individual pairs of atoms in an optical lattice. Atoms in the square lattice can be placed in a double well with any of their four nearest neighbors. The properties of the double well (the barrier height and relative energy offset of the paired sites) can be dynamically controlled. The topology of the lattice is phase stable against phase noise imparted by vibrational noise on mirrors. We demonstrate the dynamic control of the lattice by showing the coherent splitting of atoms from single wells into double wells and observing the resulting double-slit atom diffraction pattern. This lattice can be used to test controlled neutral atom motion among lattice sites and should allow for testing controlled two-qubit gates.

id: cond-mat/0602115
title: The breaking of quantum double symmetries by defect condensation
authors: F.A. Bais, C.J.M. Mathy
comments: 65 pages, 7 figures, correction in table 3, updated references
journal: Annals Phys. 322 (2007) 552-598
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602115
abstract: In this paper, we study the phenomenon of Hopf or more specifically quantum double symmetry breaking. We devise a criterion for this type of symmetry breaking which is more general than the one existing in the literature, and therefore extends the number of possible breaking patterns that can be described consistently. We start by recalling why the extended symmetry notion of quantum double algebras is an optimal tool when analyzing a wide variety of two dimensional physical systems including quantum fluids, crystals and liquid crystals. The power of this approach stems from the fact that one may characterize both ordinary and topological modes as representations of a single (generally non-Abelian) Hopf symmetry. In principle a full classification of defect mediated as well as ordinary symmetry breaking patterns and subsequent confinement phenomena can be given. The formalism applies equally well to systems exhibiting global, local, internal and/or external (i.e. spatial) symmetries. The subtle differences in interpretation for the various situations are pointed out. We show that the Hopf symmetry breaking formalism reproduces the known results for ordinary (electric) condensates, and we derive formulae for defect (magnetic) condensates which also involve the phenomenon of symmetry restoration. These results are applied in two papers which will be published in parallel.

id: cond-mat/0602163
title: A Tonks Giradeau Gas in the Presence of a Local Potential
authors: Hao Fu, A. G. Rojo
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 013620 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602163
abstract: The physics of a Tonks-Giradeau Gas in the presence of a local potential is studied. In order to evaluate the single particle density matrix (SPDM) of the many-body ground state, the Wiger-Jordan transformation is used. The eigenvector with the largest eigenvalue of the SPDM corresponds to the "Bose-Einstein Condensate"(BEC) State. We find that the "BEC" state density at the positon of the local potential decreases, as expected, in the case of a repulsive potential. For an attractive potential, it decreases or increases depending on the strength of the potential. The superfluidity of this system is investigated both numerically and perturbatively. An experimental method for detecting the effect of an impurity in a Tonks-Giradueau gas is discussed.

id: cond-mat/0602176
title: Deterministic quantum state transfer from an electronic charge qubit to a photonic polarization qubit
authors: L.J.P. Ament, C.W.J. Beenakker
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 121307(R) (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602176
abstract: Building on an earlier proposal for the production of polarization-entangled microwaves by means of intraband transitions in a pair of quantum dots, we show how this device can be used to transfer an unknown single-qubit state from electronic charge to photonic polarization degrees of freedom. No postselection is required, meaning that the quantum state transfer happens deterministically. Decoherence of the charge qubit causes a non-monotonic decay of the fidelity of the transferred state with increasing decoherence rate.

id: cond-mat/0602257
title: Quantum Adiabatic Evolution Algorithm and Quantum Phase Transition in 3-Satisfiability Problem
authors: S. Knysh, V. N. Smelyanskiy
comments: 30 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602257
abstract: In this paper we show that the performance of the quantum adiabatic algorithm is determined by phase transitions in underlying problem in the presence of transverse magnetic field $\Gamma$. We show that the quantum version of random Satisfiability problem with 3 bits in a clause (3-SAT) has a first-order quantum phase transition. We analyze the phase diagram $\gamma=\gamma(\Gamma)$ where $\gamma$ is an average number of clauses per binary variable in 3-SAT. The results are obtained in a closed form assuming replica symmetry and neglecting time correlations at small values of the transverse field $\Gamma$. In the limit of $\Gamma=0$ the value of $\gamma(0)\approx$ 5.18 corresponds to that given by the replica symmetric treatment of a classical random 3-SAT problem. We demonstrate the qualitative similarity between classical and quantum versions of this problem.

id: cond-mat/0602268
title: Divergence of the entanglement range in low dimensional quantum systems
authors: L.Amico, F.Baroni, A.Fubini, D.Patane', V.Tognetti, P.Verrucchi
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022322 (2006)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602268
abstract: We study the pairwise entanglement close to separable ground states of a class of one dimensional quantum spin models. At T=0 we find that such ground states separate regions, in the space of the Hamiltonian parameters, which are characterized by qualitatively different types of entanglement, namely parallel and antiparallel entanglement; we further demonstrate that the range of the Concurrence diverges while approaching separable ground states, therefore evidencing that such states, with uncorrelated fluctuations, are reached by a long range reshuffling of the entanglement. We generalize our results to the analysis of quantum phase transitions occurring in bosonic and fermionic systems. Finally, the effects of finite temperature are considered: At T>0 we evidence the existence of a region where no pairwise entanglement survives, so that entanglement, if present, is genuinely multipartite.

id: cond-mat/0602288
title: Switching via quantum activation: A parametrically modulated oscillator
authors: M. Marthaler, M. I. Dykman
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 042108 (2006)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602288
abstract: We study switching between period-two states of an underdamped quantum oscillator modulated at nearly twice its natural frequency. For all temperatures and parameter values switching occurs via quantum activation: it is determined by diffusion over oscillator quasienergy, provided the relaxation rate exceeds the rate of interstate tunneling. The diffusion has quantum origin and accompanies relaxation to the stable state. We find the semiclassical distribution over quasienergy. For T=0, where the system has detailed balance, this distribution differs from the distribution for $T\to 0$; the T=0 distribution is also destroyed by small dephasing of the oscillator. The characteristic quantum activation energy of switching displays a typical dependence on temperature and scaling behavior near the bifurcation point where period doubling occurs.

id: cond-mat/0602299
title: Entanglement production with multimode Bose-Einstein condensates in optical lattices
authors: V.I. Yukalov, E.P. Yukalova
comments: Latex file, 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: Laser Phys. 16 (2006) 354-359
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602299
abstract: Deep optical lattices are considered, in each site of which there are many Bose-condensed atoms. By the resonant modulation of trapping potentials it is possible to transfer a macroscopic portion of atoms to the collective nonlinear states corresponding to topological coherent modes. Entanglement can be generated between these modes. By varying the resonant modulating field it is possible to effectively regulate entanglement production in this multimode multitrap system of Bose condensates.

id: cond-mat/0602305
title: Time evolution of Matrix Product States
authors: Juan Jose Garcia-Ripoll
comments: More extensive comparison with all nearest-neighbor spin s=1/2 models. The results in this manuscript have been superseded by a more complete work in cond-mat/0610210
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602305
abstract: In this work we develop several new simulation algorithms for 1D many-body quantum mechanical systems combining the Matrix Product State variational ansatz with Taylor, Pade and Arnoldi approximations to the evolution operator. By comparing all methods with previous techniques based on Trotter decompositions we demonstrate that the Arnoldi method is the best one, reaching extremely good accuracy with moderate resources. Finally we apply this algorithm to studying the formation of molecules in an optical lattices when crossing a Feschbach resonance with a cloud of two-species hard-core bosons.

id: cond-mat/0602319
title: Searching for a Supersolid in Cold Atom Optical Lattices
authors: V.W. Scarola, E. Demler, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 051601(R) (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602319
abstract: We suggest a technique for the observation of a predicted supersolid phase in extended Bose-Hubbard models which are potentially realizable in cold atom optical lattice systems. In particular, we discuss important subtleties arising from the existence of the trapping potential which leads to an externally imposed (as opposed to spontaneous) breaking of translational invariance. We show, by carefully including the trapping potential in our theoretical formalism, that noise correlations could prove instrumental in identifying the supersolid and density wave phases. We also find that the noise correlation peak width scales inversely with the relative size of trapped Mott domains.

id: cond-mat/0602322
title: Qubit-photon interactions in a cavity: Measurement induced dephasing and number splitting
authors: Jay Gambetta, Alexandre Blais, D. I. Schuster, A. Wallraff, L. Frunzio, J. Majer, M. H. Devoret, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 15 pages and 10 figures. Section IV revised. Author and references added. Version with high resolution figures available at available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042318 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602322
abstract: We theoretically study measurement induced-dephasing of a superconducting qubit in the circuit QED architecture and compare the results to those obtained experimentally by Schuster {\it et al.}, [Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 123602 (2005)]. Strong coupling of the qubit to the resonator leads to a significant ac-Stark shift of the qubit transition frequency. As a result, quantum fluctuations in the photon number populating the resonator cause dephasing of the qubit. We find good agreement between the predicted line shape of the qubit spectrum and the experimental results. Furthermore, in the strong dispersive limit, where the Stark shift per photon is large compared to the cavity decay rate and the qubit linewidth, we predict that the qubit spectrum will be split into multiple peaks, with each peak corresponding to a different number of photons in the cavity.

id: cond-mat/0602441
title: Spin conversion rates due to dipolar interactions in mono-isotopic quantum dots at vanishing spin-orbit coupling
authors: Wolfgang H?usler, Peter H?nggi
comments: 12 pages, to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Physical Review B 73, 125329 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602441
abstract: Dipolar interaction between the magnetic moments of electrons is studied as a source for electron spin decay in quantum dots or arrays of quantum dots. This magnetic interaction will govern spin decay, after other sources, such as the coupling to nuclear spins or spin orbit coupling, have been eliminated by a suitable sample design. Electron-electron (Coulomb) interactions, important for magnetic properties, are included. Decomposing the dipolar operator according to the symmetric group of electron permutations allows one to deduce vanishing decay channels as a function of electron number and spatial symmetries of the quantum dot(s). Moreover, we incorporate the possibility of rapid phonon induced spin conserving transitions which crucially affect the temperature dependence of spin decay rates. An interesting result is that a sharp increase of the spin decay rate occurs already at relatively low temperatures.

id: cond-mat/0602455
title: Effects of Lagrangian Multipliers on SWCNT in Real Space
authors: N. Sunel, E. Rizaoglu, K. Harigaya, O. Ozsoy
comments: accepted for publication in Int. J. Quantum Chem.; 11 pages; 5 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Chemistry, Vol 106, 2100-2106 (2006)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602455
abstract: Electronic properties, band width, band gap and van Hove singularities, of (3,0), (4,0) and (9,0) zigzag nanotubes are comparatively investigated in the Harigaya's model and a toy model including the contributions of bonds of different types to the SSH Hamiltonian differently. Optical transition frequencies are calculated. In this way an experimental correlation between the two models is achieved.

id: cond-mat/0602514
title: Parity meter for charge qubits: an efficient quantum entangler
authors: B. Trauzettel, A.N. Jordan, C.W.J. Beenakker, M. Buttiker
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures; v2: discussion of measurement time, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 235331 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602514
abstract: We propose a realization of a charge parity meter based on two double quantum dots alongside a quantum point contact. Such a device is a specific example of the general class of mesoscopic quadratic quantum measurement detectors previously investigated by Mao et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 056803 (2004)]. Our setup accomplishes entangled state preparation by a current measurement alone, and allows the qubits to be effectively decoupled by pinching off the parity meter. Two applications of the parity meter are discussed: the measurement of Bell's inequality in charge qubits and the realization of a controlled NOT gate.

id: cond-mat/0602573
title: Coherent Population Trapping in Diamond N-V Centers at Zero Magnetic Field
authors: Charles Santori, David Fattal, Sean M. Spillane, Marco Fiorentino, Raymond G. Beausoleil, Andrew D. Greentree, Paolo Olivero, Martin Draganski, James R. Rabeau, Patrick Reichart, Brant C. Gibson, Sergey Rubanov, David N. Jamieson, Steven Prawer
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, new figure added
journal: Optics Express 14, 7986 (2006).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602573
abstract: Coherent population trapping at zero magnetic field was observed for nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond under optical excitation. This was measured as a reduction in photoluminescence when the detuning between two excitation lasers matched the 2.88 GHz crystal-field splitting of the color center ground states. This behavior is highly sensitive to strain, which modifies the excited states, and was unexpected following recent experiments demonstrating optical readout of single nitrogen-vacancy electron spins based on cycling transitions. These results demonstrate for the first time that three-level Lambda configurations suitable for proposed quantum information applications can be realized simultaneously for all four orientations of nitrogen-vacancy centers at zero magnetic field.

id: cond-mat/0602597
title: Magnetic field-assisted manipulation and entanglement of Si spin qubits
authors: M.J. Calderon, Belita Koiller, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. 1 ref and 1 footnote added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74, 081302(R) (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602597
abstract: Architectures of donor-electron based qubits in silicon near an oxide interface are considered theoretically. We find that the precondition for reliable logic and read-out operations, namely the individual identification of each donor-bound electron near the interface, may be accomplished by fine-tuning electric and magnetic fields, both applied perpendicularly to the interface. We argue that such magnetic fields may also be valuable in controlling two-qubit entanglement via donor electron pairs near the interface.

id: cond-mat/0602625
title: On the Basis of Quantum Statistical Mechanics
authors: Ayumu Sugita
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, submitted to the Proceedings of the 6th International Summer School and Conference "Let's Face Chaos through Nonlinear Dynamics"
journal: Nonlinear Phenomena in Complex Systems, Vol. 10, No. 2 (2007), pp. 192-195.
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602625
abstract: We propose a new approach to justify the use of the microcanonical ensemble for isolated macroscopic quantum systems. Since there are huge number of independent observables in a macroscopic system, we cannot see all of them. Actually what we observe can be written in a rather simple combination of local observables. Considering this limitation, we show that almost all states in a energy shell are practically indistinguishable from one another, and hence from the microcanonical ensemble. In particular, the expectation value of a macroscopic observable is very close to its microcanonical ensemble average for almost all states.

id: cond-mat/0602630
title: Relation between the thermodynamic Casimir effect in Bose-gas slabs and critical Casimir forces
authors: A. Gambassi, S. Dietrich
comments: Comment on cond-mat/0507263
journal: Europhys. Lett. 74 (2006) 754-755
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602630
abstract: In a recent letter, Martin and Zagrebnov [Europhys. Lett., 73 (2006) 1] discussed the thermodynamic Casimir effect for the ideal Bose gas confined in a thin film. We point out that their findings can be expressed in terms of previous general results for the Casimir effect induced by confined critical fluctuations. This highlights the links between the Casimir effect in the contexts of critical phenomena and Bose-Einstein condensation.

id: gr-qc/0602001
title: Non-equilibrium Thermodynamics of Spacetime
authors: Christopher Eling, Raf Guedens, Ted Jacobson
comments: 4 pages. Dedicated to Rafael Sorkin on the occasion of his 60th birthday
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.96:121301,2006
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0602001
abstract: It has previously been shown that the Einstein equation can be derived from the requirement that the Clausius relation dS = dQ/T hold for all local acceleration horizons through each spacetime point, where dS is one quarter the horizon area change in Planck units, and dQ and T are the energy flux across the horizon and Unruh temperature seen by an accelerating observer just inside the horizon. Here we show that a curvature correction to the entropy that is polynomial in the Ricci scalar requires a non-equilibrium treatment. The corresponding field equation is derived from the entropy balance relation dS =dQ/T+dS_i, where dS_i is a bulk viscosity entropy production term that we determine by imposing energy-momentum conservation. Entropy production can also be included in pure Einstein theory by allowing for shear viscosity of the horizon.

id: gr-qc/0602013
title: Generalizing Quantum Mechanics for Quantum Spacetime
authors: James B. Hartle
comments: 31 pages, 4 figures, latex, contribution to the 23rd Solvay Conference, The Quantum Structure of Space and Time, one reference added
journal: The Quantum Structure of Space and Time: ed. by D. Gross, M. Henneaux, and A. Sevrin (World Scientific, Singapore, 2007)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0602013
abstract: Familiar textbook quantum mechanics assumes a fixed background spacetime to define states on spacelike surfaces and their unitary evolution between them. Quantum theory has changed as our conceptions of space and time have evolved. But quantum mechanics needs to be generalized further for quantum gravity where spacetime geometry is fluctuating and without definite value. This paper reviews a fully four-dimensional, sum-over-histories, generalized quantum mechanics of cosmological spacetime geometry. This generalization is constructed within the framework of generalized quantum theory. This is a minimal set of principles for quantum theory abstracted from the modern quantum mechanics of closed systems, most generally the universe. In this generalization, states of fields on spacelike surfaces and their unitary evolution are emergent properties appropriate when spacetime geometry behaves approximately classically. The principles of generalized quantum theory allow for the further generalization that would be necessary were spacetime not fundamental. Emergent spacetime phenomena are discussed in general and illustrated with the example of the classical spacetime geometries with large spacelike surfaces that emerge from the `no-boundary' wave function of the universe. These must be Lorentzian with one, and only one, time direction. The essay concludes by raising the question of whether quantum mechanics itself is emergent.

id: gr-qc/0602023
title: Quantum mechanics and the cosmological constant
authors: Lev V. Prokhorov
comments: 9 pages; minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0602023
abstract: It is shown that in the model [3,4] of quantum mechanics besides probability amplitudes, the Planck constant and the Fock space, the cosmological constant also appear in the natural way. The Poisson brackets are generalized for the case of kinetics.

id: gr-qc/0602101
title: Dynamics of Scalar Field in Polymer-like Representation
authors: Muxin Han, Yongge Ma
comments: 24 pages, accepted for pubilcation in Class. Quant. Grav
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 23 (2006) 2741-2760
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0602101
abstract: In recent twenty years, loop quantum gravity, a background independent approach to unify general relativity and quantum mechanics, has been widely investigated. We consider the quantum dynamics of a real massless scalar field coupled to gravity in this framework. A Hamiltonian operator for the scalar field can be well defined in the coupled diffeomorphism invariant Hilbert space, which is both self-adjoint and positive. On the other hand, the Hamiltonian constraint operator for the scalar field coupled to gravity can be well defined in the coupled kinematical Hilbert space. There are 1-parameter ambiguities due to scalar field in the construction of both operators. The results heighten our confidence that there is no divergence within this background independent and diffeomorphism invariant quantization approach of matter coupled to gravity. Moreover, to avoid possible quantum anomaly, the master constraint programme can be carried out in this coupled system by employing a self-adjoint master constraint operator on the diffeomorphism invariant Hilbert space.

id: hep-ph/0602034
title: Landau Pole and the Nature of $1/N_f$ Expansion Series in Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Mofazzal Azam
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0602034
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author because the arguments presented in the paper is incomplete.

id: hep-th/0602047
title: Hamilton's equations in a non-associative quantum theory
authors: Vladimir Dzhunushaliev
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0602047
abstract: A new non-associative algebra for the quantization of strongly interacting fields is proposed. The full set of quantum $(\pm)$associators for the product of three operators is offered. An algorithm for the calculation of some $(\pm)$associators for the product of some four operators is offered. The possible generalization of Hamilton's equations for a non-associative quantum theory is proposed. Some arguments are given that a non-associative quantum theory can be a fundamental unifying theory.

id: hep-th/0602061
title: Strings, Black Holes, and Quantum Information
authors: Renata Kallosh, Andrei Linde
comments: 31 pages, 10 figures. A version to appear in Physical Review
journal: Phys.Rev.D73:104033,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0602061
abstract: We find multiple relations between extremal black holes in string theory and 2- and 3-qubit systems in quantum information theory. We show that the entropy of the axion-dilaton extremal black hole is related to the concurrence of a 2-qubit state, whereas the entropy of the STU black holes, BPS as well as non-BPS, is related to the 3-tangle of a 3-qubit state. We relate the 3-qubit states with the string theory states with some number of D-branes. We identify a set of "large" black holes with the maximally entangled GHZ-class of states and "small" black holes with separable, bipartite and W states. We sort out the relation between 3-qubit states, twistors, octonions, and black holes. We give a simple expression for the entropy and the area of stretched horizon of "small'' black holes in terms of a norm and 2-tangles of a 3-qubit system. Finally, we show that the most general expression for the black hole and black ring entropy in N=8 supergravity/M-theory, which is given by the famous quartic Cartan E_{7(7)} invariant, can be reduced to Cayley's hyperdeterminant describing the 3-tangle of a 3-qubit state.

id: hep-th/0602134
title: Entanglement Entropy in Critical Phenomena and Analogue Models of Quantum Gravity
authors: Dmitri V. Fursaev
comments: 13 pages, published version, minor changes in the abstract, new references
journal: Phys.Rev.D73:124025,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0602134
abstract: A general geometrical structure of the entanglement entropy for spatial partition of a relativistic QFT system is established by using methods of the effective gravity action and the spectral geometry. A special attention is payed to the subleading terms in the entropy in different dimensions and to behaviour in different states. It is conjectured, on the base of relation between the entropy and the action, that in a fundamental theory the ground state entanglement entropy per unit area equals $1/(4G_N)$, where $G_N$ is the Newton constant in the low-energy gravity sector of the theory. The conjecture opens a new avenue in analogue gravity models. For instance, in higher dimensional condensed matter systems, which near a critical point are described by relativistic QFT's, the entanglement entropy density defines an effective gravitational coupling. By studying the properties of this constant one can get new insights in quantum gravity phenomena, such as the universality of the low-energy physics, the renormalization group behavior of $G_N$, the statistical meaning of the Bekenstein-Hawking entropy.

id: hep-th/0602144
title: Conformal entropy from horizon states: Solodukhin's method for spherical, toroidal, and hyperbolic black holes in D-dimensional anti-de Sitter spacetimes
authors: Goncalo A. S. Dias, Jose' P. S. Lemos
comments: 21 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.D74:044024,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0602144
abstract: A calculation of the entropy of static, electrically charged, black holes with spherical, toroidal, and hyperbolic compact and oriented horizons, in D spacetime dimensions, is performed. These black holes live in an anti-de Sitter spacetime, i.e., a spacetime with negative cosmological constant. To find the entropy, the approach developed by Solodukhin is followed. The method consists in a redefinition of the variables in the metric, by considering the radial coordinate as a scalar field. Then one performs a 2+(D-2) dimensional reduction, where the (D-2) dimensions are in the angular coordinates, obtaining a 2-dimensional effective scalar field theory. This theory is a conformal theory in an infinitesimally small vicinity of the horizon. The corresponding conformal symmetry will then have conserved charges, associated with its infinitesimal conformal generators, which will generate a classical Poisson algebra of the Virasoro type. Shifting the charges and replacing Poisson brackets by commutators, one recovers the usual form of the Virasoro algebra, obtaining thus the level zero conserved charge eigenvalue L_0, and a nonzero central charge c. The entropy is then obtained via the Cardy formula.

id: hep-th/0602169
title: Representations of the Lie Superalgebra gl(1|n) in a Gel'fand-Zetlin Basis and Wigner Quantum Oscillators
authors: R.C. King, N.I. Stoilova, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.A39:5763-5786,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0602169
abstract: An explicit construction of all finite-dimensional irreducible representations of the Lie superalgebra gl(1|n) in a Gel'fand-Zetlin basis is given. Particular attention is paid to the so-called star type I representations (``unitary representations''), and to a simple class of representations V(p), with p any positive integer. Then, the notion of Wigner Quantum Oscillators (WQOs) is recalled. In these quantum oscillator models, the unitary representations of gl(1|DN) are physical state spaces of the N-particle D-dimensional oscillator. So far, physical properties of gl(1|DN) WQOs were described only in the so-called Fock spaces W(p), leading to interesting concepts such as non-commutative coordinates and a discrete spatial structure. Here, we describe physical properties of WQOs for other unitary representations, including certain representations V(p) of gl(1|DN). These new solutions again have remarkable properties following from the spectrum of the Hamiltonian and of the position, momentum, and angular momentum operators. Formulae are obtained that give the angular momentum content of all the representations V(p) of gl(1|3N), associated with the N-particle 3-dimensional WQO. For these representations V(p) we also consider in more detail the spectrum of the position operators and their squares, leading to interesting consequences. In particular, a classical limit of these solutions is obtained, that is in agreement with the correspondence principle.

id: hep-th/0602204
title: Universal Yang-Mills Action on Four Dimensional Manifolds
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Hiroshi Oike, Tatsuo Suzuki
comments: Latex file ; 14 pages ; 1 figure ; minor changes
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys.3:1331-1340,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0602204
abstract: The usual action of Yang-Mills theory is given by the quadratic form of curvatures of a principal G bundle defined on four dimensional manifolds. The non-linear generalization which is known as the Born-Infeld action has been given. In this paper we give another non-linear generalization on four dimensional manifolds and call it a universal Yang-Mills action. The advantage of our model is that the action splits {\bf automatically} into two parts consisting of self-dual and anti-self-dual directions. Namely, we have automatically the self-dual and anti-self-dual equations without solving the equations of motion as in a usual case. Our method may be applicable to recent non-commutative Yang-Mills theories studied widely.

id: hep-th/0602231
title: Hyperboloid, instanton, oscillator
authors: Stefano Bellucci, Levon Mardoyan, Armen Nersessian
comments: 6 pages, PACS numbers: 03.65-w, 11.30.Pb
journal: Phys.Lett. B636 (2006) 137-141
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0602231
abstract: We suggest the exactly solvable model of the oscillator on a four-dimensional hyperboloid which interacts with a SU(2) instanton. We calculate its wavefunctions and spectrum.

id: hep-th/0602236
title: Approaching quantum behavior with classical fields
authors: B. Holdom
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, now matches published version
journal: J.Phys.A39:7485,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0602236
abstract: By averaging over an ensemble of field configurations, a classical field theory can display many of the characteristics of quantum field theory, including Lorentz invariance, a loop expansion, and renormalization effects. There is additional freedom in how the ensemble is chosen. When the field mode amplitudes have a Gaussian distribution, and the mode phases are randomly distributed, we review the known differences between the classical and quantum theories. When the mode amplitudes are fixed, or have a nongaussian distribution, the quartic and higher correlations among the free fields are modified, seemingly in a nonlocal way. We show how this in turn affects the perturbative expansion. We focus on $\lambda\phi^4$ theory in 1+1 dimensions and use lattice simulations to augment our study. We give examples of how these nonlocal correlations induce behavior more similar to quantum field theory, at both weak and strong coupling.

id: math-ph/0602005
title: The Schr?dinger Equation with a Moving Point Interaction in Three Dimensions
authors: Andrea Posilicano
comments: Revised version, to appear in Proc. Am. Math. Soc
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0602005
abstract: In the case of a single point interaction we improve, by different techniques, the existence theorem for the unitary evolution generated by a Schr\"odinger operator with moving point interactions obtained by Dell'Antonio, Figari and Teta.

id: math-ph/0602013
title: Krein space related perturbation theory for MHD alpha-2-dynamos and resonant unfolding of diabolical points
authors: Oleg Kirillov, Uwe Guenther
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures, presented at the 4th International Workshop on Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics, November 23-25, 2005, Stellenbosch, South Africa; minor typos corrected, refs added
journal: J.Phys.A39:10057-10076,2006
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0602013
abstract: The spectrum of the spherically symmetric alpha-2 dynamo is studied in the case of idealized boundary conditions. Starting from the exact analytical solutions of models with constant alpha-profiles a perturbation theory and a Galerkin technique are developed in a Krein-space approach. With the help of these tools a very pronounced alpha-resonance pattern is found in the deformations of the spectral mesh as well as in the unfolding of the diabolical points located at the nodes of this mesh. Non-oscillatory as well as oscillatory dynamo regimes are obtained. A Fourier component based estimation technique is developed for obtaining the critical alpha-profiles at which the eigenvalues enter the right spectral half-plane with non-vanishing imaginary components (at which overcritical oscillatory dynamo regimes form). Finally, Frechet derivative (gradient) based methods are developed, suitable for further numerical investigations of Krein-space related setups like MHD alpha-2-dynamos or models of PT-symmetric quantum mechanics.

id: math-ph/0602037
title: Systems of orthogonal polynomials defined by hypergeometric type equations with application to quantum mechanics
authors: Nicolae Cotfas
comments: Additional results available at this http URL
journal: Central European Journal of Physics 2 (2004) 456-466
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0602037
abstract: A hypergeometric type equation satisfying certain conditions defines either a finite or an infinite system of orthogonal polynomials. We present in a unified and explicit way all these systems of orthogonal polynomials, the associated special functions and the corresponding raising/lowering operators. The considered equations are directly related to some Schrodinger type equations (Poschl-Teller, Scarf, Morse, etc), and the defined special functions are related to the corresponding bound-state eigenfunctions.

id: math-ph/0602050
title: On the Essential Spectrum of Many-Particle Pseudorelativistic Hamiltonians with Permutational Symmetry Account
authors: Grigorii Zhislin
comments: Published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 2 (2006), 024, 9 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0602050
abstract: In this paper we formulate our results on the essential spectrum of many-particle pseudorelativistic Hamiltonians without magnetic and external potential fields in the spaces of functions, having arbitrary type $\alpha$ of the permutational symmetry. We discover location of the essential spectrum for all $\alpha$ and for some cases we establish new properties of the lower bound of this spectrum, which are useful for study of the discrete spectrum.

id: math-ph/0602066
title: Large-j Expansion Method for Two-Body Dirac Equation
authors: Askold Duviryak
comments: Published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 2 (2006), 029, 12 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0602066
abstract: By using symmetry properties, the two-body Dirac equation in coordinate representation is reduced to the coupled pair of radial second-order differential equations. Then the large-j expansion technique is used to solve a bound state problem. Linear-plus-Coulomb potentials of different spin structure are examined in order to describe the asymptotic degeneracy and fine splitting of light meson spectra.

id: math/0602208
title: Fractional Generalization of Gradient and Hamiltonian Systems
authors: Vasily E. Tarasov
comments: 16 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A 38 (2005) 5929-5943
subjects: Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0602208
abstract: We consider a fractional generalization of Hamiltonian and gradient systems. We use differential forms and exterior derivatives of fractional orders. We derive fractional generalization of Helmholtz conditions for phase space. Examples of fractional gradient and Hamiltonian systems are considered. The stationary states for these systems are derived.

id: math/0602433
title: Phase-Space Metric for Non-Hamiltonian Systems
authors: Vasily E. Tarasov
comments: 12 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A 38 (2005) 2145-2155
subjects: Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0602433
abstract: We consider an invariant skew-symmetric phase-space metric for non-Hamiltonian systems. We say that the metric is an invariant if the metric tensor field is an integral of motion. We derive the time-dependent skew-symmetric phase-space metric that satisfies the Jacobi identity. The example of non-Hamiltonian systems with linear friction term is considered.

id: nucl-th/0602065
title: Ground state energy of unitary fermion gas with the Thomson Problem approach
authors: Ji-sheng Chen
comments: Identical to published version with revisions according to comments
journal: Chinese Phys. Lett. 24 (2007) 1825-1828
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0602065
abstract: The dimensionless universal coefficient $\xi$ defines the ratio of the unitary fermions energy density to that for the ideal non-interacting ones in the non-relativistic limit with T=0. The classical Thomson Problem is taken as a nonperturbative quantum many-body arm to address the ground state energy including the low energy nonlinear quantum fluctuation/correlation effects. With the relativistic Dirac continuum field theory formalism, the concise expression for the energy density functional of the strongly interacting limit fermions at both finite temperature and density is obtained. Analytically, the universal factor is calculated to be $\xi={4/9}$. The energy gap is $\Delta=\frac{{5}{18}{k_f^2}/(2m)$.

id: physics/0602016
title: Time evolution of spin state of radical ion pair in microwave field: An analytical solution
authors: S.V. Anishchik, V.N. Verkhovlyuk, V.A. Bagryansky
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0602016
abstract: The paper reports an exact solution for the problem of spin evolution of radical ion pair in static magnetic and resonant microwave field taking into account Zeeman and hyperfine interactions and spin relaxation. The values of parameters that provide one of the four possible types of solution are analysed. It is demonstrated that in the absence of spin relaxation, besides the zero field invariant an invariant at large amplitudes of the resonant microwave field can be found. The two invariants open the possibility for simple calculation of microwave pulses to control quantum state of the radical pair. The effect of relaxation on the invariants is analysed and it is shown that changes in the high field invariant are induced by phase relaxation.

id: physics/0602044
title: Einstein et la mecanique quantique - Quelques reperes, quelques surprises
authors: P. Roussel
comments: 21 pages, fichier latex, seminaire donne le 8 septembre 2005 dans le cadre de l'Annee de la Physique
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0602044
abstract: Even if Einstein brought major contributions as a founder of quantum mechanics, he remained deeply unsatisfied with the bases of this structure he knew to be so efficient for physics. His critics are often known through his numerous controversies wih N. Bohr for a few decades. It has long been suggested that his critics were obsolete and came from an aging man and that it was more a question of philosophy anyway. After J. Bell's contribution however it was claimed that the debate could be closed by an experimental proof, a strange experimental intrusion in philosophy or a strange philosophy. Finally, the experiment being performed, in particular in Orsay with the repeatedly successful experiments of A. Aspect, it was claimed that N. Bohr won. Would the debate be closed? Today and fifty years after his death, it seems that Einstein's critics to quantum mechanics are being regarded differently. Why is it so? Is it due to physics coming back to the debate? It will be attempted to accurately report Einstein's writings on the matter and to find elements of answer to the raised questions.

id: physics/0602181
title: Control of Ultra-cold Inelastic Collisions by Feshbash Resonances and Quasi-One-Dimensional Confinement
authors: V. A. Yurovsky, Y. B. Band
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012717 (2007)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0602181
abstract: Cold inelastic collisions of atoms or molecules are analyzed using very general arguments. In free space, the deactivation rate can be enhanced or suppressed together with the scattering length of the corresponding elastic collision via a Feshbach resonance, and by interference of deactivation of the closed and open channels. In reduced dimensional geometries, the deactivation rate decreases with decreasing collision energy and does not increase with resonant elastic scattering length. This has broad implications; e.g., stabilization of molecules in a strongly confining two-dimensional optical lattice, since collisional decay of the highly vibrationally excited states due to inelastic collisions is suppressed. The relation of our results with those based on the Lieb-Liniger model are addressed.

id: physics/0602190
title: Enhanced Transmission of Light and Matter through Nanoapertures without Assistance of Surface Waves
authors: S.V. Kukhlevsky
comments: Submitted to PRL; corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0602190
abstract: Subwavelength aperture arrays in thin metal films enable enhanced transmission of light and matter waves [for example, see T.W. Ebbesen et al., Nature (London) 391, 667 (1998) and E. Moreno et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 170406 (2005)]. The phenomenon relies on resonant excitation of the surface electron or matter waves. We show another mechanism that provides a great transmission enhancement not by coupling to the surface waves but by the interference of diffracted evanescent waves in the far-field zone. Verification of the mechanism is presented by comparison with recently published data.

id: physics/0602078
title: An Instructional Scaffolding for Intuitive Explanation of "Why does not a spinning top collapse?"
authors: Won-Young Hwang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: New Physics: Sae Mulli 63, 531 (2013)
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0602078
abstract: "Why does not a spinning top collapse?" is a puzzling question. Standard solution using angular momentum and torque is not intuitive enough. Thus intuitive explanations for the question have been proposed. We provide scaffolding for an intuitive explanation for the question. Accelerated point-masses in the top exert forces on the frame, which balances the effect due to gravity. The explanation is supplemented by the two following points. A more rigorous conceptual framework of the explanation is provided. A full calculation of trajectory is given. Nutation of spinning top is a difficult issue to understand physically. However, the nutation can also be understood by the intuitive explanation. We discuss another intuitive explanation.

