id: quant-ph/0605001
title: Inseparability criteria based on matrices of moments
authors: A. Miranowicz, M. Piani, P. Horodecki, R. Horodecki
comments: 11 pages; shortened version, introduction improved, accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052303 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605001
abstract: Inseparability criteria for continuous and discrete bipartite quantum states based on moments of annihilation and creation operators are studied by developing the idea of Shchukin-Vogel criterion [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 95}, 230502 (2005)]. If a state is separable, then the corresponding matrix of moments is separable too. Thus, we derive generalized criteria, based on the separability properties of the matrix of moments, are thus derived. In particular, a new criterion based on realignment of moments in the matrix is proposed as an analogue of the standard realignment criterion for density matrices. Other inseparability inequalities are obtained by applying positive maps to the matrix of moments. Usefulness of the Shchukin-Vogel criterion to describe bipartite-entanglement of more than two modes is demonstrated: We obtain some previously known three-mode inseparability criteria originally derived from the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality, and we introduce new ones.

id: quant-ph/0605002
title: Towards Heisenberg Limit in Magnetometry with Parametric Down Converted Photons
authors: Aziz Kolkiran, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 4.2 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 053810 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605002
abstract: Recent theoretical and experimental papers have shown how one can achieve Heisenberg limited measurements by using entangled photons. Here we show how the photons in non-collinear down conversion process can be used for improving the sensitivity of magneto-optical rotation by a factor of four which takes us towards the Heisenberg limit. Our results apply to sources with arbitrary pumping. We also present several generalizations of earlier results for the collinear geometry. The sensitivity depends on whether the two-photon or four-photon coincidence detection is used.

id: quant-ph/0605003
title: Solving mathematical problems with quantum search algorithm
authors: Rubens Viana Ramos, Paulo Benicio de Sousa, David Sena Oliveira
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605003
abstract: Quantum computation has attracted much attention since it was shown by Shor and Grover the possibility to implement quantum algorithms able to realize, respectively, factoring and searching in a faster way than any other known classical algorithm. It is possible to use Grover algorithm, taking profit of its ability to find a specific value in a unordered database, to find, for example, the zero of a logical function; the minimal or maximal value in a database or to recognize if an odd number is prime or not. Here we show quantum algorithms to solve those cited mathematical problems. The solution requires the use of a quantum bit string comparator being used as oracle. This quantum circuit compares two quantum states and identifies if they are equal or, otherwise, which of them is the largest. Moreover, we also show the quantum bit string comparator allow us to implement conditional statements in quantum computation, a fundamental structure for designing of algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0605004
title: Topological Quantum Computing and the Jones Polynomial
authors: Samuel J. Lomonaco, Jr., Louis H. Kauffman
comments: 19 pages, 27 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605004
abstract: In this paper, we give a description of a recent quantum algorithm created by Aharonov, Jones, and Landau for approximating the values of the Jones polynomial at roots of unity of the form exp(2$\pi$i/k). This description is given with two objectives in mind. The first is to describe the algorithm in such a way as to make explicit the underlying and inherent control structure. The second is to make this algorithm accessible to a larger audience.

id: quant-ph/0605005
title: Thermal corrections to the Casimir effect
authors: Iver Brevik, Simen A. Ellingsen, Kimball A. Milton
comments: 21 pages, 9 eps figures, uses iopart.cls. Final version to be published in New Journal of Physics, contains Conclusion and clarified remarks
journal: New J.Phys.8:236,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605005
abstract: The Casimir effect, reflecting quantum vacuum fluctuations in the electromagnetic field in a region with material boundaries, has been studied both theoretically and experimentally since 1948. The forces between dielectric and metallic surfaces both plane and curved have been measured at the 10 to 1 percent level in a variety of room-temperature experiments, and remarkable agreement with the zero-temperature theory has been achieved. In fitting the data various corrections due to surface roughness, patch potentials, curvature, and temperature have been incorporated. It is the latter that is the subject of the present article. We point out that, in fact, no temperature dependence has yet been detected, and that the experimental situation is still too fluid to permit conclusions about thermal corrections to the Casimir effect. Theoretically, there are subtle issues concerning thermodynamics and electrodynamics which have resulted in disparate predictions concerning the nature of these corrections. However, a general consensus has seemed to emerge that suggests that the temperature correction to the Casimir effect is relatively large, and should be observable in future experiments involving surfaces separated at the few micrometer scale.

id: quant-ph/0605006
title: Multiparty simultaneous quantum identity authentication based on entanglement swapping
authors: Jian Wang, Quan Zhang, Chao-jing Tang
comments: 
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett., 2006, 23(9):2360-2363
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605006
abstract: We present a multiparty simultaneous quantum identity authentication protocol based on entanglement swapping. In our protocol, the multi-user can be authenticated by a trusted third party simultaneously.

id: quant-ph/0605007
title: Orthogonal polynomial solutions to the non-central modified Kratzer potential
authors: F. Yasuk, I. Boztosun, A. Durmus
comments: New sections are added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605007
abstract: We investigate the analytical solution of a new exactly solvable non-central potential of $V(r,\theta) = D({\frac{r - a}{r}})^2+{\frac{\beta}{r^2\sin^2 \theta}}+{\frac{\gamma \cos \theta}{r^2\sin^2 \theta}}$ type, which may be called as the modified non-central Kratzer potential. The energy eigenvalues as well as the corresponding eigenfunctions are calculated for various values of $n$ and $m$ quantum numbers within the framework of the Nikiforov-Uvarov and Asymtotic Iteration Methods for the $CO$ diatomic molecule as an application of this potential. In this paper, we first present the effect of the non-central term on the bound-state energy eigenvalues: this effect is determined explicitly for different $n$ and $m$ quantum numbers with $\beta=\gamma$=0.0, 0.1, 1.0 and 5.0 values and the results are compared with the findings of the modified Kratzer potential for different $n$ and $l$ quantum numbers. Then, we show that the angle-dependent non-central part behaves like a centrifugal barrier and it reduces the depth of the attractive potential pocket, which effects the bound-state energy eigenvalues.

id: quant-ph/0605008
title: A Bell Inequality Analog in Quantum Measure Theory
authors: David Craig, Fay Dowker, Joe Henson, Seth Major, David Rideout, Rafael D. Sorkin
comments: 38 pages, TeX. Several changes and added comments to bring out the meaning more clearly. Minor rewording and extra acknowledgements, now closer to published version
journal: J.Phys.A40:501-523,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605008
abstract: One obtains Bell's inequalities if one posits a hypothetical joint probability distribution, or {\it measure}, whose marginals yield the probabilities produced by the spin measurements in question. The existence of a joint measure is in turn equivalent to a certain causality condition known as ``screening off''. We show that if one assumes, more generally, a joint {\it quantal measure}, or ``decoherence functional'', one obtains instead an analogous inequality weaker by a factor of $\sqrt{2}$. The proof of this ``Tsirel'son inequality'' is geometrical and rests on the possibility of associating a Hilbert space to any strongly positive quantal measure. These results lead both to a {\it question}: ``Does a joint measure follow from some quantal analog of `screening off'?'', and to the {\it observation} that non-contextual hidden variables are viable in histories-based quantum mechanics, even if they are excluded classically.

id: quant-ph/0605009
title: The Information-Disturbance Tradeoff and the Continuity of Stinespring's Representation
authors: Dennis Kretschmann, Dirk Schlingemann, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: 18 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605009
abstract: Stinespring's dilation theorem is the basic structure theorem for quantum channels: it states that any quantum channel arises from a unitary evolution on a larger system. Here we prove a continuity theorem for Stinespring's dilation: if two quantum channels are close in cb-norm, then it is always possible to find unitary implementations which are close in operator norm, with dimension-independent bounds. This result generalizes Uhlmann's theorem from states to channels and allows to derive a formulation of the information-disturbance tradeoff in terms of quantum channels, as well as a continuity estimate for the no-broadcasting theorem. We briefly discuss further implications for quantum cryptography, thermalization processes, and the black hole information loss puzzle.

id: quant-ph/0605010
title: Quantum teleportation over the Swisscom telecommunication network
authors: Olivier Landry, J.A.W. van Houwelingen, Alexios Beveratos, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, updated references on May 3rd. To be published in Journal of the Optical Society of America B, Feature issue "Optical Quantum-Information Science", February 2007
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B vol. 24 no. 2 (2007) page 398
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605010
abstract: We present a quantum teleportation experiment in the quantum relay configuration using the installed telecommunication network of Swisscom. In this experiment, the Bell state measurement occurs well after the entanglement has been distributed, at a point where the photon upon which data is teleported is already far away, and the entangled qubits are photons created from a different crystal and laser pulse than the teleported qubit. A raw fidelity of 0.93+/-0.04 has been achieved using a heralded single-photon source.

id: quant-ph/0605011
title: Coupled wave-particle dynamics as a possible ontology behind Quantum Mechanics and long-range interactions
authors: Yehonatan Knoll, Irad Yavneh
comments: Withdrawn. See arXiv:0902.4606v1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605011
abstract: The preliminary ideas presented in this paper have been fully developed in arXiv:0902.4606v1 .

id: quant-ph/0605012
title: Information hiding and retrieval in Rydberg wave packets using half-cycle pulses
authors: J. M. Murray, S. N. Pisharody, H. Wen, C. Rangan, P. H. Bucksbaum
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605012
abstract: We demonstrate an information hiding and retrieval scheme with the relative phases between states in a Rydberg wave packet acting as the bits of a data register. We use a terahertz half-cycle pulse (HCP) to transfer phase-encoded information from an optically accessible angular momentum manifold to another manifold which is not directly accessed by our laser pulses, effectively hiding the information from our optical interferometric measurement techniques. A subsequent HCP acting on these wave packets reintroduces the information back into the optically accessible data register manifold which can then be `read' out.

id: quant-ph/0605013
title: On Decoherence in Quantum Clock Synchronization
authors: Sergio Boixo, Carlton M. Caves, Animesh Datta, Anil Shaji
comments: 12 Pages, 3 Figures
journal: Laser Physics, 16, 1525 (2006). Special Issue on Quantum Information and Quantum Computation.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605013
abstract: We study two quantum versions of the Eddington clock-synchronization protocol in the presence of decoherence. The first protocol uses maximally entangled states to achieve the Heisenberg limit for clock synchronization. The second protocol achieves the limit without using entanglement. We show the equivalence of the two protocols under any single-qubit decoherence model that does not itself provide synchronization information.

id: quant-ph/0605014
title: Potential and limits to cluster state quantum computing using probabilistic gates
authors: D. Gross, K. Kieling, J. Eisert
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures, replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042343 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605014
abstract: We establish bounds to the necessary resource consumption when building up cluster states for one-way computing using probabilistic gates. Emphasis is put on state preparation with linear optical gates, as the probabilistic character is unavoidable here. We identify rigorous general bounds to the necessary consumption of initially available maximally entangled pairs when building up one-dimensional cluster states with individually acting linear optical quantum gates, entangled pairs and vacuum modes. As the known linear optics gates have a limited maximum success probability, as we show, this amounts to finding the optimal classical strategy of fusing pieces of linear cluster states. A formal notion of classical configurations and strategies is introduced for probabilistic non-faulty gates. We study the asymptotic performance of strategies that can be simply described, and prove ultimate bounds to the performance of the globally optimal strategy. The arguments employ methods of random walks and convex optimization. This optimal strategy is also the one that requires the shortest storage time, and necessitates the fewest invocations of probabilistic gates. For two-dimensional cluster states, we find, for any elementary success probability, an essentially deterministic preparation of a cluster state with quadratic, hence optimal, asymptotic scaling in the use of entangled pairs. We also identify a percolation effect in state preparation, in that from a threshold probability on, almost all preparations will be either successful or fail. We outline the implications on linear optical architectures and fault-tolerant computations.

id: quant-ph/0605015
title: Applications of Feedback Control in Quantum Systems
authors: Kurt Jacobs
comments: Plenary paper for ASCC06. Gives an introductory review of the field
journal: Proceedings of the 6th Asian Control Conference, p. 35 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605015
abstract: We give an introduction to feedback control in quantum systems, as well as an overview of the variety of applications which have been explored to date. This introductory review is aimed primarily at control theorists unfamiliar with quantum mechanics, but should also be useful to quantum physicists interested in applications of feedback control. We explain how feedback in quantum systems differs from that in traditional classical systems, and how in certain cases the results from modern optimal control theory can be applied directly to quantum systems. In addition to noise reduction and stabilization, an important application of feedback in quantum systems is adaptive measurement, and we discuss the various applications of adaptive measurements. We finish by describing specific examples of the application of feedback control to cooling and state-preparation in nano-electro-mechanical systems and single trapped atoms.

id: quant-ph/0605016
title: Quantum manipulation and simulation using Josephson junction arrays
authors: Xingxiang Zhou, Ari Mizel
comments: 
journal: Physica C 432, 59 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605016
abstract: We discuss the prospect of using quantum properties of large scale Josephson junction arrays for quantum manipulation and simulation. We study the collective vibrational quantum modes of a Josephson junction array and show that they provide a natural and practical method for realizing a high quality cavity for superconducting qubit based QED. We further demonstrate that by using Josephson junction arrays we can simulate a family of problems concerning spinless electron-phonon and electron-electron interactions. These protocols require no or few controls over the Josephson junction array and are thus relatively easy to realize given currently available technology.

id: quant-ph/0605017
title: Nonlinear coupling of nano mechanical resonators to Josephson quantum circuits
authors: Xingxiang Zhou, Ari Mizel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605017
abstract: We propose a technique to couple the position operator of a nano mechanical resonator to a SQUID device by modulating its magnetic flux bias. By tuning the magnetic field properly, either linear or quadratic couplings can be realized, with a discretely adjustable coupling strength. This provides a way to realize coherent nonlinear effects in a nano mechanical resonator by coupling it to a Josephson quantum circuit. As an example, we show how squeezing of the nano mechanical resonator state can be realized with this technique. We also propose a simple method to measure the uncertainty in the position of the nano mechanical resonator without quantum state tomography.

id: quant-ph/0605018
title: Poincare series for local unitary invariants of mixed states of the qubit-qutrit system
authors: Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605018
abstract: We consider the mixed states of the bipartite quantum system with the first party a qubit and the second a qutrit. The group of local unitary transformations of the system, ignoring the overall phase factor, is the direct product G of SU(2) and SU(3). We compute the simply graded Poincare series of the algebra of G-invariant polynomial functions on the set of mixed states of the system, and construct several low degree invariants.

id: quant-ph/0605019
title: Nature of quantum recurrences in coupled higher dimensional systems
authors: Farhan Saif
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605019
abstract: We investigate recurrence phenomena in coupled two degrees of freedom systems. It is shown that an initial well localized wave packet displays recurrences even in the presence of coupling in these systems. We discuss the interdependence of these time scales namely, classical period and quantum revival time, and explain significance of initial conditions.

id: quant-ph/0605020
title: The Super-Strong Coupling Regime of Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: D. Meiser, P. Meystre
comments: Figures rearranged and introduction rewritten
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605020
abstract: We describe a qualitatively new regime of cavity quantum electrodynamics, the super strong coupling regime. This regime is characterized by atom-field coupling strengths of the order of the free spectral range of the cavity, resulting in a significant change in the spatial mode functions of the light field. It can be reached in practice for cold atoms trapped in an optical dipole potential inside the resonator. We present a nonperturbative scheme that allows us to calculate the frequencies and linewidths of the modified field modes, thereby providing a good starting point for a quantization of the theory.

id: quant-ph/0605021
title: Monogamy inequality for distributed Gaussian entanglement
authors: Tohya Hiroshima, Gerardo Adesso, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 4 pages, no figures. Several improvements, proof made more transparent, conclusions enriched
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 050503 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605021
abstract: We show that for all n-mode Gaussian states of continuous variable systems, the entanglement shared among n parties exhibits the fundamental monogamy property. The monogamy inequality is proven by introducing the Gaussian tangle, an entanglement monotone under Gaussian local operations and classical communication, which is defined in terms of the squared negativity in complete analogy with the case of n-qubit systems. Our results elucidate the structure of quantum correlations in many-body harmonic lattice systems.

id: quant-ph/0605022
title: Quantum Trajectory method for the Quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects
authors: J. Ruseckas, B. Kaulakys
comments: 12 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A replaced with single-spaced version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 052101 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605022
abstract: We perform stochastic simulations of the quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects for two level system and for the decaying one. Instead of simple projection postulate approach, a more realistic model of a detector interacting with the environment is used. The influence of the environment is taken into account using the quantum trajectory method. The simulation of the measurement for a single system exhibits the probabilistic behavior showing the collapse of the wave-packet. When a large ensemble is analysed using the quantum trajectory method, the results are the same as those produced using the density matrix method. The results of numerical calculations are compared with the analytical expressions for the decay rate of the measured system and a good agreement is found. Since the analytical expressions depend on the duration of the measurement only, the agreement with the numerical calculations shows that otherparameters of the model are not important.

id: quant-ph/0605023
title: Possible approach to improve sensitivity of a Michelson interferometer
authors: Jian Fu
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, new version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605023
abstract: We propose a possible approach to achieve an 1/N sensitivity of Michelson interferometer by using a properly designed random phase modulation. Different from other approaches, the sensitivity improvement does not depend on increasing optical powers or utilizing the quantum properties of light. Moreover the requirements for optical losses and the quantum efficiencies of photodetection systems might be lower than the quantum approaches and the sensitivity improvement is frequency independent in all detection band.

id: quant-ph/0605024
title: Entanglement-assisted Enhanced Information Transmission Over a Quantum Channel with Correlated Noise; A General Expression
authors: A. Fahmi
comments: 10 pages, 5 eps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605024
abstract: Entanglement and entanglement-assisted are useful resources to enhance the mutual information of the Pauli channels, when the noise on consecutive uses of the channel has some partial correlations. In this paper, We study quantum communication channels with correlated noise and derive a general expression for the mutual information of quantum channel, for the product, maximally entangled state coding and entanglement-assisted systems with correlated noise in the Pauli quantum channels. Hence, we suggest more efficient coding in the entanglement-assisted systems for the transmission of classical information and derive a general expression for the entanglement-assisted classical capacity. Our results show that in the presence of memory, a higher amount of classical information is transmitted by two or four consecutive uses of entanglement-assisted systems.

id: quant-ph/0605025
title: Remarks on quantization of Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillators
authors: E.V. Damaskinsky, M.A. Sokolov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605025
abstract: This work is concerned with a quantization of the Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillators from the point of view of their multi-Hamiltonian structures. It is shown that the 2n-th order oscillator with a simple spectrum is equivalent to the usual anisotropic n - dimensional oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0605026
title: Classical and quantum q-deformed physical systems
authors: A. Lavagno, A.M. Scarfone, P. Narayana Swamy
comments: 9 pages, accepted for publication in "The European Physical Journal C"
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C47:253-261,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605026
abstract: On the basis of the non-commutative q-calculus, we investigate a q-deformation of the classical Poisson bracket in order to formulate a generalized q-deformed dynamics in the classical regime. The obtained q-deformed Poisson bracket appears invariant under the action of the q-symplectic group of transformations. In this framework we introduce the q-deformed Hamilton's equations and we derive the evolution equation for some simple q-deformed mechanical systems governed by a scalar potential dependent only on the coordinate variable. It appears that the q-deformed Hamiltonian, which is the generator of the equation of motion, is generally not conserved in time but, in correspondence, a new constant of motion is generated. Finally, by following the standard canonical quantization rule, we compare the well known q-deformed Heisenberg algebra with the algebra generated by the q-deformed Poisson bracket.

id: quant-ph/0605027
title: Coin-Flipping-based Quantum Oblivious Transfer
authors: Minh-Dung Dang
comments: Withdrawal
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605027
abstract: When submitting ``Coin-Flipping-based Quantum Oblivious Transfer'' (quant-ph/0605027v4) to Indocrypt-2006, I received valuable reviews. Due to the attacks in these reviews, my major protocols, for cheat-sensitive and coin-flipping-based 2-1 oblivious transfers, are insecure. I would have withdrawn the paper. But I think I'd rather post the attacks made by the reviewer. Besides, as ``coin-flipping-based 2-1 OT'' is an important case-study in ``Two-party Models and the No-go Theorems'' (quant-ph/0608165), the paper is also touched by the attack. It will be reconsidered, and the case-study will be eliminated from it. I would like to thank the ``anonymous'' reviewer for those valuable attacks and comments.

id: quant-ph/0605028
title: Correspondence of Bell State and One-Particle State Transformations
authors: R. G. Beil
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605028
abstract: There is a direct correspondence between two-particle, entangled quantum states, for example, Bell states, and the relative values of the component one-particle states. This leads to a new rationale for quantum computing which makes use of sequential processing of one-particle states rather than the parallel processing associated with multiparticle states. It is shown that deterministic transformations can correspond to certain Bell state operations. There are some implications for the continuing discussion of quantum realism and entanglement. A principle of relative realism is advocated.

id: quant-ph/0605029
title: Field fluctuations near a conducting plate and Casimir-Polder forces in the presence of boundary conditions
authors: S. Spagnolo, R. Passante, L. Rizzuto
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605029
abstract: We consider vacuum fluctuations of the quantum electromagnetic field in the presence of an infinite and perfectly conducting plate. We evaluate how the change of vacuum fluctuations due to the plate modifies the Casimir-Polder potential between two atoms placed near the plate. We use two different methods to evaluate the Casimir-Polder potential in the presence of the plate. They also give new insights on the role of boundary conditions in the Casimir-Polder interatomic potential, as well as indications for possible generalizations to more complicated boundary conditions.

id: quant-ph/0605030
title: Strongly Universal Quantum Turing Machines and Invariance of Kolmogorov Complexity
authors: Markus Mueller
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure. The operation R is now really a quantum operation (it was not before); corrected some typos, III.B more readable, Conjecture 3.15 is now a theorem
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th., Vol. 54/2 pp. 763-780 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605030
abstract: We show that there exists a universal quantum Turing machine (UQTM) that can simulate every other QTM until the other QTM has halted and then halt itself with probability one. This extends work by Bernstein and Vazirani who have shown that there is a UQTM that can simulate every other QTM for an arbitrary, but preassigned number of time steps. As a corollary to this result, we give a rigorous proof that quantum Kolmogorov complexity as defined by Berthiaume et al. is invariant, i.e. depends on the choice of the UQTM only up to an additive constant. Our proof is based on a new mathematical framework for QTMs, including a thorough analysis of their halting behaviour. We introduce the notion of mutually orthogonal halting spaces and show that the information encoded in an input qubit string can always be effectively decomposed into a classical and a quantum part.

id: quant-ph/0605031
title: Irreversibility in Collapse-Free Quantum Dynamics and the Second Law of Thermodynamics
authors: M. B. Weissman
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605031
abstract: Proposals to solve the problems of quantum measurement via non-linear CPT-violating modifications of quantum dynamics are argued to provide a possible fundamental explanation for the irreversibility of statistical mechanics as well. The argument is expressed in terms of collapse-free accounts. The reverse picture, in which statistical irreversibility generates quantum irreversibility, is argued to be less satisfactory because it leaves the Born probability rule unexplained.

id: quant-ph/0605032
title: Projective measurement in nuclear magnetic resonance
authors: Jae-Seung Lee, A. K. Khitrin
comments: 9 pages incluing 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 89, 074105 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605032
abstract: It is demonstrated that nuclear magnetic resonance experiments using pseudopure spin states can give possible outcomes of projective quantum measurement and probabilities of such outcomes. The physical system is a cluster of six dipolar-coupled nuclear spins of benzene in a liquid-crystalline matrix. For this system with the maximum total spin S=3, the results of measuring $S_X$ are presented for the cases when the state of the system is one of the eigenstates of $S_Z$.

id: quant-ph/0605033
title: Entanglement between qubits induced by a common environment with a gap
authors: Sangchul Oh, Jaewan Kim
comments: accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062306 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605033
abstract: We study a system of two qubits interacting with a common environment, described by a two-spin boson model. We demonstrate two competing roles of the environment: inducing entanglement between the two qubits and making them decoherent. For the environment of a single harmonic oscillator, if its frequency is commensurate with the induced two-qubit coupling strength, the two qubits could be maximally entangled and the environment could be separable. In the case of the environment of a bosonic bath, the gap of its spectral density function is essential to generate entanglement between two qubits at equilibrium and for it to be used as a quantum data bus.

id: quant-ph/0605034
title: On the Paradoxical Book of Bell
authors: Marek Zukowski
comments: Replacement. The critical missing NOT is put into footnote 1. Note that in the published version NOT is still missing
journal: Stud. Hist. Phil. Mod. Phys. 36, 566 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605034
abstract: This is an essay-review on a recently re-issued book of John Bell "Speakable and Unspeakable in Quantum Mechanics". The discussion concentrates around the Bell Theorem, its assumptions, consequences and frequent overinterpretations.

id: quant-ph/0605035
title: Quantum memory protocol in QED cavity based on Photon echo
authors: S.A.Moiseev
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605035
abstract: A new protocol of the optical quantum memory based on the resonant interactions of the multi atomic system with a cavity light mode is proposed. The quantum memory is realized using a controllable inversion of the inhomogeneous broadening of the resonant atomic transition and impact interaction (on request) of additional short 2 - laser pulse resonant to an adjacent atomic transition. We demonstrate that the quantum memory protocol is effective for arbitrary storage time and can be used for new quantum manipulations with transient entangled states in the field-atoms evolution. The effect of the fast absorption and emission of the light field is predicted.

id: quant-ph/0605036
title: Optimal entanglement criterion for mixed quantum states
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 4 pages, no figures, replaced by published version (minor changes), Journal-reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 080501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605036
abstract: We develop a strong and computationally simple entanglement criterion. The criterion is based on an elementary positive map Phi which operates on state spaces with even dimension N >= 4. It is shown that Phi detects many entangled states with positive partial transposition (PPT) and that it leads to a class of optimal entanglement witnesses. This implies that there are no other witnesses which can detect more entangled PPT states. The map Phi yields a systematic method for the explicit construction of high-dimensional manifolds of bound entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0605037
title: Quantum Dissipation and Decoherence via Interaction with Low-Dimensional Chaos: a Feynman-Vernon Approach
authors: M.V.S. Bonanca, M.A.M. de Aguiar
comments: 31 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74 (2006) 12105.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605037
abstract: We study the effects of dissipation and decoherence induced on a harmonic oscillator by the coupling to a chaotic system with two degrees of freedom. Using the Feynman-Vernon approach and treating the chaotic system semiclassically we show that the effects of the low dimensional chaotic environment are in many ways similar to those produced by thermal baths. The classical correlation and response functions play important roles in both classical and quantum formulations. Our results are qualitatively similar to the high temperature regime of the Caldeira-Leggett model.

id: quant-ph/0605038
title: Room temperature coherent control of coupled single spins in solid
authors: T. Gaebel, M. Domhan, I. Popa, C. Wittmann, P. Neumann, F. Jelezko, J.R. Rabeau, N. Stavrias, A. D. Greentree, S. Prawer, J. Meijer, J. Twamley, P. R. Hemmer, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 2: 408-413 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605038
abstract: Coherent coupling between single quantum objects is at the heart of modern quantum physics. When coupling is strong enough to prevail over decoherence, it can be used for the engineering of correlated quantum states. Especially for solid-state systems, control of quantum correlations has attracted widespread attention because of applications in quantum computing. Such coherent coupling has been demonstrated in a variety of systems at low temperature1, 2. Of all quantum systems, spins are potentially the most important, because they offer very long phase memories, sometimes even at room temperature. Although precise control of spins is well established in conventional magnetic resonance3, 4, existing techniques usually do not allow the readout of single spins because of limited sensitivity. In this paper, we explore dipolar magnetic coupling between two single defects in diamond (nitrogen-vacancy and nitrogen) using optical readout of the single nitrogen-vacancy spin states. Long phase memory combined with a defect separation of a few lattice spacings allow us to explore the strong magnetic coupling regime. As the two-defect system was well-isolated from other defects, the long phase memory times of the single spins was not diminished, despite the fact that dipolar interactions are usually seen as undesirable sources of decoherence. A coherent superposition of spin pair quantum states was achieved. The dipolar coupling was used to transfer spin polarisation from a nitrogen-vacancy centre spin to a nitrogen spin, with optical pumping of a nitrogen-vacancy centre leading to efficient initialisation. At the level anticrossing efficient nuclear spin polarisation was achieved. Our results demonstrate an important step towards controlled spin coupling and multi-particle entanglement in the solid state.

id: quant-ph/0605039
title: An Argument for 4D Blockworld from a Geometric Interpretation of Non-relativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Michael Silberstein, Michael Cifone, W.M. Stuckey
comments: 39 pp text, 20 figures. Submitted to Relativity and the Dimensionality of the World (Springer-Verlag)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605039
abstract: We use a new distinctly "geometrical" interpretation of non-relativistic quantum mechanics (NRQM) to argue for the fundamentality of the 4D blockworld ontology. Our interpretation rests on two formal results: Kaiser, Bohr & Ulfbeck and Anandan showed independently that the Heisenberg commutation relations of NRQM follow from the relativity of simultaneity (RoS) per the Poincare Lie algebra, and Bohr, Ulfbeck & Mottelson showed that the density matrix for a particular NRQM experimental outcome may be obtained from the spacetime symmetry group of the experimental configuration. Together these formal results imply that contrary to accepted wisdom, NRQM, the measurement problem and so-called quantum non-locality do not provide reasons to abandon the 4D blockworld implication of RoS. After discussing the full philosophical implications of these formal results, we motivate and derive the Born rule in the context of our ontology of spacetime relations via Anandan. Finally, we apply our explanatory and descriptive methodology to a particular experimental set-up (the so-called "quantum liar experiment") and thereby show how the blockworld view is not only consistent with NRQM, not only an implication of our geometrical interpretation of NRQM, but it is necessary in a non-trivial way for explaining quantum interference and "non-locality" from the spacetime perspective.

id: quant-ph/0605040
title: The Dynamics of Entanglement in the Adiabatic Search and Deutsch Algorithms
authors: K. Choy, G. Passante, D. Ahrensmeier, M.E. Carrington, T. Fugleberg, R. Kobes, G. Kunstatter
comments: 29 pages, 25 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605040
abstract: The goal of this paper is to study the effect of entanglement on the running time of a quantum computation. Adiabatic quantum computation is suited to this kind of study, since it allows us to explicitly calculate the time evolution of the entanglement throughout the calculation. On the other hand however, the adiabatic formalism makes it impossible to study the roles of entanglement and fidelity separately, which means that results have to be interpreted carefully. We study two algorithms: the search algorithm and the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm. We find some evidence that entanglement can be considered a resource in quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0605041
title: Invertible Quantum Operations and Perfect Encryption of Quantum States
authors: Ashwin Nayak, Pranab Sen
comments: 9 pages. Version 3 has minor edits, a correction to Theorem 2.2, and a proof sketch.Author affiliation updated.Version 4 has an additional reference. To appear in QIC
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605041
abstract: In this note, we characterize the form of an invertible quantum operation, i.e., a completely positive trace preserving linear transformation (a CPTP map) whose inverse is also a CPTP map. The precise form of such maps becomes important in contexts such as self-testing and encryption. We show that these maps correspond to applying a unitary transformation to the state along with an ancilla initialized to a fixed state, which may be mixed. The characterization of invertible quantum operations implies that one-way schemes for encrypting quantum states using a classical key may be slightly more general than the ``private quantum channels'' studied by Ambainis, Mosca, Tapp and de Wolf (FOCS 2000). Nonetheless, we show that their results, most notably a lower bound of 2n bits of key to encrypt n quantum bits, extend in a straightforward manner to the general case.

id: quant-ph/0605042
title: Design and Performance of an InGaAs-InP Single-Photon Avalanche Diode Detector
authors: Sara Pellegrini, Ryan E. Warburton, Lionel J. J. Tan, Jo Shien Ng, Andrey B. Krysa, Kristian Groom, John P. R. David, Sergio Cova, Michael J. Robertson, Gerald S. Buller
comments: 
journal: IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics, Volume 42 (4), pp397-403 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605042
abstract: This paper describes the design, fabrication, and performance of planar-geometry InGaAs-InP devices which were specifically developed for single-photon detection at a wavelength of 1550 nm. General performance issues such as dark count rate, single-photon detection efficiency, afterpulsing, and jitter are described.

id: quant-ph/0605043
title: Efficiency limits for linear optical processing of single photons and single-rail qubits
authors: Dominic W. Berry, A. I. Lvovsky, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Journal of the Optical Society of America B 24, 189 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605043
abstract: We analyze the problem of increasing the efficiency of single-photon sources or single-rail photonic qubits via linear optical processing and destructive conditional measurements. In contrast to previous work we allow for the use of coherent states and do not limit to photon-counting measurements. We conjecture that it is not possible to increase the efficiency, prove this conjecture for several important special cases, and provide extensive numerical results for the general case.

id: quant-ph/0605044
title: Information Extraction from Decohering Systems via Indirect Continuous Measurement
authors: Narayan Ganesan, Tzyh-Jong Tarn
comments: 4 pages, 1 Figure Minor revisions for continuity and relevance to previous and current work
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605044
abstract: In this article we discuss a general information extraction scheme to gain knowledge of the state and the amount of decoherence based on indirect continuous measurement. The purpose of this information extraction is to determine the feedback in order to control decoherence based on an ``output equation", described by a bilinear form. An interacting bilinear form of control system is used instead of master equation to analyze the dynamic properties of the system. The analysis of continuous measurement on a decohering quantum system has not been extensively studied before.

id: quant-ph/0605045
title: Bound-States of the Spinless Salpeter Equation for the PT-Symmetric Generalized Hulthen Potential by the Nikiforov-Uvarov Method
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 24 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. E 17, 1107(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605045
abstract: The one-dimensional spinless Salpeter equation has been solved for the PT-symmetric generalized Hulth\'{e}n potential. The Nikiforov-Uvarov {NU) method which is based on solving the second-order linear differential equations by reduction to a generalized equation of hypergeometric type is used to obtain exact energy eigenvalues and corresponding eigenfunctions. We have investigated the positive and negative exact bound states of the s-states for different types of complex generalized Hulthen potentials.

id: quant-ph/0605046
title: Gigahertz Clocked Quantum Key Distribution in Passive Optical Networks
authors: Veronica Fernandez, Robert J. Collins, Karen J. Gordon, Paul D. Townsend, Gerald S. Buller
comments: IEEE LEOS Summer Topical 2006 - Quantum Communications in Telecom Networks - July 17-19 2006 - Quebec City, Canada
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605046
abstract: Two multi-user approaches to fiber-based quantum key distribution systems operating at gigahertz clock frequencies are presented, both compatible with standard telecommunications fiber.

id: quant-ph/0605047
title: New experimental limit on the Pauli Exclusion Principle violation by electrons
authors: VIP Collaboration
comments: submitted to Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys. Lett. B641 (2006) 18
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605047
abstract: The Pauli Exclusion Principle (PEP) is one of the basic principles of modern physics and, even if there are no compelling reasons to doubt its validity, it is still debated today because an intuitive, elementary explanation is still missing, and because of its unique stand among the basic symmetries of physics. The present paper reports a new limit on the probability that PEP is violated by electrons, in a search for a shifted K$_\alpha$ line in copper: the presence of this line in the soft X-ray copper fluorescence would signal a transition to a ground state already occupied by 2 electrons. The obtained value, ${1/2} \beta^{2} \leq 4.5\times 10^{-28}$, improves the existing limit by almost two orders of magnitude.

id: quant-ph/0605048
title: Tavis-Cummings model and collective multi-qubit entanglement in trapped ions
authors: A. Retzker, E. Solano, B. Reznik
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022312 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605048
abstract: We present a method of generating collective multi-qubit entanglement via global addressing of an ion chain following the guidelines of the Tavis-Cummings model, where several qubits are coupled to a collective motional mode. We show that a wide family of Dicke states and irradiant states can be generated by single global laser pulses, unitarily or helped with suitable postselection techniques.

id: quant-ph/0605049
title: State tomography for two qubits using reduced densities
authors: D. Petz, K.M. Hangos, A. Szanto, F. Szollosi
comments: 8 pages LATEX
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39, 10901-10907, 2006.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605049
abstract: The optimal state determination (or tomography) is studied for a composite system of two qubits when measurements can be performed on one of the qubits and interactions of the two qubits can be implemented. The goal is to minimize the number of interactions to be used. The algebraic method applied in the paper leads to an extension of the concept of mutually unbiased measurements.

id: quant-ph/0605050
title: On SIC-POVMs in Prime Dimensions
authors: Steven T. Flammia
comments: 6 pages, no figures. v3 Refs added, improved discussion of previous work. Ref to a proof of the main conjecture also added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 13483-13493
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605050
abstract: The generalized Pauli group and its normalizer, the Clifford group, have a rich mathematical structure which is relevant to the problem of constructing symmetric informationally complete POVMs (SIC-POVMs). To date, almost every known SIC-POVM fiducial vector is an eigenstate of a "canonical" unitary in the Clifford group. I show that every canonical unitary in prime dimensions p > 3 lies in the same conjugacy class of the Clifford group and give a class representative for all such dimensions. It follows that if even one such SIC-POVM fiducial vector is an eigenvector of such a unitary, then all of them are (for a given such dimension). I also conjecture that in all dimensions d, the number of conjugacy classes is bounded above by 3 and depends only on d mod 9, and I support this claim with computer computations in all dimensions < 48.

id: quant-ph/0605051
title: Decoherence by engineered quantum baths
authors: Davide Rossini, Tommaso Calarco, Vittorio Giovannetti, Simone Montangero, Rosario Fazio
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 8033-8040
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605051
abstract: We introduce, and determine decoherence for, a wide class of non-trivial quantum spin baths which embrace Ising, XY and Heisenberg universality classes coupled to a two-level system. For the XY and Ising universality classes we provide an exact expression for the decay of the loss of coherence beyond the case of a central spin coupled uniformly to all the spins of the baths which has been discussed so far in the literature. In the case of the Heisenberg spin bath we study the decoherence by means of the time-dependent density matrix renormalization group. We show how these baths can be engineered, by using atoms in optical lattices.

id: quant-ph/0605052
title: Quantum Key Distribution in a Multi-User Network at Gigahertz Clock rates
authors: Veronica Fernandez, Karen J. Gordon, Robert J. Collins, Paul D. Townsend, Sergio D. Cova, Ivan Rech, Gerald S. Buller
comments: Presented at SPIE Symposium on Microtechnologies for the New Millennium, Sevilla, Spain (May 2005)
journal: Proceedings of SPIE, Volume 5840, "Photonic Materials, Devices, and Applications", (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605052
abstract: In recent years quantum information research has lead to the discovery of a number of remarkable new paradigms for information processing and communication. These developments include quantum cryptography schemes that offer unconditionally secure information transport guaranteed by quantum-mechanical laws. Such potentially disruptive security technologies could be of high strategic and economic value in the future. Two major issues confronting researchers in this field are the transmission range (typically <100km) and the key exchange rate, which can be as low as a few bits per second at long optical fiber distances. This paper describes further research of an approach to significantly enhance the key exchange rate in an optical fiber system at distances in the range of 1-20km. We will present results on a number of application scenarios, including point-to-point links and multi-user networks. Quantum key distribution systems have been developed, which use standard telecommunications optical fiber, and which are capable of operating at clock rates of up to 2GHz. They implement a polarization-encoded version of the B92 protocol and employ vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers with emission wavelengths of 850 nm as weak coherent light sources, as well as silicon single-photon avalanche diodes as the single photon detectors. The point-to-point quantum key distribution system exhibited a quantum bit error rate of 1.4%, and an estimated net bit rate greater than 100,000 bits- per second for a 4.2 km transmission range.

id: quant-ph/0605053
title: 3.3 Gigahertz Clocked Quantum Key Distribution System
authors: Karen J. Gordon, Veronica Fernandez, Robert J. Collins, Ivan Rech, Sergio D. Cova, Paul D. Townsend, Gerald S. Buller
comments: Presented at ECOC 05, Glasgow, UK, (September 2005)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605053
abstract: A fibre-based quantum key distribution system operating up to a clock frequency of 3.3GHz is presented. The system demonstrates significantly increased key exchange rate potential and operates at a wavelength of 850nm.

id: quant-ph/0605054
title: The Frobenius formalism in Galois quantum systems
authors: A. Vourdas
comments: 
journal: Acta Applicandae Mathematicae 93 (2006) 197-214
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605054
abstract: Quantum systems in which the position and momentum take values in the ring ${\cal Z}_d$ and which are described with $d$-dimensional Hilbert space, are considered. When $d$ is the power of a prime, the position and momentum take values in the Galois field $GF(p^ \ell)$, the position-momentum phase space is a finite geometry and the corresponding `Galois quantum systems' have stronger properties. The study of these systems uses ideas from the subject of field extension in the context of quantum mechanics. The Frobenius automorphism in Galois fields leads to Frobenius subspaces and Frobenius transformations in Galois quantum systems. Links between the Frobenius formalism and Riemann surfaces, are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0605055
title: Atom interferometry
authors: Alain Miffre, Marion Jacquey, Matthias Bchner, Grard Trnec, Jacques Vigu
comments: submitted to Physica Scripta as a Comment on Atomic Molecular and Optical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605055
abstract: In this paper, we present a brief overview of atom interferometry. This field of research has developed very rapidly since 1991. Atom and light wave interferometers present some similarities but there are very important differences in the tools used to manipulate these two types of waves. Moreover, the sensitivity of atomic waves and light waves to their environment is very different. Atom interferometry has already been used for a large variety of studies: measurements of atomic properties and of inertial effects (accelerations and rotations), new access to some fundamental constants, observation of quantum decoherence, etc. We review the techniques used for a coherent manipulation of atomic waves and the main applications of atom interferometers.

id: quant-ph/0605056
title: Phase rigidity and avoided level crossings in the complex energy plane
authors: E.N. Bulgakov, I. Rotter, A.F. Sadreev
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605056
abstract: We consider the effective Hamiltonian of an open quantum system, its biorthogonal eigenfunctions $\phi_\lambda$ and define the value $r_\lambda = (\phi_\lambda|\phi_\lambda)/<\phi_\lambda|\phi_\lambda>$ that characterizes the phase rigidity of the eigenfunctions $\phi_\lambda$. In the scenario with avoided level crossings, $r_\lambda$ varies between 1 and 0 due to the mutual influence of neighboring resonances. The variation of $r_\lambda$ may be considered as an internal property of an {\it open} quantum system. In the literature, the phase rigidity $\rho$ of the scattering wave function $\Psi^E_C$ is considered. Since $\Psi^E_C$ can be represented in the interior of the system by the $\phi_\lambda$, the phase rigidity $\rho$ of the $\Psi^E_C$ is related to the $r_\lambda$ and therefore also to the mutual influence of neighboring resonances. As a consequence, the reduction of the phase rigidity $\rho$ to values smaller than 1 should be considered, at least partly, as an internal property of an open quantum system in the overlapping regime. The relation to measurable values such as the transmission through a quantum dot, follows from the fact that the transmission is, in any case, resonant with respect to the effective Hamiltonian. We illustrate the relation between phase rigidity $\rho$ and transmission numerically for small open cavities.

id: quant-ph/0605057
title: General criterion for oblivious remote state preparation
authors: Z. Kurucz, P. Adam, J. Janszky
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062301 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605057
abstract: A necessary and sufficient condition is given for general exact remote state preparation (RSP) protocols to be oblivious, that is, no information about the target state can be retrieved from the classical message. A novel criterion in terms of commutation relations is also derived for the existence of deterministic exact protocols in which Alice's measurement eigenstates are related to each other by fixed linear operators similar to Bob's unitaries. For non-maximally entangled resources, it provides an easy way to search for RSP protocols. As an example, we show how to reduce the case of partially entangled resources to that of maximally entangled ones, and we construct RSP protocols exploiting the structure of the irreducible representations of Abelian groups.

id: quant-ph/0605058
title: Scalable Generation of Graph-State Entanglement through Realistic Linear Optics
authors: T. P. Bodiya, L.-M. Duan
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605058
abstract: We propose a scheme for efficient construction of graph states using realistic linear optics, imperfect photon source and single-photon detectors. For any many-body entanglement represented by tree graph states, we prove that the overall preparation and detection efficiency scales only polynomially with the size of the graph, no matter how small the efficiencies for the photon source and the detectors.

id: quant-ph/0605059
title: Creation of macroscopic superpositions of flow states with Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Jacob Dunningham, David Hallwood
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605059
abstract: We present a straightforward scheme for creating macroscopic superpositions of different superfluid flow states of Bose-Einstein condensates trapped in optical lattices. This scheme has the great advantage that all the techniques required are achievable with current experiments. Furthermore, the relative difficulty of creating cats scales favorably with the size of the cat. This means that this scheme may be well-suited to creating superpositions involving large numbers of particles. Such states may have interesting technological applications such as making quantum-limited measurements of angular momentum.

id: quant-ph/0605060
title: Squeezed Coherent States and a Semiclassical Propagator for the Schroedinger equation in Phase
authors: Maurice de Gosson, Serge de Gosson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605060
abstract: We construct semiclassical solutions of the symplectically covariant Schroedinger phase-space equation rigorously studied in a previous paper; we use for this purpose an adaptation of Littlejohn's nearby-orbit method. We take the opportunity to discuss in some detail the so fruitful notion of squeezed coherent state and the action of the metaplectic group on these states.

id: quant-ph/0605061
title: Violation of Bell's Inequality with Transverse Spatial Variables Using Fractional Fourier Transforms
authors: D.S. Tasca, M.P. Almeida, S.P. Walborn, P. Pellat-Finet, C.H. Monken, P.H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605061
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn due to a crucial theoretical and experimental error.

id: quant-ph/0605062
title: Relevance of the slowly-varying electron gas to atoms, molecules, and solids
authors: John P. Perdew, Lucian A. Constantin, Espen Sagvolden, Kieron Burke
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, submitted at PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605062
abstract: Under a certain scaling, the electron densities of finite systems become both large and slowly-varying, so that the gradient expansions of the density functionals for the Kohn-Sham kinetic and exchange energies become asymptotically exact to order $\nabla^2$. Neutral atoms of large $Z$ scale similarly, but a cusp correction at the nucleus requires generalizing the gradient expansion for exchange, producing the wrong gradient coefficient in the slowly-varying limit. Meta-generalized gradient approximations (meta-GGA's) recover both the slowly-varying and large-$Z$ limits. GGA correlation energies of large-Z atoms are found to be accurate.

id: quant-ph/0605063
title: Entanglement in a Quantum Mixed-Spin Chain
authors: Xiang Hao, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605063
abstract: The entanglement in a general mixed spin chain with arbitrary spin $S$ and 1/2 is investigated in the thermodynamical limit. The entanglement is witnessed by the magnetic susceptibility which decides a characteristic temperature for an entangled thermal state. The characteristic temperature is nearly proportional to the interaction $J$ and the mixed spin $S$. The bound of negativity is obtained on the basis of the magnetic susceptibility. It is found that the macroscopic magnetic properties are affected by the quantum entanglement in the real solids. Meanwhile, the entanglement can be quantitatively evaluated by the thermodynamical observable.

id: quant-ph/0605064
title: Improving the security of multiparty quantum secret splitting and quantum state sharing
authors: Hong-Fu Wang, Xin Ji, Shou Zhang
comments: To appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605064
abstract: A protocol for multiparty quantum secret splitting (MQSS) with an ordered $N$ Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) pairs and Bell state measurements is recently proposed by Deng {\rm et al.} [Phys. Lett. A 354(2006)190]. We analyzed the security of the protocol and found that this protocol is secure for any other eavesdropper except for the agent Bob who adopts intercept-and-resend attack. Bob can obtain all the information of Alice's alone without being found. We also propose an improved version of the MQSS protocol.

id: quant-ph/0605065
title: Secure Quantum Secret Sharing Based on Reusable GHZ States as Secure Carriers
authors: Jie Song, Shou Zhang
comments: 
journal: Chinese Physics Letters, 23,6(2006)1383
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605065
abstract: We show a potential eavesdropper can eavesdrop whole secret information when the legitimate users use secure carrier to encode and decode classical information repeatedly in the protocol [proposed in Bagherinezhad S and Karimipour V 2003 Phys. Rev. A \textbf{67} 044302]. Then we present a revised quantum secret sharing protocol by using Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state as secure carrier. Our protocol can resist Eve's attack.

id: quant-ph/0605066
title: Manipulating time-bin qubits with fiber optics components
authors: Felix Bussieres, Yasaman Soudagar, Guido Berlin, Suzanne Lacroix, Nicolas Godbout
comments: 2 pages, 3 figures, to be published in the proceedings of the IEEE LEOS 2006 topical meeting, Quebec city, Canada, July 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605066
abstract: We propose two experimental schemes to implement arbitrary unitary single qubit operations on single photons encoded in time-bin qubits. Both schemes require fiber optics components that are available with current technology.

id: quant-ph/0605067
title: Integrated Conditional Teleportation and Readout Circuit Based on a Photonic Crystal Single Chip
authors: Durdu ?. Gney, David A. Meyer
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, submitted to the J. Opt. Soc. Am. B feature issue on Optical Quantum-Information Science
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 24, 391-397 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605067
abstract: We demonstrate the design of an integrated conditional quantum teleportation circuit and a readout circuit using a two-dimensional photonic crystal single chip. Fabrication and testing of the proposed quantum circuit can be accomplished with current or near future semiconductor process technology and experimental techniques. The readout part of our device, which has potential for independent use as an atomic interferometer, can also be used on its own or integrated with other compatible optical circuits to achieve atomic state detection. Further improvement of the device in terms of compactness and robustness could be achieved by integrating it with sources and detectors in the optical regime.

id: quant-ph/0605068
title: The Wavefunction of an Anyon
authors: Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: AnnalsPhys.322:1254-1264,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605068
abstract: We consider a two-dimensional spin system in a honeycomb lattice configuration that exhibits anyonic and fermionic excitations [Kitaev, cond-mat/0506438]. The exact spectrum that corresponds to the translationally invariant case of a vortex-lattice is derived from which the energy of a single pair of vortices can be estimated. The anyonic properties of the vortices are demonstrated and their generation and transportation manipulations are explicitly given. A simple interference experiment with six spins is proposed that can reveal the anyonic statistics of this model.

id: quant-ph/0605069
title: Time as a quantum observable
authors: V. S. Olkhovsky, E. Recami
comments: 19 pages, including two Figures. [The source-file is in Word]
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A22:5063-5087,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605069
abstract: Some results are reviewed and developments are presented on the study of Time in quantum mechanics as an observable, canonically conjugate to energy. Operators for the observable Time are investigated in particle and photon quantum theory. In particular, this paper deals with the hermitian (more precisely, maximal hermitian, but non-selfadjoint) operator for Time which appears: (i) for particles, in ordinary non-relativistic quantum mechanics; and (ii) for photons, in first-quantization quantum electrodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0605070
title: High Energy Quantum Teleportation Using Neutral Koans
authors: Yu Shi
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Final version, with minor corrections
journal: Phys.Lett.B641:75-80,2006; Erratum-ibid.B641:492,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605070
abstract: We describe a scheme of stochastic implementations of quantum teleportation and entanglement swapping in terms of neutral kaons. In this scheme, the kaon whose state is to be teleported collides with one of the two entangled kaons in an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen state. Subsequent detection of the outgoing particles of the collision completes the two-qubit projection on Alice side. There appear novel features, which connects quantum information science with fundamental laws of particle physics.

id: quant-ph/0605071
title: Quantum Gate Design Metric
authors: Navin Khaneja, Bjoern Heitmann, Andreas Spoerl, Haidong Yuan, Thomas Schulte-Herbrueggen, Steffen J. Glaser
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605071
abstract: What is the time-optimal way of realizing quantum operations? Here, we show how important instances of this problem can be related to the study of shortest paths on the surface of a sphere under a special metric. Specifically, we provide an efficient synthesis of a controlled NOT (CNOT) gate between qubits coupled indirectly via Ising-type couplings to a third spin. Our implementation of the CNOT gate is more than twice as fast as conventional approaches. The pulse sequences for efficient manipulation of our coupled spin system are obtained by explicit computation of geodesics on a sphere under the special metric. These methods are also used for the efficient synthesis of indirect couplings and of the Toffoli gate. We provide experimental realizations of the presented methods on a linear three-spin chain with Ising couplings.

id: quant-ph/0605072
title: Lower and Upper Bounds on CSL Parameters from Latent Image Formation and IGM Heating
authors: Stephen L. Adler
comments: Tex, 50p To appear in J. Phys. A: Math-Gen, in the special issue ``The Quantum Universe'' in honor of G. C. Ghirardi. Version 9(apart from minor copy-editing style changes) is the final published version. SEE ADDED NOTE IN ABSTRACT
journal: J.Phys.A40:2935-2958,2007; Erratum-ibid.A40:13501,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605072
abstract: We study lower and upper bounds on the parameters for stochastic state vector reduction, focusing on the mass-proportional continuous spontaneous localization (CSL) model. We show that the assumption that the state vector is reduced whan a latent image is formed, in photography or etched track detection, requires a CSL rate parameter $\lambda$ that is larger than conventionally assumed by a factor of roughly $2 \times 10^{9\pm 2}$, for a correlation length $r_C$ of $10^{-5}{\rm cm}$. We reanalyze existing upper bounds on the reduction rate and conclude that all are compatible with such an increase in $\lambda$. The best bounds that we have obtained come from a consideration of heating of the intergalactic medium (IGM), which shows that $\lambda$ can be at most $\sim 10^{8\pm 1}$ times as large as the standard CSL value, again for $r_C=10^{-5} {\rm cm}$. (For both the lower and upper bounds, quoted errors are not purely statistical errors, but rather are estimates reflecting modeling uncertainties.) We discuss modifications in our analysis corresponding to a larger value of $r_C$. With a substantially enlarged rate parameter, CSL effects may be within range of experimental detection (or refutation) with current technologies. ADDED NOTE: A careful calculation of radiation from atomic systems in the CSL model (Adler and Ramazanoglu, arXiv:0707.3134) has reinstated the bound obtained by Fu as the best upper bound on lambda, with significant implications for CSL model phenomenology.

id: quant-ph/0605073
title: Best Fidelity Conditions for Three Party Quantum Teleportation
authors: Sangjin Sim, Jeongwan Jin, Younghun Kwon
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, Vol. 44, No. 9, September 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605073
abstract: Using the entangled three qubit states classified by Acin et al. we find the best fidelity conditions for quantum teleportation among three parties.

id: quant-ph/0605074
title: Improving the Fidelity of deletion
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari, B. S. Choudhury
comments: 9 pages, Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605074
abstract: In this work we study the quantum deletion machine with two transformers and show that the deletion machine with single transformer performs better than the deletion machine with more than two transformers. We also observe that the fidelity of deletion depends on the blank state used in the deleter and so for different blank state the fidelity is different. Further, we study the Pati-Braunsein deleter with transformer.

id: quant-ph/0605075
title: Cavity-QED entangled photon source based on two truncated Rabi oscillations
authors: R. Garcia-Maraver, K. Eckert, R. Corbalan, J. Mompart
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures; submitted for the "Optical Quantum Information Science Special Issue" of JOSA B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605075
abstract: We discuss a cavity-QED scheme to deterministically generate entangled photons pairs by using a three-level atom successively coupled to two single longitudinal mode high-Q cavities presenting polarization degeneracy. The first cavity is prepared in a well defined Fock state with two photons with opposite circular polarizations while the second cavity remains in the vacuum state. A half-of-a-resonant Rabi oscillation in each cavity transfers one photon from the first to the second cavity, leaving the photons entangled in their polarization degree of freedom. The feasibility of this implementation and some practical considerations are discussed for both, microwave and optical regimes. In particular, Monte Carlo wave function simulations have been performed with state-of-the-art parameter values to evaluate the success probability of the cavity-QED source in producing entangled photon pairs as well as its entanglement capability.

id: quant-ph/0605076
title: Quantum key distribution system clocked at 2 GHz
authors: K. J. Gordon, V. Fernandez, G. S. Buller, I. Rech, S. D. Cova, P. D. Townsend
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Volume13 (8), pp3015-3020 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605076
abstract: An improved quantum key distribution test system operating at clock rates of up to 2GHz using a specially adapted commercially available silicon single photon avalanche diode is presented. The use of improved detectors has improved the fibre-based test system performance in terms of transmission distance and quantum bit error rate.

id: quant-ph/0605077
title: Robust Quantum Algorithms with $\eps$-Biased Oracles
authors: Tomoya Suzuki, Shigeru Yamashita, Masaki Nakanishi, Katsumasa Watanabe
comments: To appear in COCOON'06
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605077
abstract: This paper considers the quantum query complexity of {\it $\eps$-biased oracles} that return the correct value with probability only $1/2 + \eps$. In particular, we show a quantum algorithm to compute $N$-bit OR functions with $O(\sqrt{N}/{\eps})$ queries to $\eps$-biased oracles. This improves the known upper bound of $O(\sqrt{N}/{\eps}^2)$ and matches the known lower bound; we answer the conjecture raised by the paper by Iwama et al. affirmatively. We also show a quantum algorithm to cope with the situation in which we have no knowledge about the value of $\eps$. This contrasts with the corresponding classical situation, where it is almost hopeless to achieve more than a constant success probability without knowing the value of $\eps$.

id: quant-ph/0605078
title: Geometrical phase of thermal state in hydrogen atom
authors: Guo-Qiang Zhu
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605078
abstract: In this paper, the geometric phase of thermal state in hydrogen atom under the effects of external magnetic field is considered. Especially the effects of the temperature upon the geometric phase is discussed. Also we discuss the time evolution of entanglement of the system. They show some similar behaviors.

id: quant-ph/0605079
title: Geometrical aspects of entanglement
authors: Jon Magne Leinaas, Jan Myrheim, Eirik Ovrum
comments: 31 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605079
abstract: We study geometrical aspects of entanglement, with the Hilbert--Schmidt norm defining the metric on the set of density matrices. We focus first on the simplest case of two two-level systems and show that a ``relativistic'' formulation leads to a complete analysis of the question of separability. Our approach is based on Schmidt decomposition of density matrices for a composite system and non-unitary transformations to a standard form. The positivity of the density matrices is crucial for the method to work. A similar approach works to some extent in higher dimensions, but is a less powerful tool. We further present a numerical method for examining separability, and illustrate the method by a numerical study of bound entanglement in a composite system of two three-level systems.

id: quant-ph/0605080
title: When the Left Hand and the Right Hand Cooperate Without Informing their Owner
authors: Brian Dodson
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605080
abstract: A specific instantiation of classical correlation from entangled quantum resources can be established at a distance through the use of local measurements without classical communication. It is thereby possible to, e.g., allow distant entities to randomly combine forces on a course of action which is an element of a predetermined set of possible actions. When this protocol is used, no one knows which action has been chosen. The protocol is intrinsically secure in the same sense as a one-time pad. The entities must have a shared entanglement resource, be able to measure that resource in a predetermined reference frame, and know what they must do to carry out all of the possible actions.

id: quant-ph/0605081
title: Geometric phases, gauge symmetries and ray representation
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 30 pages. Some clarifying sentences have been added in abstract and in the body of the paper. A new additional reference and some typos have been corrected. To appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. A
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A21 (2006) 5333-5358
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605081
abstract: The conventional formulation of the non-adiabatic (Aharonov-Anandan) phase is based on the equivalence class $\{e^{i\alpha(t)}\psi(t,\vec{x})\}$ which is not a symmetry of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation. This equivalence class when understood as defining generalized rays in the Hilbert space is not generally consistent with the superposition principle in interference and polarization phenomena. The hidden local gauge symmetry, which arises from the arbitrariness of the choice of coordinates in the functional space, is then proposed as a basic gauge symmetry in the non-adiabatic phase. This re-formulation reproduces all the successful aspects of the non-adiabatic phase in a manner manifestly consistent with the conventional notion of rays and the superposition principle. The hidden local symmetry is thus identified as the natural origin of the gauge symmetry in both of the adiabatic and non-adiabatic phases in the absence of gauge fields, and it allows a unified treatment of all the geometric phases. The non-adiabatic phase may well be regarded as a special case of the adiabatic phase in this re-formulation, contrary to the customary understanding of the adiabatic phase as a special case of the non-adiabatic phase. Some explicit examples of geometric phases are discussed to illustrate this re-formulation.

id: quant-ph/0605082
title: Comparison of SDL and LMC measures of complexity: Atoms as a testbed
authors: C.P. Panos, K.Ch. Chatzisavvas, Ch.C. Moustakidis, E.G. Kyrkou
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, revised version, accepted for publiaction in Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605082
abstract: The "simple" measure of complexity of Shiner, Davison and Landsberg (SDL) and the "statistical" one, according to Lopez-Ruiz, Mancini and Calbet (LMC), are compared in atoms as functions of the atomic number Z. Shell effects i.e. local minima at the closed shells atoms are observed, as well as certain qualitative trends of SDL and LMC measueres of complexity. If we impose the condition that SDL and LMC behave similarly as functions of Z, then we can conclude that complexity increases with Z and for atoms the strength of disorder is zero and order is four.

id: quant-ph/0605083
title: Long-lived mesoscopic entanglement outside the Lamb-Dicke regime
authors: M.J. McDonnell, J.P. Home, D.M. Lucas, G. Imreh, B.C. Keitch, D.J. Szwer, N.R. Thomas, S.C. Webster, D.N. Stacey, A.M. Steane
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Revised version after editor comments
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., v98, 063603 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605083
abstract: We create entangled states of the spin and motion of a single $^{40}$Ca$^+$ ion in a linear ion trap. The motional part consists of coherent states of large separation and long coherence time. The states are created by driving the motion using counterpropagating laser beams. We theoretically study and experimentally observe the behaviour outside the Lamb-Dicke regime, where the trajectory in phase space is modified and the coherent states become squeezed. We directly observe the modification of the return time of the trajectory, and infer the squeezing. The mesoscopic entanglement is observed up to $\Delta \alpha = 5.1$ with coherence time 170 microseconds and mean phonon excitation $\nbar = 16$.

id: quant-ph/0605084
title: Semiclassical Theory of Amplification and Lasing
authors: German J. de Valcarcel, Eugenio Roldan, F. Prati
comments: Didactic article. 16 text pages plus 8 figures. Some typos corrected
journal: Revista Mexicana de Fisica E 52 (2006) 198-214
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605084
abstract: In this article we present a systematic derivation of the Maxwell-Bloch equations describing amplification and laser action in a ring cavity. We derive the Maxwell-Bloch equations for a two-level medium and discuss their applicability to standard three- and four-level systems. After discusing amplification, we consider lasing and pay special attention to the obtention of the laser equations in the uniform field approximation. Finally, the connection of the laser equations with the Lorenz model is considered.

id: quant-ph/0605085
title: Generation of coherent terahertz pulses in Ruby at room temperature
authors: Elena Kuznetsova, Yuri Rostovtsev, Nikolai G. Kalugin, Roman Kolesov, Olga Kocharovskaya, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605085
abstract: We have shown that a coherently driven solid state medium can potentially produce strong controllable short pulses of THz radiation. The high efficiency of the technique is based on excitation of maximal THz coherence by applying resonant optical pulses to the medium. The excited coherence in the medium is connected to macroscopic polarization coupled to THz radiation. We have performed detailed simulations by solving the coupled density matrix and Maxwell equations. By using a simple $V$-type energy scheme for ruby, we have demonstrated that the energy of generated THz pulses ranges from hundreds of pico-Joules to nano-Joules at room temperature and micro-Joules at liquid helium temperature, with pulse durations from picoseconds to tens of nanoseconds. We have also suggested a coherent ruby source that lases on two optical wavelengths and simultaneously generates THz radiation. We discussed also possibilities of extension of the technique to different solid-state materials.

id: quant-ph/0605086
title: Communicating over adversarial quantum channels using quantum list codes
authors: Debbie Leung, Graeme Smith
comments: 6 pages. Discussion expanded and more details provided in proofs. Far less unclear than previous version
journal: IEEE Trans. Info. Theory 54, 2, 883-887 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605086
abstract: We study quantum communication in the presence of adversarial noise. In this setting, communicating with perfect fidelity requires using a quantum code of bounded minimum distance, for which the best known rates are given by the quantum Gilbert-Varshamov (QGV) bound. By asking only for arbitrarily high fidelity and allowing the sender and reciever to use a secret key with length logarithmic in the number of qubits sent, we achieve a dramatic improvement over the QGV rates. In fact, we find protocols that achieve arbitrarily high fidelity at noise levels for which perfect fidelity is impossible. To achieve such communication rates, we introduce fully quantum list codes, which may be of independent interest.

id: quant-ph/0605087
title: Mathematical Theory of the Duality Computer in the Density Matrix Formalism
authors: Gui Lu Long
comments: 3 pages. Typos corrected
journal: Quantum Information Processing, 6, 49-54 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605087
abstract: We give the mathematical theory of duality computer in the density matrix formalism. This result complements the mathematical theory of duality computer of Gudder in the pure state formalism.

id: quant-ph/0605088
title: Entanglement Split:Comment on ``Quantum secret sharing based on reusable Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states as secure carriers'' [Phys. Rev. A 67, 044302 (2003)]
authors: Jian-Zhong Du, Su-Juan Qin, Qiao-Yan Wen, Fu-Chen Zhu
comments: 4 pages,no figures, subbmitted to Phys.Rev.A on December 16,2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605088
abstract: In a recent paper [S. Bagherinezhad and V. Karimipour, Phys. Rev. A 67, 044302 (2003)], a quantum secret sharing protocol based on reusable GHZ states was proposed. However, in this comment, it is shown that this protocol is insecure because a cheater can gain all the secret bits before sharing, while introducing one data bit error at most in the whole communication, which makes the cheater avoid the detection by the communication parities.

id: quant-ph/0605089
title: Local-field correction to the spontaneous decay rate of atoms embedded in bodies of finite size
authors: Ho Trung Dung, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, minor additions
journal: Physical Review A 74 (2), 023803 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605089
abstract: The influence of the size and shape of a dispersing and absorbing dielectric body on the local-field corrected spontaneous-decay of an excited atom embedded in the body is studied on the basis of the real-cavity model. By means of a Born expansion of the Green tensor of the system it is shown that to linear order in the susceptibility of the body the decay rate exactly follows Tomas's formula found for the special case of an atom at the center of a homogeneous dielectric sphere [Phys. Rev. A 63, 053811 (2001)]. It is further shown that for an atom situated at the interior of an arbitrary dielectric body this formula remains valid beyond the linear order. The case of an atom embedded in a weakly polarizable sphere is discussed in detail.

id: quant-ph/0605090
title: The Mutually Unbiased Bases Revisited
authors: M. Combescure
comments: International Conference on Transport and Spectral Problems in Quantum Mechanics held in Honor of Jean-Michel Combes, Cergy Pontoise : France (2006)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605090
abstract: The study of Mutually Unbiased Bases continues to be developed vigorously, and presents several challenges in the Quantum Information Theory. Two orthonormal bases in $\mathbb C^d, B {and} B'$ are said mutually unbiased if $\forall b\in B, b'\in B'$ the scalar product $b\cdot b'$ has modulus $d^{-1/2}$. In particular this property has been introduced in order to allow an optimization of the measurement-driven quantum evolution process of any state $\psi \in \mathbb C^d$ when measured in the mutually unbiased bases $B\_{j} {of} \mathbb C^d$. At present it is an open problem to find the maximal umber of mutually Unbiased Bases when $d$ is not a power of a prime number. \noindent In this article, we revisit the problem of finding Mutually Unbiased Bases (MUB's) in any dimension $d$. The method is very elementary, using the simple unitary matrices introduced by Schwinger in 1960, together with their diagonalizations. The Vandermonde matrix based on the $d$-th roots of unity plays a major role. This allows us to show the existence of a set of 3 MUB's in any dimension, to give conditions for existence of more than 3 MUB's for $d$ even or odd number, and to recover the known result of existence of $d+1$ MUB's for $d$ a prime number. Furthermore the construction of these MUB's is very explicit. As a by-product, we recover results about Gauss Sums, known in number theory, but which have apparently not been previously derived from MUB properties.

id: quant-ph/0605091
title: Perturbative Treatment of the Evolution Operator Associated with Raman Couplings
authors: Benedetto Militello, Paolo Aniello, Antonino Messina
comments: Published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 2:050,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605091
abstract: A novel perturbative treatment of the time evolution operator of a quantum system is applied to the model describing a Raman-driven trapped ion in order to obtain a suitable 'effective model'. It is shown that the associated effective Hamiltonian describes the system dynamics up to a certain transformation which may be interpreted as a 'dynamical dressing' of the effective model.

id: quant-ph/0605092
title: Optical implementations, oracle equivalence, and the Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm
authors: Arvind, Gurpreet Kaur, Geetu Narang
comments: Published version reference added
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 24, 221-225 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605092
abstract: We describe a new implementation of the Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm which relies on the fact that the polarization states of classical light beams can be cloned. We explore the possibility of computing with waves and discuss a classical optical model capable of implementing any algorithm (on $n$ qubits) that does not involve entanglement. The Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm (with a suitably modified oracle), wherein a hidden $n$ bit vector is discovered by one oracle query as against $n$ oracle queries required classically, belongs to this category. In our scheme, the modified oracle is also capable of computing $f(x)$ for a given $x$, which is not possible with earlier versions used in recent NMR and optics implementations of the algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0605093
title: Time-bin modulated polarization-entangled biphotons from cavity-enhanced down-conversion
authors: Christopher E. Kuklewicz, Franco N. C. Wong, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605093
abstract: We have generated a new type of biphoton state by cavity-enhanced down-conversion in a type-II phase-matched, periodically-poled KTiOPO_4 (PPKTP) crystal. By introducing a weak intracavity birefringence, the polarization-entangled output was modulated between the singlet and triplet states according to the arrival-time difference of the signal and idler photons. This cavity-enhanced biphoton source is spectrally bright, yielding a single-mode fiber-coupled coincidence rate of 0.7 pairs/s per mW of pump power per MHz of down-conversion bandwidth. Its novel biphoton behavior may be utilized in sensitive measurements of weak intracavity birefringence.

id: quant-ph/0605094
title: Homological Error Correction: Classical and Quantum Codes
authors: H. Bombin, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: Revtex4 file
journal: J.Math.Phys.48:052105,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605094
abstract: We prove several theorems characterizing the existence of homological error correction codes both classically and quantumly. Not every classical code is homological, but we find a family of classical homological codes saturating the Hamming bound. In the quantum case, we show that for non-orientable surfaces it is impossible to construct homological codes based on qudits of dimension $D>2$, while for orientable surfaces with boundaries it is possible to construct them for arbitrary dimension $D$. We give a method to obtain planar homological codes based on the construction of quantum codes on compact surfaces without boundaries. We show how the original Shor's 9-qubit code can be visualized as a homological quantum code. We study the problem of constructing quantum codes with optimal encoding rate. In the particular case of toric codes we construct an optimal family and give an explicit proof of its optimality. For homological quantum codes on surfaces of arbitrary genus we also construct a family of codes asymptotically attaining the maximum possible encoding rate. We provide the tools of homology group theory for graphs embedded on surfaces in a self-contained manner.

id: quant-ph/0605095
title: Quantum teleportation between light and matter
authors: Jacob Sherson, Hanna Krauter, Rasmus K. Olsson, Brian Julsgaard, Klemens Hammerer, Ignacio Cirac, Eugene S. Polzik
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures, incl. supplementary information
journal: Nature 443, 557-560 (5 October 2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605095
abstract: Quantum teleportation is an important ingredient in distributed quantum networks, and can also serve as an elementary operation in quantum computers. Teleportation was first demonstrated as a transfer of a quantum state of light onto another light beam; later developments used optical relays and demonstrated entanglement swapping for continuous variables. The teleportation of a quantum state between two single material particles (trapped ions) has now also been achieved. Here we demonstrate teleportation between objects of a different nature - light and matter, which respectively represent 'flying' and 'stationary' media. A quantum state encoded in a light pulse is teleported onto a macroscopic object (an atomic ensemble containing 10^12 caesium atoms). Deterministic teleportation is achieved for sets of coherent states with mean photon number (n) up to a few hundred. The fidelities are 0.58+-0.02 for n=20 and 0.60+-0.02 for n=5 - higher than any classical state transfer can possibly achieve. Besides being of fundamental interest, teleportation using a macroscopic atomic ensemble is relevant for the practical implementation of a quantum repeater. An important factor for the implementation of quantum networks is the teleportation distance between transmitter and receiver; this is 0.5 metres in the present experiment. As our experiment uses propagating light to achieve the entanglement of light and atoms required for teleportation, the present approach should be scalable to longer distances.

id: quant-ph/0605096
title: Quantum Information and Entropy
authors: Subhash Kak
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, vol. 46, pp. 860-876, 2007.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605096
abstract: Thermodynamic entropy is not an entirely satisfactory measure of information of a quantum state. This entropy for an unknown pure state is zero, although repeated measurements on copies of such a pure state do communicate information. In view of this, we propose a new measure for the informational entropy of a quantum state that includes information in the pure states and the thermodynamic entropy. The origin of information is explained in terms of an interplay between unitary and non-unitary evolution. Such complementarity is also at the basis of the so-called interaction-free measurement.

id: quant-ph/0605097
title: On connection between purity and fidelity of quantum channels
authors: A.V. Kuzmin
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605097
abstract: Quantum channels depending on a number of classical control parameters are considered. Assuming the stochastic fluctuations of the control parameters in the small errors limit it is shown that the channel fidelity is equal to the average value of the channel purities calculated in the cases of the control errors presence and absence respectively. The result validity is demonstrated on two particular examples, namely, one-qubit quantum gates implemented in the framework of the ion trap setup and the single qubit anisotropic depolarizing quantum channel.

id: quant-ph/0605098
title: Deterministic single photons via conditional quantum evolution
authors: D. N. Matsukevich, T. Chaneliere, S. D. Jenkins, S.-Y. Lan, T. A. B. Kennedy, A. Kuzmich
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 97, 013601 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605098
abstract: A source of deterministic single photons is proposed and demonstrated by the application of a measurement-based feedback protocol to a heralded single photon source consisting of an ensemble of cold rubidium atoms. Our source is stationary and produces a photoelectric detection record with sub-Poissonian statistics.

id: quant-ph/0605099
title: Reply to Entanglement split: "Comment on quantum secret sharing based on reusable Greenbergr-Horne-Zeilinger states as secure carriers"
authors: V. Karimipour
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 016302 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605099
abstract: In a recent comment, it has been shown that in a quantum secret sharing protocol proposed in [S. Bagherinezhad, V. Karimipour, Phys. Rev. {\bf A}, 67, 044302, (2003)], one of the receivers can cheat by splitting the entanglement of the carrier and intercepting the secret, without being detected. In this reply we show that a simple modification of the protocol prevents the receivers from this kind of cheating.

id: quant-ph/0605100
title: Assessment of a quantum phase gate operation based on nonlinear optics
authors: S. Rebic, C. Ottaviani, G. Di Giuseppe, D. Vitali, P. Tombesi
comments: 12 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys Rev A 74, 032301 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605100
abstract: We analyze in detail the proposal for a two-qubit gate for travelling single-photon qubits recently presented by C. Ottaviani \emph{et al}. [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{73}, 010301(R) (2006)]. The scheme is based on an ensemble of five-level atoms coupled to two quantum and two classical light fields. The two quantum fields undergo cross-phase modulation induced by electromagnetically induced transparency. The performance of this two-qubit quantum phase gate for travelling single-photon qubits is thoroughly examined in the steady-state and transient regimes, by means of a full quantum treatment of the system dynamics. In the steady-state regime, we find a general trade-off between the size of the conditional phase shift and the fidelity of the gate operation. However, this trade-off can be bypassed in the transient regime, where a satisfactory gate operation is found to be possible, significantly reducing the gate operation time.

id: quant-ph/0605101
title: On the Generator of Lorentz Boost
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong
comments: 9 pages
journal: Chin. Phys.15, No10, 2223-2227(2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605101
abstract: Traditionally, the theory related to the spatial angular momentum has been studied completely, while the investigation in the generator of Lorentz boost is inadequate. In this paper we show that the generator of Lorentz boost has a nontrivial physical significance, it endows a charged system with an electric moment, and has an important significance for the electrical manipulations of electron spin in spintronics. An alternative treatment and interpretation for the traditional Darwin term and spin-orbit coupling are given.

id: quant-ph/0605102
title: First Quantized Theory of the Photon
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong, Ole Keller
comments: Detailed version by adding the last paragraph as well as Appendix A and B
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 24, 418 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605102
abstract: In near-field optics and optical tunneling theory, photon wave mechanics, i.e., the first quantized theory of the photon, allows us to address the spatial field localization problem in a flexible manner which links smoothly to classical electromagnetics. In this letter, photon wave mechanics is developed in a rigorous and unified way, based on which field quantization is obtained in a new way.

id: quant-ph/0605103
title: On Concurrence and Entanglement of Rank Two Channels
authors: Armin Uhlmann
comments: 20 pages. An appendix is added. An error in (45) - (47) and known (to me) misspellings are corrected
journal: Open Sys. & Information Dynamics 12 (2005) 1 - 14
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605103
abstract: Concurrence and further entanglement quantifyers can be computed explicitly for channels of rank two if representable by just two Kraus operators. Almost all details are available for the subclass of rank two 1-qubit-channels. There is a simple geometric picture beyond, explaining nicely the role of anti-linearity.

id: quant-ph/0605104
title: Existence of A Rigorous Density-Functional Theory for Open Electronic Systems
authors: Xiao Zheng, Fan Wang, GuanHua Chen
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605104
abstract: We prove that the electron density function of a real physical system can be uniquely determined by its values on any finite subsystem. This establishes the existence of a rigorous density-functional theory for any open electronic system. By introducing a new density functional for dissipative interactions between the reduced system and its environment, we subsequently develop a time-dependent density-functional theory which depends in principle only on the electron density of the reduced system.

id: quant-ph/0605105
title: Quantum to Classical Transition per the Relational Blockworld
authors: W.M. Stuckey, Michael Silberstein, Michael Cifone
comments: 40 pages of text, 16 figures. Submitted to Foundations of Physics. Two references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605105
abstract: The transition from the quantum realm to the classical realm is described in the context of the Relational Blockworld (RBW) interpretation of non-relativistic quantum mechanics. We first introduce RBW, discuss its philosophical implications and provide an example of its explanatory methodology via the so-called "quantum liar experiment." We then provide a simple example of a quantum to classical transition in this context using a gedanken twin-slit experiment. We conclude by speculating on the extrapolation of RBW to quantum field theory, suggesting the need for a new principle of physics based in spatiotemporal relationalism. Accordingly, RBW suggests a novel approach to new physics which supplies a means for its falsification.

id: quant-ph/0605106
title: Two-way Protocol for Quantum Cryptography with Imperfect Devices
authors: M. Lucamarini, A. Cere', G. Di Giuseppe, S. Mancini, D. Vitali, P. Tombesi
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. Uses OSID style
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 14, 169-178 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605106
abstract: The security of a deterministic quantum scheme for communication, namely the LM05 [1], is studied in presence of a lossy channel under the assumption of imperfect generation and detection of single photons. It is shown that the scheme allows for a rate of distillable secure bits higher than that pertaining to BB84 [2]. We report on a first implementation of LM05 with weak pulses.

id: quant-ph/0605107
title: Entanglement in a Spin-$s$ Antiferromagnetic Heisenberg Chain
authors: Xiang Hao, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 12 pages; 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605107
abstract: The entanglement in a general Heisenberg antiferromagnetic chain of arbitrary spin-$s$ is investigated. The entanglement is witnessed by the thermal energy which equals to the minimum energy of any separable state. There is a characteristic temperature below that an entangled thermal state exists. The characteristic temperature for thermal entanglement is increased with spin $s$. When the total number of lattice is increased, the characteristic temperature decreases and then approaches a constant. This effect shows that the thermal entanglement can be detected in a real solid state system of larger number of lattices for finite temperature. The comparison of negativity and entanglement witness is obtained from the separability of the unentangled states. It is found that the thermal energy provides a sufficient condition for the existence of the thermal entanglement in a spin-$s$ antiferromagnetic Heisenberg chain.

id: quant-ph/0605108
title: Entanlement-Assisted Classical Capacity of Quantum Channels with Correlated Noise
authors: Nigum Arshed, A. H. Toor
comments: 8 Pages, 2 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 014304 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605108
abstract: We calculate the entanglement-assisted classical capacity of symmetric and asymmetric Pauli channels where two consecutive uses of the channels are correlated. It is evident from our study that in the presence of memory, a higher amount of classical information is transmitted over quantum channels if there exists prior entanglement as compared to product and entangled state coding.

id: quant-ph/0605109
title: Full time nonexponential decay in double-barrier quantum structures
authors: Gaston Garcia-Calderon, Jorge Villavicencio
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062115 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605109
abstract: We examine an analytical expression for the survival probability for the time evolution of quantum decay to discuss a regime where quantum decay is nonexponential at all times. We find that the interference between the exponential and nonexponential terms of the survival amplitude modifies the usual exponential decay regime in systems where the ratio of the resonance energy to the decay width, is less than 0.3. We suggest that such regime could be observed in semiconductor double-barrier resonant quantum structures with appropriate parameters.

id: quant-ph/0605110
title: Is Weak Pseudo-Hermiticity Weaker than Pseudo-Hermiticity?
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: published version, 10 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 47, 092101 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605110
abstract: For a weakly pseudo-Hermitian linear operator, we give a spectral condition that ensures its pseudo-Hermiticity. This condition is always satisfied whenever the operator acts in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space. Hence weak pseudo-Hermiticity and pseudo-Hermiticity are equivalent in finite-dimensions. This equivalence extends to a much larger class of operators. Quantum systems whose Hamiltonian is selected from among these operators correspond to pseudo-Hermitian quantum systems possessing certain symmetries.

id: quant-ph/0605111
title: Cluster state quantum computing in optical fibers
authors: Yasaman Soudagar, Felix Bussieres, Guido Berlin, Suzanne Lacroix, Jose M. Fernandez, Nicolas Godbout
comments: 6 pages, 11 figures, submitted to the Optical Quantum-Information Science focus issue of JOSA B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605111
abstract: A scheme for the implementation of the cluster state model of quantum computing in optical fibers, which enables the feedforward feature, is proposed. This scheme uses the time-bin encoding of qubits. Following previously suggested methods of applying arbitrary one-qubit gates in optical fibers, two different ways for the realization of fusion gate types I and II for cluster production are proposed: a fully time-bin based encoding scheme and a combination of time-bin and polarization based encoding scheme. Also the methods of measurement in any desired bases for the purpose of the processing of cluster state computing for both these encodings are explained.

id: quant-ph/0605112
title: Area law and vacuum reordering in harmonic networks
authors: A. Riera, J. I. Latorre
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures; typos corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.A74:052326,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605112
abstract: We review a number of ideas related to area law scaling of the geometric entropy from the point of view of condensed matter, quantum field theory and quantum information. An explicit computation in arbitrary dimensions of the geometric entropy of the ground state of a discretized scalar free field theory shows the expected area law result. In this case, area law scaling is a manifestation of a deeper reordering of the vacuum produced by majorization relations. Furthermore, the explicit control on all the eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix allows for a verification of entropy loss along the renormalization group trajectory driven by the mass term. A further result of our computation shows that single-copy entanglement also obeys area law scaling, majorization relations and decreases along renormalization group flows.

id: quant-ph/0605113
title: Geometric approach to the discrete Wigner function
authors: A.B. Klimov, C. Munoz, J.L. Romero
comments: 25 p. Extended version de short course given in School on Quantum Optics and Quantum Information, November 21-25, 2005, Las trancas, Chillan, Chile
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605113
abstract: We analyze the Wigner function constructed on the basis of the discrete rotation and displacement operators labeled with elements of the underlying finite field. We separately discuss the case of odd and even characteristics and analyze the algebraic origin of the non uniqueness of the representation of the Wigner function. Explicit expressions for the Wigner kernel are given in both cases.

id: quant-ph/0605114
title: Reaching 7Li BEC with a Mini-Trap
authors: Ruquan Wang, Mingchang Liu, Francesco Minardi, Mark Kasevich
comments: 7 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605114
abstract: A novel mm-scale Ioffe-Pritchard trap is used to achieve Bose-Einstein condensation in 7Li. The trap employs free-standing copper coils integrated onto a direct-bond copper surface electrode structure. The trap achieves a radial magnetic gradient of 420 G/cm, an axial oscillation frequency of 50 Hz and a trap depth of 66 G with a 100 A drive current and 7 W total power dissipation.

id: quant-ph/0605115
title: General recursive solution for one dimensional quantum potentials: a simple tool for applied physics
authors: Srgio L. Morelh?o, Andr V. Perrotta
comments: Final version to appear in the Brazilian Magazine of Physics Teaching (this http URL)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605115
abstract: A revision of the recursive method proposed by S.A. Shakir [Am. J.Phys. \textbf{52}, 845 (1984)] to solve bound eigenvalues of the Schr\"odinger equation is presented. Equations are further simplified and generalized for computing wave functions of any given one-dimensional potential, providing accurate solutions not only for bound states but also for scattering and resonant states, as demonstrated here for a few examples.

id: quant-ph/0605116
title: An interpretation of quantum mechanics based on a waveguide analogy
authors: Roald Ekholdt
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605116
abstract: Based on an observation that the basic mode of a common microwave waveguide is a solution to the Klein-Gordon equation, quantum mechanics is modeled as the wave-function propagated inside a waveguide. The guide width is determined by the rest-energy and the potential energy. Moreover, a geometrical optics model of the propagation illustrates how the width as a function of distance determines the velocity and accelerations of the particle. The model entails the disappearance of action-at-a-distance problem, and that interactions are conveyed via the potential, i.e. by photons.

id: quant-ph/0605117
title: The one-way CNOT simulation
authors: P. Campanale, D. Picca
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605117
abstract: In this paper we present the complete simulation of the quantum logic CNOT gate in the one-way model, that consists entirely of one-qubit measurements on a particular class of entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0605118
title: Experimental Test of Two-way Quantum Key Distribution in Presence of Controlled Noise
authors: A. Cere', M. Lucamarini, G. Di Giuseppe, P. Tombesi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 200501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605118
abstract: We describe the experimental test of a quantum key distribution performed with a two-way protocol without using entanglement. An individual incoherent eavesdropping is simulated and induces a variable amount of noise on the communication channel. This allows a direct verification of the agreement between theory and practice.

id: quant-ph/0605119
title: Coherent state quantization and phase operator
authors: Pedro L. Garca de Len, Jean-Pierre Gazeau
comments: 10 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 361 (2007) 301-304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605119
abstract: Phase operators are constructed using a Klauder-Berezin coherent state quantization in finite Hilbert subspaces of the Hilbert space of Fourier series. The study of infinite dimensional limits of mean values of some observables phase leads towards a simpler convergence to the canonical commutation relations.

id: quant-ph/0605120
title: Interference, reduced action, and trajectories
authors: Edward R. Floyd
comments: 12 pages text, 5 figures. Typos corrected. Author's final submission. A companion paper to "Welcher Weg? A trajectory representation of a quantum Young's diffraction experiment", quant-ph/0605121. Keywords: interference, nonlocality, trajectory representation, entanglement, dwell time, determinism
journal: Found.Phys.37:1386-1402,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605120
abstract: Instead of investigating the interference between two stationary, rectilinear wave functions in a trajectory representation by examining the two rectilinear wave functions individually, we examine a dichromatic wave function that is synthesized from the two interfering wave functions. The physics of interference is contained in the reduced action for the dichromatic wave function. As this reduced action is a generator of the motion for the dichromatic wave function, it determines the dichromatic wave function's trajectory. The quantum effective mass renders insight into the behavior of the trajectory. The trajectory in turn renders insight into quantum nonlocality.

id: quant-ph/0605121
title: Welcher Weg? A trajectory representation of a quantum Young's diffraction experiment
authors: Edward R. Floyd
comments: 12 pages LaTeX2e, 9 figures. Typos corrected. Author's final submission. A companion paper to "Interference, reduced action, and trajectories", quant-ph/0605120. Keywords: interference, Young's experiment, entanglement, nonlocality, trajectory representation, determinism
journal: Found.Phys.37:1403-1420,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605121
abstract: The double slit problem is idealized by simplifying each slit by a point source. A composite reduced action for the two correlated point sources is developed. Contours of the reduced action, trajectories and loci of transit times are developed in the region near the two point sources. The trajectory through any point in Euclidian 3-space also passes simultaneously through both point sources.

id: quant-ph/0605122
title: Efficient retrieval of a single excitation stored in an atomic ensemble
authors: Julien Laurat, Hugues de Riedmatten, Daniel Felinto, Chin-wen Chou, Erik Schomburg, H. Jeff Kimble
comments: 
journal: Opt. Express 14, 6912-6918 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605122
abstract: We report significant improvements in the retrieval efficiency of a single excitation stored in an atomic ensemble and in the subsequent generation of strongly correlated pairs of photons. A 50% probability to transform the stored excitation into one photon in a well-defined spatio-temporal mode at the output of the ensemble is demonstrated. These improvements are illustrated by the generation of high-quality heralded single photons with a suppression of the two-photon component below 1% of the value for a coherent state. A broad characterization of our system is performed for different parameters in order to provide input for the future design of realistic quantum networks.

id: quant-ph/0605123
title: Exact Solutions of a Non-Polynomially Nonlinear Schrodinger Equation
authors: R. Parwani, H. S. Tan
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys.Lett. A363 (2007) 197-201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605123
abstract: A nonlinear generalisation of Schrodinger's equation had previously been obtained using information-theoretic arguments. The nonlinearities in that equation were of a nonpolynomial form, equivalent to the occurence of higher-derivative nonlinear terms at all orders. Here we construct some exact solutions to that equation in 1+1 dimensions. On the half-line, the solutions resemble exponentially damped Bloch waves even though no external periodic potential is included: the periodicity is induced by the nonpolynomiality. The solutions are nonperturbative as they do not reduce to solutions of the linear theory in the limit that the nonlinearity parameter vanishes. An intriguing feature of the solutions is their infinite degeneracy: for a given energy, there exists a very large arbitrariness in the normalisable wavefunctions. We also consider solutions to a q-deformed version of the nonlinear equation and discuss a natural discretisation implied by the nonpolynomiality. Finally, we contrast the properties of our solutions with other solutions of nonlinear Schrodinger equations in the literature and suggest some possible applications of our results in the domains of low-energy and high-energy physics.

id: quant-ph/0605124
title: Preparation of a Single Photon in Time-bin Entangled States via Photon Parametric Interaction
authors: N.Sisakyan, Yu.Malakyan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605124
abstract: A novel method for preparation of a single photon in temporally-delocalized entangled modes is proposed and analyzed. We show that two single-photon pulses propagating in a driven nonabsorbing medium with different group velocities are temporally split under parametric interaction into well-separated pulses. In consequence, the single-photon "time-bin-entangled" states are generated with a programmable entanglement easily controlled by driving field intensity. The experimental study of nonclassical features and nonlocality of generated states by means of balanced homodyne tomography is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0605125
title: Splitting times of doubly quantized vortices in dilute Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: J. A. M. Huhtam?ki, M. M?tt?nen, T. Isoshima, V. Pietil?, S. M. M. Virtanen
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 110406 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605125
abstract: Recently, the splitting of a topologically created doubly quantized vortex into two singly quantized vortices was experimentally investigated in dilute atomic cigar-shaped Bose-Einstein condensates [Y. Shin et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 160406 (2004)]. In particular, the dependency of the splitting time on the peak particle density was studied. We present results of theoretical simulations which closely mimic the experimental set-up. Contrary to previous theoretical studies, claiming that thermal excitations are the essential mechanism in initiating the splitting, we show that the combination of gravitational sag and time dependency of the trapping potential alone suffices to split the doubly quantized vortex in time scales which are in good agreement with the experiments. We also study the dynamics of the resulting singly quantized vortices which typically intertwine--especially, a peculiar vortex chain structure appears for certain parameter values.

id: quant-ph/0605126
title: Efficient Generation of Generic Entanglement
authors: R.Oliveira, O.C.O.Dahlsten, M.B.Plenio
comments: Replaced with version similar to the published. Added journal reference.
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 130502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605126
abstract: We find that generic entanglement is physical, in the sense that it can be generated in polynomial time from two-qubit gates picked at random. We prove as the main result that such a process generates the average entanglement of the uniform (Haar) measure in at most $O(N^3)$ steps for $N$ qubits. This is despite an exponentially growing number of such gates being necessary for generating that measure fully on the state space. Numerics furthermore show a variation cut-off allowing one to associate a specific time with the achievement of the uniform measure entanglement distribution. Various extensions of this work are discussed. The results are relevant to entanglement theory and to protocols that assume generic entanglement can be achieved efficiently.

id: quant-ph/0605127
title: Conclusive quantum state classification
authors: Mei-Yu Wang, Feng-Li Yan
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605127
abstract: In this paper, we have considered the problem of general conclusive quantum state classification; the necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of conclusive classification strategies have also been presented. Moreover, we have given the upper bound for the maximal success probability.

id: quant-ph/0605128
title: Squeezing frequency combs
authors: German J. De Valcarcel, Giuseppe Patera, Nicolas Treps, Claude Fabre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605128
abstract: We have developed the full theory of a synchronously pumped type I optical parametric oscillator (SPOPO). We derive expressions for the oscillation threshold and the characteristics of the generated mode-locked signal beam. We calculate the output quantum fluctuations of the device, and find that, in the degenerate case (coincident signal and idler set of frequencies), perfect squeezing is obtained when one approaches threshold from below for a well defined "super-mode', or frequency comb, consisting of a coherent linear superposition of signal modes of different frequencies which are resonant in the cavity.

id: quant-ph/0605129
title: Phase Space Quantum Mechanics - Direct
authors: S. Nasiri, Y. Sobouti, F. Taati
comments: 16 pages
journal: JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PHYSICS 47, 092106 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605129
abstract: Conventional approach to quantum mechanics in phase space, (q,p), is to take the operator based quantum mechanics of Schrodinger, or and equivalent, and assign a c-number function in phase space to it. We propose to begin with a higher level of abstraction, in which the independence and the symmetric role of q and p is maintained throughout, and at once arrive at phase space state functions. Upon reduction to the q- or p-space the proposed formalism gives the conventional quantum mechanics, however, with a definite rule for ordering of factors of non commuting observables. Further conceptual and practical merits of the formalism are demonstrated throughout the text.

id: quant-ph/0605130
title: Determinate Values for Quantum Observables
authors: Roderich Tumulka
comments: 5 pages LaTeX, no figures
journal: Brit. J. Phil. Sci. 58 (2007) 355-360
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605130
abstract: This is a comment on J. A. Barrett's article ``The Preferred-Basis Problem and the Quantum Mechanics of Everything'' in Brit. J. Phil. Sci. 56 (2005), which concerns theories postulating that certain quantum observables have determinate values, corresponding to additional (often called ``hidden'') variables. I point out that it is far from clear, for most observables, what such a postulate is supposed to mean, unless the postulated additional variable is related to a clear ontology in space-time, such as particle world lines, string world sheets, or fields.

id: quant-ph/0605131
title: Comment on "Can Two-Photon Correlation of Chaotic Light be Considered as Correlation of Intensity Fluctuations ?"
authors: Avi Pe'er
comments: A 1 Page comment to Scarcelli et al., PRL 96, 063602 (2006). Currently under review at PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605131
abstract: A Comment on the Letter by G. Scarcelli, V. Berardi and Y. Shih, Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 063602 (2006).

id: quant-ph/0605132
title: A Generalization of the Preceding Paper ``A Rabi Oscillation in Four and Five Level Systems"
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex ; 10 pages ; 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605132
abstract: In the preceding paper quant-ph/0312060 we considered a general model of an atom with n energy levels interacting with n-1 external laser fields and constructed a Rabi oscillation in the case of n =3, 4 and 5. In the paper we present a systematic method getting along with computer to construct a Rabi oscillation in the general case.

id: quant-ph/0605133
title: Boundary effects to the entanglement entropy and two-site entanglement of the spin-1 valence-bond solid
authors: Heng Fan, Vladimir Korepin, Vwani Roychowdhury, Christopher Hadley, Sougato Bose
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Physical Review B (in press)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 014428 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605133
abstract: We investigate the von Neumann entropy of a block of subsystem for the valence-bond solid (VBS) state with general open boundary conditions. We show that the effect of the boundary on the von Neumann entropy decays exponentially fast in the distance between the subsystem considered and the boundary sites. Further, we show that as the size of the subsystem increases, its von Neumann entropy exponentially approaches the summation of the von Neumann entropies of the two ends, the exponent being related to the size. In contrast to critical systems, where boundary effects to the von Neumann entropy decay slowly, the boundary effects in a VBS, a non-critical system, decay very quickly. We also study the entanglement between two spins. Curiously, while the boundary operators decrease the von Neumann entropy of L spins, they increase the entanglement between two spins.

id: quant-ph/0605134
title: Game Theory Formulated on Hilbert Space
authors: Taksu Cheon
comments: in Proceedings of International Conference, "Quantum Information: Back Action", Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, Kanpur India, march, 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605134
abstract: We present a consistent formulation of quantum game theory that accommodates all possible strategies in Hilbert space. The physical content of the quantum strategy is revealed as a family of classical games representing altruistic game play supplemented by quantum interferences. Crucial role of the entanglement in quantum strategy is illustrated by an example of quantum game representing the Bell's experiment.

id: quant-ph/0605135
title: Detection of Gravitational Wave - An Application of Relativistic Quantum Information Theory
authors: Ye Yeo, Chee Leong Ching, Jeremy Chong, Wee Kang Chua, Andreas Dewanto, Zhi Han Lim
comments: 9 pages
journal: Europhys.Lett.78:20006,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605135
abstract: We show that a passing gravitational wave may influence the spin entropy and spin negativity of a system of $N$ massive spin-1/2 particles, in a way that is characteristic of the radiation. We establish the specific conditions under which this effect may be nonzero. The change in spin entropy and negativity, however, is extremely small. Here, we propose and show that this effect may be amplified through entanglement swapping. Relativistic quantum information theory may have a contribution towards the detection of gravitational wave.

id: quant-ph/0605136
title: A realist view on the treatment of identical particles
authors: Arthur Jabs
comments: 24 pages, Latex2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605136
abstract: Some basic concepts concerning systems of identical particles are discussed in the framework of a realist interpretation, where the wave function is the quantum object and |psi(r)|^2 d^3r is the probability that the wave function causes an effect about the point r. The topics discussed include the role of Hilbert-space labels, wave-function variables and wave-function parameters, the distinction between permutation and renaming, the reason for symmetrizing the wave function, the reason for antisymmetric wave functions, the spin-statistics theorem, the correction term -k lnN! in the entropy, the Boltzmann limit of the Fermi and Bose cases, and the derivation of the Fermi and Bose distributions.

id: quant-ph/0605137
title: Minimum uncertainty measurements of angle and angular momentum
authors: Z. Hradil, J. Rehacek, Z. Bouchal, R. Celechovsky, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 4 pages, two eps color figures. Submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 243601 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605137
abstract: The uncertainty relations for angle and angular momentum are revisited. We use the exponential of the angle instead of the angle itself and adopt dispersion as a natural measure of resolution. We find states that minimize the uncertainty product under the constraint of a given uncertainty in angle or in angular momentum. These states are described in terms of Mathieu wave functions and may be approximated by a von Mises distribution, which is the closest analogous of the Gaussian on the unit circle. We report experimental results using beam optics that confirm our predictions.

id: quant-ph/0605138
title: Topological Quantum Distillation
authors: H. Bombin, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: RevTex4 file, 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 97 (2006) 180501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605138
abstract: We construct a class of topological quantum codes to perform quantum entanglement distillation. These codes implement the whole Clifford group of unitary operations in a fully topological manner and without selective addressing of qubits. This allows us to extend their application also to quantum teleportation, dense coding and computation with magic states.

id: quant-ph/0605139
title: Decay by tunneling of Bosonic and Fermionic Tonks-Girardeau Gases
authors: A. del Campo, F. Delgado, G. Garcia-Calderon, J. G. Muga, M. G. Raizen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 013605 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605139
abstract: We study the tunneling dynamics of bosonic and fermionic Tonks-Girardeau gases from a hard wall trap, in which one of the walls is substituted by a delta potential. Using the Fermi-Bose map, the decay of the probability to remain in the trap is studied as a function of both the number of particles and the intensity of the end-cap delta laser. The fermionic gas is shown to be a good candidate to study deviations of the non-exponential decay of the single-particle type, whereas for the bosonic case a novel regime of non-exponential decay appears due to the contributions of different resonances of the trap.

id: quant-ph/0605140
title: The rise and fall of quantum and classical correlations in open-system dynamics
authors: Michael Khasin, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 35 pages, 10 figures. Revised according to comments of the referees. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012304 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605140
abstract: Interacting quantum systems evolving from an uncorrelated composite initial state generically develop quantum correlations -- entanglement. As a consequence, a local description of interacting quantum system is impossible as a rule. A unitarily evolving (isolated) quantum system generically develops extensive entanglement: the magnitude of the generated entanglement will increase without bounds with the effective Hilbert space dimension of the system. It is conceivable, that coupling of the interacting subsystems to local dephasing environments will restrict the generation of entanglement to such extent, that the evolving composite system may be considered as approximately disentangled. This conjecture is addressed in the context of some common models of a bipartite system with linear and nonlinear interactions and local coupling to dephasing environments. Analytical and numerical results obtained imply that the conjecture is generally false. Open dynamics of the quantum correlations is compared to the corresponding evolution of the classical correlations and a qualitative difference is found.

id: quant-ph/0605141
title: Worldline algorithms for Casimir configurations
authors: Holger Gies, Klaus Klingmuller
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D74:045002,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605141
abstract: We present improved worldline numerical algorithms for high-precision calculations of Casimir interaction energies induced by scalar-field fluctuations with Dirichlet boundary conditions for various Casimir geometries. Significant reduction of numerical cost is gained by exploiting the symmetries of the worldline ensemble in combination with those of the configurations. This facilitates high-precision calculations on standard PCs or small clusters. We illustrate our strategies using the experimentally most relevant sphere-plate and cylinder-plate configuration. We compute Casimir curvature effects for a wide parameter range, revealing the tight validity bounds of the commonly used proximity force approximation (PFA). We conclude that data analysis of future experiments aiming at a precision of 0.1% must no longer be based on the PFA. Revisiting the parallel-plate configuration, we find a mapping between the D-dimensional Casimir energy and properties of a random-chain polymer ensemble.

id: quant-ph/0605142
title: Into the Fold: Searching for a Theory of Natural Inference
authors: Thomas Marlow
comments: 9 pages; v2: minor corrections v3: minor discussion added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605142
abstract: We introduce relationalism and discuss how it is useful for interpreting probability theory and quantum mechanics. This paper is written in relatively lay terms and presumes no prior knowledge of quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0605143
title: Procrustean entanglement concentration of continuous variable states of light
authors: David Menzies, Natalia Korolkova
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures; Typos corrected, References added and conclusion extended, Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev A, 74, 042315 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605143
abstract: We propose a Procrustean entanglement concentration scheme for continuous variable states inspired by the scheme proposed in Fiurasek et. al. Phys. Rev. A 67, 022304, (2003). We show that the eight-port homodyne measurement of Fiurasek et. al. Phys. Rev. A 67, 022304, (2003) can be replaced by a balanced homodyne measurement with the advantage of providing a success criterion that allows Alice and Bob to determine if entanglement concentration was achieved. In addition, it facilitates a straightforward and feasible experimental implementation.

id: quant-ph/0605144
title: A probabilistic approach to quantum mechanics based on tomograms
authors: Michele Caponigro, Stefano Mancini, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 
journal: Forteschritte der Physik Vol.54, N.7 pp.602-612 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605144
abstract: It is usually believed that a picture of Quantum Mechanics in terms of true probabilities cannot be given due to the uncertainty relations. Here we discuss a tomographic approach to quantum states that leads to a probability representation of quantum states. This can be regarded as a classical-like formulation of quantum mechanics which avoids the counterintuitive concepts of wave function and density operator. The relevant concepts of quantum mechanics are then reconsidered and the epistemological implications of such approach discussed.

id: quant-ph/0605145
title: Statistical properties of the truncated state with random coefficients
authors: W. B. Cardoso, N. G. de Almeida
comments: 7 pages, 11 figures, accept for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A 356 (2006) 104-109
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605145
abstract: In this Letter we introduce the truncated state with random coefficients (TSRC). As the coefficients of the TSRC have in principle no algorithm to produce them, our question is concerned about to what type of properties will characterize the TSRC. A general method to engineer TSRC in the running-wave domain is employed, which includes the errors due to the nonidealities of detectors and photocounts.

id: quant-ph/0605146
title: Selective truncations of an optical state using projection synthesis
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Jiri Bajer, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 24, 379-383 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605146
abstract: Selective truncation of Fock-state expansion of an optical field can be achieved using projection synthesis. The process removes predetermined Fock states from the input field by conditional measurement and teleportation. We present a scheme based on multiport interferometry to perform projection synthesis. This scheme can be used both as a generalized quantum scissors device, which filters out Fock states with photon numbers higher than a predetermined value, and also as a quantum punching device, which selectively removes specific Fock states making holes in the Fock-state expansion of the input field.

id: quant-ph/0605147
title: A quasi-Hermitian pseudopotential for higher partial wave scattering
authors: Iris Reichenbach, Andrew Silberfarb, Rene Stock, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, accepted by PRA v3: some typos were corrected, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042724 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605147
abstract: We formulate a new quasi-Hermitian delta-shell pseudopotential for higher partial wave scattering, and show that any such potential must have an energy-dependent regularization. The quasi-Hermiticity of the Hamiltonian leads to a complete set of biorthogonal wave functions that can be used as a basis to expand and diagonalize other two-body Hamiltonians. We demonstrate this procedure for the case of ultracold atoms in a polarization-gradient optical lattice, interacting pairwise when two atoms are transported together from separated lattice sites. Here the pseudopotential depends explicitly on the trapping potential. Additionally, we calculate the location of trap-induced resonances for higher partial waves, which occur when a molecular eigenstate is shifted to resonance with a trap eigenstate. We verify the accuracy of the pseudopotential approach using a toy model in which a square well acts as the true interaction potential, and see excellent agreement.

id: quant-ph/0605148
title: On the Relationship between Convex Bodies Related to Correlation Experiments with Dichotomic Observables
authors: David Avis, Hiroshi Imai, Tsuyoshi Ito
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605148
abstract: In this paper we explore further the connections between convex bodies related to quantum correlation experiments with dichotomic variables and related bodies studied in combinatorial optimization, especially cut polyhedra. Such a relationship was established in Avis, Imai, Ito and Sasaki (2005 J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 10971-87) with respect to Bell inequalities. We show that several well known bodies related to cut polyhedra are equivalent to bodies such as those defined by Tsirelson (1993 Hadronic J. S. 8 329-45) to represent hidden deterministic behaviors, quantum behaviors, and no-signalling behaviors. Among other things, our results allow a unique representation of these bodies, give a necessary condition for vertices of the no-signalling polytope, and give a method for bounding the quantum violation of Bell inequalities by means of a body that contains the set of quantum behaviors. Optimization over this latter body may be performed efficiently by semidefinite programming. In the second part of the paper we apply these results to the study of classical correlation functions. We provide a complete list of tight inequalities for the two party case with (m,n) dichotomic observables when m=4,n=4 and when min{m,n}<=3, and give a new general family of correlation inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0605149
title: Two-photon wave mechanics
authors: Brian J. Smith, M. G. Raymer
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062104 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605149
abstract: The position-representation wave function for multi-photon states and its equation of motion are introduced. A major strength of the theory is that it describes the complete evolution (including polarization and entanglement) of multi-photon states propagating through inhomogeneous media. As a demonstration of the two-photon wave function's use, we show how two photons in an orbital-angular-momentum entangled state decohere upon propagation through a turbulent atmosphere.

id: quant-ph/0605150
title: Using quantum oblivious transfer to cheat sensitive quantum bit commitment
authors: Andreas Jakoby, Maciej Liskiewicz, Aleksander Madry
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605150
abstract: It is well known that unconditionally secure bit commitment is impossible even in the quantum world. In this paper a weak variant of quantum bit commitment, introduced independently by Aharonov et al. [STOC, 2000] and Hardy and Kent [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 (2004)] is investigated. In this variant, the parties require some nonzero probability of detecting a cheating, i.e. if Bob, who commits a bit b to Alice, changes his mind during the revealing phase then Alice detects the cheating with a positive probability (we call this property binding); and if Alice gains information about the committed bit before the revealing phase then Bob discovers this with positive probability (sealing). In our paper we give quantum bit commitment scheme that is simultaneously binding and sealing and we show that if a cheating gives epsilon advantage to a malicious Alice then Bob can detect the cheating with a probability Omega(epsilon^2). If Bob cheats then Alice's probability of detecting the cheating is greater than some fixed constant lambda>0. This improves the probabilities of cheating detections shown by Hardy and Kent and the scheme by Aharonov et al. who presented a protocol that is either binding or sealing, but not simultaneously both. To construct a cheat sensitive quantum bit commitment scheme we use a protocol for a weak quantum one-out-of-two oblivious transfer.

id: quant-ph/0605151
title: On the geometry of four qubit invariants
authors: Pter Lvay
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 9533-9545
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605151
abstract: The geometry of four-qubit entanglement is investigated. We replace some of the polynomial invariants for four-qubits introduced recently by new ones of direct geometrical meaning. It is shown that these invariants describe four points, six lines and four planes in complex projective space ${\bf CP}^3$. For the generic entanglement class of stochastic local operations and classical communication they take a very simple form related to the elementary symmetric polynomials in four complex variables. Moreover, their magnitudes are entanglement monotones that fit nicely into the geometric set of $n$-qubit ones related to Grassmannians of $l$-planes found recently. We also show that in terms of these invariants the hyperdeterminant of order 24 in the four-qubit amplitudes takes a more instructive form than the previously published expressions available in the literature. Finally in order to understand two, three and four-qubit entanglement in geometric terms we propose a unified setting based on ${\bf CP}^3$ furnished with a fixed quadric.

id: quant-ph/0605152
title: Phase-modulated shaping of narrowband type-I parametric down-converted photons
authors: A T Joseph1, R Andrews1, E R Pike2, S Sarkar2
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605152
abstract: We present a general theoretical description of the temporal shaping of narrowband noncollinear type-I down-converted photons using a spectral phase filter with a symmetric phase distribution. By manipulating the spectral phase of the signal or idler photon, we demonstrate control of the correlation time and shape of the two-photon wave function with modulation frequency and modulation depth of the phase distribution.

id: quant-ph/0605153
title: M-body Pure State Entanglement
authors: Feng Pan, J. P. Draayer
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 4 (2006) 965
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605153
abstract: The simple entanglement of N-body N-particle pure states is extended to the more general M-body or M-body N-particle states where $N\neq M$. Some new features of the M-body N-particle pure states are discussed. An application of the measure to quantify quantum correlations in a Bose-Einstien condensate model is demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0605154
title: Multipartite continuous-variable entanglement
authors: E. Shchukin, W. Vogel
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures, modified and corrected version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605154
abstract: Necessary and sufficient observable conditions for the nonnegativity of all partial transpositions of multi-mode quantum states are derived. The result is a hierarchy of inequalities for minors in terms of moments of the given state. Violations of any inequality is a sufficient condition for entanglement. Full entanglement can be certified for a manifold of multi-mode quantum states. A \textit{Mathematica} package is given for a systematic test of the hierarchy of conditions.

id: quant-ph/0605155
title: Estimating entanglement of unknown states
authors: Daniel Cavalcanti, Marcelo O. Terra Cunha
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure. Comments welcome. V2: references updated. Accepted version by Applied Physics Letters
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 89, 084102 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605155
abstract: The experimental determination of entanglement is a major goal in the quantum information field. In general the knowledge of the state is required in order to quantify its entanglement. Here we express a lower bound to the robustness of entanglement of a state based only on the measurement of the energy observable and on the calculation of a separability energy. This allows the estimation of entanglement dismissing the knowledge of the state in question.

id: quant-ph/0605156
title: Improved Gap Estimates for Simulating Quantum Circuits by Adiabatic Evolution
authors: Percy Deift, Mary Beth Ruskai, Wolfgang Spitzer
comments: 
journal: Quantum Inf. Process 6, 121-125 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605156
abstract: We use elementary variational arguments to prove, and improve on, gap estimates which arise in simulating quantum circuits by adiabatic evolution.

id: quant-ph/0605157
title: Robust transmission of non-Gaussian entanglement over optical fibers
authors: Asoka Biswas, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062303 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605157
abstract: We show how the entanglement in a wide range of continuous variable non-Gaussian states can be preserved against decoherence for long-range quantum communication through an optical fiber. We apply protection via decoherence-free subspaces and quantum dynamical decoupling to this end. The latter is implemented by inserting phase shifters at regular intervals $\Delta $ inside the fiber, where $\Delta $ is roughly the ratio of the speed of light in the fiber to the bath high-frequency cutoff. Detailed estimates of relevant parameters are provided using the boson-boson model of system-bath interaction for silica fibers, and $\Delta $ is found to be on the order of a millimeter.

id: quant-ph/0605158
title: Information-disturbance tradeoff in estimating a maximally entangled state
authors: Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 4 pages. Accepted for publication on Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 220502 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605158
abstract: We derive the amount of information retrieved by a quantum measurement in estimating an unknown maximally entangled state, along with the pertaining disturbance on the state itself. The optimal tradeoff between information and disturbance is obtained, and a corresponding optimal measurement is provided.

id: quant-ph/0605159
title: Second quantization method in the presence of bound states of particles
authors: Sergey V. Peletminskii, Yuriy V. Slyusarenko
comments: 35 pages
journal: J.Math.Phys. 46 (2005) 022301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605159
abstract: We develop an approximate second quantization method for describing the many-particle systems in the presence of bound states of particles at low energies (the kinetic energy of particles is small in comparison to the binding energy of compound particles). In this approximation the compound and elementary particles are considered on an equal basis. This means that creation and annihilation operators of compound particles can be introduced. The Hamiltonians, which specify the interactions between compound and elementary particles and between compound particles themselves are found in terms of the interaction amplitudes for elementary particles. The nonrelativistic quantum electrodynamics is developed for systems containing both elementary and compound particles. Some applications of this theory are considered.

id: quant-ph/0605160
title: Pulse-induced acoustoelectric vibrations in surface-gated GaAs-based quantum devices
authors: S. Rahman, T. M. Stace, H. P. Langtangen, M. Kakaoka, C. H. W. Barnes
comments: To be published in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 75, 205303, (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605160
abstract: We present the results of a numerical investigation which show the excitation of acoustoelectric modes of vibration in GaAs-based heterostructures due to sharp nano-second electric-field pulses applied across surface gates. In particular, we show that the pulses applied in quantum information processing applications are capable of exciting acoustoelectric modes of vibration including surface acoustic modes which propagate for distances greater than conventional device dimensions. We show that the pulse-induced acoustoelectric vibrations are capable of inducing significant undesired perturbations to the evolution of quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0605161
title: Optimal cloning of mixed Gaussian states
authors: Madalin Guta, Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure; proof of general form of covariant amplifiers added
journal: Phys. Rev A, 74, 032305 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605161
abstract: We construct the optimal 1 to 2 cloning transformation for the family of displaced thermal equilibrium states of a harmonic oscillator, with a fixed and known temperature. The transformation is Gaussian and it is optimal with respect to the figure of merit based on the joint output state and norm distance. The proof of the result is based on the equivalence between the optimal cloning problem and that of optimal amplification of Gaussian states which is then reduced to an optimization problem for diagonal states of a quantum oscillator. A key concept in finding the optimum is that of stochastic ordering which plays a similar role in the purely classical problem of Gaussian cloning. The result is then extended to the case of n to m cloning of mixed Gaussian states.

id: quant-ph/0605162
title: Typicality vs. probability in trajectory-based formulations of quantum mechanics
authors: Bruno Galvan
comments: 24 pages, no figures. To appear in Foundation of Physics
journal: Found. Phys. 37 1540-1562 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605162
abstract: Bohmian mechanics represents the universe as a set of paths with a probability measure defined on it. The way in which a mathematical model of this kind can explain the observed phenomena of the universe is examined in general. It is shown that the explanation does not make use of the full probability measure, but rather of a suitable set function deriving from it, which defines relative typicality between single-time cylinder sets. Such a set function can also be derived directly from the standard quantum formalism, without the need of an underlying probability measure. The key concept for this derivation is the {\it quantum typicality rule}, which can be considered as a generalization of the Born rule. The result is a new formulation of quantum mechanics, in which particles follow definite trajectories, but which is only based on the standard formalism of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0605163
title: Quantum Information Processing in Optical Lattices and Magnetic Microtraps
authors: Philipp Treutlein, Tilo Steinmetz, Yves Colombe, Benjamin Lev, Peter Hommelhoff, Jakob Reichel, Markus Greiner, Olaf Mandel, Arthur Widera, Tim Rom, Immanuel Bloch, Theodor W. H?nsch
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures, corrected author list
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 54, 702-718 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605163
abstract: We review our experiments on quantum information processing with neutral atoms in optical lattices and magnetic microtraps. Atoms in an optical lattice in the Mott insulator regime serve as a large qubit register. A spin-dependent lattice is used to split and delocalize the atomic wave functions in a controlled and coherent way over a defined number of lattice sites. This is used to experimentally demonstrate a massively parallel quantum gate array, which allows the creation of a highly entangled many-body cluster state through coherent collisions between atoms on neighbouring lattice sites. In magnetic microtraps on an atom chip, we demonstrate coherent manipulation of atomic qubit states and measure coherence lifetimes exceeding one second at micron-distance from the chip surface. We show that microwave near-fields on the chip can be used to create state-dependent potentials for the implementation of a quantum controlled phase gate with these robust qubit states. For single atom detection and preparation, we have developed high finesse fiber Fabry-Perot cavities and integrated them on the atom chip. We present an experiment in which we detected a very small number of cold atoms magnetically trapped in the cavity using the atom chip.

id: quant-ph/0605164
title: Universal role of correlation entropy in critical phenomena
authors: Shi-Jian Gu, Chang-Pu Sun, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 025002 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605164
abstract: In statistical physics, if we successively divide an equilibrium system into two parts, we will face a situation that, within a certain length $\xi$, the physics of a subsystem is no longer the same as the original system. Then the extensive properties of the thermal entropy $S($AB$)= S($A$)+S($B$)$ is violated. This observation motivates us to introduce the concept of correlation entropy between two points, as measured by mutual information in the information theory, to study the critical phenomena. A rigorous relation is established to display some drastic features of the non-vanishing correlation entropy of the subsystem formed by any two distant particles with long-range correlation. This relation actually indicates the universal role of the correlation entropy in understanding critical phenomena. We also verify these analytical studies in terms of two well-studied models for both the thermal and quantum phase transitions: two-dimensional Ising model and one-dimensional transverse field Ising model. Therefore, the correlation entropy provides us with a new physical intuition in critical phenomena from the point of view of the information theory.

id: quant-ph/0605165
title: Quantum Teleportation in One-Dimensional Quantum Dots System
authors: Hefeng Wang, Sabre Kais
comments: 5 pages, two figures
journal: Chemcal Physics Letter 421 (2006) 338-342
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605165
abstract: We present a model of quantum teleportation protocol based on one-dimensional quantum dots system. Three quantum dots with three electrons are used to perform teleportation, the unknown qubit is encoded using one electron spin on quantum dot A, the other two dots B and C are coupled to form a mixed space-spin entangled state. By choosing the Hamiltonian for the mixed space-spin entangled system, we can filter the space (spin) entanglement to obtain pure spin (space) entanglement and after a Bell measurement, the unknown qubit is transfered to quantum dot B. Selecting an appropriate Hamiltonian for the quantum gate allows the spin-based information to be transformed into a charge-based information. The possibility of generalizing this model to N-electrons is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0605166
title: Wigner Function Evolution of Quantum States in Presence of Self-Kerr Interaction
authors: Magdalena Stobiska, G. J. Milburn, Krzysztof Wdkiewicz
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 013810 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605166
abstract: A Fokker-Planck equation for the Wigner function evolution in a noisy Kerr medium ($\chi^{(3)}$ non-linearity) is presented. We numerically solved this equation taking a coherent state as an initial condition. The dissipation effects are discussed. We provide examples of quantum interference, sub-Planck phase space structures, and Gaussian versus non-Gaussian dynamical evolution of the state. The results also apply to the description of a nanomechanical resonator with an intrinsic Duffing nonlinearity.

id: quant-ph/0605167
title: Coherence theory and coherence phenomena in a closed spin-1/2 system
authors: Olavi Dannenberg
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures, v2: major changes, accepted for publication
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 17, No. 6, 355-373 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605167
abstract: A simplified Heisenberg spin model is studied in order to examine the idea of decoherence in closed quantum systems. For this purpose, we present a quantifiable definition to quantum coherence $\Xi$, and discuss in some detail a general coherence theory and its elementary results. As expected, decoherence is understood as a statistical process that is caused by the dynamics of the system, similar to the growth of entropy. It appears that coherence is an important measure that helps to understand quantum properties of a system, e.g., the decoherence time can be derived from the coherence function $\Xi(t)$, but not from the entropy dynamics. Moreover, the concept of decoherence time is applicable in closed and finite systems. However, in most cases, the decay of off-diagonal elements differs from the usual $\exp(-t/\tau_{\rm d})$ behaviour. For concreteness, we report the form of decoherence time $\tau_{\rm d}$ in a finite Heisenberg model with respect to the number of particles $N$, density $n_{\rho}$, spatial dimension $D$ and $\epsilon$ in a $\eta/r^{\epsilon}$-type of potential.

id: quant-ph/0605168
title: Field autocorrelations in electromagnetically induced transparency: Effects of a squeezed probe field
authors: P. Barberis-Blostein
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 013803 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605168
abstract: The interaction of a quantized field with three-level atoms in $\Lambda$ configuration inside a two mode cavity is analyzed. We calculate the stationary quadrature noise spectrum of the field outside the cavity in the case where the input probe field is in a squeezed state and the atoms show electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). If the Rabi frequencies of both dipole transitions of the atoms are different from zero, we show that the output probe field have four maxima of squeezing absorption. We show that in some cases two of these frequencies can be very close to the transition frequency of the atom, in a region where the mean value of the field entering the cavity is hardly altered. Furthermore, part of the absorbed squeezing of the probe field is transfered to the pump field. For some conditions this transfer of squeezing can be complete.

id: quant-ph/0605169
title: A Bell pair in a generic random matrix environment
authors: Carlos Pineda, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75(1), 012106, (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605169
abstract: Two non-interacting qubits are coupled to an environment. Both coupling and environment are represented by random matrix ensembles. The initial state of the pair is a Bell state, though we also consider arbitrary pure states. Decoherence of the pair is evaluated analytically in terms of purity; Monte Carlo calculations confirm these results and also yield the concurrence of the pair. Entanglement within the pair accelerates decoherence. Numerics display the relation between concurrence and purity known for Werner states, allowing us to give a formula for concurrence decay.

id: quant-ph/0605170
title: A microfabricated surface-electrode ion trap in silicon
authors: J. Britton, D. Leibfried, J. Beall, R. B. Blakestad, J. J. Bollinger, J. Chiaverini, R. J. Epstein, J. D. Jost, D. Kielpinski, C. Langer, R. Ozeri, R. Reichle, S. Seidelin, N. Shiga, J. H. Wesenberg, D. J. Wineland
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605170
abstract: The prospect of building a quantum information processor underlies many recent advances ion trap fabrication techniques. Potentially, a quantum computer could be constructed from a large array of interconnected ion traps. We report on a micrometer-scale ion trap, fabricated from bulk silicon using micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS) techniques. The trap geometry is relatively simple in that the electrodes lie in a single plane beneath the ions. In such a trap we confine laser-cooled 24Mg+ ions approximately 40 microns above the surface. The fabrication technique and planar electrode geometry together make this approach amenable to scaling up to large trap arrays. In addition we observe that little laser cooling light is scattered by the electrodes.

id: quant-ph/0605171
title: The classical capacity for continuous variable teleportation channel
authors: Tao Qin, Meisheng Zhao, Yongde Zhang
comments: The formula of fidelity corrected; the figure of fidelity replotted; submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605171
abstract: The process of quantum teleportation can be considered as a quantum channel. The exact classical capacity of the continuous variable teleportation channel is given. Also, the channel fidelity is derived. Consequently, the properties of the continuous variable quantum teleportation are discussed and interesting results are obtained.

id: quant-ph/0605172
title: Trace distance from the viewpoint of quantum operation techniques
authors: A. E. Rastegin
comments: 26 pages, no figures. The bibliography is extended, explanatory improvements
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 9533-9549
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605172
abstract: In the present paper, the trace distance is exposed within the quantum operations formalism. The definition of the trace distance in terms of a maximum over all quantum operations is given. It is shown that for any pair of different states, there are an uncountably infinite number of maximizing quantum operations. Conversely, for any operation of the described type, there are an uncountably infinite number of those pairs of states that the maximum is reached by the operation. A behavior of the trace distance under considered operations is studied. Relations and distinctions between the trace distance and the sine distance are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0605173
title: Stronger no-cloning, no-signalling and conservation of quantum information
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, A.K.Pati, Satyabrata Adhikari
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605173
abstract: It is known that the stronger no-cloning theorem and the no-deleting theorem taken together provide the permanence property of quantum information. Also, it is known that the violation of the no-deletion theorem would imply signalling. Here, we show that the violation of the stronger no-cloning theorem could lead to signalling. Furthermore, we prove the stronger no-cloning theorem from the conservation of quantum information. These observations imply that the permanence property of quantum information is connected to the no-signalling and the conservation of quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0605174
title: High-sensitivity optical monitoring of a micro-mechanical resonator with a quantum-limited optomechanical sensor
authors: O. Arcizet, P.-F. Cohadon, T. Briant, M. Pinard, A. Heidmann, J.-M. Mackowski, C. Michel, L. Pinard, O. Francais, L. Rousseau
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97 (2006) 133601
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605174
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the high-sensitivity optical monitoring of a micro-mechanical resonator and its cooling by active control. Coating a low-loss mirror upon the resonator, we have built an optomechanical sensor based on a very high-finesse cavity (30000). We have measured the thermal noise of the resonator with a quantum-limited sensitivity at the 10^-19 m/rootHz level, and cooled the resonator down to 5K by a cold-damping technique. Applications of our setup range from quantum optics experiments to the experimental demonstration of the quantum ground state of a macroscopic mechanical resonator.

id: quant-ph/0605175
title: Always On Non-Nearest-Neighbor Coupling in Scalable Quantum Computing
authors: Yong Hu, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605175
abstract: We investigate the non-nearest-neighbor interaction effect in 1-D spin-1/2 chain model. In many previous schemes this long-range coupling is omitted because of its relative weak strength compared with the nearest-neighbor coupling. We show that the quantum gate deviation induced by the omitted long-range interaction depends on not only its strength but also the scale of the system. This implies that omitting the long-range interaction may challenge the scalability of previous schemes. We further consider how to suppress this unwanted effect. We propose a quantum computation scheme. In this scheme, by using appropriate encoding method, we effectively negate the influence of the next-nearest-neighbor interaction in order to improve the precision of quantum gates. We also discuss the feasibility of this scheme in 1-D Josephson charge qubit array system. This work may offer improvement in scalable quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0605176
title: Two qubits can be entangled in two distinct temperature regions
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Mark R. Dowling
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, many new results
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062301 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605176
abstract: We have found that for a wide range of two-qubit Hamiltonians the canonical-ensemble thermal state is entangled in two distinct temperature regions. In most cases the ground state is entangled; however we have also found an example where the ground state is separable and there are still two regions. This demonstrates that the qualitative behavior of entanglement with temperature can be much more complicated than might otherwise have been expected; it is not simply determined by the entanglement of the ground state, even for the simple case of two qubits. Furthermore, we prove a finite bound on the number of possible entangled regions for two qubits, thus showing that arbitrarily many transitions from entanglement to separability are not possible. We also provide an elementary proof that the spectrum of the thermal state at a lower temperature majorizes that at a higher temperature, for any Hamiltonian, and use this result to show that only one entangled region is possible for the special case of Hamiltonians without magnetic fields.

id: quant-ph/0605177
title: On Weyl channels being covariant with respect to the maximum commutative group of unitaries
authors: G.G. Amosov
comments: A completely revised version, 20 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48 (2007) no. 1, P. 2104-2117
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605177
abstract: We investigate the Weyl channels being covariant with respect to the maximum commutative group of unitary operators. This class includes the quantum depolarizing channel and the "two-Pauli" channel as well. Then, we show that our estimation of the output entropy for a tensor product of the phase damping channel and the identity channel based upon the decreasing property of the relative entropy allows to prove the additivity conjecture for the minimal output entropy for the quantum depolarizing channel in any prime dimesnsion and for the "two Pauli" channel in the qubit case.

id: quant-ph/0605178
title: Generation of maximally entangled states of two cavity modes
authors: F. Saif, M. Abdel-Aty, M. Javed, R. Ul-Islam, A.-S. F. Obada
comments: 10 pages
journal: Appl. Math. Inf. Sci. Vol. 1 No. 3 pp. 323 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605178
abstract: In this letter we present a scheme for generating maximally entangled states of two cavity modes which enables us to generate complete set of Bell basis states having rather simple initial state preparation. Furthermore, we study the interaction of a two-level atom with two modes of electromagnetic field in a high Q cavity. The two-level atom acts as a control qubit and the two mode electromagnetic field serves as a target qubit. This simple system of quantum electrodynamics provides us experimentally feasible universal quantum logic gates.

id: quant-ph/0605179
title: Polarization and readout of coupled single spins in diamond
authors: R. Hanson, F. M. Mendoza, R. J. Epstein, D. D. Awschalom
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 087601 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605179
abstract: We study the coupling of a single nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond to a nearby single nitrogen defect at room temperature. The magnetic dipolar coupling leads to a splitting in the electron spin resonance frequency of the nitrogen-vacancy center, allowing readout of the state of a single nitrogen electron spin. At magnetic fields where the spin splitting of the two centers is the same we observe a strong polarization of the nitrogen electron spin. The amount of polarization can be controlled by the optical excitation power. We combine the polarization and the readout in time-resolved pump-probe measurements to determine the spin relaxation time of a single nitrogen electron spin. Finally, we discuss indications for hyperfine-induced polarization of the nitrogen nuclear spin.

id: quant-ph/0605180
title: Lecture Notes in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Doron Cohen
comments: 285 pages with some figures, improved version and some added sections (e.g. Gamow formula, Fractional Hall, Hofstadter butterfly, Weak measurements)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605180
abstract: These lecture notes cover undergraduate textbook topics (e.g. as in Sakurai), and also additional advanced topics at the same level of presentation. In particular: EPR and Bell; Basic postulates; The probability matrix; Measurement theory; Entanglement; Quantum computation; Wigner-Weyl formalism; The adiabatic picture; Berry phase; Linear response theory; Kubo formula; Modern approach to scattering theory with mesoscopic orientation; Theory of the resolvent and the Green function; Gauge and Galilei Symmetries; Motion in magnetic field; Quantum Hall effect; Quantization of the electromagnetic field; Fock space formalism.

id: quant-ph/0605181
title: The BQP-hardness of approximating the Jones Polynomial
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Itai Arad
comments: 36 pages, 8 figures. A much improved and revised version, updated to Feb 2011, which includes discussions and implications of related results published after the original 2006 version of this paper
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 035019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605181
abstract: A celebrated important result due to Freedman, Larsen and Wang states that providing additive approximations of the Jones polynomial at the k'th root of unity, for constant k=5 and k>6, is BQP-hard. Together with the algorithmic results of Freedman et al and Aharonov et al, this gives perhaps the most natural BQP-complete problem known today and motivates further study of the topic. In this paper we focus on the universality proof; we extend the universality result of Freedman et al to k's that grow polynomially with the number of strands and crossings in the link, thus extending the BQP-hardness of Jones polynomial approximations to all values for which the AJL algorithm applies, proving that for all those values, the problems are BQP-complete. As a side benefit, we derive a fairly elementary proof of the Freedman et al density result, without referring to advanced results from Lie algebra representation theory, making this important result accessible to computer science audience. We make use of two general lemmas we prove, the Bridge lemma and the Decoupling lemma, which provide tools for establishing density of subgroups in SU(n). Those tools seem to be of independent interest in more general contexts of proving quantum universality. Our result also implies a completely classical statement, that the_multiplicative_ approximations of the Jones polynomial, at exactly the same values, are #P-hard, via a recent result due to Kuperberg. Since the first publication of those results in their preliminary form (arXiv:quant-ph/0605181v2), the methods we present here were used in several other contexts. This paper is an improved and extended version of the original results, and also includes discussions of the developments since then.

id: quant-ph/0605182
title: Maximally Non-Local and Monogamous Quantum Correlations
authors: Jonathan Barrett, Adrian Kent, Stefano Pironio
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 170409 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605182
abstract: We introduce a version of the chained Bell inequality for an arbitrary number of measurement outcomes, and use it to give a simple proof that the maximally entangled state of two d dimensional quantum systems has no local component. That is, if we write its quantum correlations as a mixture of local correlations and general (not necessarily quantum) correlations, the coefficient of the local correlations must be zero. This suggests an experimental programme to obtain as good an upper bound as possible on the fraction of local states, and provides a lower bound on the amount of classical communication needed to simulate a maximally entangled state in dxd dimensions. We also prove that the quantum correlations violating the inequality are monogamous among non-signalling correlations, and hence can be used for quantum key distribution secure against post-quantum (but non-signalling) eavesdroppers.

id: quant-ph/0605183
title: Trade-off between the tolerance of located and unlocated errors in nondegenerate quantum error-correcting codes
authors: Henry L. Haselgrove, Peter P. Rohde
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, significant update, tighter bound proven
journal: QIC 8, 0399 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605183
abstract: In a recent study [Rohde et al., quant-ph/0603130 (2006)] of several quantum error correcting protocols designed for tolerance against qubit loss, it was shown that these protocols have the undesirable effect of magnifying the effects of depolarization noise. This raises the question of which general properties of quantum error-correcting codes might explain such an apparent trade-off between tolerance to located and unlocated error types. We extend the counting argument behind the well-known quantum Hamming bound to derive a bound on the weights of combinations of located and unlocated errors which are correctable by nondegenerate quantum codes. Numerical results show that the bound gives an excellent prediction to which combinations of unlocated and located errors can be corrected with high probability by certain large degenerate codes. The numerical results are explained partly by showing that the generalized bound, like the original, is closely connected to the information-theoretic quantity the quantum coherent information. However, we also show that as a measure of the exact performance of quantum codes, our generalized Hamming bound is provably far from tight.

id: quant-ph/0605184
title: The entanglement of damped noon-state and its performance in phase measurement
authors: Xiao-Yu Chen, Li-zhen Jiang, Liang Han
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605184
abstract: The state evolution of the initial optical \textit{noon} state is investigated. The residue entanglement of the state is calculated after it is damped by amplitude and phase damping. The relative entropy of entanglement of the damped state is exactly obtained. The performance of direct application of the damped \textit{noon} state is compared with that of firstly distilling the docoherence damped state then applying it in measurement.

id: quant-ph/0605185
title: Single qubit, two qubit gates and no signalling principle
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty
comments: 14 pages, Accepted in Romanian journal of Physics
journal: Romanian Journal of Physics, Vol-54, No3-4 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605185
abstract: In this work we investigate that whether one can construct single and two qubit gates for arbitrary quantum states from the principle of no signalling. We considered the problem for Pauli gates, Hadamard gate, C-Not gate.

id: quant-ph/0605186
title: Revisiting impossible quantum operations using principle of no-signalling and non increase of entanglement under LOCC
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, Satyabrata Adhikari, B.S. Choudhury
comments: 4 pages, Accepted in International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: IJTP,Volume 46, Number 10, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605186
abstract: In this letter, we show the impossibility of the general operation introduced by Pati [3] using two different but consistent principles (i) no-signalling (ii) non increase of entanglement under LOCC.

id: quant-ph/0605187
title: The Significance of Density in the Structure of Quantum Theories
authors: E. Comay
comments: 12 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605187
abstract: It is proved that density plays a crucial role in the structure of quantum field theory. The Dirac and the Klein-Gordon equations are examined. The results prove that the Dirac equation is consistent with density related requirements whereas the Klein-Gordon equation fails to do that. Experimental data support these conclusions.

id: quant-ph/0605188
title: Lensless Fourier-Transform Ghost Imaging with Classical Incoherent Light
authors: Minghui Zhang, Qing Wei, Xia Shen, Yongfeng Liu, Honglin Liu, Jing Cheng, Shensheng Han
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605188
abstract: The Fourier-Transform ghost imaging of both amplitude-only and pure-phase objects was experimentally observed with classical incoherent light at Fresnel distance by a new lensless scheme. The experimental results are in good agreement with the standard Fourier-transform of the corresponding objects. This scheme provides a new route towards aberration-free diffraction-limited 3D images with classically incoherent thermal light, which have no resolution and depth-of-field limitations of lens-based tomographic systems.

id: quant-ph/0605189
title: Photon statistics dispersion in excitonic composites
authors: G.Ya. Slepyan, S.A. Maksimenko
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605189
abstract: Linear media are predicted to exist whose relative permiability is an operator in the space of quantum states of light. Such media are characterized by a photon statistics--dependent refractive index. This indicates a new type of optical dispersion -- the photon statistics dispersion. Interaction of quantum light with such media modifies the photon number distribution and, in particular, the degree of coherence of light. An excitonic composite -- a collection of noninteracting quantum dots -- is considered as a realization of the medium with the photon statistics dispersion. Expressions are derived for generalized plane waves in an excitonic composite and input--output relations for a planar layer of the material. Transformation rules for different photon initial states are analyzed. Utilization of the photon statistics dispersion in potential quantum--optical devices is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0605190
title: Quantum Computing Using Crossed Atomic Beams
authors: P. Blythe, B. Varcoe
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures. PACS: 32.80.Qk, 42.50.Pq, 03.67.Lx
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605190
abstract: A quantum computer is a hypothetical device in which the laws of quantum mechanics are used to introduce a degree of parallelism into computations and which could therefore significantly improve on the computational speed of a classical computer at certain tasks. Cluster state quantum computing (recently proposed by Raussendorf and Briegel) is a new paradigm in quantum information processing and is a departure from the conventional model of quantum computation. The cluster state quantum computer begins by creating a highly entangled multi-particle state (the cluster state) which it uses as a quantum resource during the computation. Information is processed in the computer via selected measurements on individual qubits that form the cluster state. We describe in detail how a scalable quantum computer can be constructed using microwave cavity QED and, in a departure from the traditional understanding of a computer as a fixed array of computational elements, we show that cluster state quantum computing is well suited to atomic beam experiments. We show that all of the necessary elements have been individually realised, and that the construction of a truly scalable atomic beam quantum computer may be an experimental reality in the near future.

id: quant-ph/0605191
title: Atomic entanglement mediated by a squeezed cavity field
authors: Biplab Ghosh, A. S. Majumdar, N. Nayak
comments: 6 pages, 7 eps figures
journal: Int. J Theor. Phys. 12, 2 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605191
abstract: We consider the coherent state radiation field inside a micromaser cavity and study the entanglement mediated by it on a pair of two level atoms passing though the cavity one after the other. We then investigate the effects of squeezing of the cavity field on the atomic entanglement. We compute the entanglement of formation for the emerging mixed two-atom state and show that squeezing of the cavity radiation field can increase the atomic entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0605192
title: Fault-Tolerant Thresholds for Encoded Ancillae with Homogeneous Errors
authors: Bryan Eastin
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, 3 tables; v2 minor edits, v3 completely revised, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 75, 022301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605192
abstract: I describe a procedure for calculating thresholds for quantum computation as a function of error model given the availability of ancillae prepared in logical states with independent, identically distributed errors. The thresholds are determined via a simple counting argument performed on a single qubit of an infinitely large CSS code. I give concrete examples of thresholds thus achievable for both Steane and Knill style fault-tolerant implementations and investigate their relation to threshold estimates in the literature.

id: quant-ph/0605193
title: Time Double-Slit Interference in Tunneling Ionization
authors: Diego Arbo, Emil Persson, Joachim Burgdoerfer
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605193
abstract: We show that interference phenomena plays a big role for the electron yield in ionization of atoms by an ultra-short laser pulse. Our theoretical study of single ionization of atoms driven by few-cycles pulses extends the photoelectron spectrum observed in the double-slit experiment by Lindner et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{95}, 040401 (2005) to a complete three-dimensional momentum picture. We show that different wave packets corresponding to the same single electron released at different times interfere, forming interference fringes in the two-dimensional momentum distributions. These structures reproduced by means of \textit{ab initio} calculations are understood within a semiclassical model.

id: quant-ph/0605194
title: Time and frequency domain solutions in an optical analogue of Grover's search algorithm
authors: T.W. Hijmans, T.N. Huussen, R.J.C. Spreeuw
comments: 16 pages in preprint format, 6 figures v2: some minor revisions
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 24, 214 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605194
abstract: We present new results on an optical implementation of Grover's quantum search algorithm. This extends previous work in which the transverse spatial mode of a light beam oscillates between a broad initial input shape and a highly localized spike, which reveals the position of the tagged item. The spike reaches its maximum intensity after $\sim\sqrt N$ round trips in a cavity equipped with two phase plates, where $N$ is the ratio of the surface area of the original beam and the area of the phase spot or tagged item. In our redesigned experiment the search space is now two-dimensional. In the time domain we demonstrate for the first time a multiple item search where the items appear directly as bright spots on the images of a gated camera. In a complementary experiment we investigate the searching cavity in the frequency domain. The oscillatory nature of the search algorithm can be seen as a splitting of cavity eigenmodes, each of which concentrates up to 50% of its power in the bright spot corresponding to the solution.

id: quant-ph/0605195
title: Free Dirac evolution as a quantum random walk
authors: A.J. Bracken, D. Ellinas, I. Smyrnakis
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure. Latex2e file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605195
abstract: Any positive-energy state of a free Dirac particle that is initially highly-localized, evolves in time by spreading at speeds close to the speed of light. This general phenomenon is explained by the fact that the Dirac evolution can be approximated arbitrarily closely by a quantum random walk, where the roles of coin and walker systems are naturally attributed to the spin and position degrees of freedom of the particle. Initially entangled and spatially localized spin-position states evolve with asymptotic two-horned distributions of the position probability, familiar from earlier studies of quantum walks. For the Dirac particle, the two horns travel apart at close to the speed of light.

id: quant-ph/0605196
title: Classification of GHZ-type, W-type and GHZ-W-type multiqubit entanglements
authors: Lin Chen, Yi-Xin Chen
comments: 16 pages, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605196
abstract: We propose the concept of SLOCC-equivalent basis (SEB) in the multiqubit space. In particular, two special SEBs, the GHZ-type and the W-type basis are introduced. They can make up a more general family of multiqubit states, the GHZ-W-type states, which is a useful kind of entanglement for quantum teleporatation and error correction. We completely characterize the property of this type of states, and mainly classify the GHZ-type states and the W-type states in a regular way, which is related to the enumerative combinatorics. Many concrete examples are given to exhibit how our method is used for the classification of these entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0605197
title: The Generalized Lyapunov Theorem and its Application to Quantum Channels
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 9 150 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605197
abstract: We give a simple and physically intuitive necessary and sufficient condition for a map acting on a compact metric space to be mixing (i.e. infinitely many applications of the map transfer any input into a fixed convergency point). This is a generalization of the "Lyapunov direct method". First we prove this theorem in topological spaces and for arbitrary continuous maps. Finally we apply our theorem to maps which are relevant in Open Quantum Systems and Quantum Information, namely Quantum Channels. In this context we also discuss the relations between mixing and ergodicity (i.e. the property that there exist only a single input state which is left invariant by a single application of the map) showing that the two are equivalent when the invariant point of the ergodic map is pure.

id: quant-ph/0605198
title: Universal Quantum Computation with Continuous-Variable Cluster States
authors: Nicolas C. Menicucci, Peter van Loock, Mile Gu, Christian Weedbrook, Timothy C. Ralph, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 110501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605198
abstract: We describe a generalization of the cluster-state model of quantum computation to continuous-variable systems, along with a proposal for an optical implementation using squeezed-light sources, linear optics, and homodyne detection. For universal quantum computation, a nonlinear element is required. This can be satisfied by adding to the toolbox any single-mode non-Gaussian measurement, while the initial cluster state itself remains Gaussian. Homodyne detection alone suffices to perform an arbitrary multi-mode Gaussian transformation via the cluster state. We also propose an experiment to demonstrate cluster-based error reduction when implementing Gaussian operations.

id: quant-ph/0605199
title: Nanometre-scale nuclear-spin device for quantum information processing
authors: Y. Hirayama, A. Miranowicz, T. Ota, G. Yusa, K. Muraki, S. K. Ozdemir, N. Imoto
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 18 (2006) S885-S900
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605199
abstract: We have developed semiconductor point contact devices in which nuclear spins in a nanoscale region are coherently controlled by all-electrical methods. Different from the standard nuclear-magnetic resonance technique, the longitudinal magnetization of nuclear spins is directly detected by measuring resistance, resulting in ultra-sensitive detection of the microscopic quantity of nuclear spins. All possible coherent oscillations have been successfully demonstrated between two levels from four nuclear spin states of I = 3/2 nuclei. Quantum information processing is discussed based on two fictitious qubits of an I = 3/2 system and methods are described for performing arbitrary logical gates both on one and two qubits. A scheme for quantum state tomography based on Mz-detection is also proposed. As the starting point of quantum manipulations, we have experimentally prepared the effective pure states for the I = 3/2 nuclear spin system.

id: quant-ph/0605200
title: Continuous observation of a squeezed coherent state
authors: Anita Dabrowska
comments: Author changed and enlarged this article and post as Squeezed coherent state undergoing a continuous nondemolition observation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605200
abstract: The main aim of the paper is to present the analytical solution of the Belavkin quantum filtering equation for damped harmonic oscillator being initially in the squeezed coherent state for diffusion observation with complex white noise. The comparison of the a priori and a posteriori mean value of the optical quadrature operators and the photon number operator is given.

id: quant-ph/0605201
title: Polar molecules near superconducting resonators: a coherent, all-electrical, molecule-mesoscopic interface
authors: A.Andre, D.DeMille, J.M.Doyle, M.D.Lukin, S.E.Maxwell, P.Rabl, R.Schoelkopf, P.Zoller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605201
abstract: The challenge of building a scalable quantum processor requires consolidation of the conflicting requirements of achieving coherent control and preservation of quantum coherence in a large scale quantum system. Moreover, the system should be compatible with miniaturization and integration of quantum circuits. Mesoscopic solid state systems such as superconducting islands and quantum dots feature robust control techniques using local electrical signals and self-evident scaling based on advances in fabrication; however, in general the quantum states of solid state devices tend to decohere rapidly. In contrast, quantum optical systems based on trapped ions and neutral atoms exhibit dramatically better coherence properties, while miniaturization of atomic and molecular systems, and their integration with mesoscopic electrical circuits, remains an important challenge. Below we describe methods for the integration of a single particle system -- an isolated polar molecule -- with mesoscopic solid state devices in a way that produces robust, coherent, quantum-level control. The methods described include the trapping, cooling, detection, coherent manipulation and quantum coupling of isolated polar molecules at sub-micron dimensions near cryogenic stripline microwave resonators. We show that electrostatically trapped polar molecules can exhibit strong confinement and fast, purely electrical gate control. Furthermore, the effect of electrical noise sources, a key issue in quantum information processing, can be suppressed to very low levels via appropriate preparation and manipulation of the polar molecules. Our setup provides a scalable cavity QED-type quantum computer architecture, where entanglement of distant qubits stored in long-lived rotational molecular states is achieved via exchange of microwave photons.

id: quant-ph/0605202
title: Adiabatic Condition for Nonlinear Systems
authors: Han Pu, Peter Maenner, Weiping Zhang, Hong Y. Ling
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605202
abstract: We revisit the adiabatic criterion in stimulated Raman adiabatic passage for the three-level $\Lambda$-system, and compare the situation with and without nonlinearity. In linear systems, the adiabatic condition is derived with the help of the instantaneous eigenvalues and eigenstates of the Hamiltonian, a procedure that breaks down in the presence of nonlinearity. Using an explicit example relevant to photoassociation of atoms into diatomic molecules, we demonstrate that the proper way to derive the adiabatic condition for the nonlinear systems is through a linearization procedure.

id: quant-ph/0605203
title: All-electrical control of single ion spins in a semiconductor
authors: Jian-Ming Tang, Jeremy Levy, Michael E. Flatte
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 106803 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605203
abstract: We propose a method for all-electrical initialization, control and readout of the spin of single ions substituted into a semiconductor. Mn ions in GaAs form a natural example. In the ion's ground state the Mn core spin magnetic moment locks antiparallel to the spin and orbital magnetic moment of a bound valence hole from the GaAs host. Direct electrical manipulation of the ion spin is possible because electric fields manipulate the orbital wave function of the hole, and through the spin-orbit coupling the spin is reoriented as well. Coupling two or more ion spins can be achieved using electrical gates to control the size of the valence hole wave function near the semiconductor surface. This proposal for coherent manipulation of individual ionic spins and controlled coupling of ionic spins via electrical gates alone may find applications in extremely high density information storage and in scalable coherent or quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0605204
title: The complete basis with an unextendible product basis and exact-entanglement bases (CBUPB) of three qubit
authors: Xin-Wei Zha, Cun-Bing Huang
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605204
abstract: In this paper, an unextendible product basis and exact-entanglement bases of three qubit is given, and the properties of entanglement for exact-entanglement bases are also discussed. In addition, the bound entangled mixed state is obtained from the exact-entanglement bases.

id: quant-ph/0605205
title: Improving the Convergence of an Iterative Algorithm Proposed By Waxman
authors: W. A. Berger, H. G. Miller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605205
abstract: In the iterative algorithm recently proposed by Waxman for solving eigenvalue problems, we point out that the convergence rate may be improved. For many non-singular symmetric potentials which vanish asymptotically, a simple analytical relationship between the coupling constant of the potential and the ground state eigenvalue is obtained which can be used to make the algorithm more efficient.

id: quant-ph/0605206
title: Experimental Quantum Communication without a Shared Reference Frame
authors: Teng-Yun Chen, Jun Zhang, J.-C. Boileau, Xian-Min Jin, Bin Yang, Qiang Zhang, Tao Yang, R. Laflamme, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 96, 150504 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605206
abstract: We present an experimental realization of a robust quantum communication scheme [Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 220501 (2004)] using pairs of photons entangled in polarization and time. Our method overcomes errors due to collective rotation of the polarization modes (e.g., birefringence in optical fiber or misalignment), is insensitive to the phase's fluctuation of the interferometer, and does not require any shared reference frame including time reference, except the need to label different photons. The practical robustness of the scheme is further shown by implementing a variation of the Bennett-Brassard 1984 quantum key distribution protocol over 1 km optical fiber.

id: quant-ph/0605207
title: Non-invasive Measurements of Cavity Parameters by Use of Squeezed Vacuum
authors: Eugeniy E. Mikhailov, Keisuke Goda, Nergis Mavalvala
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 033817 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605207
abstract: We propose and experimentally demonstrate a method for non-invasive measurements of cavity parameters by injection of squeezed vacuum into an optical cavity. The principle behind this technique is the destruction of the correlation between upper and lower quantum sidebands with respect to the carrier frequency when the squeezed field is incident on the cavity. This method is especially useful for ultrahigh $Q$ cavities, such as whispering gallery mode (WGM) cavities, in which absorption and scattering by light-induced nonlinear processes inhibit precise measurements of the cavity parameters. We show that the linewidth of a test cavity is measured to be $\gamma = 844\pm40$ kHz, which agrees with the classically measured linewidth of the cavity within the uncertainty ($\gamma=856\pm34$ kHz).

id: quant-ph/0605208
title: Entanglement of Quantum States, Thermodynamical Statistical Distributions and Physical Nature of Temperature
authors: A.Yu. Bogdanov, Yu.I. Bogdanov, K.A. Valiev
comments: 11 pages, 2 figure, a report for the XI International Conference on Quantum Optics (ICQO-2006), May 26-31, 2006, Minsk, Belarus
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605208
abstract: Thermodynamical equilibrium is considered as an effect of quantum entangling of the vacuum state of a system. An explicit mathematical model of multi- particle entangled pure quantum states is developed and analyzed. In the framework, the process of measurement results in probability distributions that exactly correspond to the heat equilibrium of a system in a thermostat.

id: quant-ph/0605209
title: Matching method and exact solvability of discrete PT-symmetric square wells
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 25 pp, 3 figures
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 10247
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605209
abstract: Discrete PT-symmetric square wells are studied. Their wave functions are found proportional to classical Tshebyshev polynomials of complex argument. The compact secular equations for energies are derived giving the real spectra in certain intervals of non-Hermiticity strengths Z. It is amusing to notice that although the known square well re-emerges in the usual continuum limit, a twice as rich, upside-down symmetric spectrum is exhibited by all its present discretized predecessors.

id: quant-ph/0605210
title: Ultracold Few-Boson Systems in a Double-Well Trap
authors: Sascha Z?llner, Hans-Dieter Meyer, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 053612 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605210
abstract: We investigate the transition of a quasi-one-dimensional few-boson system from a weakly correlated to a fragmented and finally a fermionized ground state. Our numerically exact analysis, based on a multi-configurational method, explores the interplay between different shapes of external and inter-particle forces. Specifically, we demonstrate that the addition of a central barrier to an otherwise harmonic trap may supports the system's fragmentation, with a symmetry-induced distinction between even and odd atom numbers. Moreover, the impact of inhomogeneous interactions is studied, where the effective coupling strength is spatially modulated. It is laid out how the ground state can be displaced in a controlled way depending on the trap and the degree of modulation. We present the one- and two-body densities and, beyond that, highlight the role of correlations on the basis of the natural occupations.

id: quant-ph/0605211
title: Momentum transfer for momentum transfer-free which-path experiments
authors: Aurelien Drezet, Andreas Hohenau, Joachim R. Krenn
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev . A (2006). (7 pages, 2 figures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605211
abstract: We analyze the origin of interference disappearance in which-path double aperture experiments. We show that we can unambiguously define an observable momentum transfer between the quantum particle and the path detector and we prove in particular that the so called ``momentum transfer free'' experiments can be in fact logically interpreted in term of momentum transfer.

id: quant-ph/0605212
title: Decoherence-based exploration of d-dimensional one-way quantum computation
authors: M. S. Tame, M. Paternostro, C. Hadley, S. Bose, M. S. Kim
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures, RevTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042330 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605212
abstract: We study the effects of amplitude and phase damping decoherence in d-dimensional one-way quantum computation (QC). Our investigation shows how information transfer and entangling gate simulations are affected for d>=2. To understand motivations for extending the one-way model to higher dimensions, we describe how d-dimensional qudit cluster states deteriorate under environmental noise. In order to protect quantum information from the environment we consider the encoding of logical qubits into physical qudits and compare entangled pairs of linear qubit-cluster states with single qudit clusters of equal length and total dimension. Our study shows a significant reduction in the performance of one-way QC for d>2 in the presence of Markovian type decoherence models.

id: quant-ph/0605213
title: Wigner-Araki-Yanase theorem on Distinguishability
authors: Takayuki Miyadera, Hideki Imai
comments: To be published in Phys.Rev.A
journal: Phys.Rev.A 74, 024101 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605213
abstract: The presence of an additive conserved quantity imposes a limitation on the measurement process. According to the Wigner-Araki-Yanase theorem, the perfect repeatability and the distinguishability on the apparatus cannot be attained simultaneously. Instead of the repeatability, in this paper, the distinguishability on both systems is examined. We derive a trade-off inequality between the distinguishability of the final states on the system and the one on the apparatus. The inequality shows that the perfect distinguishability of both systems cannot be attained simultaneously.

id: quant-ph/0605214
title: Quantum secure direct communication network with superdense coding and decoy photons
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Xi-Han Li, Chun-Yan Li, Ping Zhou, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 6 pages, 2 figure
journal: Physcica Scripta 76 (2007) 25-30
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605214
abstract: A quantum secure direct communication network scheme is proposed with quantum superdense coding and decoy photons. The servers on a passive optical network prepare and measure the quantum signal, i.e., a sequence of the $d$-dimensional Bell states. After confirming the security of the photons received from the receiver, the sender codes his secret message on them directly. For preventing a dishonest server from eavesdropping, some decoy photons prepared by measuring one photon in the Bell states are used to replace some original photons. One of the users on the network can communicate any other one. This scheme has the advantage of high capacity, and it is more convenient than others as only a sequence of photons is transmitted in quantum line.

id: quant-ph/0605215
title: Unified Theory of Annihilation-Creation Operators for Solvable (`Discrete') Quantum Mechanics
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 43 pages, no figures, LaTeX2e, with amsmath, amssymb
journal: J.Math.Phys. 47 (2006) 102102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605215
abstract: The annihilation-creation operators $a^{(\pm)}$ are defined as the positive/negative frequency parts of the exact Heisenberg operator solution for the `sinusoidal coordinate'. Thus $a^{(\pm)}$ are hermitian conjugate to each other and the relative weights of various terms in them are solely determined by the energy spectrum. This unified method applies to most of the solvable quantum mechanics of single degree of freedom including those belonging to the `discrete' quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0605216
title: Finite size mean-field models
authors: M. Fannes, C. Vandenplas
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605216
abstract: We characterize the two-site marginals of exchangeable states of a system of quantum spins in terms of a simple positivity condition. This result is used in two applications. We first show that the distance between two-site marginals of permutation invariant states on N spins and exchangeable states is of order 1/N. The second application relates the mean ground state energy of a mean-field model of composite spins interacting through a product pair interaction with the mean ground state energies of the components.

id: quant-ph/0605217
title: Semiclassical structure of chaotic resonance eigenfunctions
authors: J.P. Keating, M. Novaes, S.D. Prado, M. Sieber
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; some minor corrections, some changes in presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 150406 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605217
abstract: We study the resonance (or Gamow) eigenstates of open chaotic systems in the semiclassical limit, distinguishing between left and right eigenstates of the non-unitary quantum propagator, and also between short-lived and long-lived states. The long-lived left (right) eigenstates are shown to concentrate as $\hbar\to 0$ on the forward (backward) trapped set of the classical dynamics. The limit of a sequence of eigenstates $\{\psi(\hbar)\}_{\hbar\to 0}$ is found to exhibit a remarkably rich structure in phase space that depends on the corresponding limiting decay rate. These results are illustrated for the open baker map, for which the probability density in position space is observed to have self-similarity properties.

id: quant-ph/0605218
title: Quantum loop programs
authors: Mingsheng Ying, Yuan Feng
comments: 
journal: Acta Informatica 47(4): 221-250 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605218
abstract: Loop is a powerful program construct in classical computation, but its power is still not exploited fully in quantum computation. The exploitation of such power definitely requires a deep understanding of the mechanism of quantum loop programs. In this paper, we introduce a general scheme of quantum loops and describe its computational process. The notions of termination and almost termination are proposed for quantum loops, and the function computed by a quantum loop is defined. To show their expressive power, quantum loops are applied in describing quantum walks. Necessary and sufficient conditions for termination and almost termination of a general quantum loop on any mixed input state are presented. A quantum loop is said to be (almost) terminating if it (almost) terminates on any input state. We show that a quantum loop is almost terminating if and only if it is uniformly almost terminating. It is observed that a small disturbance either on the unitary transformation in the loop body or on the measurement in the loop guard can make any quantum loop (almost) terminating. Moreover, a representation of the function computed by a quantum loop is given in terms of finite summations of matrices. To illustrate the notions and results obtained in this paper, two simplest classes of quantum loop programs, one qubit quantum loops, and two qubit quantum loops defined by controlled gates, are carefully examined.

id: quant-ph/0605219
title: Classical simulators of quantum computers and no-go theorems
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: LaTeX, 22 pp, 7 fig, v2: small changes in text, refs, figs. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Computer Science (cs.OH)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605219
abstract: It is discussed, why classical simulators of quantum computers escape from some no-go claims like Kochen-Specker, Bell, or recent Conway-Kochen "Free Will" theorems.

id: quant-ph/0605220
title: A Global Optimization Approach to Quantum Mechanics
authors: Xiaofei Huang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605220
abstract: This paper presents a global optimization approach to quantum mechanics, which describes the most fundamental dynamics of the universe. It suggests that the wave-like behavior of (sub)atomic particles could be the critical characteristic of a global optimization method deployed by nature so that (sub)atomic systems can find their ground states corresponding to the global minimum of some energy function associated with the system. The classic time-independent Schrodinger equation is shown to be derivable from the global optimization method to support this argument.

id: quant-ph/0605221
title: Exact solution in the Heisenberg picture and annihilation-creation operators
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 10 pages, no figures. Abstract, Introduction revised; Conclusion added; Document-class changed. To appear in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys.Lett. B641 (2006) 112-117
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605221
abstract: The annihilation-creation operators of the harmonic oscillator, the basic and most important tools in quantum physics, are generalised to most solvable quantum mechanical systems of single degree of freedom including the so-called `discrete' quantum mechanics. They admit exact Heisenberg operator solution. We present unified definition of the annihilation-creation operators (a^{(\pm)}) as the positive/negative frequency parts of the exact Heisenberg operator solution.

id: quant-ph/0605222
title: A Short Wavelength GigaHertz Clocked Fiber-Optic Quantum Key Distribution System
authors: Karen J. Gordon, Veronica Fernandez, Paul D. Townsend, Gerald S. Buller
comments: Pre-press version
journal: IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics, Volume 40 (7), pp900-908 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605222
abstract: A quantum key distribution system has been developed, using standard telecommunications optical fiber, which is capable of operating at clock rates of greater than 1 GHz. The quantum key distribution system implements a polarization encoded version of the B92 protocol. The system employs vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers with emission wavelengths of 850 nm as weak coherent light sources, and silicon single photon avalanche diodes as the single photon detectors. A distributed feedback laser of emission wavelength 1.3 micro-metres, and a linear gain germanium avalanche photodiode was used to optically synchronize individual photons over the standard telecommunications fiber. The quantum key distribution system exhibited a quantum bit error rate of 1.4%, and an estimated net bit rate greater than 100,000 bits-per-second for a 4.2 km transmission range. For a 10 km fiber range a quantum bit error rate of 2.1%, and estimated net bit rate of greater than 7,000 bits-per-second was achieved.

id: quant-ph/0605223
title: Entanglement and statistics in Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometry
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures; minor editorial changes and new references added
journal: Laser Phys. 16 (2006) 1406-1410
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605223
abstract: Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometry allows one to detect the presence of entanglement in two-photon input states. The same result holds for two-particles input states which obey to Fermionic statistics. In the latter case however anti-bouncing introduces qualitative differences in the interferometer response. This effect is analyzed in a Gedankenexperiment where the particles entering the interferometer are assumed to belong to a one-parameter family of quons which continuously interpolate between the Bosonic and Fermionic statistics.

id: quant-ph/0605224
title: Reexamination of Quantum Bit Commitment: the Possible and the Impossible
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Dennis Kretschmann, Dirk Schlingemann, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: v1: 26 pages, 4 eps figures. v2: 31 pages, 5 eps figures; replaced with published version; title changed to comply with puzzling Phys. Rev. regulations; impossibility proof extended to protocols with infinitely many rounds or a continuous communication tree; security proof of decoherence monster protocol expanded; presentation clarified
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032328 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605224
abstract: Bit commitment protocols whose security is based on the laws of quantum mechanics alone are generally held to be impossible. In this paper we give a strengthened and explicit proof of this result. We extend its scope to a much larger variety of protocols, which may have an arbitrary number of rounds, in which both classical and quantum information is exchanged, and which may include aborts and resets. Moreover, we do not consider the receiver to be bound to a fixed "honest" strategy, so that "anonymous state protocols", which were recently suggested as a possible way to beat the known no-go results are also covered. We show that any concealing protocol allows the sender to find a cheating strategy, which is universal in the sense that it works against any strategy of the receiver. Moreover, if the concealing property holds only approximately, the cheat goes undetected with a high probability, which we explicitly estimate. The proof uses an explicit formalization of general two party protocols, which is applicable to more general situations, and a new estimate about the continuity of the Stinespring dilation of a general quantum channel. The result also provides a natural characterization of protocols that fall outside the standard setting of unlimited available technology, and thus may allow secure bit commitment. We present a new such protocol whose security, perhaps surprisingly, relies on decoherence in the receiver's lab.

id: quant-ph/0605225
title: A quantum secret sharing scheme among three parties ultilizing four-qubit Smolin bound entangled state
authors: Yafei Yu, Yi Xu, Jin Liu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605225
abstract: Four-qubit Smolin bound entangled state has a distinct feature: the state is not distillable when every qubit is seperated from each other; but it makes two separated qubit entangled if the other qubits group together. Here the feature is applied to quantum secret sharing, a QSS protocol similar to Ekert 91 protocol of QKD is proposed. The security problem, disadvantage and advantageof this protocol are disscused.

id: quant-ph/0605226
title: Quantum Error Correction of Time-Correlated Errors
authors: Feng Lu, Dan C. Marinescu
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605226
abstract: The complexity of the error correction circuitry forces us to design quantum error correction codes capable of correcting a single error per error correction cycle. Yet, time-correlated error are common for physical implementations of quantum systems; an error corrected during the previous cycle may reoccur later due to physical processes specific for each physical implementation of the qubits. In this paper we study quantum error correction for a restricted class of time-correlated errors in a spin-boson model. The algorithm we propose allows the correction of two errors per error correction cycle, provided that one of them is time-correlated. The algorithm can be applied to any stabilizer code when the two logical qubits $\mid 0_L>$ and $\mid 1_L>$ are entangled states of $2^{n}$ basis states in $\mathcal{H}_{2^n}$.

id: quant-ph/0605227
title: Equilibration of a dissipative quantum oscillator
authors: Vinay Ambegaokar
comments: 
journal: Ann. Phys. (Leipzig) 16, 319 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605227
abstract: An explicit demonstration is given of a harmonic oscillator in equilibrium approaching the equilibrium of a corresponding interacting system by coupling it to a thermal bath consisting of a continuum of harmonic oscillators.

id: quant-ph/0605228
title: Purification of large bicolorable graph states
authors: Kovid Goyal, Alex McCauley, Robert Raussendorf
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, revtex; typos and clarifications added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 032318 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605228
abstract: We describe novel purification protocols for bicolorable graph states. The protocols scale efficiently for large graph states. We introduce a method of analysis that allows us to derive simple recursion relations characterizing their behavior as well as analytical expressions for their thresholds and fixed point behavior. We introduce two purification protocols with high threshold. They can, for graph degree four, tolerate 1% (3%) gate error or 20% (30%) local error.

id: quant-ph/0605229
title: Deterministic Secure Communications using Two-Mode Squeezed States
authors: Alberto M. Marino, C. R. Stroud, Jr
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605229
abstract: We propose a scheme for quantum cryptography that uses the squeezing phase of a two-mode squeezed state to transmit information securely between two parties. The basic principle behind this scheme is the fact that each mode of the squeezed field by itself does not contain any information regarding the squeezing phase. The squeezing phase can only be obtained through a joint measurement of the two modes. This, combined with the fact that it is possible to perform remote squeezing measurements, makes it possible to implement a secure quantum communication scheme in which a deterministic signal can be transmitted directly between two parties while the encryption is done automatically by the quantum correlations present in the two-mode squeezed state.

id: quant-ph/0605230
title: Bichromatic Local Oscillator for Detection of Two-Mode Squeezed States of Light
authors: Alberto M. Marino, C. R. Stroud, Jr., Vincent Wong, Ryan S. Bennink, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605230
abstract: We present a new technique for the detection of two-mode squeezed states of light that allows for a simple characterization of these quantum states. The usual detection scheme, based on heterodyne measurements, requires the use of a local oscillator with a frequency equal to the mean of the frequencies of the two modes of the squeezed field. As a result, unless the two modes are close in frequency, a high-frequency shot-noise-limited detection system is needed. We propose the use of a bichromatic field as the local oscillator in the heterodyne measurements. By the proper selection of the frequencies of the bichromatic field, it is possible to arbitrarily select the frequency around which the squeezing information is located, thus making it possible to use a low-bandwidth detection system and to move away from any excess noise present in the system.

id: quant-ph/0605231
title: A single cold atom as efficient stationary source of EPR-entangled light
authors: David Vitali, Giovanna Morigi, Jrgen Eschner
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 053814 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605231
abstract: The Stokes and anti-Stokes components of the spectrum of resonance fluorescence of a single trapped atom, which originate from the mechanical coupling between the scattered photons and the quantized motion of the atomic center of mass, exhibit quantum correlations which are of two-mode-squeezing type. We study and demonstrate the build-up of such correlations in a specific setup, which is experimentally accessible, and where the atom acts as efficient and continuous source of EPR-entangled, two-mode squeezed light.

id: quant-ph/0605232
title: Propagation of spatially entangled qudits through free space
authors: G. Lima, Leonardo Neves, Ivan F. Santos, J. G. Aguirre Gmez, C. Saavedra, S. Pdua
comments: 5 Pages, 4 Figures, REVTeX4
journal: Physical Review A 73, 032340 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605232
abstract: We show the propagation of entangled states of high-dimensional quantum systems. The qudits states were generated using the transverse correlation of the twin photons produced by spontaneous parametric down-conversion. Their free-space distribution was performed at the laboratory scale and the propagated states maintained a high-fidelity with their original form. The use of entangled qudits allow an increase in the quantity of information that can be transmitted and may also guarantee more privacy for communicating parties. Therefore, studies about propagating entangled states of qudits are important for the effort of building quantum communication networks.

id: quant-ph/0605233
title: Pseudo-Hermitian Interactions in Dirac Theory: Examples
authors: Bhabani Prasad Mandal, Saurabh Gupta
comments: 13 pages, Latex, No figs, Revised version to appear in MPLA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605233
abstract: We consider a couple of examples to study the pseudo-Hermitian interaction in relativistic quantum mechanics. Rasbha interaction, commonly used to study the spin Hall effect, is considered with imaginary coupling. The corresponding Dirac Hamiltonian is shown to be parity pseudo-Hermitian. In the other example we consider parity pseudo-Hermitian scalar interaction with arbitrary parameter in Dirac theory. In both the cases we show that the energy spectrum is real and all the other features of non-relativistic pseudo-Hermitian formulation are present. Using the spectral method the positive definite metric operator ($\eta$) has been calculated explicitly for both the models to ensure positive definite norms for the state vectors.

id: quant-ph/0605234
title: Integration of fiber coupled high-Q silicon nitride microdisks with atom chips
authors: Paul E. Barclay, Benjamin Lev, Kartik Srinivasan, Oskar Painter, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: Published vesion. Minor changes
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 89, 131108 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605234
abstract: Micron scale silicon nitride (SiN_x) microdisk optical resonators are demonstrated with Q = 3.6 x 10^6 and an effective mode volume of 15 (\lambda / n)^3 at near visible wavelengths. A hydrofluoric acid wet etch provides sensitive tuning of the microdisk resonances, and robust mounting of a fiber taper provides efficient fiber optic coupling to the microdisks while allowing unfettered optical access for laser cooling and trapping of atoms. Measurements indicate that cesium adsorption on the SiN_x surfaces significantly red-detunes the microdisk resonances. A technique for parallel integration of multiple (10) microdisks with a single fiber taper is also demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0605235
title: Decoherence-Insensitive Quantum Communication by Optimal C^*-Encoding
authors: Bernhard G. Bodmann, David W. Kribs, Vern I. Paulsen
comments: 20 pages, no figures, amsart
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605235
abstract: The central issue in this article is to transmit a quantum state in such a way that after some decoherence occurs, most of the information can be restored by a suitable decoding operation. For this purpose, we incorporate redundancy by mapping a given initial quantum state to a messenger state on a larger-dimensional Hilbert space via a $C^*$-algebra embedding. Our noise model for the transmission is a phase damping channel which admits a noiseless or decoherence-free subspace or subsystem. More precisely, the transmission channel is obtained from convex combinations of a set of lowest rank yes/no measurements that leave a component of the messenger state unchanged. The objective of our encoding is to distribute quantum information optimally across the noise-susceptible component of the transmission when the noiseless component is not large enough to contain all the quantum information to be transmitted. We derive simple geometric conditions for optimal encoding and construct examples.

id: quant-ph/0605236
title: $\hbar$-independent Universality of the Quantum-Classical Canonical Transformations
authors: T. Hakioglu, A. Tegmen, B. Demircioglu
comments: 13 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 360 (2007) 501-506
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605236
abstract: A theory of non-unitary-invertible as well as unitary canonical transformations is formulated in the context of Weyl's phase space representations. That all quantum canonical transformations without an explicit $\hbar$ dependence are also classical mechanical and vice versa is demonstrated in the phase space. Contrary to some earlier results, it is also shown that the quantum generators and their classical counterparts are identical and $\hbar$-independent. The latter is a powerful result bringing the theory of classical canonical transformations and the $\hbar$-independent quantum ones on an equal footing.

id: quant-ph/0605237
title: Estimation of fluctuating magnetic fields by an atomic magnetometer
authors: Vivi Petersen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605237
abstract: We present a theoretical analysis of the ability of atomic magnetometers to estimate a fluctuating magnetic field. Our analysis makes use of a Gaussian state description of the atoms and the probing field, and it presents the estimator of the field and a measure of its uncertainty which coincides in the appropriate limit with the achievements for a static field. We show by simulations that the estimator for the current value of the field systematically lags behind the actual value of the field, and we suggest a more complete theory, where measurement results at any time are used to update and improve both the estimate of the current value and the estimate of past values of the B-field.

id: quant-ph/0605238
title: Erratum : Squeezing and entanglement delay using slow light
authors: G. Hetet, A. Peng, M. T. Johnsson, M. T. L. Hsu, O. Gloeckl, P. K. Lam, H .A. Bachor, J. J. Hope
comments: 1 page, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605238
abstract: An inconsistency was found in the equations used to calculate the variance of the quadrature fluctuations of a field propagating through a medium demonstrating electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). The decoherence term used in our original paper introduces inconsistency under weak probe approximation. In this erratum we give the Bloch equations with the correct dephasing terms. The conclusions of the original paper remain the same. Both entanglement and squeezing can be delayed and preserved using EIT without adding noise when the decoherence rate is small.

id: quant-ph/0605239
title: Quantum Entanglement and Projective Ring Geometry
authors: Michel R. P. Planat, Metod Saniga, Maurice R. Kibler
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures Fig. 3 improved, typos corrected; Version 4: Final Version Published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications (SIGMA) 2 (2006) Paper 066, 14 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605239
abstract: The paper explores the basic geometrical properties of the observables characterizing two-qubit systems by employing a novel projective ring geometric approach. After introducing the basic facts about quantum complementarity and maximal quantum entanglement in such systems, we demonstrate that the 15$\times$15 multiplication table of the associated four-dimensional matrices exhibits a so-far-unnoticed geometrical structure that can be regarded as three pencils of lines in the projective plane of order two. In one of the pencils, which we call the kernel, the observables on two lines share a base of Bell states. In the complement of the kernel, the eight vertices/observables are joined by twelve lines which form the edges of a cube. A substantial part of the paper is devoted to showing that the nature of this geometry has much to do with the structure of the projective lines defined over the rings that are the direct product of $n$ copies of the Galois field GF(2), with $n$ = 2, 3 and 4.

id: quant-ph/0605240
title: Generation of cluster states with Josephson charge qubits
authors: Xiao-Hu Zheng, Ping Dong, Zheng-Yuan Xue, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 3 figures, 4 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 365, 156 (2007) .
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605240
abstract: A scheme for the generation of the cluster states based on the Josephson charge qubit is proposed. The two-qubit generating case is first introduced, and then generalized to multi-qubit case. The scheme is simple and easily manipulated, because any two charge qubits can be selectively and effectively coupled by a common inductance. More manipulations can be realized before decoherence sets in. All the devices in the scheme are well within the current technology.

id: quant-ph/0605241
title: Equivalent qubit dynamics under classical and quantum noise
authors: Olli-Pentti Saira, Ville Bergholm, Teemu Ojanen, Mikko Mottonen
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; converted to PRA format, added Fig. 2, corrected typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012308 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605241
abstract: We study the dynamics of quantum systems under classical and quantum noise, focusing on decoherence in qubit systems. Classical noise is described by a random process leading to a stochastic temporal evolution of a closed quantum system, whereas quantum noise originates from the coupling of the microscopic quantum system to its macroscopic environment. We derive deterministic master equations describing the average evolution of the quantum system under classical continuous-time Markovian noise and two sets of master equations under quantum noise. Strikingly, these three equations of motion are shown to be equivalent in the case of classical random telegraph noise and proper quantum environments. Hence fully quantum-mechanical models within the Born approximation can be mapped to a quantum system under classical noise. Furthermore, we apply the derived equations together with pulse optimization techniques to achieve high-fidelity one-qubit operations under random telegraph noise, and hence fight decoherence in these systems of great practical interest.

id: quant-ph/0605242
title: Microscopic Theory of the Photon Recoil of an Atom in a Dielectric
authors: Hao Fu, P. R. Berman
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures. Several typos and one reference are corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605242
abstract: An atom recoils when it undergoes spontaneous decay. In this paper we present a microscopic calculation of the recoil of a source atom imbedded in a dielectric medium. We find that the source atom recoils with the canonical photon momentum $n\hbar k_{0,}$ where $n$ is the index of refraction and $\hbar k_{0}$ is the photon momentum calculated at the source atom atomic frequency $\omega_{0}$. We also show explicitly how the energy is conserved with the photon inside the medium.

id: quant-ph/0605243
title: Quantum computation from a quantum logical perspective
authors: Jeffrey Bub
comments: 17 pages, no figures. The title has been changed, misprints and minor errors have been corrected, and some clarifying remarks have been added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605243
abstract: It is well-known that Shor's factorization algorithm, Simon's period-finding algorithm, and Deutsch's original XOR algorithm can all be formulated as solutions to a hidden subgroup problem. Here the salient features of the information-processing in the three algorithms are presented from a different perspective, in terms of the way in which the algorithms exploit the non-Boolean quantum logic represented by the projective geometry of Hilbert space. From this quantum logical perspective, the XOR algorithm appears directly as a special case of Simon's algorithm, and all three algorithms can be seen as exploiting the non-Boolean logic represented by the subspace structure of Hilbert space in a similar way. Essentially, a global property of a function (such as a period, or a disjunctive property) is encoded as a subspace in Hilbert space representing a quantum proposition, which can then be efficiently distinguished from alternative propositions, corresponding to alternative global properties, by a measurement (or sequence of measurements) that identifies the target proposition as the proposition represented by the subspace containing the final state produced by the algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0605244
title: Perfect Cluster States from Imperfect Global Entanglement
authors: Michael C. Garrett, David L. Feder
comments: 16 pages IOP style, 4 EPS figures; major revisions to the strategy for growth of cluster states, 2 new figures, several new references; accepted for publication in NJP
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 033009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605244
abstract: The cluster state, the highly entangled state that is the central resource for one-way quantum computing, can be efficiently generated in a variety of physical implementations via global nearest-neighbor interactions. In practice, a systematic phase error is expected in the entangling process, resulting in imperfect cluster states. We present a stochastic measurement technique to generate large perfect cluster states and other graph states with high probability from imperfect cluster states even when their initial entanglement is weak.

id: quant-ph/0605245
title: Manipulation of Single Neutral Atoms in Optical Lattices
authors: Chuanwei Zhang, S. L. Rolston, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 74, 042316 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605245
abstract: We analyze a scheme to manipulate quantum states of neutral atoms at individual sites of optical lattices using focused laser beams. Spatial distributions of focused laser intensities induce position-dependent energy shifts of hyperfine states, which, combined with microwave radiation, allow selective manipulation of quantum states of individual target atoms. We show that various errors in the manipulation process are suppressed below $10^{-4} $ with properly chosen microwave pulse sequences and laser parameters. A similar idea is also applied to measure quantum states of single atoms in optical lattices.

id: quant-ph/0605246
title: Efficient quantum key distribution secure against no-signalling eavesdroppers
authors: Antonio Acin, Serge Massar, Stefano Pironio
comments: 11 pages, 2 color figures. v2: minor modifications, added references, added note on the relation to quant-ph/0606049
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 126 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605246
abstract: By carrying out measurements on entangled states, two parties can generate a secret key which is secure not only against an eavesdropper bound by the laws of quantum mechanics, but also against a hypothetical "post-quantum" eavesdroppers limited by the no-signalling principle only. We introduce a family of quantum key distribution protocols of this type, which are more efficient than previous ones, both in terms of key rate and noise resistance. Interestingly, the best protocols involve large number of measurements. We show that in the absence of noise, these protocols can yield one secret bit per entanglement bit, implying that the key rates in the no-signalling post-quantum scenario are comparable to the key rates in usual quantum key distribution.

id: quant-ph/0605247
title: Non-Gaussian, Mixed Continuous-Variable Entangled States
authors: A. P. Lund, T. C. Ralph, P. van Loock
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605247
abstract: We study a class of mixed non-Gaussian entangled states that, whilst closely related to Gaussian entangled states, none-the-less exhibit distinct properties previously only associated with more exotic, pure non-Gaussian states.

id: quant-ph/0605248
title: Dynamical Casimir effect for different geometries
authors: D.A.R. Dalvit, F.D. Mazzitelli, X. Orsi Millan
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, J. Phys. A Special Issue: Proceedings of QEFTX, Barcelona 5-9 Sept. 2005
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 6261-6270
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605248
abstract: We consider the problem of motion-induced photon creation from quantum vacuum inside closed, perfectly conducting cavities with time-dependent geometries. These include one dimensional Fabry-Perrot resonators with Dirichlet or Neumann boundary conditions, three dimensional cylindrical waveguides, and a spherical shell. The number of Casimir TE, TM and TEM photons is computed. We also present a classical mechanical analogue of the one dimensional dynamical Casimir effect.

id: quant-ph/0605249
title: Classicality, the ensemble interpretation, and decoherence: Resolving the Hyperion dispute
authors: Maximilian Schlosshauer
comments: 5 pages, final published version
journal: Found. Phys. 38, 796-803 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605249
abstract: We analyze seemingly contradictory claims in the literature about the role played by decoherence in ensuring classical behavior for the chaotically tumbling satellite Hyperion. We show that the controversy is resolved once the very different assumptions underlying these claims are recognized. In doing so, we emphasize the distinct notions of the problem of classicality in the ensemble interpretation of quantum mechanics and in decoherence-based approaches that are aimed at addressing the measurement problem.

id: quant-ph/0605250
title: An observable entanglement measure for unknown mixed quantum states
authors: Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: in press in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605250
abstract: We show how an unknown mixed quantum state's entanglement can be quantified by a suitable, local parity measurement on its two-fold copy.

id: quant-ph/0605251
title: Distribution of G-concurrence of random pure states
authors: Valerio Cappellini, Hans-Juergen Sommers, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: RevTeX4, 11 pages, 4 Encapsuled PostScript figures - Introduced new results, Section II and V have been significantly improved - To appear on PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74(6), 062322 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605251
abstract: Average entanglement of random pure states of an N x N composite system is analyzed. We compute the average value of the determinant D of the reduced state, which forms an entanglement monotone. Calculating higher moments of the determinant we characterize the probability distribution P(D). Similar results are obtained for the rescaled N-th root of the determinant, called G-concurrence. We show that in the limit $N\to\infty$ this quantity becomes concentrated at a single point G=1/e. The position of the concentration point changes if one consider an arbitrary N x K bipartite system, in the joint limit $N,K\to\infty$, K/N fixed.

id: quant-ph/0605252
title: Photoassociation adiabatic passage of ultracold Rb atoms to form ultracold Rb_2 molecules
authors: Evgeny A. Shapiro, Moshe Shapiro, Avi Pe'er, Jun Ye
comments: RevTex, 23 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 013405 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605252
abstract: We theoretically explore photoassociation by Adiabatic Passage of two colliding cold ^{85}Rb atoms in an atomic trap to form an ultracold Rb_2 molecule. We consider the incoherent thermal nature of the scattering process in a trap and show that coherent manipulations of the atomic ensemble, such as adiabatic passage, are feasible if performed within the coherence time window dictated by the temperature, which is relatively long for cold atoms. We show that a sequence of ~2*10^7 pulses of moderate intensities, each lasting ~750 ns, can photoassociate a large fraction of the atomic ensemble at temperature of 100 microkelvin and density of 10^{11} atoms/cm^3. Use of multiple pulse sequences makes it possible to populate the ground vibrational state. Employing spontaneous decay from a selected excited state, one can accumulate the molecules in a narrow distribution of vibrational states in the ground electronic potential. Alternatively, by removing the created molecules from the beam path between pulse sets, one can create a low-density ensemble of molecules in their ground ro-vibrational state.

id: quant-ph/0605253
title: Popescu-Rohrlich Boxes in Quantum Measure Theory
authors: Matthew Barnett, Fay Dowker, David Rideout
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, LaTeX, acknowledgement added; Dedicated to Rafael Sorkin on the occasion of his 60th birthday
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 7255-7264
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605253
abstract: Two results are proved at the quantal level in Sorkin's hierarchy of measure theories. One is a strengthening of an existing bound on the correlations in the EPR-Bohm setup under the assumption that the probabilities admit a strongly positive joint quantal measure. It is also proved that any set of no-signalling probabilities, for two distant experimenters with a choice of two alternative experiments each and two possible outcomes per experiment, admits a joint quantal measure, though one that is not necessarily strongly positive.

id: quant-ph/0605254
title: Quantum state stability against decoherence
authors: A. Krugel, L. Roa, C. Saavedra
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0605254
abstract: We study the stability of the coherence of a state of a quantum system under the effect of an interaction with another quantum system at short time. We find an expression for evaluating the order of magnitude of the time scale for the onset of instability as a function of the initial state of both involved systems and of the sort of interaction between them. As an application we study the spin-boson interaction in the dispersive interaction regime, driven by a classical field. We find, for this model, that the behavior of the time scale for the onset of instability, with respect to the boson bath temperature, changes depending on the intensity of the classical field.

id: cond-mat/0605012
title: Electron and boson clusters in confined geometries: symmetry breaking in quantum dots and harmonic traps
authors: Constantine Yannouleas, Uzi Landman
comments: LATEX, 9 pages with 6 figures. To appear in Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. (USA). For related papers, see this http URL
journal: Proc.Natl.Acad.Sci.USA 103, 10600 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605012
abstract: We discuss the formation of crystalline electron clusters in semiconductor quantum dots and of crystalline patterns of neutral bosons in harmonic traps. In a first example, we use calculations for two electrons in an elliptic quantum dot to show that the electrons can localize and form a molecular dimer. The calculated singlet-triplet splitting (J) as a function of the magnetic field (B) agrees with cotunneling measurements, with its behavior reflecting the effective dissociation of the dimer for large B. Knowledge of the dot shape and of J(B) allows determination of the degree of entanglement. In a second example, we study strongly repelling neutral bosons in two-dimensional harmonic traps. Going beyond the Gross-Pitaevskii (GP) mean-field approximation, we show that bosons can localize and form polygonal-ring-like crystalline patterns. The total energy of the crystalline phase saturates in contrast to the GP solution, and its spatial extent becomes smaller than that of the GP condensate.

id: cond-mat/0605070
title: Measurement of the ground-state flux diagram of three coupled qubits as a first step towards the demonstration of adiabatic quantum computation
authors: A. Izmalkov, M. Grajcar, S. H. W. van der Ploeg, U. Huebner, E. Il'ichev, H.-G. Meyer, A. M. Zagoskin
comments: accepted for publication by Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhys. Lett., 76 (3), pp. 533-539 (2006)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605070
abstract: The ground state susceptibility of a system consisting of three flux-qubits was measured in the complete three dimensional flux space around the common degeneracy point of the qubits. The system's Hamiltonian could be completely reconstructed from measurements made far away from the common degeneracy point. The subsequent measurements made around this point show complete agreement with the theoretical predictions which follow from this Hamiltonian. The ground state anti-crossings of the system could be read-out directly from these measurements. This allows one to determine the ground-state flux diagram, which provides the solution for the non-polynomial optimization problem MAXCUT encoded in the Hamiltonian of the three-flux-qubit system. Our results show that adiabatic quantum computation can be demonstrated with this system provided that the energy gap and/or the speed of the read-out is increased.

id: cond-mat/0605090
title: Fast energy transfer mediated by multi-quanta bound states in a nonlinear quantum lattice
authors: Cyril Falvo, Vincent Pouthier, J. C. Eilbeck
comments: 28 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605090
abstract: By using a Generalized Hubbard model for bosons, the energy transfer in a nonlinear quantum lattice is studied, with special emphasis on the interplay between local and nonlocal nonlinearity. For a strong local nonlinearity, it is shown that the creation of v quanta on one site excites a soliton band formed by bound states involving v quanta trapped on the same site. The energy is first localized on the excited site over a significant timescale and then slowly delocalizes along the lattice. As when increasing the nonlocal nonlinearity, a faster dynamics occurs and the energy propagates more rapidly along the lattice. Nevertheless, the larger is the number of quanta, the slower is the dynamics. However, it is shown that when the nonlocal nonlinearity reaches a critical value, the lattice suddenly supports a very fast energy propagation whose dynamics is almost independent on the number of quanta. The energy is transfered by specific bound states formed by the superimposition of states involving v-p quanta trapped on one site and p quanta trapped on the nearest neighbour sites, with p=0,..,v-1. These bound states behave as independent quanta and they exhibit a dynamics which is insensitive to the nonlinearity and controlled by the single quantum hopping constant.

id: cond-mat/0605121
title: Sweeping from the superfluid to Mott phase in the Bose-Hubbard model
authors: Ralf Schtzhold, Michael Uhlmann, Yan Xu, Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 4 pages of RevTex4, 1 figure; to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 200601 (2006)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605121
abstract: We study the sweep through the quantum phase transition from the superfluid to the Mott state for the Bose-Hubbard model with a time-dependent tunneling rate $J(t)$. In the experimentally relevant case of exponential decay, $J(t)\propto e^{-\gamma t}$, an adapted mean-field expansion for large fillings $n$ yields a scaling solution for the fluctuations. This enables us to analytically calculate the evolution of the number and phase variations (on-site) and correlations (off-site) for slow ($\gamma\ll\mu$), intermediate, and fast (non-adiabatic $\gamma\gg\mu$) sweeps, where $\mu$ is the chemical potential. Finally, we derive the dynamical decay of the off-diagonal long-range order as well as the temporal shrinkage of the superfluid fraction in a persistent ring-current setup.

id: cond-mat/0605147
title: Stretching the electron as far as it will go
authors: Gordon W. Semenoff, Pasquale Sodano
comments: 33 pages, 10 figures, invited contribution to a book edited to celebrate the 100'th anniversary of the birth of Ettore Majorana
journal: Electron.J.Theor.Phys. 10 (2006) 157-190
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605147
abstract: Effects associated with the existence of isolated zero modes of Majorana fermions are discussed. It is argued that the quantization of this system necessarily contains highly extended quantum states and that populating and depopulating such states by interacting with the quantum system leads to a long ranged teleportation process. Also leads to spontaneous violation of fermion parity symmetry. A quasi realistic model consisting of a quantum wire embedded in a p-wave superconductor is discussed as an explicit example of a physical system with an isolated Majorana zero mode.

id: cond-mat/0605154
title: Emergence of Artificial Photons in an Optical Lattice
authors: Sumanta Tewari, V. W. Scarola, T. Senthil, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4 pages, 2 eps figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 200401 (2006)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605154
abstract: We establish the theoretical feasibility of direct analog simulation of the compact U(1) lattice gauge theories in optical lattices with dipolar bosons. We discuss the realizability of the topological Coulomb phase in extended Bose-Hubbard models in several optical lattice geometries. We predict the testable signatures of this emergent phase in noise correlation measurements, thus suggesting the possible emergence of artificial light in optical lattices.

id: cond-mat/0605180
title: Natural orbits of atomic Cooper pairs in a nonuniform Fermi gas
authors: Y. H. Pong, C. K. Law
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605180
abstract: We examine the basic mode structure of atomic Cooper pairs in an inhomogeneous Fermi gas. Based on the properties of Bogoliubov quasi-particle vacuum, the single particle density matrix and the anomalous density matrix share the same set of eigenfunctions. These eigenfunctions correspond to natural pairing orbits associated with the BCS ground state. We investigate these orbits for a Fermi gas in a spherical harmonic trap, and construct the wave function of a Cooper pair in the form of Schmidt decomposition. The issue of spatial quantum entanglement between constituent atoms in a pair is addressed.

id: cond-mat/0605194
title: A Renormalisation-Group Algorithm for Eigenvalue Density Functions of Interacting Quantum Systems
authors: Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 5 pages, 3 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605194
abstract: We present a certifiable algorithm to calculate the eigenvalue density function -- the number of eigenvalues within an infinitesimal interval -- for an arbitrary 1D interacting quantum spin system. Our method provides an arbitrarily accurate numerical representation for the smeared eigenvalue density function, which is the convolution of the eigenvalue density function with a gaussian of prespecified width. In addition, with our algorithm it is possible to investigate the density of states near the ground state. This can be used to numerically determine the size of the ground-state energy gap for the system to within a prespecified confidence interval. Our method exploits a finitely correlated state/matrix product state representation of the propagator and applies equally to disordered and critical interacting 1D quantum spin systems. We illustrate our method by calculating an approximation to the eigenvalue density function for a random antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model.

id: cond-mat/0605207
title: Entanglement entropy and entanglement witnesses in models of strongly interacting low-dimensional fermions
authors: V. V. Fran?a, K. Capelle
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042325 (2006)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605207
abstract: We calculate the entanglement entropy of strongly correlated low-dimensional fermions in metallic, superfluid and antiferromagnetic insulating phases. The entanglement entropy reflects the degrees of freedom available in each phase for storing and processing information, but is found not to be a state function in the thermodynamic sense. The role of critical points, smooth crossovers and Hilbert space restrictions in shaping the dependence of the entanglement entropy on the system parameters is illustrated for metallic, insulating and superfluid systems. The dependence of the spin susceptibility on entanglement in antiferromagnetic insulators is obtained quantitatively. The opening of spin gaps in antiferromagnetic insulators is associated with enhanced entanglement near quantum critical points.

id: cond-mat/0605225
title: Regge theory and statistical mechanics
authors: F. Canfora, L. Parisi, G. Vilasi
comments: To appear on Physics Letters B. 10 pages, no figures, references added
journal: Phys.Lett. B638 (2006) 85-88
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605225
abstract: An interesting connection between the Regge theory of scattering, the Veneziano amplitude, the Lee-Yang theorems in statistical mechanics and nonextensive Renyi entropy is addressed. In this scheme the standard entropy and the Renyi entropy appear to be different limits of a unique mathematical object. This framework sheds light on the physical origin of nonextensivity. A non trivial application to spin glass theory is shortly outlined.

id: cond-mat/0605316
title: Symmetry and Topological Order
authors: Zohar Nussinov, Gerardo Ortiz
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. Minimal changes relative to published version- most notably the above shortened title (which was too late to change upon request in the galley proofs). An elaborate description of all of the results in this article appeared in subsequent works, principally in arXiv:cond-mat/0702377 which was published in the Annals of Physics 324, 977- 1057 (2009)
journal: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, vol. 106, issue 40, pp. 16944-16949 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605316
abstract: We prove sufficient conditions for Topological Quantum Order at both zero and finite temperatures. The crux of the proof hinges on the existence of low-dimensional Gauge-Like Symmetries (that notably extend and differ from standard local gauge symmetries) and their associated defects, thus providing a unifying framework based on a symmetry principle. These symmetries may be actual invariances of the system, or may emerge in the low-energy sector. Prominent examples of Topological Quantum Order display Gauge-Like Symmetries. New systems exhibiting such symmetries include Hamiltonians depicting orbital-dependent spin exchange and Jahn-Teller effects in transition metal orbital compounds, short-range frustrated Klein spin models, and p+ip superconducting arrays. We analyze the physical consequences of Gauge-Like Symmetries (including topological terms and charges), discuss associated braiding, and show the insufficiency of the energy spectrum, topological entanglement entropy, maximal string correlators, and fractionalization in establishing Topological Quantum Order. General symmetry considerations illustrate that not withstanding spectral gaps, thermal fluctuations may impose restrictions on certain suggested quantum computing schemes and lead to "thermal fragility". Our results allow us to go beyond standard topological field theories and engineer systems with Topological Quantum Order.

id: cond-mat/0605428
title: Energy entanglement in normal metal-superconducting forks
authors: K.V. Bayandin, G.B. Lesovik, Thierry Martin
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605428
abstract: The possibility for detecting energy entanglement in normal metal - superconductor junctions is examined. For the first time we proved that two electrons in a NS structure originating from the same Cooper pair are entangled in the energy subspace. This work follows previous works where spin entanglement was studied in similar circuits. The device consists of a superconducting beam splitter connected to two electronic Mach-Zehnder interferometers. In each arms of the interferometers, energies are filtered with coherent quantum dots. In contrast to previous studies of zero-frequency cross-correlations of electrical currents for this system, attention is drawn to finite-time measurements. This allows to observe two-particle interference for particles with different energies above and below Fermi level. Entanglement is first characterized via the concurrence for the two-particle spatial density matrix. Next, we formulate the Bell inequality, which is written in terms of finite-time noise correlators, and thereby we find a specific set of parameters for which entanglement can be detected.

id: cond-mat/0605576
title: Universal set of quantum gates for double-dot spin qubits with fixed interdot coupling
authors: Ronald Hanson, Guido Burkard
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; final version v2 (minor changes)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 050502 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605576
abstract: We propose a set of universal gate operations for the singlet-triplet qubit realized by two electron spins in a double quantum dot, in the presence of a fixed inhomogeneous magnetic field. All gate operations are achieved by switching the potential offset between the two dots with an electrical bias, and do not require time-dependent control of the tunnel coupling between the dots. We analyze the two-electron dynamics and calculate the effective qubit rotation angle as a function of the applied electric bias. We present explicit gate sequences for single-qubit rotations about two orthogonal axes, and a CNOT gate sequence, completing the universal gate set.

id: cond-mat/0605588
title: Controllable coupling of superconducting flux qubits
authors: S.H.W. van der Ploeg, A. Izmalkov, Alec Maassen van den Brink, U. Huebner, M. Grajcar, E. Il'ichev, H.-G. Meyer, A.M. Zagoskin
comments: REVTeX4, 4pp., 6 figs, 10 EPS figure files; N.B.: "Alec" is my first, and "Maassen van den Brink" my family name. v2: included discussion of a 2nd sample with sign-tunability v3:rewritten for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 057004 (2007)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605588
abstract: We have realized controllable coupling between two three-junction flux qubits by inserting an additional coupler loop between them, containing three Josephson junctions. Two of these are shared with the qubit loops, providing strong qubit--coupler interaction. The third junction gives the coupler a nontrivial current--flux relation; its derivative (i.e., the susceptibility) determines the coupling strength J, which thus is tunable in situ via the coupler's flux bias. In the qubit regime, J was varied from ~45 (antiferromagnetic) to ~ -55 mK (ferromagnetic); in particular, J vanishes for an intermediate coupler bias. Measurements on a second sample illuminate the relation between two-qubit tunable coupling and three-qubit behavior.

id: cond-mat/0605591
title: Diffractive energy spreading and its semiclassical limit
authors: Alexander Stotland, Doron Cohen
comments: 19 pages, 11 figs, published version with some improved figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 10703-10721
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605591
abstract: We consider driven systems where the driving induces jumps in energy space: (1) particles pulsed by a step potential; (2) particles in a box with a moving wall; (3) particles in a ring driven by an electro-motive-force. In all these cases the route towards quantum-classical correspondence is highly non-trivial. Some insight is gained by observing that the dynamics in energy space, where $n$ is the level index, is essentially the same as that of Bloch electrons in a tight binding model, where $n$ is the site index. The mean level spacing is like a constant electric field and the driving induces long range hopping 1/(n-m).

id: cond-mat/0605597
title: Classical simulation of infinite-size quantum lattice systems in one spatial dimension
authors: G. Vidal
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 070201 (2007)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605597
abstract: Invariance under translation is exploited to efficiently simulate one-dimensional quantum lattice systems in the limit of an infinite lattice. Both the computation of the ground state and the simulation of time evolution are considered.

id: cond-mat/0605603
title: Finite time collapse of N classical fields described by coupled nonlinear Schrodinger equations
authors: D. C. Roberts, A. C. Newell
comments: v2: corrected typo on equation 1
journal: Phys. Rev. E 74, 047602 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605603
abstract: We prove the finite-time collapse of a system of N classical fields, which are described by N coupled nonlinear Schrodinger equations. We derive the conditions under which all of the fields experiences this finite-time collapse. Finally, for two-dimensional systems, we derive constraints on the number of particles associated with each field that are necessary to prevent collapse.

id: cond-mat/0605637
title: Ambiguities in the scattering tomography for central potentials
authors: Awatif Hendi, Julian Henn, Ulf Leonhardt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605637
abstract: Invisibility devices exploit ambiguities in the inverse scattering problem of light in media. Scattering also serves as an important general tool to infer information about the structure of matter. We elucidate the nature of scattering ambiguities that arise in central potentials. We show that scattering is a tomographic projection: the integrated scattering angle is a projection of a scattering function onto the impact parameter. This function depends on the potential, but may be multi-valued, allowing for ambiguities where several potentials share the same scattering data. In addition, multivalued scattering angles also lead to ambiguities. We apply our theory to show that it is in principle possible to construct an invisibility device without infinite phase velocity of light.

id: cond-mat/0605683
title: Entanglement entropy of 2D conformal quantum critical points: hearing the shape of a quantum drum
authors: Eduardo Fradkin, Joel E. Moore
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, 28 references
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.97:050404,2006
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605683
abstract: The entanglement entropy of a pure quantum state of a bipartite system $A \cup B$ is defined as the von Neumann entropy of the reduced density matrix obtained by tracing over one of the two parts. Critical ground states of local Hamiltonians in one dimension have entanglement that diverges logarithmically in the subsystem size, with a universal coefficient that for conformally invariant critical points is related to the central charge of the conformal field theory. We find the entanglement entropy for a standard class of $z=2$ quantum critical points in two spatial dimensions with scale invariant ground state wave functions: in addition to a nonuniversal ``area law'' contribution proportional to the size of the $AB$ boundary, there is generically a universal logarithmically divergent correction. This logarithmic term is completely determined by the geometry of the partition into subsystems and the central charge of the field theory that describes the equal-time correlations of the critical wavefunction.

id: cond-mat/0605692
title: Valley susceptibility of an interacting two-dimensional electron system
authors: O. Gunawan, Y. P. Shkolnikov, K. Vakili, T. Gokmen, E. P. De Poortere, M. Shayegan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 186 404 (2006).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605692
abstract: We report direct measurements of the valley susceptibility, the change of valley population in response to applied symmetry-breaking strain, in an AlAs two-dimensional electron system. As the two-dimensional density is reduced, the valley susceptibility dramatically increases relative to its band value, reflecting the system's strong electron-electron interaction. The increase has a remarkable resemblance to the enhancement of the spin susceptibility and establishes the analogy between the spin and valley degrees of freedom.

id: cond-mat/0605695
title: Chaotic ratchet dynamics with cold atoms in a pair of pulsed optical lattices
authors: Gabriel G. Carlo, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati, Sandro Wimberger, Oliver Morsch, Riccardo Mannella, Ennio Arimondo
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 033617 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605695
abstract: We present a very simple model for realizing directed transport with cold atoms in a pair of periodically flashed optical lattices. The origin of this ratchet effect is explained and its robustness demonstrated under imperfections typical of cold atom experiments. We conclude that our model offers a clear-cut way to implement directed transport in an atom optical experiment.

id: cond-mat/0605709
title: Pair-wise decoherence in coupled spin qubit networks
authors: Andrea Morello, P. C. E. Stamp, Igor S. Tupitsyn
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Final PRL version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 207206 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605709
abstract: Experiments involving phase coherent dynamics of networks of spins, such as echo experiments, will only work if decoherence can be suppressed. We show here, by analyzing the particular example of a crystalline network of Fe8 molecules, that most decoherence typically comes from pairwise interactions (particularly dipolar interactions) between the spins, which cause `correlated errors'. However at very low T these are strongly suppressed. These results have important implications for the design of quantum information processing systems using electronic spins.

id: cs/0605115
title: Key Distillation and the Secret-Bit Fraction
authors: Nick S. Jones, Lluis Masanes
comments: 12 pages
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, Vol. 54, No. 2, pp 680-691 (2008)
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0605115
abstract: We consider distillation of secret bits from partially secret noisy correlations P_ABE, shared between two honest parties and an eavesdropper. The most studied distillation scenario consists of joint operations on a large number of copies of the distribution (P_ABE)^N, assisted with public communication. Here we consider distillation with only one copy of the distribution, and instead of rates, the 'quality' of the distilled secret bits is optimized, where the 'quality' is quantified by the secret-bit fraction of the result. The secret-bit fraction of a binary distribution is the proportion which constitutes a secret bit between Alice and Bob. With local operations and public communication the maximal extractable secret-bit fraction from a distribution P_ABE is found, and is denoted by Lambda[P_ABE]. This quantity is shown to be nonincreasing under local operations and public communication, and nondecreasing under eavesdropper's local operations: it is a secrecy monotone. It is shown that if Lambda[P_ABE]>1/2 then P_ABE is distillable, thus providing a sufficient condition for distillability. A simple expression for Lambda[P_ABE] is found when the eavesdropper is decoupled, and when the honest parties' information is binary and the local operations are reversible. Intriguingly, for general distributions the (optimal) operation requires local degradation of the data.

id: gr-qc/0605052
title: Aspects of Graviton Detection: Graviton Emission and Absorption by Atomic Hydrogen
authors: Stephen Boughn, Tony Rothman
comments: 19 pages, no figures
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 23 (2006) 5839-5852
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0605052
abstract: Graviton absorption cross sections and emission rates for hydrogen are calculated by both semi-classical and field theoretic methods. We point out several mistakes in the literature concerning spontaneous emission of gravitons and related phenomena, some of which are due to a subtle issue concerning gauge invariance of the linearized interaction Hamiltonian.

id: gr-qc/0605116
title: Geometrodynamics in a spherically symmetric, static crossflow of null dust
authors: Zsolt Horvth, Zoltn Kovcs, Lszl ?. Gergely
comments: Section on boundary behavior and fall-off conditions of canonical variables added. New references, 1 new figure, 12 pages. Version accepted in Phys.Rev.D
journal: Phys.Rev.D74:084034,2006
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0605116
abstract: The spherically symmetric, static spacetime generated by a crossflow of non-interacting radiation streams, treated in the geometrical optics limit (null dust) is equivalent to an anisotropic fluid forming a radiation atmosphere of a star. This reference fluid provides a preferred / internal time, which is employed as a canonical coordinate. Among the advantages we encounter a new Hamiltonian constraint, which becomes linear in the momentum conjugate to the internal time (therefore yielding a functional Schr\"{o}dinger equation after quantization), and a strongly commuting algebra of the new constraints.

id: gr-qc/0605124
title: New 'phase' of quantum gravity
authors: Charles H.-T. Wang
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures, To appear in the 2006 Christmas Issue of Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. A
journal: Phil.Trans.Roy.Soc.Lond. A364 (2006) 3375-3388
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0605124
abstract: The emergence of loop quantum gravity over the past two decades has stimulated a great resurgence of interest in unifying general relativity and quantum mechanics. Amongst a number of appealing features of this approach are the intuitive picture of quantum geometry using spin networks and powerful mathematical tools from gauge field theory. However, the present form of loop quantum gravity suffers from a quantum ambiguity, due to the presence of a free (Barbero-Immirzi) parameter. Following recent progress on the conformal decomposition of gravitational fields, we present a new phase space for general relativity. In addition to spin-gauge symmetry, the new phase space also incorporates conformal symmetry making the description parameter free. The Barbero-Immirzi ambiguity is shown to occur only if the conformal symmetry is gauge-fixed prior to quantization. By withholding its full symmetries, the new phase space offers a promising platform for the future development of loop quantum gravity. This paper aims to provide an exposition, at a reduced technical level, of the above theoretical advances and their background developments. Further details are referred to cited references.

id: hep-th/0605025
title: Canonical quantization of so-called non-Lagrangian systems
authors: D.M. Gitman, V.G. Kupriyanov
comments: 13 pages
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C50:691-700,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0605025
abstract: We present an approach to the canonical quantization of systems with equations of motion that are historically called non-Lagrangian equations. Our viewpoint of this problem is the following: despite the fact that a set of differential equations cannot be directly identified with a set of Euler-Lagrange equations, one can reformulate such a set in an equivalent first-order form which can always be treated as the Euler-Lagrange equations of a certain action. We construct such an action explicitly. It turns out that in the general case the hamiltonization and canonical quantization of such an action are non-trivial problems, since the theory involves time-dependent constraints. We adopt the general approach of hamiltonization and canonical quantization for such theories (Gitman, Tyutin, 1990) to the case under consideration. There exists an ambiguity (not reduced to a total time derivative) in associating a Lagrange function with a given set of equations. We present a complete description of this ambiguity. The proposed scheme is applied to the quantization of a general quadratic theory. In addition, we consider the quantization of a damped oscillator and of a radiating point-like charge.

id: hep-th/0605035
title: General Aspects of PT-Symmetric and P-Self-Adjoint Quantum Theory in a Krein Space
authors: Toshiaki Tanaka
comments: 32 pages, no figures; explanation, discussion and references added
journal: J.Phys.A39:14175-14203,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0605035
abstract: In our previous work, we proposed a mathematical framework for PT-symmetric quantum theory, and in particular constructed a Krein space in which PT-symmetric operators would naturally act. In this work, we explore and discuss various general consequences and aspects of the theory defined in the Krein space, not only spectral property and PT symmetry breaking but also several issues, crucial for the theory to be physically acceptable, such as time evolution of state vectors, probability interpretation, uncertainty relation, classical-quantum correspondence, completeness, existence of a basis, and so on. In particular, we show that for a given real classical system we can always construct the corresponding PT-symmetric quantum system, which indicates that PT-symmetric theory in the Krein space is another quantization scheme rather than a generalization of the traditional Hermitian one in the Hilbert space. We propose a postulate for an operator to be a physical observable in the framework.

id: hep-th/0605036
title: Quantum Fields on Star Graphs
authors: B. Bellazzini, M. Mintchev
comments: LaTex 23+1 pages, 4 figures
journal: J.Phys.A39:11101-11118,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0605036
abstract: We construct canonical quantum fields which propagate on a star graph modeling a quantum wire. The construction uses a deformation of the algebra of canonical commutation relations, encoding the interaction in the vertex of the graph. We discuss in this framework the Casimir effect and derive the correction to the Stefan-Boltzmann law induced by the vertex interaction. We also generalize the algebraic setting for covering systems with integrable bulk interactions and solve the quantum non-linear Schroedinger model on a star graph.

id: hep-th/0605060
title: Geometrization of some quantum mechanics formalism
authors: O. A. Ol'khov
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0605060
abstract: There were many attempts to geometrize electromagnetic field and find out new interpretation for quantum mechanics formalism. The distinctive feature of this work is that it combines geometrization of electromagnetic field and geometrization of material field within the unique topological idea. According to the suggested topological interpretation, the Dirac equations for a free particle and for a hydrogen atom prove to be the group--theoretical relations that account for the symmetry properties of localized microscopic deviations of the space--time geometry from the pseudoeuclidean one (closed topological 4-manifolds). These equations happen to be written in universal covering spaces of the above manifolds. It is shown that "long derivatives" in Dirac equation for a hydrogen atom can be considered as covariant derivatives of spinors in the Weyl noneuclidean 4-space and that electromagnetic potentials can be considered as connectivities in this space. The gauge invariance of electromagnetic field proves to be a natural consequence of the basic principles of the proposed geometrical interpretation. Within the suggested concept, atoms have no inside any point-like particles (electrons) and this can give an opportunity to overcome the difficulties of atomic physics connected with the many-body problem.

id: hep-th/0605061
title: Perturbation theory via Feynman diagrams in classical mechanics
authors: R. Penco, D. Mauro
comments: 10 pages, Latex
journal: Eur.J.Phys. 27 (2006) 1241-1250
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0605061
abstract: In this paper we show how Feynman diagrams, which are used as a tool to implement perturbation theory in quantum field theory, can be very useful also in classical mechanics, provided we introduce also at the classical level concepts like path integrals and generating functionals.

id: hep-th/0605066
title: Equivalence of a Complex $\cP\cT$-Symmetric Quartic Hamiltonian and a Hermitian Quartic Hamiltonian with an Anomaly
authors: Carl M. Bender, Dorje C. Brody, Jun-Hua Chen, Hugh F. Jones, Kimball A. Milton, Michael C. Ogilvie
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures, corrected references
journal: Phys.Rev.D74:025016,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0605066
abstract: In a recent paper Jones and Mateo used operator techniques to show that the non-Hermitian $\cP\cT$-symmetric wrong-sign quartic Hamiltonian $H=\half p^2-gx^4$ has the same spectrum as the conventional Hermitian Hamiltonian $\tilde H=\half p^2+4g x^4-\sqrt{2g} x$. Here, this equivalence is demonstrated very simply by means of differential-equation techniques and, more importantly, by means of functional-integration techniques. It is shown that the linear term in the Hermitian Hamiltonian is anomalous; that is, this linear term has no classical analog. The anomaly arises because of the broken parity symmetry of the original non-Hermitian $\cP\cT$-symmetric Hamiltonian. This anomaly in the Hermitian form of a $\cP\cT$-symmetric quartic Hamiltonian is unchanged if a harmonic term is introduced into $H$. When there is a harmonic term, an immediate physical consequence of the anomaly is the appearance of bound states; if there were no anomaly term, there would be no bound states. Possible extensions of this work to $-\phi^4$ quantum field theory in higher-dimensional space-time are discussed.

id: hep-th/0605073
title: Aspects of Holographic Entanglement Entropy
authors: Shinsei Ryu, Tadashi Takayanagi
comments: 55 pages, Latex, 6 figures, references added (v2), minor corrections, acknowledgement added (v3)
journal: JHEP 0608:045,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0605073
abstract: This is an extended version of our short report hep-th/0603001, where a holographic interpretation of entanglement entropy in conformal field theories is proposed from AdS/CFT correspondence. In addition to a concise review of relevant recent progresses of entanglement entropy and details omitted in the earlier letter, this paper includes the following several new results : We give a more direct derivation of our claim which relates the entanglement entropy with the minimal area surfaces in the AdS_3/CFT_2 case as well as some further discussions on higher dimensional cases. Also the relation between the entanglement entropy and central charges in 4D conformal field theories is examined. We check that the logarithmic part of the 4D entanglement entropy computed in the CFT side agrees with the AdS_5 result at least under a specific condition. Finally we estimate the entanglement entropy of massive theories in generic dimensions by making use of our proposal.

id: hep-th/0605104
title: Hidden supersymmetry in quantum bosonic systems
authors: Francisco Correa, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 4 pages; refs and comments added, to appear in Ann. Phys
journal: AnnalsPhys.322:2493-2500,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0605104
abstract: We show that some simple well studied quantum mechanical systems without fermion (spin) degrees of freedom display, surprisingly, a hidden supersymmetry. The list includes the bound state Aharonov-Bohm, the Dirac delta and the Poschl-Teller potential problems, in which the unbroken and broken N=2 supersymmetry of linear and nonlinear (polynomial) forms is revealed.

id: hep-th/0605112
title: String theory, quantum mechanics and noncommutative geometry: a new perspective on the gravitational dynamics of D0-branes
authors: T. P. Singh
comments: 6 pages. This essay received an honorable mention in the Gravity Research Foundation Essay Competition, 2006
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.D15:2153-2158,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0605112
abstract: We do not know the symmetries underlying string theory. Furthermore, there must exist an inherently quantum, and spacetime independent, formulation of this theory. Independent of string theory, there should exist a description of quantum mechanics which does not refer to a classical spacetime manifold. We propose such a formulation of quantum mechanics, based on noncommutative geometry. This description reduces to standard quantum mechanics, whenever an external classical spacetime is available. However, near the Planck energy scale, self-gravity effects modify the Schrodinger equation to the non-linear Doebner-Goldin equation. Remarkably, this non-linear equation also arises in the quantum dynamics of D0-branes. This suggests that the noncommutative quantum dynamics introduced here is actually the quantum gravitational dynamics of D0-branes, and that automorphism invariance is a symmetry of string theory.

id: hep-th/0605142
title: Entanglement-Entropy for Groundstates, Low-lying and Highly Excited Eigenstates of General (Lattice) Hamiltonians
authors: Manfred Requardt
comments: 36 pages, no figures, Latex, addition of further references and comments following the suggestions of referees, submitted to J.Phys.A
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0605142
abstract: We investigate the behavior of entanglement-entropy on a broad scale, that is, a large class of systems, Hamiltonians and states describing the interaction of many degrees of freedom. It is one of our aims to show which general characteristics are responsible for the different types of quantitative behavior of entantglement-entropy. Our main lesson is that what really matters is the degree of degeneracy of the spectrum of certain nearby reference Hamiltonians. For calculational convenience we study primarily systems defined on large but finite regions of regular lattices. We show that general vector states, being not related to some short-range Hamiltonian do not lead in the generic case to an area-like behavior of entanglement-entropy. The situation changes if eigenstates of a Hamiltonian with short-range interactions are studied. We found three broad classes of eigenstates. Global groundstates typically lead to entanglement-entropies of subvolumes proportional to the area of the dividing surface. Macroscopically excited (vector)states have in the generic case an entanglement-entropy which is proportional to the enclosed subvolume and, furthermore, display a certain Gibbsian behavior. Low-lying excited states, on the other hand, lead to an entanglement-entropy which is usually proportional to the logarithm of the enclosed subvolume times the area of the dividing surface .

id: hep-th/0605231
title: Vacuum polarization induced by a cylindrical boundary in the cosmic string spacetime
authors: E. R. Bezerra de Mello, V. B. Bezerra, A. A. Saharian, A. S. Tarloyan
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. D74 (2006) 025017
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0605231
abstract: In this paper we investigate the Wightman function, the renormalized vacuum expectation values of the field square, and the energy-momentum tensor for a massive scalar field with general curvature coupling inside and outside of a cylindrical shell in the generalized spacetime of straight cosmic string. For the general case of Robin boundary condition, by using the generalized Abel-Plana formula, the vacuum expectation values are presented in the form of the sum of boundary-free and boundary-induced parts. The asymptotic behavior of the vacuum expectation values of the field square, energy density and stresses are investigated in various limiting cases. The generalization of the results to the exterior region is given for a general cylindrically symmetric static model of the string core with finite support.

id: hep-th/0605250
title: Strings, T-duality breaking, and nonlocality without the shortest distance
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 7 pages, revised, to appear in Eur. Phys. J. C
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C50:431-434,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0605250
abstract: T-duality of string theory suggests nonlocality manifested as the shortest possible distance. As an alternative, we suggest a nonlocal formulation of string theory that breaks T-duality at the fundamental level and does not require the shortest possible distance. Instead, the string has an objective shape in spacetime at all length scales, but different parts of the string interact in a nonlocal Bohmian manner.

id: hep-th/0605277
title: Remarks on the Noncommutative Gravitational Quantum Well
authors: Rabin Banerjee, Binayak Dutta Roy, Saurav Samanta
comments: Latex, 17 pages, Title changed, minor modifications, 3 new references added, To appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D74:045015,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0605277
abstract: A planar phase space having both position and momentum noncommutativity is defined in a more inclusive setting than that considered elsewhere. The dynamics of a particle in a gravitational quantum well in this space is studied. The use of the WKB approximation and the virial theorem enable analytic discussions on the effect of noncommutativity. Consistent results are obtained following either commutative space or noncommutative space descriptions. Comparison with recent experimental data with cold neutrons at Grenoble imposes an upper bound on the noncommutative parameter. Also, our results are compared with a recent numerical analysis of a similar problem.

id: math/0605301
title: A Classification of the Projective Lines over Small Rings
authors: Metod Saniga, Michel Planat, Maurice Kibler, Petr Pracna
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure; Version 2: classification extended up to order 20, references updated; Version 3: classification extended up to order 31, two more references added; Version 4: references updated, minor correction
journal: Chaos, Solitons and Fractals 33, 4 (2007) 1095 - 1102
subjects: Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0605301
abstract: A compact classification of the projective lines defined over (commutative) rings (with unity) of all orders up to thirty-one is given. There are altogether sixty-five different types of them. For each type we introduce the total number of points on the line, the number of points represented by coordinates with at least one entry being a unit, the cardinality of the neighbourhood of a generic point of the line as well as those of the intersections between the neighbourhoods of two and three mutually distant points, the number of `Jacobson' points per a neighbourhood, the maximum number of pairwise distant points and, finally, a list of representative/base rings. The classification is presented in form of a table in order to see readily not only the fine traits of the hierarchy, but also the changes in the structure of the lines as one goes from one type to the other. We hope this study will serve as an impetus to a search for possible applications of these remarkable geometries in physics, chemistry, biology and other natural sciences as well.

id: math/0605623
title: The Hyperanalytic Wavelet Transform
authors: S.C. Olhede, G. Metikas
comments: 49 pages, 14 Postscript figures
journal: IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 2009, vol 57, 3426 - 3441
subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0605623
abstract: In this paper novel classes of 2-D vector-valued spatial domain wavelets are defined, and their properties given. The wavelets are 2-D generalizations of 1-D analytic wavelets, developed from the Generalized Cauchy-Riemann equations and represented as quaternionic functions. Higher dimensionality complicates the issue of analyticity, more than one `analytic' extension of a real function is possible, and an `analytic' analysis wavelet will not necessarily construct `analytic' decomposition coefficients. The decomposition of locally unidirectional and/or separable variation is investigated in detail, and two distinct families of hyperanalytic wavelet coefficients are introduced, the monogenic and the hypercomplex wavelet coefficients. The recasting of the analysis in a different frame of reference and its effect on the constructed coefficients is investigated, important issues for sampled transform coefficients. The magnitudes of the coefficients are shown to exhibit stability with respect to shifts in phase. Hyperanalytic 2-D wavelet coefficients enable the retrieval of a phase-and-magnitude description of an image in phase space, similarly to the description of a 1-D signal with the use of 1-D analytic wavelets, especially appropriate for oscillatory signals. Existing 2-D directional wavelet decompositions are related to the newly developed framework, and new classes of mother wavelets are introduced.

id: math/0605709
title: A note on the Standard Model in a gravitation field
authors: Ruslan Sharipov
comments: AmSTeX, 36 pages, amsppt style
journal: 
subjects: Differential Geometry (math.DG); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0605709
abstract: The Standard Model of elementary particles is a theory unifying three of the four basic forces of the Nature: electromagnetic, weak, and strong interactions. In this paper we consider the Standard Model in the presence of a classical (non-quantized) gravitation field and apply a bundle approach for describing it.

id: nucl-th/0605015
title: Semiclassical expansion of quantum characteristics for many-body potential scattering problem
authors: M. I. Krivoruchenko, C. Fuchs, Amand Faessler
comments: 24 pages REVTeX, 3 eps figures, replaced with extended version, accepted for publication to Annalen der Physik
journal: Annalen Phys.16:587-614,2007
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0605015
abstract: In quantum mechanics, systems can be described in phase space in terms of the Wigner function and the star-product operation. Quantum characteristics, which appear in the Heisenberg picture as the Weyl's symbols of operators of canonical coordinates and momenta, can be used to solve the evolution equations for symbols of other operators acting in the Hilbert space. To any fixed order in the Planck's constant, many-body potential scattering problem simplifies to a statistical-mechanical problem of computing an ensemble of quantum characteristics and their derivatives with respect to the initial canonical coordinates and momenta. The reduction to a system of ordinary differential equations pertains rigorously at any fixed order in $\hbar$. We present semiclassical expansion of quantum characteristics for many-body scattering problem and provide tools for calculation of average values of time-dependent physical observables and cross sections. The method of quantum characteristics admits the consistent incorporation of specific quantum effects, such as non-locality and coherence in propagation of particles, into the semiclassical transport models. We formulate the principle of stationary action for quantum Hamilton's equations and give quantum-mechanical extensions of the Liouville theorem on the conservation of phase-space volume and the Poincar\'e theorem on the conservation of $2p$ forms. The lowest order quantum corrections to the Kepler periodic orbits are constructed. These corrections show the resonance behavior.

id: nucl-th/0605033
title: Quantum Monte-Carlo methods and exact treatment of the two-body problem with Hartree-Fock Bogoliubov states
authors: Denis Lacroix
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0605033
abstract: In this article, we show that the exact two-body problem can be replaced by quantum jumps between densities written as $D=| \Psi_a \right> \left< \Psi_b |$ where $| \Psi_a \right>$ and $| \Psi_b \right>$ are vacuum for different quasi-particles operators. It is shown that the stochastic process can be written as a Stochastic Time-Dependent Hartree-Fock Bogoliubov theory (Stochastic TDHFB) for the generalized density ${\cal R}$ associated to $D$ where ${\cal R}^2 = {\cal R}$ along each stochastic trajectory.

id: nucl-th/0605077
title: A note on the Woods-Saxon potential
authors: B. Gonul, K. Koksal
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. 76 (2007) 565-570
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0605077
abstract: The wave Schrodinger and, to clarify one interesting point encountered in the calculations, Klein-Gordon equations are solved exactly for a single neutron moving in a central Woods-Saxon plus an additional potential that provides a flexibility to construct the surface structure of the related nucleus. The physics behind the solutions and the reliability of the results obtained are discussed carefully with the consideration of other related works in the literature. In addition, the exhaustive analysis of the results reveals the fact that the usual Woods-Saxon potential cannot be solved analytically within the framework of non-relativistic physics, unlike its exactly solvable relativistic consideration.

id: physics/0605001
title: Ettore Majorana: quantum mechanics of destiny
authors: O. B. Zaslavskii
comments: V.1 in Russian (To appear in Priroda), 16 pages. V. 2 in English, 17 pages
journal: Priroda 11 (2006) 55-63
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0605001
abstract: We show that a number of apparently separate extravagant Majorana's actions, including those connected with his disappearance are united by the invariant of behavior. It is based on "carrying into life" the principles of quantum theory. We argue that the underlying motive force in the story of his disappearance consisted in existential intention to overcome the fixed frame of personal identity and dichotomy "life - death" and mimic breakthrough to plurality of worlds.

id: physics/0605176
title: Phase-dependent light propagation in atomic vapors
authors: S. Kajari-Schroeder, G. Morigi, S. Franke-Arnold, G.-L. Oppo
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures, v2: typos corrected, v3: final version, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 013816 (2007).
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0605176
abstract: Light propagation in an atomic medium whose coupled electronic levels form a diamond-configuration exhibits a critical dependence on the input conditions. In particular, the relative phase of the input fields gives rise to interference phenomena in the electronic excitation whose interplay with relaxation processes determines the stationary state. We integrate numerically the Maxwell-Bloch equations and observe two metastable behaviors for the relative phase of the propagating fields corresponding to two possible interference phenomena. These phenomena are associated to separate types of response along propagation, minimize dissipation, and are due to atomic coherence. These behaviors could be studied in gases of isotopes of alkali-earth atoms with zero nuclear spin, and offer new perspectives in control techniques in quantum electronics.

id: physics/0605227
title: Notes on Conformal Invisibility Devices
authors: Ulf Leonhardt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0605227
abstract: As a consequence of the wave nature of light, invisibility devices based on isotropic media cannot be perfect. The principal distortions of invisibility are due to reflections and time delays. Reflections can be made exponentially small for devices that are large in comparison with the wavelength of light. Time delays are unavoidable and will result in wave-front dislocations. This paper considers invisibility devices based on optical conformal mapping. The paper shows that the time delays do not depend on the directions and impact parameters of incident light rays, although the refractive-index profile of any conformal invisibility device is necessarily asymmetric. The distortions of images are thus uniform, which reduces the risk of detection. The paper also shows how the ideas of invisibility devices are connected to the transmutation of force, the stereographic projection and Escheresque tilings of the plane.

id: cond-mat/0605001
title: A theoretical analysis on highly spin-polarized transport of iron nitride Fe_4N
authors: Satoshi Kokado, Nobuhisa Fujima, Kikuo Harigaya, Hisashi Shimizu, Akimasa Sakuma
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 172410 (2006)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0605001
abstract: In order to propose a ferromagnet exhibiting highly spin-polarized transport, we theoretically analyzed the spin polarization ratio of the conductivity of the bulk Fe$_4$N with a perovskite type structure, in which N is located at the body center position of fcc-Fe. The spin polarization ratio is defined by $P = (\sigma_\uparrow - \sigma_\downarrow) / (\sigma_\uparrow + \sigma_\downarrow )$, with $\sigma_{\uparrow(\downarrow)}$ being the conductivity at zero temperature of the up spin (down spin). The conductivity is obtained by using the Kubo formula and the Slater-Koster tight binding model, where parameters are determined from the least-square fitting of the dispersion curves by the tight binding model to those by the first principles calculation. In the vicinity of the Fermi energy, $|P|$ takes almost 1.0, indicating perfectly spin-polarized transport. In addition, by comparing Fe$_4$N to fcc-Fe (Fe$_4$N$_0$) in the ferromagnetic state with the equilibrium lattice constant of Fe$_4$N, it is shown that the non-magnetic atom N plays an important role in increasing $|P|$.

