id: quant-ph/0606001
title: Comment on "Quantum Strategy Without Entanglement"
authors: Shengchao Ding
comments: 1.3 pages, 2 figures; minor mistakes corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606001
abstract: We make remarks on the paper of Du et al (quant-ph/0011078) by pointing out that the quantum strategy proposed by the paper is trivial to the card game and proposing a simple classical strategy to make the game in classical sense fair too.

id: quant-ph/0606002
title: Engineering multiphoton states for linear optics computation
authors: Paolo Aniello, Cosmo Lupo, Mario Napolitano, Matteo G.A. Paris
comments: 
journal: Eur.Phys.J. D41 (2007) 579-587
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606002
abstract: Transformations achievable by linear optical components allow to generate the whole unitary group only when restricted to the one-photon subspace of a multimode Fock space. In this paper, we address the more general problem of encoding quantum information by multiphoton states, and elaborating it via ancillary extensions, linear optical passive devices and photodetection. Our scheme stems in a natural way from the mathematical structures underlying the physics of linear optical passive devices. In particular, we analyze an economical procedure for mapping a fiducial 2-photon 2-mode state into an arbitrary 2-photon 2-mode state using ancillary resources and linear optical passive N-ports assisted by post-selection. We found that adding a single ancilla mode is enough to generate any desired target state. The effect of imperfect photodetection in post-selection is considered and a simple trade-off between success probability and fidelity is derived.

id: quant-ph/0606003
title: Indirect decoherence in optical lattices and cold gases
authors: Daniel Braun
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: Eur. Phys. J D 42, 103 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606003
abstract: The interaction of two--level atoms with a common heat bath leads to an effective interaction between the atoms, such that with time the internal degrees of the atoms become correlated or even entangled. If part of the atoms remain unobserved this creates additional indirect decoherence for the selected atoms, on top of the direct decoherence due to the interaction with the heat bath. I show that indirect decoherence can drastically increase and even dominate the decoherence for sufficiently large times. I investigate indirect decoherence through thermal black body radiation quantitatively for atoms trapped at regular positions in an optical lattice as well as for atoms at random positions in a cold gas, and show how indirect coherence can be controlled or even suppressed through experimentally accessible parameters.

id: quant-ph/0606004
title: Noise-Free Measurement of Harmonic Oscillators with Instantaneous Interactions
authors: M. Franca Santos, G. Giedke, E. Solano
comments: 4 pages, no figure, published in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 020401 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606004
abstract: We present a method of measuring the quantum state of a harmonic oscillator through instantaneous probe-system selective interactions of the Jaynes-Cummings type. We prove that this scheme is robust to general decoherence mechanisms, allowing the possibility of measuring fast-decaying systems in the weak-coupling regime. This method could be applied to different setups: motional states of trapped ions, microwave fields in cavity/circuit QED, and even intra-cavity optical fields.

id: quant-ph/0606005
title: Permutation and Its Partial Transpose
authors: Yong Zhang, Louis H. Kauffman, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: 42 pages, 22 figures, latex
journal: Int.J.Quant.Inf.5:469-507,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606005
abstract: Permutation and its partial transpose play important roles in quantum information theory. The Werner state is recognized as a rational solution of the Yang--Baxter equation, and the isotropic state with an adjustable parameter is found to form a braid representation. The set of permutation's partial transposes is an algebra called the "PPT" algebra which guides the construction of multipartite symmetric states. The virtual knot theory having permutation as a virtual crossing provides a topological language describing quantum computation having permutation as a swap gate. In this paper, permutation's partial transpose is identified with an idempotent of the Temperley--Lieb algebra. The algebra generated by permutation and its partial transpose is found to be the Brauer algebra. The linear combinations of identity, permutation and its partial transpose can form various projectors describing tangles; braid representations; virtual braid representations underlying common solutions of the braid relation and Yang--Baxter equations; and virtual Temperley--Lieb algebra which is articulated from the graphical viewpoint. They lead to our drawing a picture called the "ABPK" diagram describing knot theory in terms of its corresponding algebra, braid group and polynomial invariant. The paper also identifies nontrivial unitary braid representations with universal quantum gates, and derives a Hamiltonian to determine the evolution of a universal quantum gate, and further computes the Markov trace in terms of a universal quantum gate for a link invariant to detect linking numbers.

id: quant-ph/0606006
title: Scattering by PT-symmetric non-local potentials
authors: Francesco Cannata, Alberto Ventura
comments: 11 pages
journal: Czech. J. Phys. 56, 943 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606006
abstract: A general formalism is worked out for the description of one-dimensional scattering by non-local separable potentials and constraints on transmission and reflection coefficients are derived in the cases of P, T, or PT invariance of the Hamiltonian. The case of a solvable Yamaguchi potential is discussed in detail.

id: quant-ph/0606007
title: Deterministic secure quantum communication without maximally entangled states
authors: Xi-Han Li, Fu-Guo Deng, Chun-Yan Li, Yu-Jie Liang, Ping Zhou, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 6 pages, no figure
journal: Journal of the Korean Physical Society 49 (2006) 1354-1359
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606007
abstract: Two deterministic secure quantum communication schemes are proposed, one based on pure entangled states and the other on $d$-dimensional single-photon states. In these two schemes, only single-photon measurements are required for the two authorized users, which makes the schemes more convenient than others in practical applications. Although each qubit can be read out after a transmission of additional classical bit, it is unnecessary for the users to transmit qubits double the distance between the sender and the receiver, which will increase their bit rate and their security. The parties use decoy photons to check eavesdropping efficiently. The obvious advantage in the first scheme is that the pure entangled source is feasible with present techniques.

id: quant-ph/0606008
title: Economical Quantum Secure Direct Communication Network with Single Photons
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Xi-Han Li, Chun-Yan Li, Ping Zhou, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Chinese Physics 16 (12), 3553-3559 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606008
abstract: A scheme for quantum secure direct communication (QSDC) network is proposed with a sequence of polarized single photons. The single photons are prepared originally in the same state |0> by the servers on the network, which will reduce the difficulty for the legitimate users to check eavesdropping largely. The users code the information on the single photons with two unitary operations which do not change their measuring bases. Some decoy photons, which are produced by operating the sample photons with a Hadamard, are used for preventing a potentially dishonest server from eavesdropping the quantum lines freely. This scheme is an economical one as it is the easiest way for QSDC network communication securely.

id: quant-ph/0606009
title: Untouched aspects of the wave mechanics of a particle in one dimensional box
authors: Yatendra S. Jain
comments: 8 pages no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606009
abstract: Wave mechanics of a particle in 1-D box (size $= d$) is critically analyzed to reveal its untouched aspects. When the particle rests in its ground state, its zero-point force ($F_o$) produces non-zero strain by modifying the box size from $d$ to $d' = d + \Delta d$ in all practical situations where the force ($F_a$) restoring $d$ is not infinitely strong. Assuming that $F_a$ originates from a potential $\propto x^2$ ($x$ being a small change in $d$), we find that: (i) the particle and strained box assume a mutually bound state (under the equilibrium between $F_o$ and $F_a$) with binding energy $\Delta{E} = -\epsilon_o'\Delta{d}/d'$ (with $\epsilon_o' = h^2/8md'^2$ being the ground state energy of the particle in the strained box), (ii) the box size oscillates around $d'$ when the said equilibrium is disturbed, (iii) an exchange of energy between the particle and the strained box occurs during such oscillations, and (iv) the particle, having collisional motion in its excited states, assumes collisionless motion in its ground state. These aspects have desired experimental support and proven relevance for understanding the physics of widely different systems such as quantum dots, quantum wires, trapped single particle/ion, clusters of particles, superconductors, superfluids, {\it etc.} It is emphasized that the physics of such a system in its low energy states can be truly revealed if the theory incorporates $F_o$ and related aspects.

id: quant-ph/0606010
title: Generation of polarization entangled photon pairs by a single crystal interferometric source pumped by femtosecond laser pulses
authors: M. Barbieri, C. Cinelli, F. De Martini, P. Mataloni
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606010
abstract: Photon pairs, highly entangled in polarization have been generated under femtosecond laser pulse excitation by a type I crystal source, operating in a single arm interferometric scheme. The relevant effects of temporal walk-off existing in these conditions between the ordinary and extraordinary photons were experimentally investigated. By introducing a suitable temporal compensation between the two orthogonal polarization components highly entangled pulsed states were obtained.

id: quant-ph/0606011
title: Dynamical Entanglement in Non-Relativistic, Elastic Scattering
authors: N. L. Harshman
comments: 4 pages, no figs., submission to conf. proc. of Quantum 2006, III Workshop ad memoriam of Carlo Novero
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 5 (2007) 273-278
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606011
abstract: This article considers dynamical entanglement in non-relativistic particle scattering. Three questions are explored: what kinds of entanglement occur in this system, how do global symmetries constrain entanglement, and how do the boundary conditions of scattering affect dynamical entanglement? First, a simple model of scattering spin systems is considered, then the full system is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0606012
title: PT-symmetric quartic anharmonic oscillator and position-dependent mass in a perturbative approach
authors: B. Bagchi, A. Banerjee, C. Quesne
comments: 8 pages, no figure, to appear in special issue of Czech. J. Phys
journal: Czech.J.Phys.56:893-898,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606012
abstract: To lowest order of perturbation theory we show that an equivalence can be established between a $\cal PT$-symmetric generalized quartic anharmonic oscillator model and a Hermitian position-dependent mass Hamiltonian $h$. An important feature of $h$ is that it reveals a domain of couplings where the quartic potential could be attractive, vanishing or repulsive. We also determine the associated physical quantities.

id: quant-ph/0606013
title: Collective coherent population trapping in a thermal field
authors: M. Macovei, Z. Ficek, C. H. Keitel
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 063821 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606013
abstract: We analyzed the efficiency of coherent population trapping (CPT) in a superposition of the ground states of three-level atoms under the influence of the decoherence process induced by a broadband thermal field. We showed that in a single atom there is no perfect CPT when the atomic transitions are affected by the thermal field. The perfect CPT may occur when only one of the two atomic transitions is affected by the thermal field. In the case when both atomic transitions are affected by the thermal field, we demonstrated that regardless of the intensity of the thermal field the destructive effect on the CPT can be circumvented by the collective behavior of the atoms. An analytic expression was obtained for the populations of the upper atomic levels which can be considered as a measure of the level of thermal decoherence. The results show that the collective interaction between the atoms can significantly enhance the population trapping in that the population of the upper state decreases with increased number of atoms. The physical origin of this feature was explained by the semiclassical dressed atom model of the system. We introduced the concept of multiatom collective coherent population trapping by demonstrating the existence of collective (entangled) states whose storage capacity is larger than that of the equivalent states of independent atoms.

id: quant-ph/0606014
title: How `hot' are mixed quantum states?
authors: George Parfionov, Roman R. Zapatrin
comments: Contribution to Quantum 2006: III workshop ad memoriam of Carlo Novero: Advances in Foundations of Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Information with atoms and photons. 2-5 May 2006 - Turin, Italy
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI), Volume: 5, 311-317 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606014
abstract: Given a mixed quantum state $\rho$ of a qudit, we consider any observable $M$ as a kind of `thermometer' in the following sense. Given a source which emits pure states with these or those distributions, we select such distributions that the appropriate average value of the observable $M$ is equal to the average Tr$M\rho$ of $M$ in the stare $\rho$. Among those distributions we find the most typical one, namely, having the highest differential entropy. We call this distribution conditional Gibbs ensemble as it turns out to be a Gibbs distribution characterized by a temperature-like parameter $\beta$. The expressions establishing the liaisons between the density operator $\rho$ and its temperature parameter $\beta$ are provided. Within this approach, the uniform mixed state has the highest `temperature', which tends to zero as the state in question approaches to a pure state.

id: quant-ph/0606015
title: Majorization in Quantum Adiabatic Algorithms
authors: Zhaohui Wei, Zhengfeng Ji, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 7 pages;1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042320(2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606015
abstract: The majorization theory has been applied to analyze the mathematical structure of quantum algorithms. An empirical conclusion by numerical simulations obtained in the previous literature indicates that step-by-step majorization seems to appear universally in quantum adiabatic algorithms. In this paper, a rigorous analysis of the majorization arrow in a special class of quantum adiabatic algorithms is carried out. In particular, we prove that for any adiabatic algorithm of this class, step-by-step majorization of the ground state holds exactly. For the actual state, we show that step-by-step majorization holds approximately, and furthermore that the longer the running time of the algorithm, the better the approximation.

id: quant-ph/0606016
title: Decoherence in quantum walks - a review
authors: Viv Kendon
comments: 52 pages, invited review, v2 & v3 updates to include significant work since first posted and corrections from comments received; some non-trivial typos fixed. Comments now limited to changes that can be applied at proof stage
journal: Math. Struct. in Comp. Sci 17(6) pp 1169-1220 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606016
abstract: The development of quantum walks in the context of quantum computation, as generalisations of random walk techniques, led rapidly to several new quantum algorithms. These all follow unitary quantum evolution, apart from the final measurement. Since logical qubits in a quantum computer must be protected from decoherence by error correction, there is no need to consider decoherence at the level of algorithms. Nonetheless, enlarging the range of quantum dynamics to include non-unitary evolution provides a wider range of possibilities for tuning the properties of quantum walks. For example, small amounts of decoherence in a quantum walk on the line can produce more uniform spreading (a top-hat distribution), without losing the quantum speed up. This paper reviews the work on decoherence, and more generally on non-unitary evolution, in quantum walks and suggests what future questions might prove interesting to pursue in this area.

id: quant-ph/0606017
title: Can measuring entanglement be easy?
authors: S.J. van Enk
comments: No
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606017
abstract: I raise some doubts concerning a protocol recently applied in an experiment (Walborn et al, Nature) to measure entanglement. The protocol is much simpler than other known entanglement-verification methods, but, I argue, needs assumptions (namely that the state generated is known and pure) that are too strong to be allowed and that are not justified in most experiments. An extension of the protocol suggested in quant-ph/0605250 is much harder to implement and still relies on assumptions not justified in entanglement-verification protocols, as demonstrated by an explicit example.

id: quant-ph/0606018
title: Transfer of trapped atoms between two optical tweezer potentials
authors: Matthias Schulz, Herbert Crepaz, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler, Juergen Eschner, Rainer Blatt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606018
abstract: Trapped, laser-cooled rubidium atoms are transferred between two strongly focused, horizontal, orthogonally intersecting laser beams. The transfer efficiency is studied as a function of the vertical distance between the beam axes. Optimum transfer is found when the distance equals the beam waist radius. Numerical simulations reproduce well the experimental results.

id: quant-ph/0606019
title: Control and Representation of n-qubit Quantum Systems
authors: W. E. Baylis, R. Cabrera, C. Rangan
comments: 4 pages, no figures, revision corrects a couple of minor errors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606019
abstract: Just as any state of a single qubit or 2-level system can be obtained from any other state by a rotation operator parametrized by three real Euler angles, we show how any state of an n-qubit or 2^n-level system can be obtained from any other by a compact unitary transformation with 2^(n+1)-1 real angles, 2^n of which are azimuthal-like and the rest polar-like. The results follow from a modeling of the Hilbert space of n-qubits by a minimal left ideal of an associative algebra. This representation is expected to be useful in the design of new compact control techniques or more efficient algorithms in quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0606020
title: Resonance asymptotics in the generalized Winter model
authors: Pavel Exner, Martin Fraas
comments: LaTeX, 10 pages with one figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A360 (2006), 57-61
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606020
abstract: We consider a modification of the Winter model describing a quantum particle in presence of a spherical barrier given by a fixed generalized point interaction. It is shown that the three classes of such interactions correspond to three different types of asymptotic behaviour of resonances of the model at high energies.

id: quant-ph/0606021
title: Multiparty Quantum Secret Report
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Xi-Han Li, Chun-Yan Li, Ping Zhou, Yu-Jie Liang, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: Chinese Physics Letters 23, 1676 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606021
abstract: A multiparty quantum secret report scheme is proposed with quantum encryption. The boss Alice and her $M$ agents first share a sequence of ($M$+1)-particle Greenberger--Horne--Zeilinger (GHZ) states that only Alice knows which state each ($M$+1)-particle quantum system is in. Each agent exploits a controlled-not (CNot) gate to encrypt the travelling particle by using the particle in the GHZ state as the control qubit. The boss Alice decrypts the travelling particle with a CNot gate after performing a $\sigma_x$ operation on her particle in the GHZ state or not. After the GHZ states (the quantum key) are used up, the parties check whether there is a vicious eavesdropper, say Eve, monitoring the quantum line, by picking out some samples from the GHZ states shared and measure them with two measuring bases. After confirming the security of the quantum key, they use the GHZ states remained repeatedly for next round of quantum communication. This scheme has the advantage of high intrinsic efficiency for qubits and the total efficiency.

id: quant-ph/0606022
title: Quantum Dynamics as an analog of Conditional Probability
authors: M. S. Leifer
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures. v2 Presentation greatly improved, references updated and typos fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042310 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606022
abstract: Quantum theory can be regarded as a non-commutative generalization of classical probability. From this point of view, one expects quantum dynamics to be analogous to classical conditional probabilities. In this paper, a variant of the well-known isomorphism between completely positive maps and bipartite density operators is derived, which makes this connection much more explicit. The new isomorphism is given an operational interpretation in terms of statistical correlations between ensemble preparation procedures and outcomes of measurements. Finally, the isomorphism is applied to elucidate the connection between no-cloning/no-broadcasting theorems and the monogamy of entanglement, and a simplified proof of the no-broadcasting theorem is obtained as a byproduct.

id: quant-ph/0606023
title: Lower bounds for the fidelity of entangled state preparation
authors: R. D. Somma, J. Chiaverini, D. J. Berkeland
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. Added discussion about rotational-invariant states
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606023
abstract: Estimating the fidelity of state preparation in multi-qubit systems is generally a time-consuming task. Nevertheless, this complexity can be reduced if the desired state can be characterized by certain symmetries measurable with the corresponding experimental setup. In this paper we give simple expressions to estimate the fidelity of multi-qubit state preparation for rotational-invariant, stabilizer, and generalized coherent states. We specifically discuss the cat, W-type, and generalized coherent states, and obtain efficiently measurable lower bounds for the fidelity. We use these techniques to estimate the fidelity of a quantum simulation of an Ising-like interacting model using two trapped ions. These results are directly applicable to experiments using fidelity-based entanglement witnesses, such as quantum simulations and quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0606024
title: Quantum to classical transition in a system with a mixed classical dynamics
authors: Fabricio Toscano, Diego A. Wisniacki
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 74 056208 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606024
abstract: We study how decoherence rules the quantum-classical transition of the Kicked Harmonic Oscillator (KHO). When the amplitude of the kick is changed the system presents a classical dynamics that range from regular to a strong chaotic behavior. We show that for regular and mixed classical dynamics, and in the presence of noise, the distance between the classical and the quantum phase space distributions is proportional to a single parameter $\chi\equiv K\hbar_{\rm eff}^2/4D^{3/2}$ which relates the effective Planck constant $\hbar_{\rm eff}$, the kick amplitude $K$ and the diffusion constant $D$. This is valid when $\chi < 1$, a case that is always attainable in the semiclassical regime independently of the value of the strength of noise given by $D$. Our results extend a recent study performed in the chaotic regime.

id: quant-ph/0606025
title: Sending Sensitive Messages in Quantum Packages
authors: Paul A. Lopata, Thomas B. Bahder
comments: 4 pages, 2 tables, and no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606025
abstract: A communication protocol is introduced that allows the receiver of a message to place an a posteriori bound on the amount of information that an eavesdropper could have obtained during transmission of that message. This quantum cryptographic protocol is distinct from quantum key distribution. The quantum states and measurements required by this protocol are simple enough that it can be implemented using existing technology.

id: quant-ph/0606026
title: Non-Gaussian states for continuous variable quantum computation via Gaussian maps
authors: Shohini Ghose, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 54, 855 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606026
abstract: We investigate non-Gaussian states of light as ancillary inputs for generating nonlinear transformations required for quantum computing with continuous variables. We consider a recent proposal for preparing a cubic phase state, find the exact form of the prepared state and perform a detailed comparison to the ideal cubic phase state. We thereby identify the main challenges to preparing an ideal cubic phase state and describe the gates implemented with the non-ideal prepared state. We also find the general form of operations that can be implemented with ancilla Fock states, together with Gaussian input states, linear optics and squeezing transformations, and homodyne detection with feed forward, and discuss the feasibility of continuous variable quantum computing using ancilla Fock states.

id: quant-ph/0606027
title: Scattering theory with a natural regularization: Rediscovering the J-matrix method
authors: A. D. Alhaidari, H. Bahlouli, M. S. Abdelmonem, F. S. Al-Ameen, T. H. Al-Abdulaal
comments: 10 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 364.5 (2007) 372--377
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606027
abstract: In three dimensional scattering, the energy continuum wavefunction is obtained by utilizing two independent solutions of the reference wave equation. One of them is typically singular (usually, near the origin of configuration space). Both are asymptotically regular and sinusoidal with a phase difference (shift) that contains information about the scattering potential. Therefore, both solutions are essential for scattering calculations. Various regularization techniques were developed to handle the singular solution leading to different well-established scattering methods. To simplify the calculation the regularized solutions are usually constructed in a space that diagonalizes the reference Hamiltonian. In this work, we start by proposing solutions that are already regular. We write them as infinite series of square integrable basis functions that are compatible with the domain of the reference Hamiltonian. However, we relax the diagonal constraint on the representation by requiring that the basis supports an infinite tridiagonal matrix representation of the wave operator. The hope is that by relaxing this constraint on the solution space a larger freedom is achieved in regularization such that a natural choice emerges as a result. We find that one of the resulting two independent wavefunctions is, in fact, the regular solution of the reference problem. The other is uniquely regularized in the sense that it solves the reference wave equation only outside a dense region covering the singularity in configuration space. However, asymptotically it is identical to the irregular solution. We show that this natural and special regularization is equivalent to that already used in the J-matrix method of scattering.

id: quant-ph/0606028
title: Quantum Interpretations
authors: A.R.P.Rau
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606028
abstract: Difficulties and discomfort with the interpretation of quantum mechanics are due to differences in language between it and classical physics. Analogies to The Special Theory of Relativity, which also required changes in the basic worldview and language of non-relativistic classical mechanics, may help in absorbing the changes called for by quantum physics. There is no need to invoke extravagances such as the many worlds interpretation or specify a central role for consciousness or neural microstructures. The simple, but basic, acceptance that what is meant by the state of a physical system is different in quantum physics from what it is in classical physics goes a long way in explaining its seeming peculiarities.

id: quant-ph/0606029
title: Dynamic generation of entangling wave packets in XY spin system with decaying long range couplings
authors: S. Yang, Z. Song, C.P. Sun
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Sci. China Ser. G 51, 45 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606029
abstract: We study the dynamic generation of spin entanglement between two distant sites in an XY model with $1/r^{2}$-decay long range couplings. Due to the linear dispersion relation $\epsilon (k)\sim |k|$ of magnons in such model, we show that a well-located spin state can be dynamically split into two moving entangled local wave packets without changing their shapes. Interestingly, when such two wave packets meet at the diametrically opposite site after the fast period $\tau =\pi $, the initial well-located state can be recurrent completely. Numerical calculation is performed to confirm the analytical result even the ring system of sizes $N$ up to several thousands are considered. The truncation approximation for the coupling strengths is also studied. Numerical simulation shows that the above conclusions still hold even the range of the coupling strength is truncated at a relative shorter scale comparing to the size of the spin system.

id: quant-ph/0606030
title: Group Covariant Protocols for Quantum String Commitment
authors: Toyohiro Tsurumaru
comments: 5 pages, no figure, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 74, 042307 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606030
abstract: We study the security of quantum string commitment (QSC) protocols with group covariant encoding scheme. First we consider a class of QSC protocol, which is general enough to incorporate all the QSC protocols given in the preceding literatures. Then among those protocols, we consider group covariant protocols and show that the exact upperbound on the binding condition can be calculated. Next using this result, we prove that for every irreducible representation of a finite group, there always exists a corresponding nontrivial QSC protocol which reaches a level of security impossible to achieve classically.

id: quant-ph/0606031
title: Photon Spin, Zero-point Energy and Black-body radiation
authors: S. C. Tiwari
comments: Submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606031
abstract: A critical review of the obscure nature of the contribution of spin energy to the energy of the electromagnetic field is presented. It is proposed that the total energy of photon h\nu comprises of kinetic and spin parts each equal to h\nu/2. Classical magnetic field is reinterpreted as angular momentum flux of photon fluid. The black-body radiation law is revisited in the light of new significance of the zero-point energy proposed here.

id: quant-ph/0606032
title: Quantum Mechanics: 44 Admissible Questions? -Not only Fapp-
authors: Michele Caponigro, Helen Lynn
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606032
abstract: The words: determinism, hidden variables, subjectivism, information, objectivism, informational-theoretic axioms,observers have some connection with physical reality? What we mean with "description" of physical reality? When we say that we understand this reality? Certain parameters:position, velocity are sufficient? We will focus only to conceptual considerations regarding the relation between the "questions" and the relative "answers" in general and specifically in quantum mechanics. It is usually believed that the answers are more important of the questions, for this reason we can read many answers everywhere and in different field of knowledge. We need to add and clarify some things: (i) usually an answers require a question, (ii) but, as we know, their relation is not so simple and immediate, (iii) For instance: a)an epistemic questions give us ontic answers? b)the answer has a connection with the question and vice versa? c)we could to infer a question starting from an answer? d)there are answers without questions? These answers could be in some framework considered as ontic answers? The relative scientific works are the same time ontic? Speaking of quantum mechanics we see around many answers in the meantime we do not see the correspondent questions, these answers seem completely independent, and this seem a right road, the road of the independent nature unlinked from human thoughts. We retain instead that questions can affect the possible answers. Exist "something" before the question?

id: quant-ph/0606033
title: Observation of Strong Coupling between One Atom and a Monolithic Microresonator
authors: Takao Aoki, Barak Dayan, E. Wilcut, W. P. Bowen, A. S. Parkins, H. J. Kimble, T. J. Kippenberg, K. J. Vahala
comments: 
journal: Nature 443, 671 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606033
abstract: Over the past decade, strong interactions of light and matter at the single-photon level have enabled a wide set of scientific advances in quantum optics and quantum information science. This work has been performed principally within the setting of cavity quantum electrodynamics with diverse physical systems, including single atoms in Fabry-Perot resonators, quantum dots coupled to micropillars and photonic bandgap cavities, and Cooper-pairs interacting with superconducting resonators. Experiments with single, localized atoms have been at the forefront of these advances with the use of optical resonators in high-finesse Fabry-Perot configurations. As a result of the extreme technical challenges involved in further improving the multilayer dielectric mirror coatings of these resonators and in scaling to large numbers of devices, there has been increased interest in the development of alternative microcavity systems. Here we show strong coupling between individual Cesium atoms and the fields of a high-quality toroidal microresonator. From observations of transit events for single atoms falling through the resonator's evanescent field, we determine the coherent coupling rate for interactions near the surface of the resonator. We develop a theoretical model to quantify our observations, demonstrating that strong coupling is achieved, with the rate of coherent coupling exceeding the dissipative rates of the atom and the cavity. Our work opens the way for investigations of optical processes with single atoms and photons in lithographically fabricated microresonators. Applications include the implementation of quantum networks, scalable quantum logic with photons, and quantum information processing on atom chips.

id: quant-ph/0606034
title: Improving the security of quantum exam against cheating
authors: Fei Gao, Qiao-Yan Wen, Fu-Chen Zhu
comments: 6 pages, no figure; Submitted to Phys. Lett. A on March 10,2006
journal: Phys. Lett. A 360 (2007) 748-750, with the changed title "Comment on: "Quantum exam" [Phys. Lett. A 350 (2006) 174]"
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606034
abstract: The security of quantum exam [Phys. Lett. A 350 (2006) 174] is analyzed and it is found that this protocol is secure for any eavesdropper except for the "students" who take part in the exam. Specifically, any student can steal other examinees' solutions and then cheat in the exam. Furthermore, a possible improvement of this protocol is presented.

id: quant-ph/0606035
title: Optimum Quantum Error Recovery using Semidefinite Programming
authors: Andrew S. Fletcher, Peter W. Shor, Moe Z. Win
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606035
abstract: Quantum error correction (QEC) is an essential element of physical quantum information processing systems. Most QEC efforts focus on extending classical error correction schemes to the quantum regime. The input to a noisy system is embedded in a coded subspace, and error recovery is performed via an operation designed to perfectly correct for a set of errors, presumably a large subset of the physical noise process. In this paper, we examine the choice of recovery operation. Rather than seeking perfect correction on a subset of errors, we seek a recovery operation to maximize the entanglement fidelity for a given input state and noise model. In this way, the recovery operation is optimum for the given encoding and noise process. This optimization is shown to be calculable via a semidefinite program (SDP), a well-established form of convex optimization with efficient algorithms for its solution. The error recovery operation may also be interpreted as a combining operation following a quantum spreading channel, thus providing a quantum analogy to the classical diversity combining operation.

id: quant-ph/0606036
title: Geometric phases in open systems: an exact model to study how they are corrected by decoherence
authors: Fernando C. Lombardo, Paula I. Villar
comments: Revtex 4, 5 pages, one eps figure. Version Published
journal: Physical Review A 74, 042311 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606036
abstract: We calculate the geometric phase for an open system (spin-boson model) which interacts with an environment (ohmic or nonohmic) at arbitrary temperature. However there have been many assumptions about the time scale at which the geometric phase can be measured, there has been no reported observation yet for mixed states under nonunitary evolution. We study not only how they are corrected by the presence of the different type of environments but also estimate the corresponding times at which decoherence becomes effective. These estimations should be taken into account when planning experimental setups to study the geometric phase in the nonunitary regime, particularly important for the application of fault-tolerant quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0606037
title: Spinor Dynamics-Driven Formation of a Dual-Beam Atom Laser
authors: N. Lundblad, R. J. Thompson, D. C. Aveline, L. Maleki
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express 14,10164 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606037
abstract: We demonstrate a novel dual-beam atom laser formed by outcoupling oppositely polarized components of an F=1 spinor Bose-Einstein condensate whose Zeeman sublevel populations have been coherently evolved through spin dynamics. The condensate is formed through all-optical means using a single-beam running-wave dipole trap. We create a condensate in the field-insensitive $m_F=0$ state, and drive coherent spin-mixing evolution through adiabatic compression of the initially weak trap. Such dual beams, number-correlated through the angular momentum-conserving reaction $2m_0\leftrightharpoons m_{+1}+m_{-1}$, have been proposed as tools to explore entanglement and squeezing in Bose-Einstein condensates, and have potential use in precision phase measurements.

id: quant-ph/0606038
title: Remarks on an attempted axiomatisation of Quantum Mechanics, due to Lucien Hardy, and Ten Theses on Hilbert's Sixth Problem and Quantum Measurement
authors: Joseph F. Johnson
comments: see this http URL and this http URL for larger context and further references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606038
abstract: From the standpoint of Hilbert's Sixth Problem, which is the axiomatisation of Physics, the famous paper of Lucien Hardy's, Quantum Theory from Five Reasonable Axioms, is not relevant. The present paper argues that Hardy does not give a physical definition of `limit', and if we assume the usual mathematical definition of limit of a sequence, he fails to define a sequence in physical terms to which the usual definition is applicable. We argue that one should not, in fact, try to define probability in terms of the usual notion of limit of a sequence of results of a measurement because of seemingly insurmountable difficulties in axiomatising the notion of function or sequence in this context. Von Plato's and the authour's work (see http:arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0502124 and euclid.unh.edu/~jjohnson/axiomatics.html for larger context and further references) on the definition of physical probability needs to be used in this context. We conclude with ten theses on quantum measurement, from the standpoint of the Hilbert problem.

id: quant-ph/0606039
title: Degree of entanglement for qubit-qutrit state
authors: Safa Jami, Mohsen Sarbishei
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606039
abstract: In this paper we consider a system consist of a qubit and a qutrit, and find a formula to evaluate the concurrence for it. We show that entanglement of formation for this system obeys the same relation as for two-qubits.

id: quant-ph/0606040
title: On the additivity conjecture for the Weyl channels being covariant with respect to the maximum commutative group of unitaries
authors: Grigori Amosov
comments: 3 pages, a completely revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606040
abstract: Some new examples of quantum channels for which the infimum of the output entropy is additive under taking a tensor product of channels are given.

id: quant-ph/0606041
title: Measuring the absolute photo detection efficiency using photon number correlations
authors: Michael Lindenthal, Johannes Kofler
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, journal reference added
journal: Appl. Opt. 45, 6059 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606041
abstract: We present two methods for determining the absolute detection efficiency of photon-counting detectors directly from their singles rates under illumination from a nonclassical light source. One method is based on a continuous variable analogue to coincidence counting in discrete photon experiments, but does not actually rely on high detector time resolutions. The second method is based on difference detection which is a typical detection scheme in continuous variable quantum optics experiments. Since no coincidence detection is required with either method, they are useful for detection efficiency measurements of photo detectors with detector time resolutions far too low to resolve coincidence events.

id: quant-ph/0606042
title: Biased tomography schemes: an objective approach
authors: Z. Hradil, D. Mogilevtsev, J. Rehacek
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, accepted in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606042
abstract: We report on an intrinsic relationship between the maximum-likelihood quantum-state estimation and the representation of the signal. A quantum analogy of the transfer function determines the space where the reconstruction should be done without the need for any ad hoc truncations of the Hilbert space. An illustration of this method is provided by a simple yet practically important tomography of an optical signal registered by realistic binary detectors.

id: quant-ph/0606043
title: The Aladin2 experiment: sensitivity study
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte, Detlef Born, Enrico Calloni, Giampiero Esposito, Uwe Hubner, Evgeni Il'ichev, Luigi Rosa, Ornella Scaldaferri, Francesco Tafuri, Ruggero Vaglio
comments: 4 pages, Latex macros, 10th Conference on Frontier Detectors for Frontier Physics, Isola D'Elba, 21-27 May 2006
journal: Nucl.Instrum.Meth.A572:515-517,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606043
abstract: Aladin2 is an experiment devoted to the first measurement of variations of Casimir energy in a rigid body. The main short-term scientific motivation relies on the possibility of the first demonstration of a phase transition influenced by vacuum fluctuations while, in the long term and in the mainframe of the cosmological constant problem, it can be regarded as the first step towards a measurement of the weight of vacuum energy. In this paper, after a presentation of the guiding principle of the measurement, the experimental apparatus and sensitivity studies on final cavities will be presented.

id: quant-ph/0606044
title: Electromagnetically induced coherent backscattering
authors: Yuri V. Rostovtsev, Zoe-Elizabeth Sariyanni, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606044
abstract: We demonstrate a strong coherent backward wave oscillation using forward propagating fields only. This is achieved by applying laser fields to an ultra-dispersive medium with proper chosen detunings to excite a molecular vibrational coherence that corresponds to a backward propagating wave. The physics then has much in common with propagation of ultra-slow light. Applications to coherent scattering and remote sensing are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0606045
title: Quantum Games Entropy
authors: Esteban Guevara
comments: 6 pages
journal: Physica A 383/2, 797-804 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606045
abstract: We propose the study of quantum games from the point of view of quantum information theory and statistical mechanics. Every game can be described by a density operator, the von Neumann entropy and the quantum replicator dynamics. There exists a strong relationship between game theories, information theories and statistical physics. The density operator and entropy are the bonds between these theories. The analysis we propose is based on the properties of entropy, the amount of information that a player can obtain about his opponent and a maximum or minimum entropy criterion. The natural trend of a physical system is to its maximum entropy state. The minimum entropy state is a characteristic of a manipulated system i.e. externally controlled or imposed. There exist tacit rules inside a system that do not need to be specified or clarified and search the system equilibrium under the collective welfare principle. The other rules are imposed over the system when one or many of its members violate this principle and maximize its individual welfare at the expense of the group.

id: quant-ph/0606046
title: On the reconstruction of diagonal elements of density matrix of quantum optical states by on/off detectors
authors: G. Brida, M. Genovese, M. Gramegna, M. G. A. Paris, E. Predazzi, E. Cagliero
comments: 10 pages, presented at Palermo "TQMFA2005" Conference. To appear on "Open Systems & Information Dynamics" (2006)
journal: Open Syst & Inf Dyn 13 (2006) 333
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606046
abstract: We discuss a scheme for reconstructing experimentally the diagonal elements of the density matrix of quantum optical states. Applications to PDC heralded photons, multi-thermal and attenuated coherent states are illustrated and discussed in some details.

id: quant-ph/0606047
title: Preparation of atomic velocities by bound-state to resonance conversion
authors: F. Delgado, A. Ruschhaupt, J. G. Muga
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606047
abstract: A procedure is proposed to control the average and width of the velocity distribution of ultra-cold atoms. The atoms are set initially in a bound state of an optical trap formed by an inner red detuned laser and an outer blue detuned laser. The bound state is later converted into a resonance by a suitable change of the laser intensities. An optimal time dependence of the switching process, between the sudden and adiabatic limits, adjusts the final translational energies to the Lorentzian shape of the resonance state.

id: quant-ph/0606048
title: Branching ratio measurement of a "Lambda" system in Tm3+:YAG under magnetic field
authors: Anne Louchet, Jamil S. Habib, Vincent Crozatier, Ivan Lorger, Fabienne Goldfarb, Fabien Bretenaker, Jean-Louis Le Gou?t, Olivier Guillot-No?l, Philippe Goldner
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 035131 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606048
abstract: A three-level Lambda system in Tm3+ doped YAG crystal is experimentally investigated in the prospect of quantum information processing. Zeeman effect is used to lift the nuclear spin degeneracy of this ion. In a previous paper [de Seze et al. Phys. Rev. B, 73, 85112 (2006) we measured the gyromagnetic tensor components and concluded that adequate magnetic field orientation could optimize the optical connection of both ground state sublevels to each one of the excited state sublevels, thus generating Lambda systems. Here we report on the direct measurement of the transition probability ratio along the two legs of the Lambda. Measurement techniques combine frequency selective optical pumping with optical nutation or photon echo processes.

id: quant-ph/0606049
title: Full security of quantum key distribution from no-signaling constraints
authors: Ll. Masanes, R. Renner, M. Christandl, A. Winter, J. Barrett
comments: 15 pages, 2 figure
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Volume 60, Issue 8, pages 4973-4986, year 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606049
abstract: We analyze a cryptographic protocol for generating a distributed secret key from correlations that violate a Bell inequality by a sufficient amount, and prove its security against eavesdroppers, constrained only by the assumption that any information accessible to them must be compatible with the non-signaling principle. The claim holds with respect to the state-of-the-art security definition used in cryptography, known as universally-composable security. The non-signaling assumption only refers to the statistics of measurement outcomes depending on the choices of measurements; hence security is independent of the internal workings of the devices --- they do not even need to follow the laws of quantum theory. This is relevant for practice as a correct and complete modeling of realistic devices is generally impossible. The techniques developed are general and can be applied to other Bell inequality-based protocols. In particular, we provide a scheme for estimating Bell-inequality violations when the samples are not independent and identically distributed.

id: quant-ph/0606050
title: Connecting the discrete and continuous-time quantum walks
authors: Frederick W. Strauch
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 030301 (R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606050
abstract: Recently, quantized versions of random walks have been explored as effective elements for quantum algorithms. In the simplest case of one dimension, the theory has remained divided into the discrete-time quantum walk and the continuous-time quantum walk. Though the properties of these two walks have shown similarities, it has remained an open problem to find the exact relation between the two. The precise connection of these two processes, both quantally and classically, is presented. Extension to higher dimensions is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0606051
title: Tightly Localized Stationary Pulses in Multi-Level Atomic System
authors: Xiong-Jun Liu, Xin Liu, Zheng-Xin Liu, L. C. Kwek, C. H. Oh
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; final version (Fig.3 is revised); to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 023809 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606051
abstract: We show the pulse matching phenomenon can be obtained in the general multi-level system with electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). For this we find a novel way to create tightly localized stationary pulses by using counter-propagating pump fields. The present process is a spatial compression of excitation so that it allows us to shape and further intensify the localized stationary pulses, without using standing waves of pump fields or spatially modulated pump fields.

id: quant-ph/0606052
title: Multiple scattering and electron-uracil collisions at low energies
authors: Sergey Yalunin, Sergey B. Leble
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606052
abstract: Links between two well known methods: methods of zero-range and non-overlapped (muffin-tin) potentials are discussed. Some difficulties of the method of zero-range potentials and its possible elimination are discussed. We argue that such advanced method of ZRP potential can be applied to realistic electron-molecular processes. The method reduces electron-molecule scattering to generalized eigenvalue problem for hermitian matrices and admit fast numerical scheme. A noteworthy feature of the method is direct possibility to calculate the wave functions (partial waves). The theory is applied to electron-uracil scattering. Partial phases and cross-sections at low energies are evaluated and plotted.

id: quant-ph/0606053
title: Vanishing environment-induced decoherence
authors: Yong-Cheng Ou, Heng Fan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: J.Phys.A-Math.Gen. 40,2455(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606053
abstract: For a central system uniformly coupled to a XY spin-1/2 bath in a transverse field, we explicitly calculate the Loschmidt echo(LE) to characterize decoherence quantitatively. We find that the anisotropy parameter $\gamma $ affects decoherence of the central system sensitively when $\gamma \in [0,1]$% , in particular, the LE becomes unit without varying with time when $\gamma =0 $, implying that environment-induced decoherence vanishes . Some other cases in which the LE is unit are discussed also.

id: quant-ph/0606054
title: Formally exact quantization condition for nonrelativistic quantum systems
authors: Yong-Cheng Ou, Zhuang-Qi Cao, Qi-Shun Shen
comments: 4 pages. Appeared in Journal of Chemical Physics 121,8175(2004)
journal: J.Chem.Phys. 121 (2004) 8175
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606054
abstract: Based on the standard transfer matrix, a formally exact quantization condition for arbitrary potentials, which outflanks and unifies the historical approaches, is derived. It can be used to find the exact bound-state energy eigenvalues of the quantum system without solving an equation of motion for the system wave functions.

id: quant-ph/0606055
title: Schmidt number of pure bi-partite entangled states and methods of its calculation
authors: Mikalai Karelin
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure; based on the poster presentation reported on the 11th International Conference on Quantum Optics (ICQO'2006, Minsk, May 26 -- 31, 2006), to be published in special issue of Optics and Spectroscopy
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606055
abstract: An entanglement measure for pure-state continuous-variable bi-partite problem, the Schmidt number, is analytically calculated for one simple model of atom-field scattering.

id: quant-ph/0606056
title: Application of a renormalization algorithm in Hilbert space to the study of many-body quantum systems
authors: Tarek Khalil, Jean Richert
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606056
abstract: We implement an algorithm which is aimed to reduce the number of basis states spanning the Hilbert space of quantum many-body systems. We test the efficiency of the procedure by working out and analyzing the spectral properties of strongly correlated and frustrated quantum spin systems. The role and importance of symmetries are investigated

id: quant-ph/0606057
title: Analysis and identification of quantum dynamics using Lie algebra homomorphisms and Cartan decompositions
authors: Francesca Albertini, Domenico D'Alessandro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606057
abstract: In this paper, we consider the problem of model equivalence for quantum systems. Two models are said to be (input-output) equivalent if they give the same output for every admissible input. In the case of quantum systems, the output is the expectation value of a given observable or, more in general, a probability distribution for the result of a quantum measurement. We link the input-output equivalence of two models to the existence of a homomorphism of the underlying Lie algebra. In several cases, a Cartan decomposition of the Lie algebra su(n) is useful to find such a homomorphism and to determine the classes of equivalent models. We consider in detail the important cases of two level systems with a Cartan structure and of spin networks. In the latter case, complete results are given generalizing previous results to the case of networks of spin particles with any value of the spin. In treating this problem, we prove some instrumental results on the subalgebras of su(n) which are of independent interest.

id: quant-ph/0606058
title: Limit to manipulation of qubits due to spontaneous symmetry breaking
authors: Jasper van Wezel, Jeroen van den Brink
comments: 2 pages, proceedings, to appear in JMMM
journal: Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials 310, e503 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606058
abstract: We consider a two-spin qubit that is subject to the orderparameter field of a symmetry broken manipulation device. It is shown that the thin spectrum of the manipulation device limits the coherence of the qubit.

id: quant-ph/0606059
title: Comment on "Optimum Quantum Error Recovery using Semidefinite Programming"
authors: M. Reimpell, R. F. Werner, K. Audenaert
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606059
abstract: In a recent paper ([1]=quant-ph/0606035) it is shown how the optimal recovery operation in an error correction scheme can be considered as a semidefinite program. As a possible future improvement it is noted that still better error correction might be obtained by optimizing the encoding as well. In this note we present the result of such an improvement, specifically for the four-bit correction of an amplitude damping channel considered in [1]. We get a strict improvement for almost all values of the damping parameter. The method (and the computer code) is taken from our earlier study of such correction schemes (quant-ph/0307138).

id: quant-ph/0606060
title: Emergent Quantum Jumps in a Nano-Electro-Mechanical System
authors: Kurt Jacobs, Pavel Lougovski
comments: 7 pages, revtex4, 1 eps figure. v2 and v3: presentation altered, references added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, F987 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606060
abstract: We describe a nano-electromechnical system that exhibits the "retroactive" quantum jumps discovered by Mabuchi and Wiseman [Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 4620 (1998)]. This system consists of a Cooper-pair box coupled to a nano-mechanical resonator, in which the latter is continuously monitored by a single-electron transistor or quantum point-contact. Further, we show that these kinds of jumps, and the jumps that emerge in a continuous quantum non-demolition measurement are one and the same phenomena. We also consider manipulating the jumps by applying feedback control to the Cooper-pair box.

id: quant-ph/0606061
title: Simplifying Quantum Circuits via Circuit Invariants and Dressed CNOTs
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 71 pages (59 files: 1 .tex, 2 .sty, 18 .eps, 37 .m, 1 .xxx)ArXiv generates a pdf with mangled Table of Contents, my software doesn't. If this bothers you, download source from ArXiv and recompile at home
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606061
abstract: Quantum Compiling Algorithms decompose (exactly, without approximations) an arbitrary $2^\nb$ unitary matrix acting on $\nb$ qubits, into a sequence of elementary operations (SEO). There are many possible ways of decomposing a unitary matrix into a SEO, and some of these decompositions have shorter length (are more efficient) than others. Finding an optimum (shortest) decomposition is a very hard task, and is not our intention here. A less ambitious, more doable task is to find methods for optimizing small segments of a SEO. Call these methods piecewise optimizations. Piecewise optimizations involve replacing a small quantum circuit by an equivalent one with fewer CNOTs. Two circuits are said to be equivalent if one of them multiplied by some external local operations equals the other. This equivalence relation between circuits has its own class functions, which we call circuit invariants. Dressed CNOTs are a simple yet very useful generalization of standard CNOTs. After discussing circuit invariants and dressed CNOTs, we give some methods for simplifying 2-qubit and 3-qubit circuits. We include with this paper software (written in Octave/Matlab) that checks many of the algorithms proposed in the paper.

id: quant-ph/0606062
title: Probing the quantum state of a guided atom laser pulse
authors: Kevin L. Moore, Subhadeep Gupta, Kater W. Murch, Dan M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606062
abstract: We describe bichromatic superradiant pump-probe spectroscopy as a tomographic probe of the Wigner function of a dispersing particle beam. We employed this technique to characterize the quantum state of an ultracold atomic beam, derived from a Rb-87 Bose-Einstein condensate, as it propagated in a 2.5 mm diameter circular waveguide. Our measurements place an upper bound on the longitudinal phase-space area occupied by the 300,000 atom beam of 9(1) $\hbar$ and a lower bound on the coherence length (L > 13 microns). These results are consistent with full quantum degeneracy after multiple orbits around the waveguide.

id: quant-ph/0606063
title: The Collapse of Bell Determinism
authors: James D. Malley
comments: accepted for publication in Physics Letters A; expanded abstract; typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606063
abstract: The Bell-Kochen-Specker conditions (BKS) for a deterministic noncontextual hidden-variable model are wonderfully simple to state, deal with just one-dimensional projectors on a Hilbert space H and make no reference to a probabilistic phase space or quantum system. They only ask for an assignment of zero or one to every projector such that the assignment respects orthogonal resolutions of the identity. Various no-go results in the literature show that the pair of statements {BKS is valid; dim H greater than or equal to 3} are inconsistent. Here we show, more radically, that the pair actually contradicts the dimensionality of the space itself, by implying that there can exist at most a single one-dimensional projector acting on H. Our derivation involves only elementary inner product spaces. It is non-probabilistic, inequality-free, state independent, does not use entanglement, and is simultaneously valid in all dimensions three or greater.

id: quant-ph/0606064
title: On the distance between unitary propagators of quantum systems of differing dimensions
authors: Robert L. Kosut, Matthew Grace, Constantin Brif, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606064
abstract: A distance measure is presented between two unitary propagators of quantum systems of differing dimensions along with a corresponding method of computation. A typical application is to compare the propagator of the actual (real) process with the propagator of the desired (ideal) process; the former being of a higher dimension then the latter. The proposed measure has the advantage of dealing with possibly correlated inputs, but at the expense of working on the whole space and not just the information bearing part as is usually the case, i.e., no partial trace operation is explicitly involved. It is also shown that the distance measure and an average measure of channel fidelity both depend on the size of the same matrix: as the matrix size increases, distance decreases and fidelity increases.

id: quant-ph/0606065
title: Perfect quantum state transfer with spinor bosons on weighted graphs
authors: David L. Feder
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 180502 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606065
abstract: A duality between the properties of many spinor bosons on a regular lattice and those of a single particle on a weighted graph reveals that a quantum particle can traverse an infinite hierarchy of networks with perfect probability in polynomial time, even as the number of nodes increases exponentially. The one-dimensional `quantum wire' and the hypercube are special cases in this construction, where the number of spin degrees of freedom is equal to one and the number of particles, respectively. An implementation of near-perfect quantum state transfer across a weighted parallelepiped with ultracold atoms in optical lattices is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0606066
title: Exponential Separation of Quantum and Classical Online Space Complexity
authors: Francois Le Gall
comments: 13 pages. v3: minor changes
journal: Theory of Computing Systems 45(2): 188-202 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606066
abstract: Although quantum algorithms realizing an exponential time speed-up over the best known classical algorithms exist, no quantum algorithm is known performing computation using less space resources than classical algorithms. In this paper, we study, for the first time explicitly, space-bounded quantum algorithms for computational problems where the input is given not as a whole, but bit by bit. We show that there exist such problems that a quantum computer can solve using exponentially less work space than a classical computer. More precisely, we introduce a very natural and simple model of a space-bounded quantum online machine and prove an exponential separation of classical and quantum online space complexity, in the bounded-error setting and for a total language. The language we consider is inspired by a communication problem (the set intersection function) that Buhrman, Cleve and Wigderson used to show an almost quadratic separation of quantum and classical bounded-error communication complexity. We prove that, in the framework of online space complexity, the separation becomes exponential.

id: quant-ph/0606067
title: The Three-Box Paradox Revisited
authors: Tamar Ravon, Lev Vaidman
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606067
abstract: The classical three-box paradox of Kirkpatrick [J. Phys. A 36 4891 (2003)] is compared to the original quantum Three-Box paradox of Aharonov and Vaidman [J. Phys. A 24 2315 (1991)]. It is argued that the quantum Three-Box experiment is a "quantum paradox" in the sense that it is an example of a classical task which cannot be accomplished using classical means, but can be accomplished using quantum devices. It is shown that Kirkpatrick's card game is analogous to a different game with a particle in three boxes which does not contain paradoxical features.

id: quant-ph/0606068
title: Phase information revealed by interferences in the ionization of rotational wave packets
authors: Eric Charron, Maurice Raoult
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A / Physical Review A (General Physics); Phys Rev A Gen Phys; Physical Review A (Atomic Molecular and Optical Physics) 74, 3 (15/09/2006) 033407
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606068
abstract: Time-resolved photoelectron spectra are proposed for the measurement of classical information recorded in the quantum phases of a molecular rotational wave packet. Taking Li2 as a prototypical system, we show that an interference arises from the electron-nuclei entanglement induced by the molecular anisotropy. This phenomenon is used to transfer the information that was stored initially in the nuclear rotational degree of freedom into the electronic degree of freedom.

id: quant-ph/0606069
title: Dynamical entanglement and chaos: the case of Rydberg molecules
authors: M Lombardi, A Matzkin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062335 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606069
abstract: A Rydberg molecule is composed of an outer electron that collides on the residual ionic core. Typical states of Rydberg molecules display entanglement between the outer electron and the core. In this work we quantify the average entanglement of molecular eigenstates and further investigate the time evolution of entanglement production from initially unentangled states. The results are contrasted with the underlying classical dynamics, obtained from the semiclassical limit of the core-electron collision. Our findings indicate that entanglement is not simply correlated with the degree of classical chaos, but rather depends on the specific phase-space features that give rise to inelastic scattering. Hence mixed phase-space or even regular classical dynamics can be associated with high entanglement generation.

id: quant-ph/0606070
title: On some meaningful inner product for real Klein-Gordon fields with positive semi-definite norm
authors: F. Kleefeld
comments: 8 pages, no figures; correction of obvious typos and marginal improvement of formulations
journal: Czech.J.Phys.56:999-1006,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606070
abstract: A simple derivation of a meaningful, manifestly covariant inner product for real Klein-Gordon (KG) fields with positive semi-definite norm is provided which turns out - assuming a symmetric bilinear form - to be the real-KG-field limit of the inner product for complex KG fields reviewed by A. Mostafazadeh and F. Zamani in December, 2003, and February, 2006 (quant-ph/0312078, quant-ph/0602151, quant-ph/0602161). It is explicitly shown that the positive semi-definite norm associated with the derived inner product for real KG fields measures the number of active positive and negative energy Fourier modes of the real KG field on the relativistic mass shell. The very existence of an inner product with positive semi-definite norm for the considered real, i.e. neutral, KG fields shows that the metric operator entering the inner product does not contain the charge-conjugation operator. This observation sheds some additional light on the meaning of the C operator in the CPT inner product of PT-symmetric Quantum Mechanics defined by C.M. Bender, D.C. Brody and H.F. Jones.

id: quant-ph/0606071
title: Entangled three-qubit states without concurrence and three-tangle
authors: Robert Lohmayer, Andreas Osterloh, Jens Siewert, Armin Uhlmann
comments: 10 RevTeX pages, 3 figures, abstract and conclusions substantially extended
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 260502 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606071
abstract: We provide a complete analysis of mixed three-qubit states composed of a GHZ state and a W state orthogonal to the former. We present optimal decompositions and convex roofs for the three-tangle. Further, we provide an analytical method to decide whether or not an arbitrary rank-2 state of three qubits has vanishing three-tangle. These results highlight intriguing differences compared to the properties of two-qubit mixed states, and may serve as a quantitative reference for future studies of entanglement in multipartite mixed states. By studying the Coffman-Kundu-Wootters inequality we find that, while the amounts of inequivalent entanglement types strictly add up for pure states, this ``monogamy'' can be lifted for mixed states by virtue of vanishing tangle measures.

id: quant-ph/0606072
title: Free-space quantum key distribution with entangled photons
authors: Ivan Marcikic, Antia Lamas-Linares, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures, reviewed version, accepted in Applied Physics Letters
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 89, 101122 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606072
abstract: We report on a complete experimental implementation of a quantum key distribution protocol through a free space link using polarization-entangled photon pairs from a compact parametric down-conversion source. Over 10 hours of uninterrupted communication between sites 1.5 km apart, we observe average key generation rates of 630 per second after error correction and privacy amplification. Our scheme requires no specific hardware channel for synchronization apart from a classical wireless link, and no explicit random number generator.

id: quant-ph/0606073
title: Ramsey interferometry with oppositely detuned fields
authors: D. Seidel, J.G. Muga
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606073
abstract: We report a narrowing of the interference pattern obtained in an atomic Ramsey interferometer if the two separated fields have different frequency and their phase difference is controlled. The width of the Ramsey fringes depends inversely on the free flight time of ground state atoms before entering the first field region in addition to the time between the fields. The effect is stable also for atomic wavepackets with initial position and momentum distributions and for realistic mode functions.

id: quant-ph/0606074
title: Conservative chaotic map as a model of quantum many-body environment
authors: Davide Rossini, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 74, 036209 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606074
abstract: We study the dynamics of the entanglement between two qubits coupled to a common chaotic environment, described by the quantum kicked rotator model. We show that the kicked rotator, which is a single-particle deterministic dynamical system, can reproduce the effects of a pure dephasing many-body bath. Indeed, in the semiclassical limit the interaction with the kicked rotator can be described as a random phase-kick, so that decoherence is induced in the two-qubit system. We also show that our model can efficiently simulate non-Markovian environments.

id: quant-ph/0606075
title: Best separable approximation with semi-definite programming method
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, M.Mirzaee, M.Rezaee
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606075
abstract: The present methods for obtaining the optimal Lewenestein- Sanpera decomposition of a mixed state are difficult to handle analytically. We provide a simple analytical expression for the optimal Lewenstein-Sanpera decomposition by using semidefinite programming. Specially, we obtain the optimal Lewenstein-Sanpera decomposition for some examples such as: Bell decomposable state, Iso-concurrence state, generic two qubit state in Wootters's basis, $2\otimes 3$ Bell decomposable state, $d\otimes d$ Werner and isotropic states, a one parameter $3\otimes 3$ state and finally multi partite isotropic state.

id: quant-ph/0606076
title: Polarization squeezing by optical Faraday rotation
authors: Jacob F. Sherson, Klaus Molmer
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 143602 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606076
abstract: We show that it is possible to generate continuous-wave fields and pulses of polarization squeezed light by sending classical, linearly polarized laser light twice through an atomic sample which causes an optical Faraday rotation of the field polarization. We characterize the performance of the process, and we show that an appreciable degree of squeezing can be obtained under realistic physical assumptions.

id: quant-ph/0606077
title: On an implementation of the Solovay-Kitaev algorithm
authors: Attila B. Nagy
comments: 10 pages, published on the 10th Rhine Workshop on Computer Algebra
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606077
abstract: In quantum computation we are given a finite set of gates and we have to perform a desired operation as a product of them. The corresponding computational problem is approximating an arbitrary unitary as a product in a topological generating set of $SU(d)$. The problem is known to be solvable in time $polylog(1/\epsilon)$ with product length $polylog(1/\epsilon)$, where the implicit constants depend on the given generators. The existing algorithms solve the problem but they need a very slow and space consuming preparatory stage. This stage runs in time exponential in $d^2$ and requires memory of size exponential in $d^2$. In this paper we present methods which make the implementation of the existing algorithms easier. We present heuristic methods which make a time-length trade-off in the preparatory step. We decrease the running time and the used memory to polynomial in $d$ but the length of the products approximating the desired operations will increase (by a factor which depends on $d$). We also present a simple method which can be used for decomposing a unitary into a product of group commutators for $2<d<256$, which is an important part of the existing algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0606078
title: Quantum Error Correction via Convex Optimization
authors: Robert L. Kosut, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 16 pages
journal: Quant. Inf. Proc. 8, 443 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606078
abstract: We show that the problem of designing a quantum information error correcting procedure can be cast as a bi-convex optimization problem, iterating between encoding and recovery, each being a semidefinite program. For a given encoding operator the problem is convex in the recovery operator. For a given method of recovery, the problem is convex in the encoding scheme. This allows us to derive new codes that are locally optimal. We present examples of such codes that can handle errors which are too strong for codes derived by analogy to classical error correction techniques.

id: quant-ph/0606079
title: Cavity QED with Multiple Hyperfine Levels
authors: K. M. Birnbaum, A. S. Parkins, H. J. Kimble
comments: 6 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606079
abstract: We calculate the weak-driving transmission of a linearly polarized cavity mode strongly coupled to the D2 transition of a single Cesium atom. Results are relevant to future experiments with microtoroid cavities, where the single-photon Rabi frequency g exceeds the excited-state hyperfine splittings, and photonic bandgap resonators, where g is greater than both the excited- and ground-state splitting.

id: quant-ph/0606080
title: Body-assisted van der Waals interaction between two atoms
authors: Hassan Safari, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch, Ho Trung Dung
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review A 74 (4), 042101 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606080
abstract: Using fourth-order perturbation theory, a general formula for the van der Waals potential of two neutral, unpolarized, ground-state atoms in the presence of an arbitrary arrangement of dispersing and absorbing magnetodielectric bodies is derived. The theory is applied to two atoms in bulk material and in front of a planar multilayer system, with special emphasis on the cases of a perfectly reflecting plate and a semi-infinite half space. It is demonstrated that the enhancement and reduction of the two-atom interaction due to the presence of a perfectly reflecting plate can be understood, at least in the nonretarded limit, by using the method of image charges. For the semi-infinite half space, both analytical and numerical results are presented.

id: quant-ph/0606081
title: Mass Detection with Nonlinear Nanomechanical Resonator
authors: Eyal Buks, Bernard Yurke
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606081
abstract: Nanomechanical resonators having small mass, high resonance frequency and low damping rate are widely employed as mass detectors. We study the performances of such a detector when the resonator is driven into a region of nonlinear oscillations. We predict theoretically that in this region the system acts as a phase-sensitive mechanical amplifier. This behavior can be exploited to achieve noise squeezing in the output signal when homodyne detection is employed for readout. We show that mass sensitivity of the device in this region may exceed the upper bound imposed by thermomechanical noise upon the sensitivity when operating in the linear region. On the other hand, we show that the high mass sensitivity is accompanied by a slowing down of the response of the system to a change in the mass.

id: quant-ph/0606082
title: Microwave potentials and optimal control for robust quantum gates on an atom chip
authors: Philipp Treutlein, Theodor W. H?nsch, Jakob Reichel, Antonio Negretti, Markus A. Cirone, Tommaso Calarco
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, 1 table. Published version (minor changes)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022312 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606082
abstract: We propose a two-qubit collisional phase gate that can be implemented with available atom chip technology, and present a detailed theoretical analysis of its performance. The gate is based on earlier phase gate schemes, but uses a qubit state pair with an experimentally demonstrated, very long coherence lifetime. Microwave near-fields play a key role in our implementation as a means to realize the state-dependent potentials required for conditional dynamics. Quantum control algorithms are used to optimize gate performance. We employ circuit configurations that can be built with current fabrication processes, and extensively discuss the impact of technical noise and imperfections that characterize an actual atom chip. We find an overall infidelity compatible with requirements for fault-tolerant quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0606083
title: The state space for two qutrits has a phase space structure in its core
authors: Bernhard Baumgartner, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr, Heide Narnhofer
comments: 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 032327 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606083
abstract: We investigate the state space of bipartite qutrits. For states which are locally maximally mixed we obtain an analog of the ``magic'' tetrahedron for bipartite qubits--a magic simplex W. This is obtained via the Weyl group which is a kind of ``quantization'' of classical phase space. We analyze how this simplex W is embedded in the whole state space of two qutrits and discuss symmetries and equivalences inside the simplex W. Because we are explicitly able to construct optimal entanglement witnesses we obtain the border between separable and entangled states. With our method we find also the total area of bound entangled states of the parameter subspace under intervestigation. Our considerations can also be applied to higher dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0606084
title: Counter-Factual Meaningfulness and the Bell and CHSH Inequalities
authors: Travis Norsen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606084
abstract: We discuss the role of counter-factual meaningfulness (a weaker cousin of "counter-factual definiteness") as a premise in the derivation of the Bell and CHSH inequalities. The basic question motivating the discussion is this: can the CHSH inequality, unlike the original Bell inequality, be derived without making a hidden-variables (or equivalent counter-factual definiteness) assumption? We answer, somewhat tentatively, in the negative, and suggest that an appropriately-modified version of the EPR argument is needed to rigorously establish that the empirical violation of Bell-type inequalities can only be blamed on the failure, in nature, of local causality.

id: quant-ph/0606085
title: Generation of Squeezing in Higher Order Hermite-Gaussian Modes with an Optical Parametric Amplifier
authors: Mikael Lassen, Vincent Delaubert, Charles C. Harb, Nicolas Treps, Ping Koy Lam, Hans A. Bachor
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Journal of the European Optical Society - Rapid Publications 1, 06003 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606085
abstract: We demonstrate quantum correlations in the transverse plane of continuous wave light beams by producing -4.0 dB, -2.6 dB and -1.5 dB of squeezing in the TEM00, TEM10 and TEM20 Hermite- Gauss modes with an optical parametric amplifier, respectively. This has potential applications in quantum information networking, enabling parallel quantum information processing. We describe the setup for the generation of squeezing and analyze the effects of various experimental issues such as mode overlap between pump and seed and nonlinear losses.

id: quant-ph/0606086
title: Measurement-driven quantum evolution from a known state
authors: L. Roa, G. A. Olivares-Renteria, M. L. L. de Guevara, A. Delgado
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606086
abstract: We study the problem of driving a known initial quantum state onto a known pure state without using a unitary evolution. This task can be achieved by means of von Neumann measurement processes, introducing N observables which are consecutively measured in order to approach the state of the system to the target state. We proved that the probability of projecting onto the target state can be increased meaningfully by adding suitable observables to the process, that is, it converges to 1 when N increases. We also discuss a physical implementation of this scheme.

id: quant-ph/0606087
title: Single atom quantum walk with 1D optical superlattices
authors: Jaewoo Joo, P. L. Knight, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606087
abstract: A proposal for the implementation of quantum walks using cold atom technology is presented. It consists of one atom trapped in time varying optical superlattices. The required elements are presented in detail including the preparation procedure, the manipulation required for the quantum walk evolution and the final measurement. These procedures can be, in principle, implemented with present technology.

id: quant-ph/0606088
title: Conclusive quantum-state transfer with a single randomly coupled spin chain
authors: Jiankui He, Qing Chen, Lei Ding, Shao-Long Wan
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606088
abstract: We studied the quantum state transfer in randomly coupled spin chains. By using local memories storing the information and dividing the task into transfer portion and decoding portion, conclusive transfer was ingeniously achieved with just one single spin chain. In our scheme, the probability of successful transfer can be made arbitrary close to unity. Especially, our scheme is a good protocol to decode information from memories without adding another spin chain. Compared with Time-reversed protocol, the average decoding time is much less in our scheme.

id: quant-ph/0606089
title: Flying Spin Qubits
authors: Vanita Srinivasa, Jeremy Levy, C. Stephen Hellberg
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures. Revised manuscript in response to reviewer comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606089
abstract: We present a method for encoding and transporting qubits within a dimerized Heisenberg spin-1/2 chain. Logical qubits are localized at the domain walls that separate the two possible dimerized states. The domain walls can be moved to produce "flying spin qubits". The topological nature of these states makes them stable against a wide class of perturbations. Pairs of domain walls can be used to generate Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs of entangled qubits. We discuss speed limitations within an exactly solvable three-spin model and describe a possible physical realization using quantum dot arrays.

id: quant-ph/0606090
title: Entanglement purification protocols for all graph states
authors: Caroline Kruszynska, Akimasa Miyake, Hans J. Briegel, Wolfgang Dr
comments: revtex 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052316 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606090
abstract: We present multiparty entanglement purification protocols that are capable of purifying arbitrary graph states directly. We develop recurrence and breeding protocols and compare our methods with strategies based on bipartite entanglement purification in static and communication scenarios. We find that direct multiparty purification is of advantage with respect to achievable yields and minimal required fidelity in static scenarios, and with respect to obtainable fidelity in the case of noisy operations in both scenarios.

id: quant-ph/0606091
title: Inverse kinetic theory for quantum hydrodynamic equations
authors: Massimo Tessarotto, Marco Ellero, Piero Nicolini
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.A75:012105,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606091
abstract: We propose a solution for the inverse kinetic theory for quantum hydrodynamic equations associated to the non-relativistic Schr\"{o}dinger equation. It is shown that an inverse kinetic equation of the form of the Vlasov equation can be non-uniquely determined under suitable mathematical prescriptions.

id: quant-ph/0606092
title: The limits of counterfactual computation
authors: Graeme Mitchison, Richard Jozsa
comments: Hosten et al. have responded to the second version of this paper, and the present version includes our reply to them. The text is otherwise unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606092
abstract: We show that the protocol recently proposed by Hosten et al. does not allow all possible results of a computation to be obtained counterfactually, as was claimed. It only gives a counterfactual outcome for one of the computer outputs. However, we confirm the observation that the protocol gives some protection against decoherence. In some situations, though, it may be more effective simply to run the computer several times.

id: quant-ph/0606093
title: Unifying Decoherence and the Heisenberg Principle
authors: Bas Janssens
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606093
abstract: We exhibit three inequalities involving quantum measurement, all of which are sharp and state independent. The first inequality bounds the performance of joint measurement. The second quantifies the trade-off between the measurement quality and the disturbance caused on the measured system. Finally, the third inequality provides a sharp lower bound on the amount of decoherence in terms of the measurement quality. This gives a unified discription of both the Heisenberg principle and the collapse of the wave function.

id: quant-ph/0606094
title: Quantum walks with infinite hitting times
authors: Hari Krovi, Todd A. Brun
comments: 28 pages, 3 figures in EPS format
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042334 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606094
abstract: Hitting times are the average time it takes a walk to reach a given final vertex from a given starting vertex. The hitting time for a classical random walk on a connected graph will always be finite. We show that, by contrast, quantum walks can have infinite hitting times for some initial states. We seek criteria to determine if a given walk on a graph will have infinite hitting times, and find a sufficient condition, which for discrete time quantum walks is that the degeneracy of the evolution operator be greater than the degree of the graph. The set of initial states which give an infinite hitting time form a subspace. The phenomenon of infinite hitting times is in general a consequence of the symmetry of the graph and its automorphism group. Using the irreducible representations of the automorphism group, we derive conditions such that quantum walks defined on this graph must have infinite hitting times for some initial states. In the case of the discrete walk, if this condition is satisfied the walk will have infinite hitting times for any choice of a coin operator, and we give a class of graphs with infinite hitting times for any choice of coin. Hitting times are not very well-defined for continuous time quantum walks, but we show that the idea of infinite hitting-time walks naturally extends to the continuous time case as well.

id: quant-ph/0606095
title: Entangled spin clusters: some special features
authors: Amit Tribedi, Indrani Bose
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures. Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 012314 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606095
abstract: In this paper, we study three specific aspects of entanglement in small spin clusters. We first study the effect of inhomogeneous exchange coupling strength on the entanglement properties of the S=1/2 antiferromagnetic linear chain tetramer compound NaCuAsO_{4}. The entanglement gap temperature, T_{E}, is found to have a non-monotonic dependence on the value of $\alpha$, the exchange coupling inhomogeneity parameter. We next determine the variation of T_{E} as a function of S for a spin dimer, a trimer and a tetrahedron. The temperature T_{E} is found to increase as a function of S, but the scaled entanglement gap temperature t_{E} goes to zero as S becomes large. Lastly, we study a spin-1 dimer compound to illustrate the quantum complementarity relation. We show that in the experimentally realizable parameter region, magnetization and entanglement plateaus appear simultaneously at low temperatures as a function of the magnetic field. Also, the sharp increase in one quantity as a function of the magnetic field is accompanied by a sharp decrease in the other so that the quantum complementarity relation is not violated.

id: quant-ph/0606096
title: Photon States from Propagating Complex Electromagnetic Fields
authors: Daniela Dragoman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606096
abstract: A wavefunction for single- and many-photon states is defined by associating photons with different momenta to different spectral and polarization components of the classical, generally complex, electromagnetic field that propagates in a definite direction. By scaling each spectral component of the classical field to the square root of the photon energy, the appropriately normalized photon wavefunction acquires the desired interpretation of probability density amplitude, in contradistinction to the Riemann-Silbertsein wavefunction that can be considered as the amplitude of the photon probability energy density.

id: quant-ph/0606097
title: Strongly Interacting Polaritons in Coupled Arrays of Cavities
authors: Michael J. Hartmann, Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Martin B. Plenio
comments: Published in Nature Physics as advance online publication, to appear in the December issue. This preprint differs from the journal version
journal: Nature Physics 2, pp 849 - 855 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606097
abstract: The experimental observation of quantum phenomena in strongly correlated many particle systems is difficult because of the short length- and timescales involved. Obtaining at the same time detailed control of individual constituents appears even more challenging and thus to date inhibits employing such systems as quantum computing devices. Substantial progress to overcome these problems has been achieved with cold atoms in optical lattices, where a detailed control of collective properties is feasible but it is very difficult to address and hence control or measure individual sites. Here we show, that polaritons, combined atom and photon excitations, in an array of cavities such as a photonic crystal or coupled toroidal micro-cavities, can form a strongly interacting many body system, where individual particles can be controlled and measured. All individual building blocks of the proposed setting have already been experimentally realised, thus demonstrating the potential of this device as a quantum simulator. With the possibility to create attractive on-site potentials the scheme allows for the creation of highly entangled states and a phase with particles much more delocalised than in superfluids.

id: quant-ph/0606098
title: A scheme for unconventional geometric quantum computation in cavity QED
authors: Xun-Li Feng, Zisheng Wang, Chunfeng Wu, L.C. Kwek, C.H. Oh
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606098
abstract: We present a scheme for implementing the unconventional geometric two-qubit phase gate with nonzero dynamical phase by using the two-channel Raman interaction of two atoms in a cavity. We show that the dynamical phase acquired in a cyclic evolution is proportional to the geometric phase acquired in the same cyclic evolution, hence the the total phase possesses the same geometric features as the geometric phase. In our scheme the atomic excited state is adiabatically eliminated and the operation of the proposed logic gate involves only in the metastable states of the atom and hence is not affected by spontaneous emission.

id: quant-ph/0606099
title: Prospects of employing superconducting stripline resonators for studying the dynamical Casimir effect experimentally
authors: Eran Arbel-Segev, Baleegh Abdo, Oleg Shtempluck, Eyal Buks, Bernard Yurke
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606099
abstract: We discuss the prospects of employing an NbN superconducting microwave stripline resonator for studying the dynamical Casimir effect experimentally. Preliminary experimental results, in which optical illumination is employed for modulating the resonance frequencies of the resonator, show that such a system is highly promising for this purpose. Moreover, we discuss the undesirable effect of heating which results from the optical illumination, and show that degradation in noise properties can be minimized by employing an appropriate design.

id: quant-ph/0606100
title: Semi-spectral Chebyshev method in Quantum Mechanics
authors: A. Deloff
comments: RevTeX, 12 EPS figures
journal: AnnalsPhys.322:1373-1419,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606100
abstract: Traditionally, finite differences and finite element methods have been by many regarded as the basic tools for obtaining numerical solutions in a variety of quantum mechanical problems emerging in atomic, nuclear and particle physics, astrophysics, quantum chemistry, etc. In recent years, however, an alternative technique based on the semi-spectral methods has focused considerable attention. The purpose of this work is first to provide the necessary tools and subsequently examine the efficiency of this method in quantum mechanical applications. Restricting our interest to time independent two-body problems, we obtained the continuous and discrete spectrum solutions of the underlying Schroedinger or Lippmann-Schwinger equations in both, the coordinate and momentum space. In all of the numerically studied examples we had no difficulty in achieving the machine accuracy and the semi-spectral method showed exponential convergence combined with excellent numerical stability.

id: quant-ph/0606101
title: Quantum Computation Using Vortices and Majorana Zero Modes of a $p_x$ + $ip_y$ Superfluid of Fermionic Cold Atoms
authors: Sumanta Tewari, S. Das Sarma, Chetan Nayak, Chuanwei Zhang, P. Zoller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 010506 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606101
abstract: We propose to use the recently predicted two-dimensional `weak-pairing' $p_x + ip_y$ superfluid state of fermionic cold atoms as a platform for topological quantum computation. In the core of a vortex, this state supports a zero-energy Majorana mode, which moves to finite energy in the corresponding topologically trivial `strong-pairing' state. By braiding vortices in the `weak-pairing' state, unitary quantum gates can be applied to the Hilbert space of Majorana zero-modes. For read-out of the topological qubits, we propose realistic schemes suitable for atomic superfluids.

id: quant-ph/0606102
title: Hypersensitivity and chaos signatures in the quantum baker's maps
authors: A. J. Scott, Todd A. Brun, Carlton M. Caves, Ruediger Schack
comments: 32 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 39, 13405 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606102
abstract: Classical chaotic systems are distinguished by their sensitive dependence on initial conditions. The absence of this property in quantum systems has lead to a number of proposals for perturbation-based characterizations of quantum chaos, including linear growth of entropy, exponential decay of fidelity, and hypersensitivity to perturbation. All of these accurately predict chaos in the classical limit, but it is not clear that they behave the same far from the classical realm. We investigate the dynamics of a family of quantizations of the baker's map, which range from a highly entangling unitary transformation to an essentially trivial shift map. Linear entropy growth and fidelity decay are exhibited by this entire family of maps, but hypersensitivity distinguishes between the simple dynamics of the trivial shift map and the more complicated dynamics of the other quantizations. This conclusion is supported by an analytical argument for short times and numerical evidence at later times.

id: quant-ph/0606103
title: Survival of entanglement in thermal states
authors: Damian Markham, Janet Anders, Vlatko Vedral, Mio Murao, Akimasa Miyake
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. Changes made in line with publication recommendations. Motivation and concequences of result clarified, with the addition of one more example, which applies the result to give noise thresholds for measurement based quantum computing. New author added with new results
journal: Euro. Phys. Lett. 81, 40006 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606103
abstract: We present a general sufficiency condition for the presence of multipartite entanglement in thermal states stemming from the ground state entanglement. The condition is written in terms of the ground state entanglement and the partition function and it gives transition temperatures below which entanglement is guaranteed to survive. It is flexible and can be easily adapted to consider entanglement for different splittings, as well as be weakened to allow easier calculations by approximations. Examples where the condition is calculated are given. These examples allow us to characterize a minimum gapping behavior for the survival of entanglement in the thermodynamic limit. Further, the same technique can be used to find noise thresholds in the generation of useful resource states for one-way quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0606104
title: Cooling to the Ground State of Axial Motion for One Atom Strongly Coupled to an Optical Cavity
authors: A. D. Boozer, A. Boca, R. Miller, T. E. Northup, H. J. Kimble
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606104
abstract: Localization to the ground state of axial motion is demonstrated for a single, trapped atom strongly coupled to the field of a high finesse optical resonator. The axial atomic motion is cooled by way of coherent Raman transitions on the red vibrational sideband. An efficient state detection scheme enabled by strong coupling in cavity QED is used to record the Raman spectrum, from which the state of atomic motion is inferred. We find that the lowest vibrational level of the axial potential with zero-point energy 13uK is occupied with probability P0~0.95.

id: quant-ph/0606105
title: Suboptimal quantum-error-correcting procedure based on semidefinite programming
authors: Naoki Yamamoto, Shinji Hara, Koji Tsumura
comments: 6 pages, no figure, Some notations differ from those in the PRA version
journal: Physical Review A 71, 022322 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606105
abstract: In this paper, we consider a simplified error-correcting problem: for a fixed encoding process, to find a cascade connected quantum channel such that the worst fidelity between the input and the output becomes maximum. With the use of the one-to-one parametrization of quantum channels, a procedure finding a suboptimal error-correcting channel based on a semidefinite programming is proposed. The effectiveness of our method is verified by an example of the bit-flip channel decoding.

id: quant-ph/0606106
title: Computational approach to quantum encoder design for purity optimization
authors: Naoki Yamamoto, Maryam Fazel
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 76, 012327 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606106
abstract: In this paper, we address the problem of designing a quantum encoder that maximizes the minimum output purity of a given decohering channel, where the minimum is taken over all possible pure inputs. This problem is cast as a max-min optimization problem with a rank constraint on an appropriately defined matrix variable. The problem is computationally very hard because it is non-convex with respect to both the objective function (output purity) and the rank constraint. Despite this difficulty, we provide a tractable computational algorithm that produces the exact optimal solution for codespace of dimension two. Moreover, this algorithm is easily extended to cover the general class of codespaces, in which case the solution is suboptimal in the sense that the suboptimized output purity serves as a lower bound of the exact optimal purity. The algorithm consists of a sequence of semidefinite programmings and can be performed easily. Two typical quantum error channels are investigated to illustrate the effectiveness of our method.

id: quant-ph/0606107
title: Asymmetric quantum error correcting codes
authors: Lev Ioffe, Marc Mezard
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606107
abstract: The noise in physical qubits is fundamentally asymmetric: in most devices, phase errors are much more probable than bit flips. We propose a quantum error correcting code which takes advantage of this asymmetry and shows good performance at a relatively small cost in redundancy, requiring less than a doubling of the number of physical qubits for error correction.

id: quant-ph/0606108
title: Stable polarization-encoded quantum key distribution in fiber
authors: Guang Wu, Jie Chen, Yao Li, Heping Zeng
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606108
abstract: Polarizations of single-photon pulses have been controlled with long-term stability of more than 10 hours by using an active feedback technique for auto-compensation of unpredictable polarization scrambling in long-distance fiber. Experimental tests of long-term operations in 50, 75 and 100 km fibers demonstrated that such a single-photon polarization control supported stable polarization encoding in long-distance fibers to facilitate stable one-way fiber system for polarization-encoded quantum key distribution, providing quantum bit error rates below the absolute security threshold.

id: quant-ph/0606109
title: GHZ-type and W-type entangled coherent states: generation and Bell-type inequality tests without photon counting
authors: Hyunseok Jeong, Nguyen Ba An
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022104 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606109
abstract: We study GHZ-type and W-type three-mode entangled coherent states. Both the types of entangled coherent states violate Mermin's version of the Bell inequality with threshold photon detection (i.e., without photon counting). Such an experiment can be performed using linear optics elements and threshold detectors with significant Bell violations for GHZ-type entangled coherent states. However, to demonstrate Bell-type inequality violations for W-type entangled coherent states, additional nonlinear interactions are needed. We also propose an optical scheme to generate W-type entangled coherent states in free-traveling optical fields. The required resources for the generation are a single-photon source, a coherent state source, beam splitters, phase shifters, photodetectors, and Kerr nonlinearities. Our scheme does not necessarily require strong Kerr nonlinear interactions, i.e., weak nonlinearities can be used for the generation of the W-type entangled coherent states. Furthermore, it is also robust against inefficiencies of the single-photon source and the photon detectors.

id: quant-ph/0606110
title: Entanglement between atomic condensates in an optical lattice: effects of interaction range
authors: H. T. Ng, K. Burnett
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, title changed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 023601 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606110
abstract: We study the area-dependent entropy and two-site entanglement for two state Bose-Einstein condensates in a 2D optical lattice. We consider the case where the array of two component condensates behave like an ensemble of spin-half particles with the interaction to its nearest neighbors and next nearest neighbors. We show how the Hamiltonian of their Bose-Einstein condensate lattice with nearest-neighbor and next-nearest-neighbor interactions can be mapped into a harmonic lattice. We use this to determine the entropy and entanglement content of the lattice.

id: quant-ph/0606111
title: Quality of a Quantum Error Correcting Scheme and Memory Error Threshold Estimation
authors: Pedro J. Salas
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 6, No 6 (2006) 516-526
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606111
abstract: The error correcting capabilities of the Calderbank-Shor-Steane [[7,1,3]] quantum code, together with a fault-tolerant syndrome extraction by means of several ancilla states, have been numerically studied. A simple probability expression to characterize the code ability for correcting an encoded qubit has been considered. This probability, as a correction quality criterion, permits the error correction capabilities among different recovery schemes to be compared. The memory error threshold is calculated by means of the best method of those considered.

id: quant-ph/0606112
title: Optimal partial estimation of quantum states from several copies
authors: Ladislav Mista Jr., Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022316 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606112
abstract: We derive analytical formula for the optimal trade-off between the mean estimation fidelity and the mean fidelity of the qubit state after a partial measurement on N identically prepared qubits. We also conjecture analytical expression for the optimal fidelity trade-off in case of a partial measurement on N identical copies of a d-level system.

id: quant-ph/0606113
title: Inserting two atoms into a single optical micropotential
authors: Y. Miroshnychenko, W. Alt, I. Dotsenko, L. Foerster, M. Khudaverdyan, D. Meschede, S. Reick, A. Rauschenbeutel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 243003 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606113
abstract: We recently demonstrated that strings of trapped atoms inside a standing wave optical dipole trap can be rearranged using optical tweezers [Y. Miroshnychenko et al., Nature, in press (2006)]. This technique allows us to actively set the interatomic separations on the scale of the individual trapping potential wells. Here, we use such a distance-control operation to insert two atoms into the same potential well. The detected success rate of this manipulation is 16(+4/-3) %, in agreement with the predictions of a theoretical model based on our independently determined experimental parameters.

id: quant-ph/0606114
title: $q$ - Deformed Spin Networks, Knot Polynomials and Anyonic Topological Quantum Computation
authors: Louis H. Kauffman, Samuel J. Lomonaco Jr
comments: 88 pages, 58 figures, LaTeX document
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606114
abstract: We review the q-deformed spin network approach to Topological Quantum Field Theory and apply these methods to produce unitary representations of the braid groups that are dense in the unitary groups. Our methods are rooted in the bracket state sum model for the Jones polynomial. We give our results for a large class of representations based on values for the bracket polynomial that are roots of unity. We make a separate and self-contained study of the quantum universal Fibonacci model in this framework. We apply our results to give quantum algorithms for the computation of the colored Jones polynomials for knots and links, and the Witten-Reshetikhin-Turaev invariant of three manifolds.

id: quant-ph/0606115
title: Efficient Quantum State Estimation by Continuous Weak Measurement and Dynamical Control
authors: Greg A. Smith, Andrew Silberfarb, Ivan H. Deutsch, Poul S. Jessen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606115
abstract: We demonstrate a fast, robust and non-destructive protocol for quantum state estimation based on continuous weak measurement in the presence of a controlled dynamical evolution. Our experiment uses optically probed atomic spins as a testbed, and successfully reconstructs a range of trial states with fidelities of ~90%. The procedure holds promise as a practical diagnostic tool for the study of complex quantum dynamics, the testing of quantum hardware, and as a starting point for new types of quantum feedback control.

id: quant-ph/0606116
title: On Lower Bound of Worst Case Error Probability for Quantum Fingerprinting with Shared Entanglement
authors: Xin Li, Tian Liu, Han Peng, Hongtao Sun, Jiaqi Zhu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606116
abstract: This paper discusses properties of quantum fingerprinting with shared entanglement. Under certain restriction of final measurement, a relation is given between unitary operations of two parties. Then, by reducing to spherical coding problem, this paper gives a lower bound of worst case error probability for quantum fingerprinting with shared entanglement, showing a relation between worst case error probability and the amount of entanglement(measured by Schmidt number).

id: quant-ph/0606117
title: Charge Detection in a Closed-Loop Aharonov-Bohm Interferometer
authors: Gyong Luck Khym, Kicheon Kang
comments: 4 pages with 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. B74 (2006) 153309
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606117
abstract: We report on a study of complementarity in a two-terminal "closed-loop" Aharonov-Bohm interferometer. In this interferometer, the simple picture of two-path interference cannot be applied. We introduce a nearby quantum point contact to detect the electron in a quantum dot inserted in the interferometer. We found that charge detection reduces but does not completely suppress the interference even in the limit of perfect detection. We attribute this phenomenon to the unique nature of the closed-loop interferometer. That is, the closed-loop interferometer cannot be simply regarded as a two-path interferometer because of multiple reflections of electrons. As a result, there exist indistinguishable paths of the electron in the interferometer and the interference survives even in the limit of perfect charge detection. This implies that charge detection is not equivalent to path detection in a closed-loop interferometer. We also discuss the phase rigidity of the transmission probability for a two-terminal conductor in the presence of a detector.

id: quant-ph/0606118
title: Demonstration of Controllable Temporal Distinguishability in a Three-Photon State
authors: B. H. Liu, F. W. Sun, Y. X. Gong, Y. F. Huang, Z. Y. Ou, G. C. Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606118
abstract: Multi-photon interference is at the heart of the recently proposed linear optical quantum computing scheme and plays an essential role in many protocols in quantum information. Indistinguishability is what leads to the effect of quantum interference. Optical interferometers such as Michaelson interferometer provide a measure for second-order coherence at one-photon level and Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer was widely employed to describe two-photon entanglement and indistinguishability. However, there is not an effective way for a system of more than two photons. Recently, a new interferometric scheme was proposed to quantify the degree of multi-photon distinguishability. Here we report an experiment to implement the scheme for three-photon case. We are able to generate three photons with different degrees of temporal distinguishability and demonstrate how to characterize them by the visibility of three-photon interference. This method of quantitative description of multi-photon indistinguishability will have practical implications in the implementation of quantum information protocols.

id: quant-ph/0606119
title: Quantification of entanglement via uncertainties
authors: Alexander A. Klyachko, Bar?? ?ztop, Alexander S. Shumovsky
comments: Changed content, references added 7 pages, no figures, PRA in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606119
abstract: We show that entanglement of pure multi-party states can be quantified by means of quantum uncertainties of certain basic observables through the use of measure that has been initially proposed in [10] for bipartite systems.

id: quant-ph/0606120
title: Economical realization of phase covariant devices in arbitrary dimensions
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Chiara Macchiavello
comments: 18 pages, 1 fugure. This paper reviews and completes quant-ph/0407103 and quant-ph/0504016
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 24, 363 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606120
abstract: We describe a unified framework of phase covariant multi user quantum transformations for d-dimensional quantum systems. We derive the optimal phase covariant cloning and transposition tranformations for multi phase states. We show that for some particular relations between the input and output number of copies they correspond to economical tranformations, which can be achieved without the need of auxiliary systems. We prove a relation between the optimal phase covariant cloning and transposition maps, and optimal estimation of multiple phases for equatorial states.

id: quant-ph/0606121
title: On connection between classical and quantum mechanics
authors: Daniel Sepunaru
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606121
abstract: We discuss an alternative version of non- relativistic Newtonian mechanics in terms of a real Hilbert space mathematical framework. It is demonstrated that the physics of this scheme correspondent with the standard formulation. Heisenberg-Schrodinger non-relativistic quantum mechanics is considered adequate and complete. Since the suggested theory is dispersion free, linear superposition principle is not violated but cannot affect results of measurements due to spectral decomposition theorem for self-adjoint operators (the collapse of wave function).

id: quant-ph/0606122
title: Is the Fair Sampling Assumption supported by EPR Experiments?
authors: Guillaume Adenier, Andrei Yu. Khrennikov
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 40 No 1 (2007) 131-141
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606122
abstract: We analyze optical EPR experimental data performed by Weihs et al in Innsbruck 1997-1998. We show that for some linear combinations of the raw coincidence rates, the experimental results display some anomalous behavior that a more general source state (like non-maximally entangled state) cannot straightforwardly account for. We attempt to explain these anomalies by taking account of the relative efficiencies of the four channels. For this purpose, we use the fair sampling assumption, and assume explicitly that the detection efficiencies for the pairs of entangled photons can be written as a product of the two corresponding detection efficiencies for the single photons. We show that this explicit use of fair sampling cannot be maintained to be a reasonable assumption as it leads to an apparent violation of the no-signalling principle.

id: quant-ph/0606123
title: The hidden geometric character of relativistic quantum mechanics
authors: Jose B. Almeida
comments: 29 pages. Small changes in V3 suggested by referee
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49(1), pp. 012301, (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606123
abstract: The presentation makes use of geometric algebra, also known as Clifford algebra, in 5-dimensional spacetime. The choice of this space is given the character of first principle, justified solely by the consequences that can be derived from such choice and their consistency with experimental results. Given a metric space of any dimension, one can define monogenic functions, the natural extension of analytic functions to higher dimensions; such functions have null vector derivative and have previously been shown by other authors to play a decisive role in lower dimensional spaces. All monogenic functions have null Laplacian by consequence; in an hyperbolic space this fact leads inevitably to a wave equation with plane-like solutions. This is also true for 5-dimensional spacetime and we will explore those solutions, establishing a parallel with the solutions of the Dirac equation. For this purpose we will invoke the isomorphism between the complex algebra of 4x4 matrices, also known as Dirac's matrices. There is one problem with this isomorphism, because the solutions to Dirac's equation are usually known as spinors (column matrices) that don't belong to the 4x4 matrix algebra and as such are excluded from the isomorphism. We will show that a solution in terms of Dirac spinors is equivalent to a plane wave solution. Just as one finds in the standard formulation, monogenic functions can be naturally split into positive/negative energy together with left/right ones. This split is provided by geometric projectors and we will show that there is a second set of projectors providing an alternate 4-fold split. The possible implications of this alternate split are not yet fully understood and are presently the subject of profound research.

id: quant-ph/0606124
title: Current behavior of a quantum Hamiltonian ratchet in resonance
authors: Dario Poletti, Gabriel G. Carlo, Baowen Li
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606124
abstract: We investigate the ratchet current that appears in a kicked Hamiltonian system when the period of the kicks corresponds to the regime of quantum resonance. In the classical analogue, a spatial-temporal symmetry should be broken to obtain a net directed current. It was recently discovered that in quantum resonance the temporal symmetry can be kept, and we prove that breaking the spatial symmetry is a necessary condition to find this effect. Moreover, we show numerically and analytically how the direction of the motion is dramatically influenced by the strength of the kicking potential and the value of the period. By increasing the strength of the interaction this direction changes periodically, providing us with a non-expected source of current reversals in this quantum model. These reversals depend on the kicking period also, though this behavior is theoretically more difficult to analyze. Finally, we generalize the discussion to the case of a non-uniform initial condition.

id: quant-ph/0606125
title: Entanglement Purification of Any Stabilizer State
authors: S. Glancy, E. Knill, H. M. Vasconcelos
comments: 11 pages, 0 figures, comments welcome, submitting to Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 032319 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606125
abstract: We present a method for multipartite entanglement purification of any stabilizer state shared by several parties. In our protocol each party measures the stabilizer operators of a quantum error-correcting code on his or her qubits. The parties exchange their measurement results, detect or correct errors, and decode the desired purified state. We give sufficient conditions on the stabilizer codes that may be used in this procedure and find that Steane's seven-qubit code is the smallest error-correcting code sufficient to purify any stabilizer state. An error-detecting code that encodes two qubits in six can also be used to purify any stabilizer state. We further specify which classes of stabilizer codes can purify which classes of stabilizer states.

id: quant-ph/0606126
title: Optimal and Efficient Decoding of Concatenated Quantum Block Codes
authors: David Poulin
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74 052333 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606126
abstract: We consider the problem of optimally decoding a quantum error correction code -- that is to find the optimal recovery procedure given the outcomes of partial "check" measurements on the system. In general, this problem is NP-hard. However, we demonstrate that for concatenated block codes, the optimal decoding can be efficiently computed using a message passing algorithm. We compare the performance of the message passing algorithm to that of the widespread blockwise hard decoding technique. Our Monte Carlo results using the 5 qubit and Steane's code on a depolarizing channel demonstrate significant advantages of the message passing algorithms in two respects. 1) Optimal decoding increases by as much as 94% the error threshold below which the error correction procedure can be used to reliably send information over a noisy channel. 2) For noise levels below these thresholds, the probability of error after optimal decoding is suppressed at a significantly higher rate, leading to a substantial reduction of the error correction overhead.

id: quant-ph/0606127
title: A Panoply of Quantum Algorithms
authors: Bartholomew Furrow
comments: 32 pages. Presented at CIAR Quantum Information Processing meeting, May 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606127
abstract: We create a variety of new quantum algorithms that use Grover's algorithm and similar techniques to give polynomial speedups over their classical counterparts. We begin by introducing a set of tools that carefully minimize the impact of errors on running time; those tools provide us with speedups to already-published quantum algorithms, such as improving Durr, Heiligman, Hoyer and Mhalla's algorithm for single-source shortest paths [quant-ph/0401091] by a factor of lg N. The algorithms we construct from scratch have a range of speedups, from O(E)->O(sqrt(VE lg V)) speedups in graph theory to an O(N^3)->O(N^2) speedup in dynamic programming.

id: quant-ph/0606128
title: How to observe a coherent superposition of an atom and a molecule
authors: Mark R. Dowling, Stephen D. Bartlett, Terry Rudolph, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure, comments welcome, published version (minor changes)
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 74, 052113 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606128
abstract: We demonstrate that it is possible, in principle, to perform a Ramsey-type interference experiment to exhibit a coherent superposition of a single atom and a diatomic molecule. This gedanken experiment, based on the techniques of Aharonov and Susskind [Phys. Rev. 155, 1428 (1967)], explicitly violates the commonly-accepted superselection rule that forbids coherent superpositions of eigenstates of differing atom number. This interference experiment makes use of a Bose-Einstein condensate as a reference frame with which to perform the coherent operations analogous to Ramsey pulses. We also investigate an analogous gedanken experiment to exhibit a coherent superposition of a single boson and a fermion, violating the commonly-accepted superselection rule forbidding coherent superpositions of states of differing particle statistics; in this case, the reference frame is realized by a multi-mode state of many fermions. This latter case reproduces all of the relevant features of Ramsey interferometry, including Ramsey fringes over many repetitions of the experiment. However, the apparent inability of this proposed experiment to produce well-defined relative phases between two distinct systems each described by a coherent superposition of a boson and a fermion demonstrates that there are additional, outstanding requirements to fully ``lift'' the univalence superselection rule.

id: quant-ph/0606129
title: Scattering in PT-symmetric quantum mechanics
authors: F. Cannata, J.-P. Dedonder, A. Ventura
comments: 41 pages, to appear in Ann. Phys
journal: Ann. Phys. 322 (2007) 397
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606129
abstract: A general formalism is worked out for the description of one-dimensional scattering in non-hermitian quantum mechanics and constraints on transmission and reflection coefficients are derived in the cases of P, T, or PT invariance of the Hamiltonian. Applications to some solvable PT-symmetric potentials are shown in detail. Our main original results concern the association of reflectionless potentials with asymptotic exact PT symmetry and the peculiarities of separable kernels of non-local potentials in connection with hermiticity, T invariance and PT invariance.

id: quant-ph/0606130
title: Ground state fidelity and quantum phase transitions in free Fermi systems
authors: P. Zanardi, M. Cozzini, P. Giorda
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606130
abstract: We compute the fidelity between the ground states of general quadratic fermionic hamiltonians and analyze its connections with quantum phase transitions. Each of these systems is characterized by a $L\times L$ real matrix whose polar decomposition, into a non-negative $\Lambda$ and a unitary $T$, contains all the relevant ground state (GS) information. The boundaries between different regions in the GS phase diagram are given by the points of, possibly asymptotic, singularity of $\Lambda$. This latter in turn implies a critical drop of the fidelity function. We present general results as well as their exemplification by a model of fermions on a totally connected graph.

id: quant-ph/0606131
title: How many copies are needed for state discrimination?
authors: Aram W. Harrow, Andreas Winter
comments: 1 page, submitted to QCMC'06, answer is O(log # of states)
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th., vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 1-2, Jan 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606131
abstract: Given a collection of states (rho_1, ..., rho_N) with pairwise fidelities F(rho_i, rho_j) <= F < 1, we show the existence of a POVM that, given rho_i^{otimes n}, will identify i with probability >= 1-epsilon, as long as n>=2(log N/eps)/log (1/F). This improves on previous results which were either dimension-dependent or required that i be drawn from a known distribution.

id: quant-ph/0606132
title: Quantum Capacities of Bosonic Channels
authors: Michael M. Wolf, David Perez-Garcia, Geza Giedke
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 130501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606132
abstract: We investigate the capacity of bosonic quantum channels for the transmission of quantum information. Achievable rates are determined from measurable moments of the channel by showing that every channel can asymptotically simulate a Gaussian channel which is characterized by second moments of the initial channel. We calculate the quantum capacity for a class of Gaussian channels, including channels describing optical fibers with photon losses, by proving that Gaussian encodings are optimal. Along the way we provide a complete characterization of degradable Gaussian channels and those arising from teleportation protocols.

id: quant-ph/0606133
title: Local entanglement and quantum phase transition in 1D transverse field Ising model
authors: Shi-Quan Su, Jun-Liang Song, Shi-Jian Gu
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: S. Q. Su, J. L. Song, and S. J. Gu, Phys. Rev. A 74, 032308 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606133
abstract: In this paper, we study the entanglement between two-neighboring sites and the rest of the system in a simple quantum phase transition of 1D transverse field Ising model. We find that the entanglement shows interesting scaling and singular behavior around the critical point, and then can be use as a convenient marker for the transition point.

id: quant-ph/0606134
title: Purity and decoherence in the theory of a damped harmonic oscillator
authors: A. Isar, A. Sandulescu, W. Scheid
comments: 24 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. E, v. 60, p. 6371 (1999)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606134
abstract: For the generalized master equations derived by Karrlein and Grabert for the microscopic model of a damped harmonic oscillator, the conditions for purity of states are written, in particular for different initial conditions and different types of damping, including Ohmic, Drude and weak coupling cases, Agarwal and Weidlich-Haake models. It is shown that the states which remain pure are the squeezed states with constant in time variances. For pure states, the generalized nonlinear Schr\" odinger-type equations corresponding to these master equations are also obtained. Then the condition for purity of states of a damped harmonic oscillator is considered in the framework of Lindblad theory for open quantum systems. For a special choice of the environment coefficients, the correlated coherent states with constant variances and covariance are shown to be the only states which remain pure all the time during the evolution of the considered system. In Karrlein-Grabert and Lindblad models, as well as in the considered particular models, the expressions of the rate of entropy production is written and it is shown that the states which preserve their purity in time are also the states which minimize the entropy production and, therefore, they are the most stable ones under evolution in the presence of the environment and play an important role in the description of decoherence phenomenon.

id: quant-ph/0606135
title: Casimir-Polder interaction between an excited atom and a gas dielectric medium
authors: Yury Sherkunov
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures
journal: PhysRevA 75, 012705 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606135
abstract: The Casimir-Polder potential for interaction between an excited atom and a ground-state one in the retarded case obtained with the help of perturbation technique drops as R^-2 with the distance between the atoms [E.A. Power, T.Thirunamachandran, Phys. Rev. A, 47, 2539 (1993)]. It results in diverdent integrals for interaction between an excited atom and a dilute gas medium. We investigate interaction between two atoms embedded in a dielectric medium with the help of non-perturbative approach. We take into account absorption of photons in the medium. This approach solves the problem of divergence. We consider interaction between an excited atom and a planar dielectric gas medium of ground-state atoms. We show that the retarded interaction between an excited atom and a gas of ground-state atoms is not oscillating but follows a simple power law. We show that to obtain coventional non-retarded expression for the van der Waals force between an excited atom and a dilute gas the distance between the atom and the interface should be much smaller than the free mean pass of a photon in the medium. Interaction between an excited atom and a hemisphere of ground-state atoms is considered.

id: quant-ph/0606136
title: Threshold quantum cryptograph based on Grover's algorithm
authors: Jian-Zhong Du, Su-Juan Qin, Qiao-Yan Wen, Fu-Chen Zhu
comments: 7 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606136
abstract: Grover's operator in the two-qubit case can transform a basis into its conjugated basis. A permutation operator can transform a state in the two conjugated bases into its orthogonal state. These properties are included in a threshold quantum protocol. The proposed threshold quantum protocol is secure based the proof that the legitimate participators can only eavesdrop 2 bits of 3 bits operation information on one two-qubit with error probability 3/8. We propose a scheme to detect the Trojan horse attack without destroying the legal qubit.

id: quant-ph/0606137
title: Quantum Knitting
authors: S. Garnerone, A. Marzuoli, M. Rasetti
comments: 29 pages, 5 figures; to appear in Laser Journal
journal: Laser Physics Vol. 16 No. 11 (2006) 1582-1594
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606137
abstract: We analyze the connections between the mathematical theory of knots and quantum physics by addressing a number of algorithmic questions related to both knots and braid groups. Knots can be distinguished by means of `knot invariants', among which the Jones polynomial plays a prominent role, since it can be associated with observables in topological quantum field theory. Although the problem of computing the Jones polynomial is intractable in the framework of classical complexity theory, it has been recently recognized that a quantum computer is capable of approximating it in an efficient way. The quantum algorithms discussed here represent a breakthrough for quantum computation, since approximating the Jones polynomial is actually a `universal problem', namely the hardest problem that a quantum computer can efficiently handle.

id: quant-ph/0606138
title: Grothendieck's constant and local models for noisy entangled quantum states
authors: Antonio Acin, Nicolas Gisin, Benjamin Toner
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062105 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606138
abstract: We relate the nonlocal properties of noisy entangled states to Grothendieck's constant, a mathematical constant appearing in Banach space theory. For two-qubit Werner states $\rho^W_p=p \proj{\psi^-}+(1-p){\one}/{4}$, we show that there is a local model for projective measurements if and only if $p \le 1/K_G(3)$, where $K_G(3)$ is Grothendieck's constant of order 3. Known bounds on $K_G(3)$ prove the existence of this model at least for $p \lesssim 0.66$, quite close to the current region of Bell violation, $p \sim 0.71$. We generalize this result to arbitrary quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0606139
title: A Finite de Finetti Theorem for Infinite-Dimensional Systems
authors: Christian D'Cruz, Tobias J. Osborne, Ruediger Schack
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 160406 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606139
abstract: We formulate and prove a de Finetti representation theorem for finitely exchangeable states of a quantum system consisting of k infinite-dimensional subsystems. The theorem is valid for states that can be written as the partial trace of a pure state chosen from a family of subsets C_n of the full symmetric subspace for $n$ subsystems. We show that such states become arbitrarily close to mixtures of pure power states as n increases. We give a second equivalent characterization of the family C_n.

id: quant-ph/0606140
title: The Complexity of Stoquastic Local Hamiltonian Problems
authors: Sergey Bravyi, David P. DiVincenzo, Roberto I. Oliveira, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 21 pages Latex, 1 figure. v2 contains several small corrections. v3 has more small corrections
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. Vol.8, No.5, pp. 0361-0385 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606140
abstract: We study the complexity of the Local Hamiltonian Problem (denoted as LH-MIN) in the special case when a Hamiltonian obeys conditions of the Perron-Frobenius theorem: all off-diagonal matrix elements in the standard basis are real and non-positive. We will call such Hamiltonians, which are common in the natural world, stoquastic. An equivalent characterization of stoquastic Hamiltonians is that they have an entry-wise non-negative Gibbs density matrix for any temperature. We prove that LH-MIN for stoquastic Hamiltonians belongs to the complexity class AM -- a probabilistic version of NP with two rounds of communication between the prover and the verifier. We also show that 2-local stoquastic LH-MIN is hard for the class MA. With the additional promise of having a polynomial spectral gap, we show that stoquastic LH-MIN belongs to the class POSTBPP=BPPpath -- a generalization of BPP in which a post-selective readout is allowed. This last result also shows that any problem solved by adiabatic quantum computation using stoquastic Hamiltonians lies in PostBPP.

id: quant-ph/0606141
title: An axiomatic approach to Einstein's boxes
authors: Thomas V Marcella
comments: 14 pages, submitted to American Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606141
abstract: The fallacies inherent in the Einstein's Boxes thought experiment are made evident by taking an axiomatic approach to quantum mechanics while ignoring notions not supported by the postulates or by experimental observation. We emphasize that the postulates contain everything needed to completely describe a quantum experiment. We discuss the non-classical nature of both the state vector and the experiment that it represents. Einstein's Boxes is then described by the formalism alone. We see that it is no different from any other experiment in which a two-state observable is measured.

id: quant-ph/0606142
title: Mode Coupling and Cavity-Quantum-Dot Interactions in a Fiber-Coupled Microdisk Cavity
authors: Kartik Srinivasan, Oskar Painter
comments: rev4: updated references and added additional correlation function calculations; to appear in Phys. Rev. A in Feb 2007
journal: Phys. Rev. A., v75, art. no. 023814, Feb. 23, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606142
abstract: A quantum master equation model for the interaction between a two-level system and whispering-gallery modes (WGMs) of a microdisk cavity is presented, with specific attention paid to current experiments involving a semiconductor quantum dot (QD) embedded in a fiber-coupled, AlGaAs microdisk cavity. In standard single mode cavity QED, three important rates characterize the system: the QD-cavity coupling rate g, the cavity decay rate kappa, and the QD dephasing rate gamma_perpendicular. A more accurate model of the microdisk cavity includes two additional features. The first is a second cavity mode that can couple to the QD, which for an ideal microdisk corresponds to a traveling wave WGM propagating counter to the first WGM. The second feature is a coupling between these two traveling wave WGMs, at a rate beta, due to backscattering caused by surface roughness that is present in fabricated devices. We consider the transmitted and reflected signals from the cavity for different parameter regimes of {g,beta,kappa,gamma_perpendicular}. A result of this analysis is that even in the presence of negligible roughness induced backscattering, a strongly coupled QD mediates coupling between the traveling wave WGMs, resulting in an enhanced effective coherent coupling rate g = sqrt(2)*g0 corresponding to that of a standing wave WGM with an electric field maximum at the position of the QD. In addition, analysis of the second-order correlation function of the reflected signal from the cavity indicates that regions of strong photon antibunching or bunching may be present depending upon the strength of coupling of the QD to each of the cavity modes. Such intensity correlation information will likely be valuable in interpreting experimental measurements of a strongly-coupled QD to a bi-modal WGM cavity.

id: quant-ph/0606143
title: Bohr-Heisenberg Reality and System-Free Quantum Mechanics
authors: George Jaroszkiewicz, Jon Eakins
comments: 10 pages, submitted to Proceedings of Foundations of Probability and Physics -4, June 4-9, 2006, Vaxjo, Sweden
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606143
abstract: Motivated by Heisenberg's assertion that electron trajectories do not exist until they are observed, we present a new approach to quantum mechanics in which the concept of observer independent system under observation is eliminated. Instead, the focus is only on observers and apparatus, the former describing the latter in terms of labstates. These are quantum states over time-dependent Heisenberg nets, which are quantum registers of qubits representing information gateways accessible to the observers. We discuss the motivation for this approach and lay down the basic principles and mathematical notation.

id: quant-ph/0606144
title: A Novel Quasi-Exactly Solvable Model with Total Transmission Modes
authors: Hing-Tong Cho, Choon-Lin Ho
comments: Revtex, 9 pages, 1 eps figure, claim on continuous bound state spectra removed, more discussions on self-adjoint extensions added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606144
abstract: In this paper we present a novel quasi-exactly solvable model with symmetric inverted potentials which are unbounded from below. The quasi-exactly solvable states are shown to be total transmission (or reflectionless) modes. From these modes even and odd wavefunctions can be constructed which are normalizable and flux-zero. Under the procedure of self-adjoint extension, a discrete spectrum of bound states can be obtained for these inverted potentials and the solvable part of the spectrum is the quasi-exactly solvable states we have discovered.

id: quant-ph/0606145
title: Atom Lithography with Near-Resonant Light Masks: Quantum Optimization Analysis
authors: R. Arun, Offir Cohen, I.Sh. Averbukh
comments: 10 pages including 11 figures in Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606145
abstract: We study the optimal focusing of two-level atoms with a near resonant standing wave light, using both classical and quantum treatments of the problem. Operation of the focusing setup is considered as a nonlinear spatial squeezing of atoms in the thin- and thick-lens regimes. It is found that the near-resonant standing wave focuses the atoms with a reduced background in comparison with far-detuned light fields. For some parameters, the quantum atomic distribution shows even better localization than the classical one. Spontaneous emission effects are included via the technique of quantum Monte Carlo wave function simulations. We investigate the extent to which non-adiabatic and spontaneous emission effects limit the achievable minimal size of the deposited structures.

id: quant-ph/0606146
title: Entanglement enhancement and postselection for two atoms interacting with thermal light
authors: Kamil Bradler, Rocio Jauregui
comments: accepted for publication in J. Phys. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606146
abstract: The evolution of entanglement for two identical two-level atoms coupled to a resonant thermal field is studied for two different families of input states. Entanglement enhancement is predicted for a well defined region of the parameter space of one of these families. The most intriguing result is the possibility of probabilistic production of maximally entangled atomic states even if the input atomic state is factorized and the corresponding output state is separable.

id: quant-ph/0606147
title: Theory for a Hanbury Brown Twiss experiment with a ballistically expanding cloud of cold atoms
authors: Jose Viana Gomes, Aurlien Perrin, Martijn Schellekens, Denis Boiron, Christoph I. Westbrook, Michael Belsley
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 74 (07/11/2006) 053607
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606147
abstract: We have studied one-body and two-body correlation functions in a ballistically expanding, non-interacting atomic cloud in the presence of gravity. We find that the correlation functions are equivalent to those at thermal equilibrium in the trap with an appropriate rescaling of the coordinates. We derive simple expressions for the correlation lengths and give some physical interpretations. Finally a simple model to take into account finite detector resolution is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0606148
title: Invariants for a Class of Nongeneric Three-qubit States
authors: Bao-Zhi Sun, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 7 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 45(2006)1007-1010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606148
abstract: We investigate the equivalence of quantum states under local unitary transformations. A complete set of invariants under local unitary transformations is presented for a class of non-generic three-qubit mixed states. It is shown that two such states in this class are locally equivalent if and only if all these invariants have equal values for them.

id: quant-ph/0606149
title: Entanglement in single particle systems
authors: M. O. Terra Cunha, J. A. Dunningham, V. Vedral
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606149
abstract: We address some of the most commonly raised questions about entanglement, especially with regard to so-called occupation number entanglement. To answer unambiguously whether entanglement can exist in a one-atom delocalized state, we propose an experiment capable of showing violations of Bell's inequality using only this state and local operations. As a byproduct, this experiment suggests a means of creating an entangled state of two different chemical species. By comparison with a massless system, we argue that there should be no fundamental objection to such a superposition and its creation may be within reach of present technology.

id: quant-ph/0606150
title: Noisy Teleportation
authors: Safa Jami
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606150
abstract: Entanglement is a key resource in many quantum information applications. One of these applications is quantum teleportation.The purpose of teleportation is sending qubits across quantum channels. In general these quantum channels are noisy and therefore limit the fidelity of transmission.In this paper we consider the effect of noise on teleportation and finally find the fidelity of teleportation in presence of noise.

id: quant-ph/0606151
title: Strong-field spatial interference in a tailored electromagnetic bath
authors: M. Macovei, J. Evers, G.-x. Li, C. H. Keitel
comments: final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 043602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606151
abstract: Light scattered by a regular structure of atoms can exhibit interference signatures, similar to the classical double-slit. These first-order interferences, however, vanish for strong light intensities, restricting potential applications. Here, we show how to overcome these limitations to quantum interference in strong fields. First, we recover the first-order interference in strong fields via a tailored electromagnetic bath with a suitable frequency dependence. At strong driving, the optical properties for different spectral bands are distinct, thus extending the set of observables. We further show that for a two-photon detector as, e.g., in lithography, increasing the field intensity leads to twice the spatial resolution of the second-order interference pattern compared to the weak-field case.

id: quant-ph/0606152
title: Multiatom and resonant interaction scheme for quantum state transfer and logical gates between two remote cavities via an optical fiber
authors: Zhang-qi Yin, Fu-li Li
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures; Corrected typos in fig6(b),(c) and references; Adding disscussion on experimental feasibility in the last section. Accepted for PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012324 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606152
abstract: A system consisting of two single-mode cavities spatially separated and connected by an optical fiber and multiple two-level atoms trapped in the cavities is considered. If the atoms resonantly and collectively interact with the local cavity fields but there is no direct interaction between the atoms, we show that an ideal quantum state transfer and highly reliable quantum swap, entangling, and controlled-Z gates can be deterministically realized between the distant cavities. We find that the operation of state transfer and swap, entangling, and controlled-Z gates can be greatly speeded up as number of the atoms in the cavities increases. We also notice that the effects of spontaneous emission of atoms and photon leakage out of cavity on the quantum processes can also be greatly diminished in the multiatom case.

id: quant-ph/0606153
title: Conditional quantum-state engineering using ancillary squeezed-vacuum states
authors: Hyunseok Jeong, Andrew M. Lance, Nicolai B. Grosse, Thomas Symul, Ping Koy Lam, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 10 pages, 14 figures, use pdf version, high quality figures available on request
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 033813 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606153
abstract: We investigate an optical scheme to conditionally engineer quantum states using a beam splitter, homodyne detection and a squeezed vacuum as an ancillar state. This scheme is efficient in producing non-Gaussian quantum states such as squeezed single photons and superpositions of coherent states (SCSs). We show that a SCS with well defined parity and high fidelity can be generated from a Fock state of $n\leq4$, and conjecture that this can be generalized for an arbitrary $n$ Fock state. We describe our experimental demonstration of this scheme using coherent input states and measuring experimental fidelities that are only achievable using quantum resources.

id: quant-ph/0606154
title: Entanglement conditions for two-mode states: Applications
authors: Mark Hillery, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: 7 pages, no figures, replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 032333 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606154
abstract: We examine the implications of several recently derived conditions [Hillery and Zubairy, Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 050503 (2006)] for determining when a two-mode state is entangled. We first find examples of non-Gaussian states that satisfy these conditions. We then apply the entanglement conditions to the study of several linear devices, the beam splitter, the parametric amplifier, and the linear phase-insensitive amplifier. For the first two, we find conditions on the input states that guarantee that the output states are entangled. For the linear amplifier, we determine in the limit of high and no gain, when an entangled input leads to an entangled output. Finally, we show how application of two two-mode entanglement conditions to a three-mode state can serve as a test of genuine three-mode entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0606155
title: Coherent control of collective spontaneous emission in an extended atomic ensemble and quantum storage
authors: Alexey Kalachev, Stefan Kroll
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606155
abstract: Coherent control of collective spontaneous emission in an extended atomic ensemble resonantly interacting with single-photon wave packets is analyzed. A scheme for coherent manipulation of collective atomic states is developed such that superradiant states of the atomic system can be converted into subradiant ones and vice versa. Possible applications of such a scheme for optical quantum state storage and single-photon wave packet shaping are discussed. It is shown that also in the absence of inhomogeneous broadening of the resonant line, single-photon wave packets with arbitrary pulse shape may be recorded as a subradiant state and reconstructed even although the duration of the wave packets is larger than the superradiant life-time. Specifically the applicability for storing time-bin qubits, which are used in quantum cryptography is analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0606156
title: Optimal probabilistic estimation of quantum states
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, ReVTeX4
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 192 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606156
abstract: We extend the concept of probabilistic unambiguous discrimination of quantum states to quantum state estimation. We consider a scenario where the measurement device can output either an estimate of the unknown input state or an inconclusive result. We present a general method how to evaluate the maximum fidelity achievable by the probabilistic estimation strategy. We illustrate our method on two explicit examples: estimation of a qudit from a pair of conjugate qudits and phase covariant estimation of a qubit from N copies. We show that by allowing for inconclusive results it is possible to reach estimation fidelity higher than that achievable by the best deterministic estimation strategy.

id: quant-ph/0606157
title: A Scalable Architecture for Coherence-Preserving Qubits
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein, C. Stephen Hellberg
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 110501 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606157
abstract: We propose scalable architectures for the coherence-preserving qubits introduced by Bacon, Brown, and Whaley [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 87}, 247902 (2001)]. These architectures employ extra qubits providing additional degrees of freedom to the system. We show that these extra degrees of freedom can be used to counter errors in coupling strength within the coherence-preserving qubit and to combat interactions with environmental qubits. The presented architectures incorporate experimentally viable methods for inter-logical-qubit coupling and can implement a controlled phase gate via three simultaneous Heisenberg exchange operations. The extra qubits also provide flexibility in the arrangement of the physical qubits. Specifically, all physical qubits of a coherent-preserving qubit lattice can be placed in two spatial dimensions. Such an arrangement allows for universal cluster state computation.

id: quant-ph/0606158
title: Correcting low-frequency noise with continuous measurement
authors: L. Tian
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 153602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606158
abstract: Low-frequency noise presents a serious source of decoherence in solid-state qubits. When combined with a continuous weak measurement of the eigenstates, the low-frequency noise induces a second-order relaxation between the qubit states. Here we show that the relaxation provides a unique approach to calibrate the low-frequency noise in the time-domain. By encoding one qubit with two physical qubits that are alternatively calibrated, quantum logic gates with high fidelity can be performed.

id: quant-ph/0606159
title: Photon blockade induced Mott transitions and XY spin models in coupled cavity arrays
authors: Dimitris G. Angelakis, Marcelo F. Santos, Sougato Bose
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A (Rap. Com.) 76, 031805 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606159
abstract: As photons do not interact with each other, it is interesting to ask whether photonic systems can be modified to exhibit the phases characteristic of strongly coupled many-body systems. We demonstrate how a Mott insulator type of phase of excitations can arise in an array of coupled electromagnetic cavities, each of which is coupled resonantly to a {\em single} two level system (atom/quantum dot/Cooper pair) and can be individually addressed from outside. In the Mott phase each atom-cavity system has the same integral number of net polaritonic (atomic plus photonic) excitations with photon blockade providing the required repulsion between the excitations in each site. Detuning the atomic and photonic frequencies suppresses this effect and induces a transition to a photonic superfluid. We also show that for zero detuning, the system can simulate the dynamics of many body spin systems.

id: quant-ph/0606160
title: Cooperating or Fighting with Decoherence in the Optimal Control of Quantum Dynamics
authors: Feng Shuang, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 
journal: Journal of Chemical Physics 124, 154105 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606160
abstract: This paper explores the use of laboratory closed-loop learning control to either fight or cooperate with decoherence in the optimal manipulation of quantum dynamics. Simulations of the processes are performed in a Lindblad formulation on multilevel quantum systems strongly interacting with the environment without spontaneous emission. When seeking a high control yield it is possible to find fields that successfully fight with decoherence while attaining a good quality yield. When seeking modest control yields, fields can be found which are optimally shaped to cooperate with decoherence and thereby drive the dynamics more efficiently. In the latter regime when the control field and the decoherence strength are both weak, a theoretical foundation is established to describe how they cooperate with each other. In general, the results indicate that the population transfer objectives can be effectively met by appropriately either fighting or cooperating with decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0606161
title: Exact and Approximate Unitary 2-Designs: Constructions and Applications
authors: Christoph Dankert, Richard Cleve, Joseph Emerson, Etera Livine
comments: 7 pages, updating to version published in 2009
journal: Physical Review A 80, 012304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606161
abstract: We develop the concept of a unitary t-design as a means of expressing operationally useful subsets of the stochastic properties of the uniform (Haar) measure on the unitary group U(2^n) on n qubits. In particular, sets of unitaries forming 2-designs have wide applicability to quantum information protocols. We devise an O(n)-size in-place circuit construction for an approximate unitary 2-design. We then show that this can be used to construct an efficient protocol for experimentally characterizing the fidelity of a quantum process on n qubits with quantum circuits of size O(n) without requiring any ancilla qubits, thereby improving upon previous approaches.

id: quant-ph/0606162
title: Quantum computing with magnetic atoms in optical lattices of reduced periodicity
authors: Boris Ravaine, Andrei Derevianko, P.R. Berman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606162
abstract: We investigate the feasibility of combining Raman optical lattices with a quantum computing architecture based on lattice-confined magnetically interacting neutral atoms. A particular advantage of the standing Raman field lattices comes from reduced interatomic separations leading to increased interatomic interactions and improved multi-qubit gate performance. Specifically, we analyze a $J=3/2$ Zeeman system placed in $% \sigma _{+}-\sigma_{-}$ Raman fields which exhibit $\lambda /4$ periodicity. We find that the resulting CNOT gate operations times are in the order of millisecond. We also investigate motional and magnetic-field induced decoherences specific to the proposed architecture.

id: quant-ph/0606163
title: Interpreting concurrence in terms of covariances in a generalized spin star system
authors: F. Palumbo, A. Napoli, A. Messina
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys Rev B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606163
abstract: The quantum dynamics of M pairwise coupled spin 1/2 is analyzed and the time evolution of the entanglement get established within a prefixed couple of spins is studied. A conceptual and quantitative link between the concurrence function and measurable quantities is brought to light providing a physical interpretation for the concurrence itself as well as a way to measure it. A generalized spin star system is exactly investigated showing that the entanglement accompanying its rich dynamics is traceable back to the covariance of appropriate commuting observables of the two spins.

id: quant-ph/0606164
title: On large thermal magnetic fluctuations at the surface of metals and the Casimir force between real metals at nonzero temperature
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte
comments: The paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606164
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn, because relevant publications, related to the subject of the paper, were overlooked by the author.

id: quant-ph/0606165
title: How to hide a secret direction
authors: E. Bagan, J. Calsamiglia, R. Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, R. Munoz-Tapia
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 244
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606165
abstract: We present a procedure to share a secret spatial direction in the absence of a common reference frame using a multipartite quantum state. The procedure guarantees that the parties can determine the direction if they perform joint measurements on the state, but fail to do so if they restrict themselves to local operations and classical communication (LOCC). We calculate the fidelity for joint measurements, give bounds on the fidelity achievable by LOCC, and prove that there is a non-vanishing gap between the two of them, even in the limit of infinitely many copies. The robustness of the procedure under particle loss is also studied. As a by-product we find bounds on the probability of discriminating by LOCC between the invariant subspaces of total angular momentum N/2 and N/2-1 in a system of N elementary spins.

id: quant-ph/0606166
title: Spiked potentials and quantum toboggans
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: revision: 22 pp, 1 fig
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 13325-13336
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606166
abstract: Even if the motion of a quantum (quasi-)particle proceeds along a left-right-symmetric (PT-symmetric) curved path in complex plane, the spectrum of bound states may remain physical, i.e., real and bounded below). We propose a generalization. Firstly, we show how the topologically less trivial (tobogganic) contours may be allowed to live on several sheets of a Riemann surface. Secondly, the specification of a scattering regime is formulated for such a class of models.

id: quant-ph/0606167
title: An efficient quantum algorithm for colored Jones polynomials
authors: S. Garnerone, A. Marzuoli, M. Rasetti
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606167
abstract: We construct a quantum algorithm to approximate efficiently the colored Jones polynomial of the plat presentation of any oriented link L at a fixed root of unity q. Our construction is based on SU(2) Chern-Simons topological quantum field theory (and associated Wess-Zumino-Witten conformal field theory) and exploits the q-deformed spin network as computational background. As proved in (S. Garnerone, A. Marzuoli, M. Rasetti, quant-ph/0601169), the colored Jones polynomial can be evaluated in a number of elementary steps, bounded from above by a linear function of the number of crossings of the link, and polynomially bounded with respect to the number of link strands. Here we show that the Kaul unitary representation of colored oriented braids used there can be efficiently approximated on a standard quantum circuit.

id: quant-ph/0606168
title: Duality for monogamy of entanglement
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Gilad Gour, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 12 pages
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 48: 012108 (13 pp.), 31 January 2007,
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606168
abstract: We establish duality for monogamy of entanglement: whereas monogamy of entanglement inequalities provide an upper bound for bipartite sharability of entanglement in a multipartite system, we prove that the same quantity provides a \emph{lower} bound for distribution of bipartite entanglement in a multipartite system. Our theorem for monogamy of entanglement is used to establish relations between bipartite entanglement that separate one qubit from the rest vs separating two qubits from the rest.

id: quant-ph/0606169
title: A First-Principles Method for Open Electronic Systems
authors: Xiao Zheng, Fan Wang, GuanHua Chen
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606169
abstract: We prove that the electron density function of a real physical system can be uniquely determined by its values on any finite subsystem. This establishes the existence of a rigorous density-functional theory for any open electronic system. By introducing a new density functional for dissipative interactions between the reduced system and its environment, we subsequently develop a time-dependent density-functional theory which depends in principle only on the electron density of the reduced system. In the steady-state limit, the conventional first-principles nonequilibrium Green's function formulation for the current is recovered. A practical scheme is proposed for the new density functional: the wide-band limit approximation, which is applied to simulate the transient current through a model molecular device.

id: quant-ph/0606170
title: Direct, Loss-Tolerant Characterization of Nonclassical Photon Statistics
authors: Daryl Achilles, Christine Silberhorn, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 043602 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606170
abstract: We experimentally investigate a method of directly characterizing the photon number distribution of nonclassical light beams that is tolerant to losses and makes use only of standard binary detectors. This is achieved in a single measurement by calibrating the detector using some small amount of prior information about the source. We demonstrate the technique on a freely propagating heralded two-photon number state created by conditional detection of a two-mode squeezed state generated by a parametric downconverter.

id: quant-ph/0606171
title: Relativistic effects in quantum walks: Klein's paradox and Zitterbewegung
authors: Pawel Kurzynski
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372, 6125 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606171
abstract: Quantum walks are not only algorithmic tools for quantum computation but also not trivial models which describe various physical processes. The paper compares one-dimensional version of the free particle Dirac equation with discrete time quantum walk (DTQW). We show that the discretized Dirac equation when compared with DTQW results in interesting relations. It is also shown that two relativistic effects associated with the Dirac equation, namely Zitterbewegung (quivering motion) and Klein's paradox, are present in DTQW, which can be implemented within non-relativistic quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0606172
title: Quantum Mechanics and the Weak Equivalence Principle
authors: Stella Huerfano, Sarira Sahu, M. Socolovsky
comments: 8 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606172
abstract: We use the Feynman path integral approach to nonrelativistic quantum mechanics twofold. First, we derive the lagrangian for a spinless particle moving in a uniformly but not necessarily constantly accelerated reference frame; then, applying the strong equivalence principle (SEP) we obtain the Schroedinger equation for a particle in an inertial frame and in the presence of a uniform and constant gravity field. Second, using the associated Feynman propagator, we propagate an initial gaussian wave packet, with the final wave function and probability density depending on the ratio m/hbar, where m is the inertial mass of the particle, thus exhibiting the fact that the weak equivalence principle (WEP) is violated by quantum mechanics. Although due to rapid oscillations the wave function does not exist in the classical limit, the probability density is well defined and mass independent when hbar goes to 0, showing the recovery of the WEP. Finally, at the quantum level, a heavier particle does not necessarily falls faster than a lighter one; this depends on the relations between the initial and final common positions and times of the particles.

id: quant-ph/0606173
title: Krein-Space Formulation of PT-Symmetry, CPT-Inner Products, and Pseudo-Hermiticity
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: published version, 17 pages
journal: Czech J. Phys. 56, 919-933 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606173
abstract: Emphasizing the physical constraints on the formulation of a quantum theory based on the standard measurement axiom and the Schroedinger equation, we comment on some conceptual issues arising in the formulation of PT-symmetric quantum mechanics. In particular, we elaborate on the requirements of the boundedness of the metric operator and the diagonalizability of the Hamiltonian. We also provide an accessible account of a Krein-space derivation of the CPT-inner product that was widely known to mathematicians since 1950's. We show how this derivation is linked with the pseudo-Hermitian formulation of PT-symmetric quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0606174
title: Comment on "Quantum Dialogue protocol"
authors: Chang-Ho Hong, Hyung-Jin Yang
comments: 1figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606174
abstract: In 2004, Ba An Nguyen [Phys. Lett. A 328, 6-10] has presented a Quantum Dialogue scheme for simultaneously communicating their messages. In this comment, we show that the quantum dialogue scheme is not secure against the intercept-and-resend attack and we propose a modified scheme which is secure against that attack.

id: quant-ph/0606175
title: Coherent states of non-Hermitian quantum systems
authors: B.Roy, P.Roy
comments: to appear in Phys.Lett A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606175
abstract: We use the Gazeau-Klauder formalism to construct coherent states of non-Hermitian quantum systems. In particular we use this formalism to construct coherent state of a PT symmetric system. We also discuss construction of coherent states following Klauder's minimal prescription.

id: quant-ph/0606176
title: On non-completely positive quantum dynamical maps on spin chains
authors: W. A. Majewski
comments: published; small changes
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 11539-11545
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606176
abstract: The new arguments based on Majorana fermions indicating that non-completely positive maps can describe open quantum evolution are presented.

id: quant-ph/0606177
title: Optimal purification of thermal graph states
authors: Alastair Kay, Jiannis K. Pachos, Wolfgang Dr, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures v2: published version
journal: New J. Phys. 8 (2006) 147
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606177
abstract: In this paper, a purification protocol is presented and its performance is proven to be optimal when applied to a particular subset of graph states that are subject to local Z-noise. Such mixed states can be produced by bringing a system into thermal equilibrium, when it is described by a Hamiltonian which has a particular graph state as its unique ground state. From this protocol, we derive the exact value of the critical temperature above which purification is impossible, as well as the related optimal purification rates. A possible simulation of graph Hamiltonians is proposed, which requires only bipartite interactions and local magnetic fields, enabling the tuning of the system temperature.

id: quant-ph/0606178
title: Entropy of XY Spin Chain and Block Toeplitz Determinants
authors: A. R. Its, B.-Q. Jin, V. E. Korepin
comments: 46 pages, 3 figures
journal: Fields Institute Communications, Universality and Renormalization [editors I.Bender and D. Kreimer], vol 50, page 151, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606178
abstract: We consider entanglement in the ground state of the XY spin model on infinite chain. We use von Neumann entropy of a sub-system as a measure of entanglement. The entropy of a large block of neighboring spins approaches a constant as the size of the block increases. We prove rigorously expression for limiting entropy which was published before. We observe that the entropy reaches minimum at product states but increases boundlessly at phase transitions.

id: quant-ph/0606179
title: Several natural BQP-Complete problems
authors: Pawel Wocjan, Shengyu Zhang
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606179
abstract: A central problem in quantum computing is to identify computational tasks which can be solved substantially faster on a quantum computer than on any classical computer. By studying the hardest such tasks, known as BQP-complete problems, we deepen our understanding of the power and limitations of quantum computers. We present several BQP-complete problems, including Local Hamiltonian Eigenvalue Sampling and Phase Estimation Sampling. Different than the previous known BQP-complete problems (the Quadratically Signed Weight Enumerator problem [KL01] and the Approximation of Jones Polynomials [FKW02, FLW02, AJL06]), our problems are of a basic linear algebra nature and are closely related to the well-known quantum algorithm and quantum complexity theories.

id: quant-ph/0606180
title: Cantilever cooling with radio frequency circuits
authors: D. J. Wineland, J. Britton, R. J. Epstein, D. Leibfried, R. B. Blakestad, K. Brown, J. D. Jost, C. Langer, R. Ozeri, S. Seidelin, J. Wesenberg
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606180
abstract: We consider a method to reduce the kinetic energy in a low-order mode of a miniature cantilever. If the cantilever contributes to the capacitance of a driven RF circuit, a force on the cantilever exists due to the electric field energy stored in the capacitance. If this force acts with an appropriate phase shift relative to the motion of the cantilever, it can oppose the velocity of the cantilever, leading to cooling. Such cooling may enable reaching the quantum regime of cantilever motion.

id: quant-ph/0606181
title: Rotationally invariant multipartite states
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 18 pages; new references
journal: Open Sys. Information Dyn. 14, 25-40 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606181
abstract: We construct a class of multipartite states possessing rotational SO(3) symmetry -- these are states of K spin-j_A particles and K spin-j_B particles. The construction of symmetric states follows our two recent papers devoted to unitary and orthogonal multipartite symmetry. We study basic properties of multipartite SO(3) symmetric states: separability criteria and multi-PPT conditions.

id: quant-ph/0606182
title: Quantum interference and evolution of entanglement in a system of three-level atoms
authors: L. Derkacz, L. Jakobczyk
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606182
abstract: We consider a pair of three-level atoms interacting with the vacuum. The process of disentanglement due to spontaneous emission and the role of quantum interference between principal transitions in this process, are analysed. We show that the presence of interference can slow down disentanglement. In the limit of maximal interference, some part of initial entanglement can survive.

id: quant-ph/0606183
title: On the quantum analogue of Galileo's leaning tower experiment
authors: Md. Manirul Ali, A. S. Majumdar, Dipankar Home, Alok Kumar Pan
comments: Latex, 12 pages, 1 figure, uses IOP style, clarifications and references added
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 23 (2006) 6493-6502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606183
abstract: The quantum analogue of Galileo's leaning tower experiment is revisited using wave packets evolving under the gravitational potential. We first calculate the position detection probabilities for particles projected upwards against gravity around the classical turning point and also around the point of initial projection, which exhibit mass dependence at both these points. We then compute the mean arrival time of freely falling particles using the quantum probability current, which also turns out to be mass dependent. The mass dependence of both the position detection probabilities and the mean arrival time vanish in the limit of large mass. Thus, compatibility between the weak equivalence principle and quantum mechanics is recovered in the macroscopic limit of the latter.

id: quant-ph/0606184
title: Beam splitting and Hong-Ou-Mandel interference for stored light
authors: A. Raczynski, J. Zaremba, S. Zielinska-Kaniasty
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606184
abstract: Storing and release of a quantum light pulse in a medium of atoms in the tripod configuration are studied. Two complementary sets of control fields are defined, which lead to independent and complete photon release at two stages. The system constitutes a new kind of a flexible beam splitter in which the input and output ports concern photons of the same direction but well separated in time. A new version of Hong-Ou-Mandel interference is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0606185
title: Separability criteria and bounds for entanglement measures
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39, 11847 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606185
abstract: Employing a recently proposed separability criterion we develop analytical lower bounds for the concurrence and for the entanglement of formation of bipartite quantum systems. The separability criterion is based on a nondecomposable positive map which operates on state spaces with even dimension N >= 4, and leads to a class of nondecomposable optimal entanglement witnesses. It is shown that the bounds derived here complement and improve the existing bounds obtained from the criterion of positive partial transposition and from the realignment criterion.

id: quant-ph/0606186
title: On the inconsistency of the Bohm-Gadella theory with quantum mechanics
authors: R. de la Madrid
comments: 16 pages
journal: J.Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 9255-9268
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606186
abstract: The Bohm-Gadella theory, sometimes referred to as the Time Asymmetric Quantum Theory of Scattering and Decay, is based on the Hardy axiom. The Hardy axiom asserts that the solutions of the Lippmann-Schwinger equation are functionals over spaces of Hardy functions. The preparation-registration arrow of time provides the physical justification for the Hardy axiom. In this paper, it is shown that the Hardy axiom is incorrect, because the solutions of the Lippmann-Schwinger equation do not act on spaces of Hardy functions. It is also shown that the derivation of the preparation-registration arrow of time is flawed. Thus, Hardy functions neither appear when we solve the Lippmann-Schwinger equation nor they should appear. It is also shown that the Bohm-Gadella theory does not rest on the same physical principles as quantum mechanics, and that it does not solve any problem that quantum mechanics cannot solve. The Bohm-Gadella theory must therefore be abandoned.

id: quant-ph/0606187
title: Quantum control by von Neumann measurements
authors: Alexander Pechen, Nikolai Il'in, Feng Shuang, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052102 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606187
abstract: A general scheme is presented for controlling quantum systems using evolution driven by non-selective von Neumann measurements, with or without an additional tailored electromagnetic field. As an example, a 2-level quantum system controlled by non-selective quantum measurements is considered. The control goal is to find optimal system observables such that consecutive non-selective measurement of these observables transforms the system from a given initial state into a state which maximizes the expected value of a target operator (the objective). A complete analytical solution is found including explicit expressions for the optimal measured observables and for the maximal objective value given any target operator, any initial system density matrix, and any number of measurements. As an illustration, upper bounds on measurement-induced population transfer between the ground and the excited states for any number of measurements are found. The anti-Zeno effect is recovered in the limit of an infinite number of measurements. In this limit the system becomes completely controllable. The results establish the degree of control attainable by a finite number of measurements.

id: quant-ph/0606188
title: Quantum Information Processing with Delocalized Qubits under Global Control
authors: Joseph Fitzsimons, Li Xiao, Simon C. Benjamin, Jonathan A. Jones
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606188
abstract: Any technology for quantum information processing (QIP) must embody within it quantum bits (qubits) and maintain control of their key quantum properties of superposition and entanglement. Typical QIP schemes envisage an array of physical systems, such as electrons or nuclei, with each system representing a given qubit. For adequate control, systems must be distinguishable either by physical separation or unique frequencies, and their mutual interactions must be individually manipulable. These difficult requirements exclude many nanoscale technologies where systems are densely packed and continuously interacting. Here we demonstrate a new paradigm: restricting ourselves to global control pulses we permit systems to interact freely and continuously, with the consequence that qubits can become delocalized over the entire device. We realize this using NMR studies of three carbon-13 nuclei in alanine, demonstrating all the key aspects including a quantum mirror, one- and two-qubit gates, permutation of densely packed qubits and Deutsch algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0606189
title: Universal programmable devices for unambiguous discrimination
authors: Chi Zhang, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606189
abstract: We discuss the problem of designing unambiguous programmable discriminators for any $n$ unknown quantum states in an $m$-dimensional Hilbert space. The discriminator is a fixed measurement which has two kinds of input registers: the program registers and the data register. The program registers consist of the $n$ states, while the data register is prepared among them. The task of the discriminator is to tell us which state stored in the program registers is equivalent to that in the data register. First, we give a necessary and sufficient condition for judging an unambiguous programmable discriminator. Then, if $m=n$, we present an optimal unambiguous programmable discriminator for them, in the sense of maximizing the worst-case probability of success. Finally, we propose a universal unambiguous programmable discriminator for arbitrary $n$ quantum states. We also show how to use this universal discriminator to unambiguously discriminate mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0606190
title: Generic Entanglement and Standard Form for N-mode Pure Gaussian States
authors: Gerardo Adesso
comments: 4 pages, 1 EPS figure. Revised, corrected and clarified. Final shortened version, published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 130502 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606190
abstract: We investigate the correlation structure of pure N-mode Gaussian resources which can be experimentally generated by means of squeezers and beam splitters, whose entanglement properties are generic. We show that those states are specified (up to local unitaries) by N(N-1)/2 parameters, corresponding to the two-point correlations between any pair of modes. Our construction yields a practical scheme to engineer such generic-entangled N-mode pure Gaussian states by linear optics. We discuss our findings in the framework of Gaussian matrix product states of harmonic lattices, raising connections with entanglement frustration and the entropic area law.

id: quant-ph/0606191
title: Preparation of pure and mixed polarization qubits and the direct measurement of figures of merit
authors: R. B. A. Adamson, L. K. Shalm, A. M. Steinberg
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012104 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606191
abstract: Non-classical joint measurements can hugely improve the efficiency with which certain figures of merit of quantum systems are measured. We use such a measurement to determine a particular figure of merit, the purity, for a polarization qubit. In the process we highlight some of subtleties involved in common methods for generating decoherence in quantum optics.

id: quant-ph/0606192
title: Quantum secret sharing based on modulated high-dimensional time-bin entanglement
authors: Hiroki Takesue, Kyo Inoue
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 012315 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606192
abstract: We propose a new scheme for quantum secret sharing (QSS) that uses a modulated high-dimensional time-bin entanglement. By modulating the relative phase randomly by {0,pi}, a sender with the entanglement source can randomly change the sign of the correlation of the measurement outcomes obtained by two distant recipients. The two recipients must cooperate if they are to obtain the sign of the correlation, which is used as a secret key. We show that our scheme is secure against intercept-and-resend (I-R) and beam splitting attacks by an outside eavesdropper thanks to the non-orthogonality of high-dimensional time-bin entangled states. We also show that a cheating attempt based on an I-R attack by one of the recipients can be detected by changing the dimension of the time bin entanglement randomly and inserting two "vacant" slots between the packets. Then, cheating attempts can be detected by monitoring the count rate in the vacant slots. The proposed scheme has better experimental feasibility than previously proposed entanglement-based QSS schemes.

id: quant-ph/0606193
title: Solution of the Lindblad Equation in the Kraus Representation
authors: H. Nakazato, Y. Hida, K. Yuasa, B. Militello, A. Napoli, A. Messina
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74 (2006) 062113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606193
abstract: The so-called Lindblad equation, a typical master equation describing the dissipative quantum dynamics, is shown to be solvable for finite-level systems in a compact form without resort to writing it down as a set of equations among matrix elements. The solution is then naturally given in an operator form, known as the Kraus representation. Following a few simple examples, the general applicability of the method is clarified.

id: quant-ph/0606194
title: Adiabatic Computation - A Toy Model
authors: P. Ribeiro, R. Mosseri
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606194
abstract: We discuss a toy model for adiabatic quantum computation which displays some phenomenological properties expected in more realistic implementations. This model has two free parameters: the adiabatic evolution parameter $s$ and the $\alpha$ parameter which emulates many-variables constrains in the classical computational problem. The proposed model presents, in the $s-\alpha$ plane, a line of first order quantum phase transition that ends at a second order point. The relation between computation complexity and the occurrence of quantum phase transitions is discussed. We analyze the behavior of the ground and first excited states near the quantum phase transition, the gap and the entanglement content of the ground state.

id: quant-ph/0606195
title: Two-level systems: exact solutions and underlying pseudo-supersymmetry
authors: V.V. Shamshutdinova, Boris F. Samsonov, D.M. Gitman
comments: to be published in Ann. Phys. (NY), 6 figures, 17 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. (NY) 322 (2007) 1043--1061
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606195
abstract: Chains of first-order SUSY transformations for the spin equation are studied in detail. It is shown that the transformation chains are related with a olynomial pseudo-supersymmetry of the system. Simple determinant formulas for the final Hamiltonian of a chain and for solutions of the spin equation are derived. Applications are intended for a two-level atom in an electromagnetic field with a possible time-dependence of the field frequency. For a specific form of this dependence, the time oscillations of the probability to populate the excited level disappear. Under certain conditions this probability becomes a function tending monotonously to a constant value which can exceed 1/2.

id: quant-ph/0606196
title: Playing Quantum Physics Jeopardy with zero-energy eigenstates
authors: L. P. Gilbert, M. Belloni, M. A. Doncheski, R. W. Robinett
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, requires graphicx and epsfig packages. Additional information, including individual files containing the Worksheet and a Worksheet template, are available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606196
abstract: We describe an example of an exact, quantitative Jeopardy-type quantum mechanics problem. This problem type is based on the conditions in one-dimensional quantum systems that allow an energy eigenstate for the infinite square well to have zero curvature and zero energy when suitable Dirac delta functions are added. This condition and its solution are not often discussed in quantum mechanics texts and have interesting pedagogical consequences.

id: quant-ph/0606197
title: Secrecy extraction from no-signalling correlations
authors: Valerio Scarani, Nicolas Gisin, Nicolas Brunner, Lluis Masanes, Sergi Pino, Antonio Acin
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042339 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606197
abstract: Quantum cryptography shows that one can guarantee the secrecy of correlation on the sole basis of the laws of physics, that is without limiting the computational power of the eavesdropper. The usual security proofs suppose that the authorized partners, Alice and Bob, have a perfect knowledge and control of their quantum systems and devices; for instance, they must be sure that the logical bits have been encoded in true qubits, and not in higher-dimensional systems. In this paper, we present an approach that circumvents this strong assumption. We define protocols, both for the case of bits and for generic $d$-dimensional outcomes, in which the security is guaranteed by the very structure of the Alice-Bob correlations, under the no-signalling condition. The idea is that, if the correlations cannot be produced by shared randomness, then Eve has poor knowledge of Alice's and Bob's symbols. The present study assumes, on the one hand that the eavesdropper Eve performs only individual attacks (this is a limitation to be removed in further work), on the other hand that Eve can distribute any correlation compatible with the no-signalling condition (in this sense her power is greater than what quantum physics allows). Under these assumptions, we prove that the protocols defined here allow extracting secrecy from noisy correlations, when these correlations violate a Bell-type inequality by a sufficiently large amount. The region, in which secrecy extraction is possible, extends within the region of correlations achievable by measurements on entangled quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0606198
title: Delta-Function Potential with a Complex Coupling
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: Published version, 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39, 13495-13506 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606198
abstract: We explore the Hamiltonian operator H=-d^2/dx^2 + z \delta(x) where x is real, \delta(x) is the Dirac delta function, and z is an arbitrary complex coupling constant. For a purely imaginary z, H has a (real) spectral singularity at E=-z^2/4. For \Re(z)<0, H has an eigenvalue at E=-z^2/4. For the case that \Re(z)>0, H has a real, positive, continuous spectrum that is free from spectral singularities. For this latter case, we construct an associated biorthonormal system and use it to perform a perturbative calculation of a positive-definite inner product that renders H self-adjoint. This allows us to address the intriguing question of the nonlocal aspects of the equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian for the system. In particular, we compute the energy expectation values for various Gaussian wave packets to show that the non-Hermiticity effect diminishes rapidly outside an effective interaction region.

id: quant-ph/0606199
title: Adaptive strategies for graph state growth in the presence of monitored errors
authors: Earl T. Campbell, Joseph Fitzsimons, Simon C. Benjamin, Pieter Kok
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Typos corrected, nicer figures, neater notation and better read
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042303 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606199
abstract: Graph states (or cluster states) are the entanglement resource that enables one-way quantum computing. They can be grown by projective measurements on the component qubits. Such measurements typically carry a significant failure probability. Moreover, they may generate imperfect entanglement. Here we describe strategies to adapt growth operations in order to cancel incurred errors. Nascent states that initially deviate from the ideal graph states evolve toward the desired high fidelity resource without impractical overheads. Our analysis extends the diagrammatic language of graph states to include characteristics such as tilted vertices, weighted edges, and partial fusion, which arise from experimental imperfections. The strategies we present are relevant to parity projection schemes such as optical `path erasure' with distributed matter qubits.

id: quant-ph/0606200
title: Effective resonant transitions in quantum optical systems: kinematic and dynamic resonances
authors: A. B. Klimov, I. Sainz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606200
abstract: We show that quantum optical systems preserving the total number of excitations admit a simple classification of possible resonant transitions (including effective), which can be classified by analizying the free Hamiltonian and the corresponding integrals of motion. Quantum systems not preserving the total number of excitations do not admit such a simple classification, so that an explicit form of the effective Hamiltonian is needed to specify the allowed resonances. The structure of the resonant transitions essentially depends on the algebraic propereties of interacting subsystems.

id: quant-ph/0606201
title: Joint multipartite photon statistics by on/off detection
authors: G. Brida, M. Genovese, M. G. A. Paris, F.Piacentini
comments: 5 pages, low resolution figures
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 31, Issue 23, pp. 3508-3510 (December 2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606201
abstract: We demonstrate a method to reconstruct the joint photon statistics of two or more modes of radiation using on/off photodetection performed at different quantum efficiencies. The two-mode case is discussed in details and experimental results are presented for the bipartite states obtained after a beam-splitter fed by a single photon state or a thermal state.

id: quant-ph/0606202
title: Almost uniform sampling via quantum walks
authors: Peter C. Richter
comments: 13 pages; v2 added NSF grant info; v3 incorporated feedback
journal: New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 72
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606202
abstract: Many classical randomized algorithms (e.g., approximation algorithms for #P-complete problems) utilize the following random walk algorithm for {\em almost uniform sampling} from a state space $S$ of cardinality $N$: run a symmetric ergodic Markov chain $P$ on $S$ for long enough to obtain a random state from within $\epsilon$ total variation distance of the uniform distribution over $S$. The running time of this algorithm, the so-called {\em mixing time} of $P$, is $O(\delta^{-1} (\log N + \log \epsilon^{-1}))$, where $\delta$ is the spectral gap of $P$. We present a natural quantum version of this algorithm based on repeated measurements of the {\em quantum walk} $U_t = e^{-iPt}$. We show that it samples almost uniformly from $S$ with logarithmic dependence on $\epsilon^{-1}$ just as the classical walk $P$ does; previously, no such quantum walk algorithm was known. We then outline a framework for analyzing its running time and formulate two plausible conjectures which together would imply that it runs in time $O(\delta^{-1/2} \log N \log \epsilon^{-1})$ when $P$ is the standard transition matrix of a constant-degree graph. We prove each conjecture for a subclass of Cayley graphs.

id: quant-ph/0606203
title: Effective Hamiltonian approach to adiabatic approximation in open systems
authors: X. X. Yi, D. M. Tong, L. C. Kwek, C. H. OH
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 40,281(2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606203
abstract: The adiabatic approximation in open systems is formulated through the effective Hamiltonian approach. By introducing an ancilla, we embed the open system dynamics into a non-Hermitian quantum dynamics of a composite system, the adiabatic evolution of the open system is then defined as the adiabatic dynamics of the composite system. Validity and invalidity conditions for this approximation are established and discussed. A High-order adiabatic approximation for open systems is introduced. As an example, the adiabatic condition for an open spin-$\frac 1 2$ particle in time-dependent magnetic fields is analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0606204
title: Coherent single-photon generation and trapping with imperfect cavity QED systems
authors: David Fattal, Ray Beausoleil, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: Few typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606204
abstract: We study analytically the dynamics of cavity QED nodes in a practical quantum network. Given a single 3-level $\Lambda$-type atom or quantum dot coupled to a micro-cavity, we derive several necessary and sufficient criteria for the coherent trapping and generation of a single photon pulse with a given waveform to be realizable. We prove that these processes can be performed with practical hardware -- such as cavity QED systems which are operating deep in the weak coupling regime -- given a set of restrictions on the single-photon pulse envelope. We systematically study the effects of spontaneous emission and spurious cavity decay on the transfer efficiency, including the case where more than one excited state participates in the dynamics. This work should open the way to very efficient optimizations of the operation of quantum networks.

id: quant-ph/0606205
title: Localization and its consequences for quantum walk algorithms and quantum communication
authors: J.P. Keating, N. Linden, J.C.F. Matthews, A. Winter
comments: 4 pages, 1 eps figure. Updated references and cosmetic changes for v2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606205
abstract: The exponential speed-up of quantum walks on certain graphs, relative to classical particles diffusing on the same graph, is a striking observation. It has suggested the possibility of new fast quantum algorithms. We point out here that quantum mechanics can also lead, through the phenomenon of localization, to exponential suppression of motion on these graphs (even in the absence of decoherence). In fact, for physical embodiments of graphs, this will be the generic behaviour. It also has implications for proposals for using spin networks, including spin chains, as quantum communication channels.

id: quant-ph/0606206
title: No-Cloning and No-Deleting theorems through the existence of Incomparable states under LOCC
authors: Amit Bhar, Indrani Chattopadhyay, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 4 pages, no figures, revtex format, accepted in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing, 6 (2007) 93-99
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606206
abstract: No-Cloning and No-Deleting theorems are verified with the constraint on local state transformations via the existence of incomparable states. Assuming the existence of exact cloning or deleting operation defined on a minimum number of two arbitrary states, an incomparable pair of states of the joint system between two parties can be made to compare under deterministic LOCC. We have restricted our proof with the assumption that the machine states of the cloning or deleting operations do not keep any information about the input states. We use the same setting to establish the no-cloning and no-deleting theorems via incomparability that supports the reciprocity of the two operations in their operational senses. The work associates the impossibility of operations with the evolution of an entangled system by LOCC.

id: quant-ph/0606207
title: Quantum Entanglement in the S=1/2 Spin Ladder with Ring Exchange
authors: Jun-Liang Song, Shi-Jian Gu, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74, 155119 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606207
abstract: In this paper we study the concurrence and the block-block entanglement in the $S=1/2$ spin ladder with four-spin ring exchange by the exact diagonalization method of finite cluster of spins. The relationship between the global phase diagram and the ground-state entanglement is investigated. It is shown that the block-block entanglement of different block size and geometry manifests richer information of the system. We find that the extremal point of the two-site block-block entanglement on the rung locates a transition point exactly due to SU(4) symmetry at this point. The scaling behavior of the block-block entanglement is discussed. Our results suggest that the block-block entanglement can be used as a convenient marker of quantum phase transition in some complex spin systems.

id: quant-ph/0606208
title: Backward Evolving Quantum States
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: Contribution to the J.Phys. A special issue in honor of GianCarlo Ghirardi
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606208
abstract: The basic concept of the two-state vector formalism, which is the time symmetric approach to quantum mechanics, is the backward evolving quantum state. However, due to the time asymmetry of the memory's arrow of time, the possible ways to manipulate a backward evolving quantum state differ from those for a standard, forward evolving quantum state. The similarities and the differences between forward and backward evolving quantum states regarding the no-cloning theorem, nonlocal measurements, and teleportation are discussed. The results are relevant not only in the framework of the two-state vector formalism, but also in the framework of retrodictive quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0606209
title: Zeno logic gates using micro-cavities
authors: J.D. Franson, B.C. Jacobs, T.B. Pittman
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 24, 209 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606209
abstract: The linear optics approach to quantum computing has several potential advantages but the logic operations are probabilistic. Here we review the use of the quantum Zeno effect to suppress the intrinsic failure events in these kinds of devices, which would produce deterministic logic operations without the need for ancilla photons or high-efficiency detectors. The potential advantages of implementing Zeno gates using micro-cavities and electromagnetically-induced transparency are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0606210
title: Quantum study of information delay in electromagetically induced transparency
authors: Magnus T.L. Hsu, Gabriel Hetet, Oliver Glockl, Jevon J. Longdell, Ben C. Buchler, Hans-A. Bachor, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 97, 183601 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606210
abstract: Using electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT), it is possible to delay and store light in atomic ensembles. Theoretical modelling and recent experiments have suggested that the EIT storage mechanism can be used as a memory for quantum information. We present experiments that quantify the noise performance of an EIT system for conjugate amplitude and phase quadratures. It is shown that our EIT system adds excess noise to the delayed light that has not hitherto been predicted by published theoretical modelling. In analogy with other continuous-variable quantum information systems, the performance of our EIT system is characterised in terms of conditional variance and signal transfer.

id: quant-ph/0606211
title: On the structure of entanglement witnesses and new class of positive indecomposable maps
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 18 pages
journal: Open Sys. Information Dyn. 14 (2007) 275-294
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606211
abstract: We construct a new class of positive indecomposable maps in the algebra of 'd x d' complex matrices. Each map is uniquely characterized by a cyclic bistochastic matrix. This class generalizes a Choi map for d=3. It provides a new reach family of indecomposable entanglement witnesses which define important tool for investigating quantum entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0606212
title: Examples of Gaussian cluster computation
authors: Peter van Loock
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606212
abstract: We give simple examples that illustrate the principles of one-way quantum computation using Gaussian continuous-variable cluster states. In these examples, we only consider single-mode evolutions, realizable via linear clusters. In particular, we focus on Gaussian single-mode transformations performed through the cluster state. Our examples highlight the differences between cluster-based schemes and protocols in which special quantum states are prepared off-line and then used as a resource for the on-line computation.

id: quant-ph/0606213
title: Local asymptotic normality in quantum statistics
authors: Madalin Guta, Anna Jencova
comments: 41 pages, to appear in Commun. Math. Phys
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, 276, (2007), 341-379
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606213
abstract: The theory of local asymptotic normality for quantum statistical experiments is developed in the spirit of the classical result from mathematical statistics due to Le Cam. Roughly speaking, local asymptotic normality means that the family varphi_{\theta_{0}+ u/\sqrt{n}}^{n} consisting of joint states of n identically prepared quantum systems approaches in a statistical sense a family of Gaussian state phi_{u} of an algebra of canonical commutation relations. The convergence holds for all "local parameters" u\in R^{m} such that theta=theta_{0}+ u/sqrt{n} parametrizes a neighborhood of a fixed point theta_{0}\in Theta\subset R^{m}. In order to prove the result we define weak and strong convergence of quantum statistical experiments which extend to the asymptotic framework the notion of quantum sufficiency introduces by Petz. Along the way we introduce the concept of canonical state of a statistical experiment, and investigate the relation between the two notions of convergence. For reader's convenience and completeness we review the relevant results of the classical as well as the quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0606214
title: An "anti-Gleason" phenomenon and simultaneous measurements in classical mechanics
authors: Michael Entov, Leonid Polterovich, Frol Zapolsky
comments: Revised version: discussions on Gleason's theorem and the classical limit of a quantum spin system added, bibliography updated. To appear in Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606214
abstract: We report on an "anti-Gleason" phenomenon in classical mechanics: in contrast with the quantum case, the algebra of classical observables can carry a non-linear quasi-state, a monotone functional which is linear on all subspaces generated by Poisson-commutative functions. We present an example of such a quasi-state in the case when the phase space is the 2-sphere. This example lies in the intersection of two seemingly remote mathematical theories - symplectic topology and the theory of topological quasi-states. We use this quasi-state to estimate the error of the simultaneous measurement of non-commuting Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0606215
title: Polynomial invariants and Bell inequalities as entanglement measure of 4-qubit states
authors: Jochen Endrejat, Helmut Buettner
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606215
abstract: We compare the polynomial invariants for four qubits introduced by Luque and Thibon, PRA {\bf 67}, 042303 (2003), with optimized Bell inequalities and a combination of two qubit concurrences. It is shown for various parameter dependent states from different SLOCC classes that it is possible to measure a genuine 4-qubit entanglement with these polynomials.

id: quant-ph/0606216
title: Thermalization through unitary evolution of pure states
authors: Stein Olav Skr?vseth
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 76, 1179 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606216
abstract: The unitary time evolution of a critical quantum spin chain with an impurity is calculated, and the entanglement evolution is shown. Moreover, we show that the reduced density matrix of a part of the chain evolves such that the fidelity of its spectrum is very high with respect to a state in thermal equilibrium. Hence, a thermal state occurs through unitary time evolution in a simple spin chain with impurity.

id: quant-ph/0606217
title: Concatenated beam splitters, optical feed-forward and the nonlinear sign gate
authors: Kurt Jacobs, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 4 pages, revtex4, 2 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 064304(BR) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606217
abstract: We consider a nonlinear sign gate implemented using a sequence of two beam splitters, and consider the use of further sequences of beam splitters to implement feed-forward so as to correct an error resulting from the first beam splitter. We obtain similar results to Scheel et al. [Scheel et al., Phys. Rev. A 73, 034301 (2006)], in that we also find that our feed-forward procedure is only able to produce a very minor improvement in the success probability of the original gate.

id: quant-ph/0606218
title: What is paradoxical about the "Three-box paradox"?
authors: J. Finkelstein
comments: 6 pages, LaTeX, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606218
abstract: This paper is a comment on quant-ph/0606067 by Ravon and Vaidman, in which they defend the position that the ``three-box paradox'' is indeed paradoxical.

id: quant-ph/0606219
title: Quantum Games in Open Systems using Biophysic Hamiltonians
authors: Jean Faber, Renato Portugal, Luiz Pinguelli Rosa
comments: 9 pages, 4 figs, accepted in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606219
abstract: We analyze the necessary physical conditions to model an open quantum system as a quantum game. By applying the formalism of Quantum Operations on a particular system, we use Kraus operators as quantum strategies. The physical interpretation is a conflict among different configurations of the environment. The resolution of the conflict displays regimes of minimum loss of information.

id: quant-ph/0606220
title: Single qubit gates by selective excitation with Jump and Return sequences
authors: Mark D. Bowdrey, Jonathan A. Jones
comments: Revised and extended at request of referee; now in press at Physical Review A. 6 pages RevTex including 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 74, 052324 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606220
abstract: We discuss the implementation of frequency selective rotations using sequences of hard pulses and delays. These rotations are suitable for implementing single qubit gates in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) quantum computers, but can also be used in other related implementations of quantum computing. We also derive methods for implementing hard pulses in the presence of moderate off-resonance effects, and describe a simple procedure for implementing a hard 180 degree rotation in a two spin system. Finally we show how these two approaches can be combined to produce more accurate frequency selective rotations.

id: quant-ph/0606221
title: Sub Shot-Noise interferometric phase sensitivity with Beryllium ions Schroedinger Cat States
authors: Luca Pezz, Augusto Smerzi
comments: 6 Pages, 4 Figures
journal: Europhysics Letters 78, 30004 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606221
abstract: Interferometry with NOON quantum states can provide unbiased phase estimation with a sensitivity scaling as $\Delta \theta \sim 1/N_T$ given a prior knowledge that the true phase shift $\theta$ lies in the interval $-\pi \leq \theta \leq \pi$. The protocol requires a total of $N_T = 2^{p}-1$ particles (unequally) distributed among $p$ independent measurements and overcomes basic difficulties present in previously proposed approaches. We demonstrate the possibility to obtain a phase sensitivity beating the classical shot-noise limit using published probabilities retrieved experimentally for the creation of Schr\"odinger cat quantum states containing up to N=6 beryllium ions.

id: quant-ph/0606222
title: Quantum decoherence of the damped harmonic oscillator
authors: A. Isar
comments: Talk at the XI International Conference on Quantum Optics (ICQO'2006), May 2006, Minsk (Belarus), 9 pages
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy 103, 252 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606222
abstract: In the framework of the Lindblad theory for open quantum systems, we determine the degree of quantum decoherence of a harmonic oscillator interacting with a thermal bath. It is found that the system manifests a quantum decoherence which is more and more significant in time. We also calculate the decoherence time and show that it has the same scale as the time after which thermal fluctuations become comparable with quantum fluctuations.

id: quant-ph/0606223
title: Perspectives: Quantum Mechanics on Phase Space
authors: J. A. Brooke, F. E. Schroeck Jr
comments: "Quantum Structures 2004" - Meeting of the International Quantum Structures Association; Denver, Colorado; 17-22 July, 2004
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics 44 (2005) 1889-1904
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606223
abstract: The basic ideas in the theory of quantum mechanics on phase space are illustrated through an introduction of generalities, which seem to underlie most if not all such formulations and follow with examples taken primarily from kinematical particle model descriptions exhibiting either Galileian or Lorentzian symmetry. The structures of fundamental importance are the relevant (Lie) groups of symmetries and their homogeneous (and associated) spaces that, in the situations of interest, also possess Hamiltonian structures. Comments are made on the relation between the theory outlined and a recent paper by Carmeli, Cassinelli, Toigo, and Vacchini.

id: quant-ph/0606224
title: Exact analytical solution to the relativistic Klein-Gordon equation with non-central equal scalar and vector potentials
authors: Fevziye Yasuk, Aysen Durmus, Ismail Boztosun
comments: 12 pages, accepted for publication in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 47, 082302 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606224
abstract: We present an alternative and simple method for the exact solution of the Klein-Gordon equation in the presence of the non-central equal scalar and vector potentials by using Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method. The exact bound state energy eigenvalues and corresponding eigenfunctions are obtained for a particle bound in a potential of $V(r,\theta) = \frac{\alpha}{r} + \frac{\beta}{r^2\sin ^2\theta} + \gamma \frac{\cos \theta}{r^2\sin ^2\theta}$ type.

id: quant-ph/0606225
title: The mother of all protocols: Restructuring quantum information's family tree
authors: Anura Abeyesinghe, Igor Devetak, Patrick Hayden, Andreas Winter
comments: 25 pages, 6 figures
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 465(2108):2537-2563, 2009.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606225
abstract: We give a simple, direct proof of the "mother" protocol of quantum information theory. In this new formulation, it is easy to see that the mother, or rather her generalization to the fully quantum Slepian-Wolf protocol, simultaneously accomplishes two goals: quantum communication-assisted entanglement distillation, and state transfer from the sender to the receiver. As a result, in addition to her other "children," the mother protocol generates the state merging primitive of Horodecki, Oppenheim and Winter, a fully quantum reverse Shannon theorem, and a new class of distributed compression protocols for correlated quantum sources which are optimal for sources described by separable density operators. Moreover, the mother protocol described here is easily transformed into the so-called "father" protocol whose children provide the quantum capacity and the entanglement-assisted capacity of a quantum channel, demonstrating that the division of single-sender/single-receiver protocols into two families was unnecessary: all protocols in the family are children of the mother.

id: quant-ph/0606226
title: Scalable Error Correction in Distributed Ion Trap Computers
authors: Daniel K.L. Oi, Simon J. Devitt, Lloyd C.L. Hollenberg
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 74,052313 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606226
abstract: A major challenge for quantum computation in ion trap systems is scalable integration of error correction and fault tolerance. We analyze a distributed architecture with rapid high fidelity local control within nodes and entangled links between nodes alleviating long-distance transport. We demonstrate fault-tolerant operator measurements which are used for error correction and non-local gates. This scheme is readily applied to linear ion traps which cannot be scaled up beyond a few ions per individual trap but which have access to a probabilistic entanglement mechanism. A proof-of-concept system is presented which is within the reach of current experiment.

id: quant-ph/0606227
title: Multipartite Nonlocality without Entanglement in Many Dimensions
authors: J. Niset, N.J. Cerf
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 74, 052103 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606227
abstract: We present a generic method to construct a product basis exhibiting Nonlocality Without Entanglement with $n$ parties each holding a system of dimension at least $n-1$. This basis is generated via a quantum circuit made of control-Discrete Fourier Transform gates acting on the computational basis. The simplicity of our quantum circuit allows for an intuitive understanding of this new type of nonlocality. We also show how this circuit can be used to construct Unextendible Product Bases and their associated Bound Entangled States. To our knowledge, this is the first method which, given a general Hilbert space $\bigotimes_{i=1}^n {\cal H}_{d_i}$ with $d_i\le n-1$, makes it possible to construct (i) a basis exhibiting Nonlocality Without Entanglement, (ii) an Unextendible Product Basis, and (iii) a Bound Entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0606228
title: An Introduction to Quantum Entanglement: a Geometric Approach
authors: Karol Zyczkowski, Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: 41 pages with 17 figures, based on a chapter of our book "Geometry of Quantum States: An Introduction to Quantum Entanglement" published by Cambridge University Press in May 2006, see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606228
abstract: We present a concise introduction to quantum entanglement. Concentrating on bipartite systems we review the separability criteria and measures of entanglement. We focus our attention on geometry of the sets of separable and maximally entangled states. We treat in detail the two-qubit system and emphasise in what respect this case is a special one.

id: quant-ph/0606229
title: Estimating diagonal entries of powers of sparse symmetric matrices is BQP-complete
authors: Dominik Janzing, Pawel Wocjan
comments: Improved presentation with simpler proofs, 17 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606229
abstract: Let A be a real symmetric matrix of size N such that the number of the non-zero entries in each row is polylogarithmic in N and the positions and the values of these entries are specified by an efficiently computable function. We consider the problem of estimating an arbitrary diagonal entry (A^m)_jj of the matrix A^m up to an error of \epsilon b^m, where b is an a priori given upper bound on the norm of A, m and \epsilon are polylogarithmic and inverse polylogarithmic in N, respectively. We show that this problem is BQP-complete. It can be solved efficiently on a quantum computer by repeatedly applying measurements of A to the jth basis vector and raising the outcome to the mth power. Conversely, every quantum circuit that solves a problem in BQP can be encoded into a sparse matrix such that some basis vector |j> corresponding to the input induces two different spectral measures depending on whether the input is accepted or not. These measures can be distinguished by estimating the mth statistical moment for some appropriately chosen m, i.e., by the jth diagonal entry of A^m. The problem is still in BQP when generalized to off-diagonal entries and it remains BQP-hard if A has only -1, 0, and 1 as entries.

id: quant-ph/0606230
title: The Conventionality of Synchronization and the Causal Structure of Quantum Mechanics
authors: James Carrubba
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606230
abstract: Measuring velocities requires the synchronization of spatially-separated clocks. Because this synchronization must precede the determination of velocities, no system of clock synchronization--such as that based on Einstein's presumption of light-speed isotropy--can ever be founded on an experimentally-validated velocity. I argue that this very old observation, which lingers in the philosophical literature under the heading ``Conventionality of Synchronization,'' suggests an explanation of why ``spooky'' quantum correlations can transfer no information at any speed, superluminal or otherwise. This work constitutes the first application of the Conventionality doctrine outside of Relativity itself.

id: quant-ph/0606231
title: On the non-existence of a universal Hadamard gate
authors: Preeti Parashar
comments: 5 pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606231
abstract: We establish the non-existence of a universal Hadamard gate for arbitrary unknown qubits, by considering two different principles; namely, no-superluminal signalling and non-increase of entanglement under LOCC. It is also shown that these principles are not violated if and only if the qubit states are of a special form obtained in our recent work [ IJQI (in press), quant-ph/0505068 ].

id: quant-ph/0606232
title: Two-atom van der Waals interaction between polarizable/magnetizable atoms near magneto-electric bodies
authors: Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Hassan Safari, Ho Trung Dung, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures, presented at: XI International Conference on Quantum Optics, Minsk, Belarus, May 26 - 31, 2006, minor corrections
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy (USSR) 103 (3), 374 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606232
abstract: The van der Waals potential of two atoms in the presence of an arbitrary arrangement of dispersing and absorbing magnetodielectric bodies is studied. Starting from a polarizable atom placed within a given geometry, its interaction with a second polarizable/magnetizable atom is deduced from its Casimir-Polder interaction with a weakly polarizable/magnetizable test body. The general expressions for the van der Waals potential hence obtained are illustrated by considering first the case of two atoms in free space, with special emphasis on the interaction between (i) two polarizable atoms and (ii) a polarizable and a magnetizable atom. Furthermore, the influence of magnetodielectric bodies on the van der Waals interaction is studied in detail for the example of two atoms placed near a perfectly reflecting plate or a magnetodielectric half space, respectively.

id: quant-ph/0606233
title: Collective Two-Atom Effects and Trapping States in the Micromaser
authors: Per K. Rekdal, Bo-Sture K. Skagerstam
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606233
abstract: We investigate signals of trapping states in the micromaser system in terms of the average number of cavity photons as well as a suitably defined correlation length of atoms leaving the cavity. In the description of collective two-atom effects we allow the mean number of pump atoms inside the cavity during the characteristic atomic cavity transit time to be as large as of order one. The master equation we consider, which describes the micromaser including collective two-atom effects, still exhibits trapping states for even for a mean number of atoms inside the cavity close to one. We, however, argue more importantly that the trapping states are more pronounced in terms of the correlation length as compared to the average number of cavity photons, i.e. we suggest that trapping states can be more clearly revealed experimentally in terms of the atom correlation length. For axion detection in the micromaser this observable may therefore be an essential ingredient.

id: quant-ph/0606234
title: Experimental Observation of Four-Photon Entangled Dicke State with High Fidelity
authors: Nikolai Kiesel, Christian Schmid, Geza Toth, Enrique Solano, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 063604 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606234
abstract: We present the experimental observation of the symmetric four-photon entangled Dicke state with two excitations $|D_{4}^{(2)}>$. A simple experimental set-up allowed quantum state tomography yielding a fidelity as high as $0.844 \pm 0.008$. We study the entanglement persistency of the state using novel witness operators and focus on the demonstration of a remarkable property: depending on the orientation of a measurement on one photon, the remaining three photons are projected into both inequivalent classes of genuine tripartite entanglement, the GHZ and W class. Furthermore, we discuss possible applications of $|D_{4}^{(2)}>$ in quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0606235
title: Casimir edge effects
authors: Holger Gies, Klaus Klingmuller
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.97:220405,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606235
abstract: We compute Casimir forces in open geometries with edges, involving parallel as well as perpendicular semi-infinite plates. We focus on Casimir configurations which are governed by a unique dimensional scaling law with a universal coefficient. With the aid of worldline numerics, we determine this coefficient for various geometries for the case of scalar-field fluctuations with Dirichlet boundary conditions. Our results facilitate an estimate of the systematic error induced by the edges of finite plates, for instance, in a standard parallel-plate experiment. The Casimir edge effects for this case can be reformulated as an increase of the effective area of the configuration.

id: quant-ph/0606236
title: Quantum secure direct communication with pure entangled states
authors: Jian Wang, Quan Zhang, Chao-jing Tang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606236
abstract: We present a quantum secure direct communication protocol where the channels are not maximally entangled states. The communication parties utilize decoy photons to check eavesdropping. After ensuring the security of the quantum channel, the sender encodes the secret message and transmits it to the receiver by using Controlled-NOT operation and von Neumann measurement. The protocol is simple and realizable with present technology. We also show the protocol is secure for noisy quantum channel.

id: quant-ph/0606237
title: Transport dynamics of single ions in segmented microstructured Paul trap arrays
authors: R. Reichle, D. Leibfried, R. B. Blakestad, J. Britton, J. D. Jost, E.Knill, C. Langer, R. Ozeri, S. Seidelin, D. J. Wineland
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606237
abstract: It was recently proposed to use small groups of trapped ions as qubit carriers in miniaturized electrode arrays that comprise a large number of individual trapping zones, between which ions could be moved. This approach might be scalable for quantum information processing with a large numbers of qubits. Processing of quantum information is achieved by transporting ions to and from separate memory and qubit manipulation zones in between quantum logic operations. The transport of ion groups in this scheme plays a major role and requires precise experimental control and fast transport. In this paper we introduce a theoretical framework to study ion transport in external potentials that might be created by typical miniaturized Paul trap electrode arrays. In particular we discuss the relationship between classical and quantum descriptions of the transport and study the energy transfer to the oscillatory motion during near-adiabatic transport. Based on our findings we suggest a numerical method to find electrode potentials as a function of time to optimize the local potential an ion experiences during transport. We demonstrate this method for one specific electrode geometry that should closely represent the situation encountered in realistic trap arrays.

id: quant-ph/0606238
title: Local extraction of EPR entanglement from classical systems
authors: D. Kaszlikowski, V. Vedral
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606238
abstract: Coherent states with large amplitudes are traditionally thought of as the best quantum mechanical approximation of classical behavior. Here we argue that, far from being classical, coherent state are in fact highly entangled. We demonstrate this by showing that a general system of indistinguishable bosons in a coherent state can be used to entangle, by local interactions, two spatially separated and distinguishable non-interacting quantum systems. Entanglement can also be extracted in the same way from number states or any other nontrivial superpositions of them.

id: quant-ph/0606239
title: Non-Hermitian degeneracy of two unbound states
authors: E. Hernandez, A. Jauregui, A. Mondragon
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures. To be published in J. of Physics A: Math. and Gen. Special issue: Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics, August 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606239
abstract: We solved numerically the implicit, trascendental equation that defines the eigenenergy surface of a degenerating isolated doublet of unbound states in the simple but illustrative case of the scattering of a beam of particles by a double barrier potential. Unfolding the degeneracy point with the help of a contact equivalent approximant, crossings and anticrossings of energies and widths, as well as the changes of identity of the poles of the S-matrix are explained in terms of sections of the eigenenergy surfaces.

id: quant-ph/0606240
title: Analysis of entropy of XY Spin Chain
authors: F. Franchini, A. R. Its, B.-Q. Jin, V. E. Korepin
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Proceedings of the Third Feynman Workshop, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606240
abstract: Entanglement in the ground state of the XY model on the infinite chain can be measured by the von Neumann entropy of a block of neighboring spins. We study a double scaling limit: the size of the block is much larger then 1 but much smaller then the length of the whole chain. In this limit, the entropy of the block approaches a constant. The limiting entropy is a function of the anisotropy and of the magnetic field. The entropy reaches minima at product states and increases boundlessly at phase transitions.

id: quant-ph/0606241
title: Investigation of continuous-time quantum walk by using Krylov subspace-Lanczos algorithm
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, S. Salimi, R. Sufiani
comments: 29 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606241
abstract: In papers\cite{js,jsa}, the amplitudes of continuous-time quantum walk on graphs possessing quantum decomposition (QD graphs) have been calculated by a new method based on spectral distribution associated to their adjacency matrix. Here in this paper, it is shown that the continuous-time quantum walk on any arbitrary graph can be investigated by spectral distribution method, simply by using Krylov subspace-Lanczos algorithm to generate orthonormal bases of Hilbert space of quantum walk isomorphic to orthogonal polynomials. Also new type of graphs possessing generalized quantum decomposition have been introduced, where this is achieved simply by relaxing some of the constrains imposed on QD graphs and it is shown that both in QD and GQD graphs, the unit vectors of strata are identical with the orthonormal basis produced by Lanczos algorithm. Moreover, it is shown that probability amplitude of observing walk at a given vertex is proportional to its coefficient in the corresponding unit vector of its stratum, and it can be written in terms of the amplitude of its stratum. Finally the capability of Lanczos-based algorithm for evaluation of walk on arbitrary graphs (GQD or non-QD types), has been tested by calculating the probability amplitudes of quantum walk on some interesting finite (infinite) graph of GQD type and finite (infinite) path graph of non-GQD type, where the asymptotic behavior of the probability amplitudes at infinite limit of number of vertices, are in agreement with those of central limit theorem of Ref.\cite{nko}.

id: quant-ph/0606242
title: False qubits?: Polarization of light and Josephson junction
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 4 pages, essentially altered text, added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606242
abstract: We compare two physical systems: polarization degrees of freedom of a macroscopic light beam and the Josephson junction (JJ) in the "charge qubit regime". The first system obviously cannot carry genuine quantum information and we show that the maximal entanglement which could be encoded into polarization of two light beams scales like 1/(photon number). Two theories of JJ, one leading to the picture of "JJ-qubit" and the other based on the mean-field approach are discussed. The later, which seems to be more appropriate, implies that the JJ system is, essentially, mathematically equivalent to the polarization of a light beam with the number of photons replaced by the number of Cooper pairs. The existing experiments consistent with the "JJ-qubit" picture and the theoretical arguments supporting, on the contrary, the classical model are briefly discussed. The Franck-Hertz-type experiment is suggested as an ultimate test of the JJ nature.

id: quant-ph/0606243
title: Generation and Manipulation of Multi-Color Stationary Light Field Using Electromagnetically Induced Transperancy
authors: S.A.Moiseev, B.S.Ham
comments: 28 pages, 4 figures, figure's captions-1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606243
abstract: Dynamic control of a weak quantum probe light pulse for the generation and quantum manipulations of a stationary multi-color (MC-) light field in a resonant coherent atomic medium using electromagnetically induced transparency is proposed. The manipulations have been analyzed based on the analytical solution of the adiabatic limit in the evolution of MC-light fields resulting from interaction of the slow probe light with the new fields generated in the nondegenerate multi-wave mixing scheme. We have found a critical stopping condition for the MC-light fields where the group velocity of light should reduce down to zero. Semiclassical dynamics and behavior of specific quantum correlations of the MC-light fields have been studied in detail for particular initial quantum states of the probe pulse. The stationary MC-field dynamics are treated in terms of dark MC-polariton states constructed for the studied multi-wave mixing processes. We have found the conditions for optimal manipulation of the MC-light while preserving the delicate quantum correlations of the initial probe light pulse. The quantum manipulations leading to the frequency and direction switching of the initial probe light pulse as well as to the quantum swapping of probe light into the new multi-frequency light fields have been proposed. The possibilities of the interaction time lengthening and enhancement of the electric field amplitudes of the stationary MC-light are also discussed for enhancement of the interactions with weak quantum fields in the spatially limited media.

id: quant-ph/0606244
title: Entropic uncertainty relations and locking: tight bounds for mutually unbiased bases
authors: Manuel A. Ballester, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 9 pages, RevTeX, v3: complete rewrite, new title, many new results, v4: minor changes, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022319 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606244
abstract: We prove tight entropic uncertainty relations for a large number of mutually unbiased measurements. In particular, we show that a bound derived from the result by Maassen and Uffink for 2 such measurements can in fact be tight for up to sqrt{d} measurements in mutually unbiased bases. We then show that using more mutually unbiased bases does not always lead to a better locking effect. We prove that the optimal bound for the accessible information using up to sqrt{d} specific mutually unbiased bases is log d/2, which is the same as can be achieved by using only two bases. Our result indicates that merely using mutually unbiased bases is not sufficient to achieve a strong locking effect, and we need to look for additional properties.

id: quant-ph/0606245
title: Quantum wave equations and non-radiating electromagnetic sources
authors: Mark P. Davidson
comments: 24 pages, changed content
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606245
abstract: A connection between classical non-radiating sources and free-particle wave equations in quantum mechanics is rigorously made. It is proven that free-particle wave equations for all spins have currents which can be defined which are non-radiating electromagnetic sources. It is also proven that the advanced and retarded fields are exactly equal for these sources. Implications of these results are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0606246
title: Stochastic Schroedinger equation from optimal observable evolution
authors: Denis Lacroix
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: AnnalsPhys.322:2055-2076,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606246
abstract: In this article, we consider a set of trial wave-functions denoted by $| Q \right>$ and an associated set of operators $A_\alpha$ which generate transformations connecting those trial states. Using variational principles, we show that we can always obtain a quantum Monte-Carlo method where the quantum evolution of a system is replaced by jumps between density matrices of the form $D = |Q_a> <Q_b|$, and where the average evolutions of the moments of $A_\alpha$ up to a given order $k$, i.e. $< A_{\alpha_1} >$, $< A_{\alpha_1} A_{\alpha_2} >$,..., $< A_{\alpha_1} ... A_{\alpha_k} >$, are constrained to follow the exact Ehrenfest evolution at each time step along each stochastic trajectory. Then, a set of more and more elaborated stochastic approximations of a quantum problem is obtained which approach the exact solution when more and more constraints are imposed, i.e. when $k$ increases. The Monte-Carlo process might even become exact if the Hamiltonian $H$ applied on the trial state can be written as a polynomial of $A_\alpha$. The formalism makes a natural connection between quantum jumps in Hilbert space and phase-space dynamics. We show that the derivation of stochastic Schroedinger equations can be greatly simplified by taking advantage of the existence of this hierarchy of approximations and its connection to the Ehrenfest theorem. Several examples are illustrated: the free wave-packet expansion, the Kerr oscillator, a generalized version of the Kerr oscillator, as well as interacting bosons or fermions.

id: quant-ph/0606247
title: Experimental evidence for the breakdown of a Hartree-Fock approach in a weakly interacting Bose gas
authors: Jean-Baptiste Trebbia, Jr?me Estve, Christoph I. Westbrook, Isabelle Bouchoule
comments: submitted to Phys. Rev. Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97 (22/12/2006) 250403
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606247
abstract: We study the formation of a quasi-condensate in a nearly one dimensional, weakly interacting trapped atomic Bose gas. We show that a Hartree Fock (mean-field) approach fails to explain the presence of the quasi-condensate in the center of the cloud: the quasi-condensate appears through an interaction-driven cross-over and not a saturation of the excited states. Numerical calculations based on Bogoliubov theory give an estimate of the cross-over density in agreement with experimental results.

id: quant-ph/0606248
title: Properties and Application of Nondeterministic Quantum Query Algorithms
authors: Alina Dubrovska Vasilieva
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606248
abstract: Many quantum algorithms can be analyzed in a query model to compute Boolean functions where input is given by a black box. As in the classical version of decision trees, different kinds of quantum query algorithms are possible: exact, zero-error, bounded-error and even nondeterministic. In this paper, we study the latter class of algorithms. We introduce a fresh notion in addition to already studied nondeterministic algorithms and introduce dual nondeterministic quantum query algorithms. We examine properties of such algorithms and prove relations with exact and nondeterministic quantum query algorithm complexity. As a result and as an example of the application of discovered properties, we demonstrate a gap of n vs. 2 between classical deterministic and dual nondeterministic quantum query complexity for a specific Boolean function.

id: quant-ph/0606249
title: Direct measurement of decoherence for entanglement between a photon and stored atomic excitation
authors: H. de Riedmatten, J. Laurat, C.W. Chou, E.W. Schomburg, D. Felinto, H.J. Kimble
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Minor changes. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 113603 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0606249
abstract: Violations of a Bell inequality are reported for an experiment where one of two entangled qubits is stored in a collective atomic memory for a user-defined time delay. The atomic qubit is found to preserve the violation of a Bell inequality for storage times up to 21 microseconds, 700 times longer than the duration of the excitation pulse that creates the entanglement. To address the question of the security of entanglement-based cryptography implemented with this system, an investigation of the Bell violation as a function of the cross-correlation between the generated nonclassical fields is reported, with saturation of the violation close to the maximum value allowed by quantum mechanics.

id: cond-mat/0606021
title: Peierls distorted chain as a quantum data bus for quantum state transfer
authors: M.X. Huo, Ying Li, Z. Song, C.P. Sun
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Europhysics Letters 84, 30004 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606021
abstract: We systematically study the transfer of quantum state of electron spin as the flying qubit along a half-filled Peierls distorted tight-binding chain described by the Su-Schrieffer-Heeger (SSH) model, which behaves as a quantum data bus. This enables a novel physical mechanism for quantum communication with always-on interaction: the effective hopping of the spin carrier between sites $A$ and $B$ connected to two sites in this SSH chain can be induced by the quasi-excitations of the SSH model. As we prove, it is the Peierls energy gap of the SSH quasi-excitations that plays a crucial role to protect the robustness of the quantum state transfer process. Moreover, our observation also indicates that such a scheme can also be employed to explore the intrinsic property of the quantum system.

id: cond-mat/0606092
title: Dynamical evolution of a doubly-quantized vortex imprinted in a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: A. Mu?oz Mateo, V. Delgado
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 180409 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606092
abstract: The recent experiment by Y. Shin \emph{et al.} [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{93}, 160406 (2004)] on the decay of a doubly quantized vortex imprinted in $^{23}% $Na condensates is analyzed by numerically solving the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. Our results, which are in very good quantitative agreement with the experiment, demonstrate that the vortex decay is mainly a consequence of dynamical instability. Despite apparent contradictions, the local density approach is consistent with the experimental results. The monotonic increase observed in the vortex lifetimes is a consequence of the fact that, for large condensates, the measured lifetimes incorporate the time it takes for the initial perturbation to reach the central slice. When considered locally, the splitting occurs approximately at the same time in every condensate, regardless of its size.

id: cond-mat/0606126
title: Two-Point Entanglement Near a Quantum Phase Transition
authors: Han-Dong Chen
comments: published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 10215-10224
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606126
abstract: In this work, we study the two-point entanglement S(i,j), which measures the entanglement between two separated degrees of freedom (ij) and the rest of system, near a quantum phase transition. Away from the critical point, S(i,j) saturates with a characteristic length scale $\xi_E$, as the distance |i-j| increases. The entanglement length $\xi_E$ agrees with the correlation length. The universality and finite size scaling of entanglement are demonstrated in a class of exactly solvable one dimensional spin model. By connecting the two-point entanglement to correlation functions in the long range limit, we argue that the prediction power of a two-point entanglement is universal as long as the two involved points are separated far enough.

id: cond-mat/0606135
title: Frenkel-Kontorova model with cold trapped ions
authors: I. Garcia-Mata, O. V. Zhirov, D. L. Shepelyansky
comments: RevTeX, 5 pages, 11 figures, research at this http URL
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 41, 325 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606135
abstract: We study analytically and numerically the properties of one-dimensional chain of cold ions placed in a periodic potential of optical lattice and global harmonic potential of a trap. In close similarity with the Frenkel-Kontorova model, a transition from sliding to pinned phase takes place with the increase of the optical lattice potential for the density of ions incommensurate with the lattice period. Quantum fluctuations lead to a quantum phase transition and melting of pinned instanton glass phase at large values of dimensional Planck constant. The obtained results are also relevant for a Wigner crystal placed in a periodic potential.

id: cond-mat/0606140
title: On the relation between decoherence and spontaneous symmetry breaking
authors: Jasper van Wezel, Jan Zaanen, Jeroen van den Brink
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev B. 74, 094430 (2006).
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606140
abstract: We have recently shown that there is a limit to quantum coherence in many-particle spin qubits due to spontaneous symmetry breaking. These results were derived for the Lieb-Mattis spin model. Here we will show that the underlying mechanism of decoherence in systems with spontaneous symmetry breaking is in fact more general. We present here a generic route to finding the decoherence time associated with spontaneous symmetry breaking in many particle qubits, and subsequently we apply this approach to two model systems, indicating how the continuous symmetries in these models are spontaneously broken and discussing the relation of this symmetry breaking to the thin spectrum. We then present in detail the calculations that lead to the limit to quantum coherence, which is due to energy shifts in the thin spectrum.

id: cond-mat/0606184
title: Quantum-coupling between closely-spaced surfaces via transverse photons
authors: K. P. Sinha, A. Meulenberg, P. L. Hagelstein
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, Cleaned up Abstract. Minor improvements to text and references. Reduced file size
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606184
abstract: A quantum-mechanical formulation of energy transfer between closely spaced surfaces is given. Coupling between the two surfaces arises from the atomic dipole-dipole interaction involving transverse-photon exchange. The exchange of photons at resonance enhances the radiation transfer. The interaction between two surfaces, separated by a gap, is found to be dependent upon geometric, material, frequency, dipole, and temperature factors, along with a radiation-tunneling factor for the evanescent waves. The derived geometric term has a gap-spacing (distance) dependence that varies inversely as the second power for bulk samples to the inverse fourth power for the quantum well - quantum well case. Expressions for the net power transfer, in the near-field regime, from hot to cold surface for this case is given and evaluated for representative materials.

id: cond-mat/0606198
title: Critical exponents in metastable decay via quantum activation
authors: M.I. Dykman
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 75, 011101 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606198
abstract: We consider decay of metastable states of forced vibrations of a quantum oscillator close to bifurcation points, where dissipation becomes effectively strong. We show that decay occurs via quantum activation over an effective barrier. The decay probability $W$ scales with the distance $\eta$ to the bifurcation point as $|\ln W|\propto \eta^{\xi}$. The exponent $\xi$ is found for a resonantly driven oscillator and an oscillator modulated at nearly twice its eigenfrequency.

id: cond-mat/0606337
title: Multipartite Entanglement Signature of Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: Thiago R. de Oliveira, Gustavo Rigolin, Marcos C. de Oliveira, Eduardo Miranda
comments: Published version. Incorporates correction made in erratum
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 170401 (2006)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606337
abstract: We derive a general relation between the non-analyticities of the ground state energy and those of a subclass of the multipartite generalized global entanglement (GGE) measure defined by T. R. de Oliveira et al. [Phys. Rev. A 73, 010305(R) (2006)] for many-particle systems. We show that GGE signals both a critical point location and the order of a quantum phase transition (QPT). We also show that GGE allows us to study the relation between multipartite entanglement and QPTs, suggesting that multipartite but not bipartite entanglement is favored at the critical point. Finally, using GGE we were able, at a second order QPT, to define a diverging entanglement length (EL) in terms of the usual correlation length. We exemplify this with the XY spin-1/2 chain and show that the EL is half the correlation length.

id: cond-mat/0606345
title: First-principles quantum simulations of dissociation of molecular condensates: Atom correlations in momentum space
authors: C.M. Savage, P.E. Schwenn, K.V. Kheruntsyan
comments: Final published version, with updated references and minor modifications
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 033620 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606345
abstract: We investigate the quantum many-body dynamics of dissociation of a Bose-Einstein condensate of molecular dimers into pairs of constituent bosonic atoms and analyze the resulting atom-atom correlations. The quantum fields of both the molecules and atoms are simulated from first principles in three dimensions using the positive-P representation method. This allows us to provide an exact treatment of the molecular field depletion and s-wave scattering interactions between the particles, as well as to extend the analysis to nonuniform systems. In the simplest uniform case, we find that the major source of atom-atom decorrelation is atom-atom recombination which produces molecules outside the initially occupied condensate mode. The unwanted molecules are formed from dissociated atom pairs with non-opposite momenta. The net effect of this process -- which becomes increasingly significant for dissociation durations corresponding to more than about 40% conversion -- is to reduce the atom-atom correlations. In addition, for nonuniform systems we find that mode-mixing due to inhomogeneity can result in further degradation of the correlation signal. We characterize the correlation strength via the degree of squeezing of particle number-difference fluctuations in a certain momentum-space volume and show that the correlation strength can be increased if the signals are binned into larger counting volumes.

id: cond-mat/0606376
title: Qubit measurements with a double-dot detector
authors: T. Gilad, S.A. Gurvitz
comments: 4 pages, some explanations added, Phys. Rev. Lett., in press
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 97, 116806 (2006).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606376
abstract: We propose to monitor a qubit with a double-dot (DD) resonant-tunneling detector, which can operate at higher temperatures than a single-dot detector. In order to assess the effectiveness of this device, we derive rate equations for the density matrix of the entire system. We show that the signal-to-noise ratio can be greatly improved by a proper choice of the parameters and location of the detector. We demonstrate that quantum interference effects within the DD detector play an important role in the measurement. Surprisingly, these effects produce a systematic measurement error, even when the entire system is in a stationary state.

id: cond-mat/0606381
title: Resonance eigenstates of the SQUID-qubit system
authors: Alec Maassen van den Brink
comments: REVTeX4, 15pp.; work-in-progress, interim write-up. N.B.: "Alec" is my first, and "Maassen van den Brink" my family name
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606381
abstract: We study the complex-valued resonance spectrum of a dc-SQUID coupled to a flux qubit, where the former is treated in the cubic and the latter in the two-level approximation. It is shown that this spectrum is well-defined and contains most of the relevant information on the escape process. Thus, the language of resonance states is precise and well-adapted to switching- (or trigger-) type qubit readout, and a worthwhile complement to the various descriptions of continuous qubit measurement. Initial progress is analytic, but nonperturbative numerical methods have been formulated and should soon yield accurate results for all parameter values.

id: cond-mat/0606413
title: Electronic Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer for multi-mode entanglement detection
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Diego Frustaglia, Fabio Taddei, Rosario Fazio
comments: 6 pages. Revised version. Ref. added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74, 115315 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606413
abstract: We show that multi-mode entanglement of electrons in a mesoscopic conductor can be detected by a measurement of the zero-frequency current correlations in an electronic Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer. By this mean, one can further establish a lower bound to the entanglement of formation of two-electron input states. Our results extend the work of Burkard and Loss [Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 087903 (2003)] to many channels and provide a way to test the existence of entangled states involving both orbital and spin degrees of freedom.

id: cond-mat/0606436
title: Entanglement Entropy beyond the Free Case
authors: T. Barthel, S. Dusuel, J. Vidal
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.97:220402,2006
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606436
abstract: We present a perturbative method to compute the ground state entanglement entropy for interacting systems. We apply it to a collective model of mutually interacting spins in a magnetic field. At the quantum critical point, the entanglement entropy scales logarithmically with the subsystem size, the system size, and the anisotropy parameter. We determine the corresponding scaling prefactors and evaluate the leading finite-size correction to the entropy. Our analytical predictions are in perfect agreement with numerical results.

id: cond-mat/0606481
title: Decoherence of flux qubits due to 1/f flux noise
authors: F. Yoshihara, K. Harrabi, A. O. Niskanen, Y. Nakamura, J. S. Tsai
comments: 4 pages, error in Fig.4 corrected, to appear in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606481
abstract: We have investigated decoherence in Josephson-junction flux qubits. Based on the measurements of decoherence at various bias conditions, we discriminate contributions of different noise sources. In particular, we present a Gaussian decay function of the echo signal as evidence of dephasing due to $1/f$ flux noise whose spectral density is evaluated to be about $(10^{-6} \Phi_0)^2$/Hz at 1 Hz. We also demonstrate that at an optimal bias condition where the noise sources are well decoupled the coherence observed in the echo measurement is mainly limited by energy relaxation of the qubit.

id: cond-mat/0606587
title: Full control of qubit rotations in a voltage-biased superconducting flux qubit
authors: Luca Chirolli, Guido Burkard
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74, 174510 (2006)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606587
abstract: We study a voltage-controlled version of the superconducting flux qubit [Chiorescu et al., Science 299, 1869 (2003)] and show that full control of qubit rotations on the entire Bloch sphere can be achieved. Circuit graph theory is used to study a setup where voltage sources are attached to the two superconducting islands formed between the three Josephson junctions in the flux qubit. Applying a voltage allows qubit rotations about the y axis, in addition to pure x and z rotations obtained in the absence of applied voltages. The orientation and magnitude of the rotation axis on the Bloch sphere can be tuned by the gate voltages, the external magnetic flux, and the ratio alpha between the Josephson energies via a flux-tunable junction. We compare the single-qubit control in the known regime alpha<1 with the unexplored range alpha>1 and estimate the decoherence due to voltage fluctuations.

id: cond-mat/0606627
title: Universal quantum computing with correlated spin-charge states
authors: Jordan Kyriakidis, Guido Burkard
comments: 6 pages, 3 eps figures, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. B v75, 115324 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606627
abstract: We propose a universal quantum computing scheme in which the orthogonal qubit states $|0>$ and $|1>$ are identical in their single-particle spin and charge properties. Each qubit is contained in a single quantum dot and gate operations are induced all-electrically by changes in the confinement potential. Within the computational space, these qubits are robust against environmental influences that couple to the system through single-particle channels. Due to the identical spin and charge properties of the $|0>$, $|1>$ states, the lowest-order relaxation and decoherence rates $1/T_1$ and $1/T_2$, within the Born-Markov approximation, both vanish for a large class of environmental couplings. We give explicit pulse sequences for a universal set of gates (phase, $\pi/8$, Hadamard, \textsc{cnot}) and discuss state preparation, manipulation, and detection.

id: cond-mat/0606676
title: Qubit feedback and control with kicked quantum nondemolition measurements: A quantum Bayesian analysis
authors: Andrew N. Jordan, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74, 085307 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606676
abstract: The informational approach to continuous quantum measurement is derived from POVM formalism for a mesoscopic scattering detector measuring a charge qubit. Quantum Bayesian equations for the qubit density matrix are derived, and cast into the form of a stochastic conformal map. Measurement statistics are derived for kicked quantum nondemolition measurements, combined with conditional unitary operations. These results are applied to derive a feedback protocol to produce an arbitrary pure state after a weak measurement, as well as to investigate how an initially mixed state becomes purified with and without feedback.

id: cond-mat/0606705
title: Impurity Entanglement Entropy and the Kondo Screening Cloud
authors: Erik S. S?rensen, Ming-Shyang Chang, Nicolas Laflorencie, Ian Affleck
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures (eps), RevTeX 4.0
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2007) L01001
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606705
abstract: The screening of an impurity spin by conduction electrons is associated with the formation of a large Kondo screening cloud, of size xi_K. We study the quantum entanglement between a region of size r surrounding the impurity and the rest of the sample, (of total size R) using Density Matrix Renormalization Group and analytic methods. The corresponding "impurity entanglement entropy", S_{imp}, is shown to be a universal scaling function of r/xi_K and r/R. We calculate this universal function using Fermi liquid theory in the regime xi_K << r.

id: cond-mat/0606713
title: Undoing a weak quantum measurement of a solid-state qubit
authors: Alexander N. Korotkov, Andrew N. Jordan
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 166805 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606713
abstract: We propose an experiment which demonstrates the undoing of a weak continuous measurement of a solid-state qubit, so that any unknown initial state is fully restored. The undoing procedure has only a finite probability of success because of the non-unitary nature of quantum measurement, though it is accompanied by a clear experimental indication of whether or not the undoing has been successful. The probability of success decreases with increasing strength of the measurement, reaching zero for a traditional projective measurement. Measurement undoing (``quantum un-demolition'') may be interpreted as a kind of a quantum eraser, in which the information obtained from the first measurement is erased by the second measurement, which is an essential part of the undoing procedure. The experiment can be realized using quantum dot (charge) or superconducting (phase) qubits.

id: cond-mat/0606734
title: Crossover from weak to strong coupling regime in dispersive circuit QED
authors: I. Serban, E. Solano, F.K. Wilhelm
comments: Published version
journal: Europhys. Lett., 80 (2007) 40011
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606734
abstract: We study the decoherence of a superconducting qubit due to the dispersive coupling to a damped harmonic oscillator. We go beyond the weak qubit-oscillator coupling, which we associate with a phase Purcell effect, and enter into a strong coupling regime, with qualitatively different behavior of the dephasing rate. We identify and give a physicaly intuitive discussion of both decoherence mechanisms. Our results can be applied, with small adaptations, to a large variety of other physical systems, e. g. trapped ions and cavity QED, boosting theoretical and experimental decoherence studies.

id: cond-mat/0606743
title: Prediction of quantum stripe ordering in optical lattices
authors: Congjun Wu, W. Vincent Liu, Joel Moore, Sankar Das Sarma
comments: 4 pages, three figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 190406 (2006)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606743
abstract: We predict the robust existence of a novel quantum orbital stripe order in the $p$-band Bose-Hubbard model of two-dimensional triangular optical lattices with cold bosonic atoms. An orbital angular momentum moment is formed on each site exhibiting a stripe order both in the superfluid and Mott-insulating phases. The stripe order spontaneously breaks time-reversal, lattice translation and rotation symmetries. In addition, it induces staggered plaquette bond currents in the superfluid phase. Possible signatures of this stripe order in the time of flight experiment are discussed.

id: cond-mat/0606771
title: Ultracold atomic gases in optical lattices: mimicking condensed matter physics and beyond
authors: Maciej Lewenstein, Anna Sanpera, Veronica Ahufinger, Bogdan Damski, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: Review article. v2: published version, 135 pages, 34 figures
journal: Advances in Physics Vol. 56 Nos. 1-2, January-April 2007, 243-379
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606771
abstract: We review recent developments in the physics of ultracold atomic and molecular gases in optical lattices. Such systems are nearly perfect realisations of various kinds of Hubbard models, and as such may very well serve to mimic condensed matter phenomena. We show how these systems may be employed as quantum simulators to answer some challenging open questions of condensed matter, and even high energy physics. After a short presentation of the models and the methods of treatment of such systems, we discuss in detail, which challenges of condensed matter physics can be addressed with (i) disordered ultracold lattice gases, (ii) frustrated ultracold gases, (iii) spinor lattice gases, (iv) lattice gases in "artificial" magnetic fields, and, last but not least, (v) quantum information processing in lattice gases. For completeness, also some recent progress related to the above topics with trapped cold gases will be discussed.

id: cond-mat/0606787
title: Parametric coupling between macroscopic quantum resonators
authors: L. Tian, M. S. Allman, R. W. Simmonds
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, submitted
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 115001 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606787
abstract: Time-dependent linear coupling between macroscopic quantum resonator modes generates both a parametric amplification also known as a {}"squeezing operation" and a beam splitter operation, analogous to quantum optical systems. These operations, when applied properly, can robustly generate entanglement and squeezing for the quantum resonator modes. Here, we present such coupling schemes between a nanomechanical resonator and a superconducting electrical resonator using applied microwave voltages as well as between two superconducting lumped-element electrical resonators using a r.f. SQUID-mediated tunable coupler. By calculating the logarithmic negativity of the partially transposed density matrix, we quantitatively study the entanglement generated at finite temperatures. We also show that characterization of the nanomechanical resonator state after the quantum operations can be achieved by detecting the electrical resonator only. Thus, one of the electrical resonator modes can act as a probe to measure the entanglement of the coupled systems and the degree of squeezing for the other resonator mode.

id: cond-mat/0606804
title: Electric-field correlations in quantum charged fluids coupled to the radiation field
authors: B.Jancovici
comments: 10 pages. Title changed. Minor modifications, including a better justification of eq.(8)
journal: Phys.Rev.E 74, 052103 (2006)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606804
abstract: In a recent paper [S.El Boustani, P.R.Buenzli, and Ph.A.Martin, Phys.Rev. E 73, 036113 (2006) cond-mat/0511537], about quantum charges in equilibrium with radiation, among other things the asymptotic form of the electric-field correlation has been obtained by a microscopic calculation. It has been found that this correlation has a long-range algebraic decay (except in the classical limit). The macroscopic approach, in the Course of Theoretical Physics of Landau and Lifshitz, gives no such long-range algebraic decay. In this Brief Report, we revisit and complete the macroscopic approach of Landau and Lifshitz, we confirm their result, and suggest that, perhaps, the use of a classical electromagnetic field by El Boustani et al. was not justified.

id: gr-qc/0606035
title: Kerr geometry beyond the Quantum theory
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, based on the invited talk given at the workshop `Beyond the Quantum',v. 2. added new results, title is changed
journal: in: `Beyond the Quantum', Th.M. Nieuwenhuizen, V. Spicka et al. eds, World Scientific, Singapore, 2007, p.319-331
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0606035
abstract: The Dirac electron theory and QED do not take into account gravitational field, while the corresponding Kerr-Newman solution with parameters of electron has very strong stringy, topological and non-local action on the Compton distances, polarizing space-time and deforming the Coulomb field. We discuss the relation of the electron to the Kerr's microgeon model and argue that the Kerr geometry may be hidden beyond the Quantum Theory. In particular, we show that the Foldi-Wouthuysen `mean-position' operator of the Dirac electron is related to a complex representation of the Kerr geometry, and to a complex stringy source. Therefore, the complex Kerr geometry may be hidden beyond the Dirac equation.

id: gr-qc/0606078
title: On obtaining classical mechanics from quantum mechanics
authors: Ghanashyam Date
comments: revtex4, 24 pages, no figures. In the version 2 certain technical errors in section I-B are corrected, the part on WKB (and section II-B) is removed, discussion of dynamics and semiclassicality is extended and references are added. Accepted for publication on Classical and Quantum Gravity
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.24:535-550,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0606078
abstract: Constructing a classical mechanical system associated with a given quantum mechanical one, entails construction of a classical phase space and a corresponding Hamiltonian function from the available quantum structures and a notion of coarser observations. The Hilbert space of any quantum mechanical system naturally has the structure of an infinite dimensional symplectic manifold (`quantum phase space'). There is also a systematic, quotienting procedure which imparts a bundle structure to the quantum phase space and extracts a classical phase space as the base space. This works straight forwardly when the Hilbert space carries weakly continuous representation of the Heisenberg group and recovers the linear classical phase space $\mathbb{R}^{\mathrm{2N}}$. We report on how the procedure also allows extraction of non-linear classical phase spaces and illustrate it for Hilbert spaces being finite dimensional (spin-j systems), infinite dimensional but separable (particle on a circle) and infinite dimensional but non-separable (Polymer quantization). To construct a corresponding classical dynamics, one needs to choose a suitable section and identify an effective Hamiltonian. The effective dynamics mirrors the quantum dynamics provided the section satisfies conditions of semiclassicality and tangentiality.

id: gr-qc/0606091
title: Probing the cosmological singularity with a particle
authors: Przemyslaw Malkiewicz, Wlodzimierz Piechocki
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures, revtex4, added references, version accepted for publication in Class. Quantum Grav
journal: Class.Quant.Grav. 23 (2006) 7045-7062
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0606091
abstract: We examine the transition of a particle across the singularity of the compactified Milne (CM) space. Quantization of the phase space of a particle and testing the quantum stability of its dynamics are consistent to one another. One type of transition of a quantum particle is described by a quantum state that is continuous at the singularity. It indicates the existence of a deterministic link between the propagation of a particle before and after crossing the singularity. Regularization of the CM space leads to the dynamics similar to the dynamics in the de Sitter space. The CM space is a promising model to describe the cosmological singularity deserving further investigation by making use of strings and membranes.

id: gr-qc/0606097
title: Renormalization by gravity and the Kerr spinning particle
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 6209-6215
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0606097
abstract: On the basis of the Kerr spinning particle, we show that the mass renormalization is perfectly performed by gravity for an arbitrary distribution of source matter. A smooth regularization of the Kerr-Newman solution is considered, leading to a source in the form of a rotating bag filled by a false vacuum. It is shown that gravity controls the phase transition to an AdS or dS false vacuum state inside the bag, providing the mass balance.

id: gr-qc/0606118
title: Proposed observations of gravity waves from the early Universe via "Millikan oil drops"
authors: R. Y. Chiao
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, NASA "Quantum-to-Cosmos" conference proceedings to be published in IJMPD
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.D16:2309-2318,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0606118
abstract: Pairs of Planck-mass drops of superfluid helium coated by electrons (i.e., ``Millikan oil drops''), when levitated in a superconducting magnetic trap, can be efficient quantum transducers between electromagnetic (EM) and gravitational (GR) radiation. This leads to the possibility of a Hertz-like experiment, in which EM waves are converted at the source into GR waves, and then back-converted at the receiver from GR waves back into EM waves. Detection of the gravity-wave analog of the cosmic microwave background using these drops can discriminate between various theories of the early Universe.

id: gr-qc/0606120
title: A possible experimental test of quantized gravity
authors: P. J. Salzman, S. Carlip
comments: 9 pages, 2 ps figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0606120
abstract: While it is widely believed that gravity should ultimately be treated as a quantum theory, there remains a possibility that general relativity should not be quantized. If this is the case, the coupling of classical gravity to the expectation value of the quantum stress-energy tensor will naturally lead to nonlinearities in the Schrodinger equation. By numerically investigating time evolution in the nonrelativistic "Schrodinger-Newton" approximation, we show that such nonlinearities may be observable in the next generation of molecular interferometry experiments.

id: gr-qc/0606121
title: Uniform discretizations: a quantization procedure for totally constrained systems including gravity
authors: Miguel Campiglia, Cayetano Di Bartolo, Rodolfo Gambini, Jorge Pullin
comments: 4 pages, Revtex
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.67:012020,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0606121
abstract: We present a new method for the quantization of totally constrained systems including general relativity. The method consists in constructing discretized theories that have a well defined and controlled continuum limit. The discrete theories are constraint-free and can be readily quantized. This provides a framework where one can introduce a relational notion of time and that nevertheless approximates in a well defined fashion the theory of interest. The method is equivalent to the group averaging procedure for many systems where the latter makes sense and provides a generalization otherwise. In the continuum limit it can be shown to contain, under certain assumptions, the ``master constraint'' of the ``Phoenix project''. It also provides a correspondence principle with the classical theory that does not require to consider the semiclassical limit.

id: hep-th/0606028
title: Final state boundary condition of the Schwarzschild black hole
authors: Doyeol Ahn
comments: Version_2
journal: Phys.Rev.D74:084010,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0606028
abstract: It is shown that the internal stationary state of the Schwarzschild black hole can be represented by a maximally entangled two-mode squeezed state of collapsing matter and infalling Hawking radiation. The final boundary condition at the singularity is then described by the random unitary transformation acting on the collapsing matter field. The outgoing Hawking radiation is obtained by the final state projection on the total wave function, which looks like a quantum teleportation process without the classical information transmitted. The black hole evaporation process as seen by the observer outside the black hole is now a unitary process but non-local physics is required to transmit the information outside the black hole. It is also shown that the final state projection by the evaporation process is strongly affected by the quantum state outside the event horizon, which clearly violates the locality principle.

id: hep-th/0606062
title: Discreteness and the origin of probability in quantum mechanics
authors: Roman V. Buniy, Stephen D.H. Hsu, A. Zee
comments: 5 pages, revtex, 1 figure. Revised version, to appear in Physics Letters B. (Small clarifcation, references added.)
journal: Phys.Lett. B640 (2006) 219-223
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0606062
abstract: Attempts to derive the Born rule, either in the Many Worlds or Copenhagen interpretation, are unsatisfactory for systems with only a finite number of degrees of freedom. In the case of Many Worlds this is a serious problem, since its goal is to account for apparent collapse phenomena, including the Born rule for probabilities, assuming only unitary evolution of the wavefunction. For finite number of degrees of freedom, observers on the vast majority of branches would not deduce the Born rule. However, discreteness of the quantum state space, even if extremely tiny, may restore the validity of the usual arguments.

id: hep-th/0606103
title: New Two-Dimensional Integrable Quantum Models from SUSY Intertwining
authors: M.V.Ioffe, J.Negro, L.M.Nieto, D.N.Nishnianidze
comments: 18 pages
journal: J.Phys.A39:9297-9308,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0606103
abstract: Supersymmetrical intertwining relations of second order in the derivatives are investigated for the case of supercharges with deformed hyperbolic metric $g_{ik}=diag(1,-a^2)$. Several classes of particular solutions of these relations are found. The corresponding Hamiltonians do not allow the conventional separation of variables, but they commute with symmetry operators of fourth order in momenta. For some of these models the specific SUSY procedure of separation of variables is applied.

id: hep-th/0606162
title: (Quasi)-exactly solvable quasinormal modes
authors: Hing-Tong Cho, Choon-Lin Ho
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Replaced with version to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys. A40 (2007) 1325-1332
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0606162
abstract: We consider quasinormal modes with complex energies from the point of view of the theory of quasi-exactly solvable (QES) models. We demonstrate that it is possible to find new potentials which admit exactly solvable or QES quasinormal modes by suitable complexification of parameters defining the QES potentials. Particularly, we obtain one QES and four exactly solvable potentials out of the five one-dimensional QES systems based on the $sl(2)$ algebra.

id: hep-th/0606174
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations between two uniformly accelerated oscillators
authors: Serge Massar, Philippe Spindel
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.D74:085031,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0606174
abstract: We consider the quantum correlations, i.e. the entanglement, between two systems uniformly accelerated with identical acceleration a in opposite Rindler quadrants which have reached thermal equilibrium with the Unruh heat bath. To this end we study an exactly soluble model consisting of two oscillators coupled to a massless scalar field in 1+1 dimensions. We find that for some values of the parameters the oscillators get entangled shortly after the moment of closest approach. Because of boost invariance there are an infinite set of pairs of positions where the oscillators are entangled. The maximal entanglement between the oscillators is found to be approximately 1.4 entanglement bits.

id: hep-th/0606184
title: Proof of the Holographic Formula for Entanglement Entropy
authors: Dmitri V. Fursaev
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, a new section on the effect of curvature terms in the bulk is added, typos corrected, pictures are improved
journal: JHEP 0609:018,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0606184
abstract: Entanglement entropy for a spatial partition of a quantum system is studied in theories which admit a dual description in terms of the anti-de Sitter (AdS) gravity one dimension higher. A general proof of the holographic formula which relates the entropy to the area of a codimension 2 minimal hypersurface embedded in the bulk AdS space is given. The entanglement entropy is determined by a partition function which is defined as a path integral over Riemannian AdS geometries with non-trivial boundary conditions. The topology of the Riemannian spaces puts restrictions on the choice of the minimal hypersurface for a given boundary conditions. The entanglement entropy is also considered in Randall-Sundrum braneworld models where its asymptotic expansion is derived when the curvature radius of the brane is much larger than the AdS radius. Special attention is payed to the geometrical structure of anomalous terms in the entropy in four dimensions. Modification of the holographic formula by the higher curvature terms in the bulk is briefly discussed.

id: hep-th/0606192
title: Harmonic oscillators coupled by springs: discrete solutions as a Wigner Quantum System
authors: S. Lievens, N.I. Stoilova, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: J.Math.Phys.47:113504,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0606192
abstract: We consider a quantum system consisting of a one-dimensional chain of M identical harmonic oscillators with natural frequency $\omega$, coupled by means of springs. Such systems have been studied before, and appear in various models. In this paper, we approach the system as a Wigner Quantum System, not imposing the canonical commutation relations, but using instead weaker relations following from the compatibility of Hamilton's equations and the Heisenberg equations. In such a setting, the quantum system allows solutions in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space, with a discrete spectrum for all physical operators. We show that a class of solutions can be obtained using generators of the Lie superalgebra gl(1|M). Then we study the properties and spectra of the physical operators in a class of unitary representations of gl(1|M). These properties are both interesting and intriguing. In particular, we can give a complete analysis of the eigenvalues of the Hamiltonian and of the position and momentum operators (including multiplicities). We also study probability distributions of position operators when the quantum system is in a stationary state, and the effect of the position of one oscillator on the positions of the remaining oscillators in the chain.

id: hep-th/0606205
title: Entanglement entropy of black holes and AdS/CFT correspondence
authors: Sergey N. Solodukhin
comments: 5 pages; minor typos corrected, minor changes in text. Version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 97 (2006) 201601
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0606205
abstract: A recent proposal by Ryu and Takayanagi for a holographic interpretation of entanglement entropy in conformal field theories dual to supergravity on anti-de Sitter (adS) is generalized to include entanglement entropy of black holes living on the boundary of adS. The generalized proposal is verified in boundary dimensions $d=2$ and $d=4$ for both the UV divergent and UV finite terms. In dimension $d=4$ an expansion of entanglement entropy in terms of size $L$ of the subsystem outside the black hole is considered. A new term in the entropy of dual strongly coupled CFT, which universally grows as $L^2\ln L$ and is proportional to the value of the obstruction tensor at the black hole horizon, is predicted.

id: hep-th/0606256
title: Universal terms for the entanglement entropy in 2+1 dimensions
authors: H. Casini, M. Huerta
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, extended version with full calculations, added references
journal: Nucl.Phys.B764:183-201,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0606256
abstract: We show that the entanglement entropy and alpha entropies corresponding to spatial polygonal sets in $(2+1)$ dimensions contain a term which scales logarithmically with the cutoff. Its coefficient is a universal quantity consisting in a sum of contributions from the individual vertices. For a free scalar field this contribution is given by the trace anomaly in a three dimensional space with conical singularities located on the boundary of a plane angular sector. We find its analytic expression as a function of the angle. This is given in terms of the solution of a set of non linear ordinary differential equations. For general free fields, we also find the small-angle limit of the logarithmic coefficient, which is related to the two dimensional entropic c-functions. The calculation involves a reduction to a two dimensional problem, and as a byproduct, we obtain the trace of the Green function for a massive scalar field in a sphere where boundary conditions are specified on a segment of a great circle. This also gives the exact expression for the entropies for a scalar field in a two dimensional de Sitter space.

id: math-ph/0606018
title: Entanglement in Finitely Correlated Spin States
authors: Spyridon Michalakis, Bruno Nachtergaele
comments: PACS 03.67.Mn, 05.50.+q. Minor typos in v1 corrected. In v2: expanded Introduction and Discussion. Simplified proof of the main result
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97 (2006) 140601
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0606018
abstract: We derive bounds for the entanglement of a spin with an (adjacent and non-adjacent) interval of spins in an arbitrary pure finitely correlated state (FCS) on a chain of spins of any magnitude. Finitely correlated states are otherwise known as matrix product states or generalized valence-bond states. The bounds become exact in the limit of the entanglement of a single spin and the half-infinite chain to the right (or the left) of it. Our bounds provide a proof of the recent conjecture by Benatti, Hiesmayr, and Narnhofer that their necessary condition for non-vanishing entanglement in terms of a single spin and the ``memory'' of the FCS, is also sufficient . Our result also generalizes the study of entanglement in the ground state of the AKLT model by Fan, Korepin, and Roychowdhury. Our result permits one to calculate more efficiently, numerically and in some cases even analytically, the entanglement of arbitrary finitely correlated quantum spin chains.

id: math/0606118
title: A discrete invitation to quantum filtering and feedback control
authors: Luc Bouten, Ramon van Handel, Matthew R. James
comments: 76 pages, 12 figures. A PDF file with high resolution figures can be found at this http URL
journal: SIAM Review 51, pp. 239-316, 2009
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0606118
abstract: The engineering and control of devices at the quantum-mechanical level--such as those consisting of small numbers of atoms and photons--is a delicate business. The fundamental uncertainty that is inherently present at this scale manifests itself in the unavoidable presence of noise, making this a novel field of application for stochastic estimation and control theory. In this expository paper we demonstrate estimation and feedback control of quantum mechanical systems in what is essentially a noncommutative version of the binomial model that is popular in mathematical finance. The model is extremely rich and allows a full development of the theory, while remaining completely within the setting of finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces (thus avoiding the technical complications of the continuous theory). We introduce discretized models of an atom in interaction with the electromagnetic field, obtain filtering equations for photon counting and homodyne detection, and solve a stochastic control problem using dynamic programming and Lyapunov function methods.

id: nlin/0606021
title: Generalized Quantum Baker Maps as perturbations of a simple kernel
authors: Leonardo Ermann, Marcos Saraceno
comments: 11 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 74, 046205 (2006)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0606021
abstract: We present a broad family of quantum baker maps that generalize the proposal of Schack and Caves to any even Hilbert space with arbitrary boundary conditions. We identify a structure, common to all maps consisting of a simple kernel perturbed by diffraction effects. This "essential" baker's map has a different semiclassical limit and can be diagonalized analytically for Hilbert spaces spanned by qubits. In all cases this kernel provides an accurate approximation to the spectral properties - eigenvalues and eigenfunctions - of all the different quantizations.

id: nlin/0606057
title: Energy evolution in time-dependent harmonic oscillator with arbitrary external forcing
authors: A.V. Kuzmin, Marko Robnik
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: Reports on Mathematical Physics, vol. 60, No. 1 (2007) p. 69-84
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0606057
abstract: The classical Hamiltonian system of time-dependent harmonic oscillator driven by the arbitrary external time-dependent force is considered. Exact analytical solution of the corresponding equations of motion is constructed in the framework of the technique (Robnik M, Romanovski V G, J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. {\bf 33} (2000) 5093) based on WKB approach. Energy evolution for the ensemble of uniformly distributed w.r.t. the canonical angle initial conditions on the initial invariant torus is studied. Exact expressions for the energy moments of arbitrary order taken at arbitrary time moment are analytically derived. Corresponding characteristic function is analytically constructed in the form of infinite series and numerically evaluated for certain values of the system parameters. Energy distribution function is numerically obtained in some particular cases. In the limit of small initial ensemble's energy the relevant formula for the energy distribution function is analytically derived.

id: physics/0606028
title: Reducing Polarization Mode Dispersion With Controlled Polarization Rotations
authors: S. Massar, S. Popescu
comments: 4 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 158
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0606028
abstract: One of the fundamental limitations to high bit rate, long distance, telecommunication in optical fibers is Polarization Mode Dispersion (PMD). Here we introduce a conceptually new method to reduce PMD in optical fibers by carrying out controlled rotations of polarization at predetermined locations along the fiber. The distance between these controlled polarization rotations must be less than both the beat length and the mode coupling length of the fiber. This method can also be combined with the method in which the fiber is spun while it drawn. The incidence of imperfections on the efficiency of the method is analysed.

id: physics/0606055
title: Non-classical Energy Conservation in Multi-wave Systems: "Extra Energy", "Negative Energy" and "Annihilation of Energy"
authors: S.V. Kukhlevsky
comments: Uploaded under my name, but not with my approval; my username was used by someone else. (Now I changed my password.)
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0606055
abstract: The energy conservation is a general law of nature. In the classical physics, the energy W_{AB} of a conservative system {AB} that contains the objects A and B is equal to a sum of the positive energies W_A and W_B of the isolated objects A and B, W_{AB} = W_A+W_B. We show that the energy conservation does not exhibit the "classic law" if the physical objects are waves or they do have a wave nature of microscopic (quantum) objects. The "extra energy", "negative energy" and "annihilation of energy" are predicted for multi-wave (multi-beam) systems. The paradoxical phenomenon is demonstrated in context of the extraordinary transmission of light and matter through subwavelength aperture arrays assisted by surface waves [T.W. Ebbesen et al., Nature (London) 391, 667(1998)) and E. Moreno et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 170406 (2005)].

id: physics/0606186
title: Alice and Bob Get Away With It: a playlet
authors: Anthony Sudbery
comments: Minor changes to improve clarity and consistency. Published version
journal: Am. J. Phys. 75, 720-723 (2007)
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0606186
abstract: Alice and Bob use Aravind's version of a Bell-Kochen-Specker paradox to fend off awkward questions about what exactly they were doing in Amsterdam last week.

id: q-bio/0606006
title: Spatially Distributed Stochastic Systems: equation-free and equation-assisted preconditioned computation
authors: Liang Qiao, Radek Erban, C. T. Kelley, Ioannis G. Kevrekidis
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, submitted to Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/q-bio/0606006
abstract: Spatially distributed problems are often approximately modelled in terms of partial differential equations (PDEs) for appropriate coarse-grained quantities (e.g. concentrations). The derivation of accurate such PDEs starting from finer scale, atomistic models, and using suitable averaging, is often a challenging task; approximate PDEs are typically obtained through mathematical closure procedures (e.g. mean-field approximations). In this paper, we show how such approximate macroscopic PDEs can be exploited in constructing preconditioners to accelerate stochastic simulations for spatially distributed particle-based process models. We illustrate how such preconditioning can improve the convergence of equation-free coarse-grained methods based on coarse timesteppers. Our model problem is a stochastic reaction-diffusion model capable of exhibiting Turing instabilities.

id: q-bio/0606008
title: Relevance of Quantum Mechanics in Circuit Implementation of Ion channels in Brain Dynamics
authors: Indranil Mitra, Sisir Roy
comments: 12 pages, Submitted to Physical Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/q-bio/0606008
abstract: With an increasing amount of experimental evidence pouring in from neurobiological investigations, it is quite appropriate to study viable reductionist models which may explain some of the features of brain activities. It is now quite well known that the Hodgkin-Huxley (HH) Model has been quite successful in explaining the neural phenomena. The idea of circuit equivalents and the membrane voltages corresponding to neurons have been remarkable which is essentially a classical result. In view of some recent results which show that quantum mechanics may be important at suitable length scales inside the brain, the question which becomes quite important is to find out a proper quantum analogue of the HH scheme which will reduce to the well known HH model in a suitable limit. From the ideas of neuro-manifold and the relevance of quantum mechanics at some length scales in the ion channels, we investigate this situation in this paper by taking into consideration the Schr\"odinger equation in an arbitrary manifold with a metric, which is in some sense a special case of the heat kernel equation. The next important approach we have taken in order to bring about it's relevance in brain studies and to make connection with HH models is to find out a plausible circuit equivalents of it. What we do realize is that for a proper quantum mechanical description and it's circuit implementation of the same we need to incorporate the non commutativity inside the circuit model. It has been realized here that the metric is a dynamical entity governing space time and for considering equivalent circuits it plays a very distinct role. We have used the methods of stochastic quantization and have constructed a specific case here and see that HH model inductances gets renormalized in the quantum limit.

id: cond-mat/0606078
title: Theory of measurement crosstalk in superconducting phase qubits
authors: A.G. Kofman, Q. Zhang, J.M. Martinis, A.N. Korotkov
comments: 16 pages, Revtex; minor changes in the text and figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 014524 (2007)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0606078
abstract: We analyze the crosstalk error mechanism in measurement of two capacitively coupled superconducting flux-biased phase qubits. The damped oscillations of the superconducting phase after the measurement of the first qubit may significantly excite the second qubit, leading to its measurement error. The first qubit, which is highly excited after the measurement, is described classically. The second qubit is treated both classically and quantum-mechanically. The results of the analysis are used to find the upper limit for the coupling capacitance (thus limiting the frequency of two-qubit operations) for a given tolerable value of the measurement error probability.

