id: quant-ph/0607001
title: Physical meaning and derivation of Schrodinger and Dirac equations
authors: Spyros Efthimiades
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607001
abstract: The wavefunction of a particle is obtained from its intermediate states and interaction processes considered as happening concurrently. When the interaction is described by a potential, the energy of the particle is equal to its total kinetic plus potential energies. We derive the Schrodinger and Dirac equations as the unique conditions the wavefunction must satisfy at each point in order to fulfill the corresponding energy equation. PACS numbers: 03.65.-w. Keywords: Schrodinger equation; Dirac equation; Quantum dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0607002
title: Quantum state engineering in a cavity by Stark chirped rapid adiabatic passage
authors: M. Amniat-Talab, R. Khoda-Bakhsh, S. Gu¨¦rin
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures, to be appeared in PLA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607002
abstract: We propose a robust scheme to generate single-photon Fock states and atom-photon and atom-atom entanglement in atom-cavity systems. We also present a scheme for quantum networking between two cavity nodes using an atomic channel. The mechanism is based on Stark-chirped rapid adiabatic passage (SCRAP) and half-SCRAP processes in a microwave cavity. The engineering of these states depends on the design of the adiabatic dynamics through the static and dynamic Stark shifts.

id: quant-ph/0607003
title: Imaginary Entanglement as Cost of Unitarity
authors: Constantin V. Usenko
comments: ICQO2006 Minsk
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607003
abstract: This report is about contradiction between fidelity needed to determine the entanglement and concomitant noise that always accompanies precise measurement. Account of quantum properties of field leads to additional noise caused by multiple particle creation through nonunitarity of quantum field representation in embedded sections of space (Unruh noise). Causes of quantum noise vanish at leaving off assumption about statistical independence of detectors. Smearing of detector leads to elimination of causes of Unruh noise and to emergence of imaginary entanglement of few mode states caused by overlap of detector sections.

id: quant-ph/0607004
title: Vanishing of electron pair recession at central impact
authors: Nataliia O. Cherkashyna, Constantin V. Usenko
comments: ICQO2006 Minsk
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607004
abstract: Identity of electrons leads to description of their states by symmetrical or anti-symmetrical combination of free coherent states. Due to the coordinate uncertainty potential energy of the Coulomb repulsing is limited from above and so when energy of electrons is large enough, electrons go through each other, without noticing one another. We show existence of set of coherent states for which wave packages recession vanish - electrons remain close regardless of Coulomb repulsion.

id: quant-ph/0607005
title: Quantum mechanics explained
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: 29 pages, 5 figures. v2: revised in response to referee comments
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 7, No. 1 (2009) 435\^a?"458
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607005
abstract: The physical motivation for the mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics is made clear and compelling by starting from an obvious fact - essentially, the stability of matter - and inquiring into its preconditions: what does it take to make this fact possible?

id: quant-ph/0607006
title: A spatially and temporally localized sub-laser-cycle electron source
authors: Peter Hommelhoff, Catherine Kealhofer, Mark A. Kasevich
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 247402 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607006
abstract: We present an experimental and numerical study of electron emission from a sharp tungsten tip triggered by sub-8 femtosecond low power laser pulses. This process is non-linear in the laser electric field, and the non-linearity can be tuned via the DC voltage applied to the tip. Numerical simulations of this system show that electron emission takes place within less than one optical period of the exciting laser pulse, so that an 8 fsec 800 nm laser pulse is capable of producing a single electron pulse of less than 1 fsec duration. Furthermore, we find that the carrier-envelope phase dependence of the emission process is smaller than 0.1% for an 8 fsec pulse but is steeply increasing with decreasing laser pulse duration.

id: quant-ph/0607007
title: Geometric quantum computation using fictitious spin- 1/2 subspaces of strongly dipolar coupled nuclear spins
authors: T. Gopinath, Anil Kumar
comments: 37 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 022326 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607007
abstract: Geometric phases have been used in NMR, to implement controlled phase shift gates for quantum information processing, only in weakly coupled systems in which the individual spins can be identified as qubits. In this work, we implement controlled phase shift gates in strongly coupled systems, by using non-adiabatic geometric phases, obtained by evolving the magnetization of fictitious spin-1/2 subspaces, over a closed loop on the Bloch sphere. The dynamical phase accumulated during the evolution of the subspaces, is refocused by a spin echo pulse sequence and by setting the delay of transition selective pulses such that the evolution under the homonuclear coupling makes a complete $2\pi$ rotation. A detailed theoretical explanation of non-adiabatic geometric phases in NMR is given, by using single transition operators. Controlled phase shift gates, two qubit Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm and parity algorithm in a qubit-qutrit system have been implemented in various strongly dipolar coupled systems obtained by orienting the molecules in liquid crystal media.

id: quant-ph/0607008
title: Photon wave functions and quantum interference experiments
authors: G.G. Lapaire, J.E. Sipe
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607008
abstract: We present a general theory to describe two-photon interference, including a formal description of few photon intereference in terms of single-photon amplitudes. With this formalism, it is possible to describe both frequency entangled and separable two-photon interference in terms of single-photon wave functions. Using this description, we address issues related to the physical interpretation of two-photon interference experiments. We include a discussion on how few-photon interference can be interpreted as a bosonic exchange effect, and how this relates to traditional exchange effects with fermions.

id: quant-ph/0607009
title: Error Exponents in Quantum Hypothesis Testing
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607009
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author because Lemma 3 is incorrect. This mistake is crucial in this paper.

id: quant-ph/0607010
title: Gallager Bound of Classical-Quantum Channel Coding
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607010
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author because Lemma 3 is incorrect. This mistake is crucial in this paper.

id: quant-ph/0607011
title: On the distinguishability of random quantum states
authors: Ashley Montanaro
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures; v2 fixes typos and an error in an appendix
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 273(3), pp. 619-636, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607011
abstract: We develop two analytic lower bounds on the probability of success p of identifying a state picked from a known ensemble of pure states: a bound based on the pairwise inner products of the states, and a bound based on the eigenvalues of their Gram matrix. We use the latter to lower bound the asymptotic distinguishability of ensembles of n random quantum states in d dimensions, where n/d approaches a constant. In particular, for almost all ensembles of n states in n dimensions, p>0.72. An application to distinguishing Boolean functions (the "oracle identification problem") in quantum computation is given.

id: quant-ph/0607012
title: Entanglement, purity and energy: Two qubits vs Two modes
authors: Derek McHugh, Mario Ziman, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 13 figures. References and 1 figure added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607012
abstract: We study the relationship between the entanglement, mixedness and energy of two-qubit and two-mode Gaussian quantum states. We parametrize the set of allowed states of these two fundamentally different physical systems using measures of entanglement, mixedness and energy that allow us to compare and contrast the two systems using a phase diagram. This phase diagram enables one to clearly identify not only the physically allowed states, but the set of states connected under an arbitrary quantum operation. We pay particular attention to the maximally entangled mixed states (MEMS) of each system. Following this we investigate how efficiently one may transfer entanglement from two-mode to two-qubit states.

id: quant-ph/0607013
title: Wronskian perturbation theoryWronskian perturbation theory
authors: Paolo Amore, Francisco Fernandez
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607013
abstract: We develop a perturbation method that generalizes an approach proposed recently to treat velocity--dependent quantum--mechanical models. In order to test present approach we apply it to some simple trivial and nontrivial examples.

id: quant-ph/0607014
title: Entangled mixed-state generation by twin-photon scattering
authors: G. Puentes, D. Voigt, A. Aiello, J.P. Woerdman
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607014
abstract: We report experimental results on mixed-state generation by multiple scattering of polarization-entangled photon pairs created from parametric down-conversion. By using a large variety of scattering optical systems we have experimentally obtained entangled mixed states that lie upon and below the Werner curve in the linear entropy-tangle plane. We have also introduced a simple phenomenological model built on the analogy between classical polarization optics and quantum maps. Theoretical predictions from such model are in full agreement with our experimental findings.

id: quant-ph/0607015
title: Vibronic "Rabi resonances" in harmonic and hard-wall ion-traps for arbitrary laser intensity and detuning
authors: I. Lizuain, J. G. Muga
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 033613 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607015
abstract: We investigate laser-driven vibronic transitions of a single two-level atomic ion in harmonic and hard wall traps. In the Lamb-Dicke regime, for tuned or detuned lasers with respect to the internal frequency of the ion, and weak or strong laser intensities, the vibronic transitions occur at well isolated "Rabi Resonances", where the detuning-adapted Rabi frequency coincides with the level spacing of the vibrational modes. These vibronic resonances are characterized as avoided crossings of the dressed levels (eigenvalues of the full Hamiltonian). Their peculiarities due to symmetry constraints and trapping potential are also examined.

id: quant-ph/0607016
title: Trapped Ion Chain as a Neural Network: Error Resistant Quantum Computation
authors: Marisa Pons, Veronica Ahufinger, Christof Wunderlich, Anna Sanpera, Sibylle Braungardt, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; Has overlap with cond-mat/0512606; v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 023003 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607016
abstract: We demonstrate the possibility of realizing a neural network in a chain of trapped ions with induced long range interactions. Such models permit one to store information distributed over the whole system. The storage capacity of such network, which depends on the phonon spectrum of the system, can be controlled by changing the external trapping potential. We analyze the implementation of error resistant universal quantum information processing in such systems.

id: quant-ph/0607017
title: Quantum scaling laws in the onset of dynamical delocalization
authors: Julien Chab¨¦, Hans Lignier, Hugo L. D. De Souza Cavalcante, Dominique Delande, Pascal Szriftgiser, Jean Claude Garreau
comments: 3 pages, revtex4
journal: Physical review letters 97 (31/12/2006) 264101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607017
abstract: We study the destruction of dynamical localization, experimentally observed in an atomic realization of the kicked rotor, by a deterministic Hamiltonian perturbation, with a temporal periodicity incommensurate with the principal driving. We show that the destruction is gradual, with well defined scaling laws for the various classical and quantum parameters, in sharp contrast with predictions based on the analogy with Anderson localization.

id: quant-ph/0607018
title: Structured Codes Improve the Bennett-Brassard-84 Quantum Key Rate
authors: Graeme Smith, Joseph M. Renes, John A. Smolin
comments: Final version. Title changed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 170502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607018
abstract: A central goal in information theory and cryptography is finding simple characterizations of optimal communication rates subject to various restrictions and security requirements. Ideally, the optimal key rate for a quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol would be given by {\em single-letter formula} involving a simple optimization over a single use of an effective channel. We explore the possibility of such a formula for one of the simplest and most widely used QKD protocols--Bennett-Brassard-84 (BB84) with one way classical post-processing. We show that a conjectured single-letter key-rate formula is false, uncovering a deep ignorance about asymptotically good private codes and pointing towards unfortunate complications in the theory of QKD. These complications are not without benefit--with added complexity comes better key rates than previously thought possible. We improve the threshold for secure key generation from a bit error rate of 0.124 to 0.129.

id: quant-ph/0607019
title: Optimal Quantum Measurements of Expectation Values of Observables
authors: Emanuel Knill, Gerardo Ortiz, Rolando D. Somma
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607019
abstract: Experimental characterizations of a quantum system involve the measurement of expectation values of observables for a preparable state |psi> of the quantum system. Such expectation values can be measured by repeatedly preparing |psi> and coupling the system to an apparatus. For this method, the precision of the measured value scales as 1/sqrt(N) for N repetitions of the experiment. For the problem of estimating the parameter phi in an evolution exp(-i phi H), it is possible to achieve precision 1/N (the quantum metrology limit) provided that sufficient information about H and its spectrum is available. We consider the more general problem of estimating expectations of operators A with minimal prior knowledge of A. We give explicit algorithms that approach precision 1/N given a bound on the eigenvalues of A or on their tail distribution. These algorithms are particularly useful for simulating quantum systems on quantum computers because they enable efficient measurement of observables and correlation functions. Our algorithms are based on a method for efficiently measuring the complex overlap of |psi> and U|psi>, where U is an implementable unitary operator. We explicitly consider the issue of confidence levels in measuring observables and overlaps and show that, as expected, confidence levels can be improved exponentially with linear overhead. We further show that the algorithms given here can typically be parallelized with minimal increase in resource usage.

id: quant-ph/0607020
title: An efficient method for scattering problems in open billiards: Theory and applications
authors: Gursoy B. Akguc, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: 9 pages 6 figures submitted to PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74, 245317 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607020
abstract: We present an efficient method to solve scattering problems in two-dimensional open billiards with two leads and a complicated scattering region. The basic idea is to transform the scattering region to a rectangle, which will lead to complicated dynamics in the interior, but simple boundary conditions. The method can be specialized to closed billiards, and it allows the treatment of interacting particles in the billiard. We apply this method to quantum echoes measured recently in a microwave cavity, and indicate, how it can be used for interacting particles.

id: quant-ph/0607021
title: How Quantum Computers Can Fail
authors: Gil Kalai
comments: 33 pages. v.3. substantial changes: mathematical formulation of the conjectures added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607021
abstract: We propose and discuss two postulates on the nature of errors in highly correlated noisy physical stochastic systems. The first postulate asserts that errors for a pair of substantially correlated elements are themselves substantially correlated. The second postulate asserts that in a noisy system with many highly correlated elements there will be a strong effect of error synchronization. These postulates appear to be damaging for quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0607022
title: Computing Boolean Functions: Exact Quantum Query Algorithms and Low Degree Polynomials
authors: Alina Dubrovska Vasilieva, Taisija Mischenko-Slatenkova
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607022
abstract: In this paper we study the complexity of quantum query algorithms computing the value of Boolean function and its relation to the degree of algebraic polynomial representing this function. We pay special attention to Boolean functions with quantum query algorithm complexity lower than the deterministic one. Relation between the degree of representing polynomial and potentially possible quantum algorithm complexity has been already described; unfortunately, there are few examples of quantum algorithms to illustrate theoretical evaluation of the complexity. Work in this direction was aimed (1) to construct effective quantum query algorithms for computing Boolean functions, (2) to design methods for Boolean function construction with a large gap between deterministic complexity and degree of representing polynomial. In this paper we present our results in both directions.

id: quant-ph/0607023
title: Effects of interatomic interaction on cooperative relaxation of two-level atoms
authors: Sergei P. Lukyanets, Dmytro A.Bevzenko
comments: 34 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 053803 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607023
abstract: We study effects of direct interatomic interaction on cooperative processes in atom-photon dynamics. Using a model of two-level atoms with Ising-type interaction as an example, it is demonstrated that interparticle interaction combined with atom-field coupling can introduce additional interatomic correlations acting as a phase synchronizing factor. For the case of weakly interacting atoms with $J<\hbar\omega_0$, where $J$ is the interparticle coupling constant and $\omega_0$ is the atomic frequency, dynamical regimes of cooperative relaxation of atoms are analyzed in Born-Markov approximation both numerically and using the mean field approximation. We show that interparticle correlations induced by the direct interaction result in inhibition of incoherent spontaneous decay leading to the regime of collective pulse relaxation which differs from superradiance in nature. For superradiant transition, the synchronizing effect of interatomic interaction is found to manifest itself in enhancement of superradiance. When the interaction is strong and $J>\hbar\omega_0$, one-partice one-photon transitions are excluded and transition to the regime of multiphoton relaxation occurs. Using a simple model of two atoms in a high-Q single mode cavity we show that such transition is accompanied by Rabi oscillations involving many-atom multiphoton states. Dephasing effect of dipole-dipole interaction and solitonic mechanism of relaxation are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0607024
title: Photon creation in a spherical oscillating cavity
authors: F.D. Mazzitelli, X. Orsi Millan
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A73 (2006) 063829
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607024
abstract: We study the photon creation inside a perfectly conducting, spherical oscillating cavity. The electromagnetic field inside the cavity is described by means of two scalar fields which satisfy Dirichlet and (generalized) Neumann boundary conditions. As a preliminary step, we analyze the dynamical Casimir effect for both scalar fields. We then consider the full electromagnetic case. The conservation of angular momentum of the electromagnetic field is also discussed, showing that photons inside the cavity are created in singlet states.

id: quant-ph/0607025
title: Deformed Heisenberg algebra with upper bound of momentum value
authors: Taras V. Fityo
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607025
abstract: We consider one dimensional deformed Heisenberg algebra leading to existence of minimal length for coordinate operator and minimal and maximal uncertainty of momentum operator. For this algebra an exactly solvable Hamiltonian is constructed.

id: quant-ph/0607026
title: Prime Factorization in the Duality Computer
authors: Wan-Ying Wang, Bin Shang, Chuan Wang, Gui Lu Long
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607026
abstract: We give algorithms to factorize large integers in the duality computer. We provide three duality algorithms for factorization based on a naive factorization method, the Shor algorithm in quantum computing, and the Fermat's method in classical computing. All these algorithms are polynomial in the input size.

id: quant-ph/0607027
title: Resonant tunneling with zero reflection at the classical velocity
authors: C. Pacher
comments: 4 pages, no figures. Change made in Rev. 2: The difference between this paper and Ref. 12 is explained in detail in a footnote
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607027
abstract: An important aspect of resonant tunneling with a probability of unity (thus zero reflection) through a finite region with length l is studied. The relation between the velocity expectation value $<\hat v_{res}>$ restricted to a region of length l and the tunneling time $\tau_{res}$ through the same region is calculated. The obtained result is the analogue of the mean velocity in classical mechanics: The velocity expectation value equals exactly the length divided by the tunneling time. This result holds for any potential but is especially relevant for finite periodic potentials and inversion symmetric potentials where resonances show a tunneling probability of unity.

id: quant-ph/0607028
title: All-Optical Measurement Based QIP in Quantum Dots
authors: Avinash Kolli, Brendon W. Lovett, Simon C. Benjamin, Thomas M. Stace
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. To be published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 250504 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607028
abstract: Parity measurements on qubits can generate the entanglement resource necessary for scalable quantum computation. Here we describe a method for fast optical parity measurements on electron spin qubits within coupled quantum dots. The measurement scheme, which can be realised with existing technology, consists of the optical excitation of excitonic states followed by monitored relaxation. Conditional on the observation of a photon, the system is projected into the odd/even parity subspaces. Our model incorporates all the primary sources of error, including detector inefficiency, effects of spatial separation and non-resonance of the dots, and also unwanted excitations. Through an analytical treatment we establish that the scheme is robust to such effects. Two applications are presented: a realisation of a CNOT gate, and a technique for growing large scale graph states.

id: quant-ph/0607029
title: On a Geometric Structure of Pure Multi-qubit Quantum States and Its Applicability to a Numerical Computation
authors: Kimikazu Kato, Mayumi Oto, Hiroshi Imai, Keiko Imai
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, presented at the International Symposium on Voronoi Diagrams 2006 (ISVD2006)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607029
abstract: For one-qubit pure quantum states, it is already proved that the Voronoi diagrams with respect to two distances -- Euclidean distance and the quantum divergence -- coincide. This fact is a support for a known method to calculate the Holevo capacity. To consider an applicability of this method to quantum states of a higher level system, it is essential to check if the coincidence of the Voronoi diagrams also occurs. In this paper, we show a negative result for that expectation. In other words, we mathematically prove that those diagrams no longer coincide in a higher dimension. That indicates that the method used in one-qubit case to calculate the Holevo capacity might not be effective in a higher dimension.

id: quant-ph/0607030
title: First-order intertwining operators with position dependent mass and $¦Ç$- weak-psuedo-Hermiticity generators
authors: Omar Mustafa, S. Habib Mazharimousavi
comments: 11 pages, no figures, Revised/Expanded, more references added. To appear in the Int.J. Theor. Phys
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 47, 446 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607030
abstract: A Hermitian and an anti-Hermitian first-order intertwining operators are introduced and a class of $\eta$-weak-pseudo-Hermitian position-dependent mass (PDM) Hamiltonians are constructed. A corresponding reference-target $\eta$-weak-pseudo-Hermitian PDM -- Hamiltonians' map is suggested. Some $\eta$-weak-pseudo-Hermitian PT -symmetric Scarf II and periodic-type models are used as illustrative examples. Energy-levels crossing and flown-away states phenomena are reported for the resulting Scarf II spectrum. Some of the corresponding $\eta$-weak-pseudo-Hermitian Scarf II- and periodic-type-isospectral models (PT -symmetric and non-PT -symmetric) are given as products of the reference-target map.

id: quant-ph/0607031
title: An Electronic Mach-Zehnder Quantum Eraser
authors: Kicheon Kang
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607031
abstract: We propose an electronic quantum eraser in which the electrons are injected into a mesoscopic conductor at the quantum Hall regime. The conductor is composed of a two-path interferometer which is an electronic analogue of the optical Mach-Zehnder interferometer, and a quantum point contact detector capacitively coupled to the interferometer. While the interference of the output current at the interferometer is shown to be suppressed by the which-path information, we show that the which-path information is erased by the zero-frequency cross correlation measurement between the interferometer and the detector output leads. We also investigate a modified setup in which the detector is replaced by a two-path interferometer.We show that the path distinguishability and the visibility of the joint detection can be controlled in a continuous manner, and satisfy a complementarity relation for the entangled electrons.

id: quant-ph/0607032
title: Genuine tripartite entanglement semi-monotone for (2 x 2 x n)-dimensional systems
authors: Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song, Ya-hong Wang
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure. Replaced by revised version. To be published in Quantum Information and Computation
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 7(7),584 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607032
abstract: In this paper, we present a new approach to study genuine tripartite entanglement existing in $(2\times 2\times n)-$dimensional quantum pure states. By utilizing the approach, we introduce a particular quantity to measure genuine tripartite entanglement. The quantity is shown to be an entanglement monotone in 2-dimensional subsystems (semi-monotone) and reaches zero for separable states and $(2\times 2\times 2)-$dimensional $W$ states, hence is a good criterion to characterize genuine tripartite entanglement. Furthermore, the formulation for pure states can be conveniently extended to the case of mixed states by utilizing the kronecker product approximation technique. As applications, we give the analytic approximation for weakly mixed states, and study the genuine tripartite entanglement of two given weakly mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0607033
title: Strong light-matter coupling: parametric interactions in a cavity and free-space
authors: I. B. Mekhov, V. S. Egorov, V. N. Lebedev, P. V. Moroshkin, I. A. Chekhonin, S. N. Bagayev
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: NATO Science Series, III, v. 199, p. 341-345, 2006, "Quantum Information Processing - From Theory to Experiment"; NATO ASI "Quantum Computation and Quantum Information"
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607033
abstract: We consider parametric interactions of laser pulses in a coherent macroscopic ensemble of resonant atoms, which are possible in the strong coupling regime of light-matter interaction. The spectrum condensation (lasing at collective vacuum Rabi sidebands) was studied in an active cavity configuration. Parametric interactions under the strong light-matter coupling were proved even in free space. In contrast to bichromatic beats in a cavity, they were shown to appear due to interference between polaritonic wave packets of different group velocities.

id: quant-ph/0607034
title: On the minimum number of unitaries needed to describe a random-unitary channel
authors: Francesco Buscemi
comments: Final version accepted for publication. One wrong equation has been corrected, two notes and one reference have been added
journal: Phys. Lett. A 360, 256-258 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607034
abstract: We provide, in an extremely simple way, an upper bound to the minimum number of unitary operators describing a general random-unitary channel.

id: quant-ph/0607035
title: Constructions of indecomposable positive maps based on a new criterion for indecomposability
authors: William Hall
comments: 16 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607035
abstract: We give a criterion for a positive mapping on the space of operators on a Hilbert space to be indecomposable. We show that this criterion can be applied to two families of positive maps. These families of maps can then be used to form separability criteria for bipartite quantum states that can detect the entanglement of bound entangled quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0607036
title: A Deterministic and Storable Single-Photon Source Based on Quantum Memory
authors: Shuai Chen, Yu-Ao Chen, Thorsten Strassel, Zhen-Sheng Yuan, Bo Zhao, J?rg Schmiedmayer, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 173004 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607036
abstract: A single photon source is realized with a cold atomic ensemble ($^{87}$Rb atoms). In the experiment, single photons, which is initially stored in an atomic quantum memory generated by Raman scattering of a laser pulse, can be emitted deterministically at a time-delay in control. It is shown that production rate of single photons can be enhanced by a feedback circuit considerably while the single-photon quality is conserved. Thus our present single-photon source is well suitable for future large-scale realization of quantum communication and linear optical quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0607037
title: Some new results concerning the vacuum in Dirac Hole Theory
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: Accepted by Physica Scripta, 19 pages
journal: Phys. Scr. 74 (2006) 117-122
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607037
abstract: In Dirac's hole theory the vacuum state is generally believed to be the state of minimum energy. It will be shown that this is not, in fact, the case and that there must exist states in hole theory with less energy than the vacuum state. It will be shown that energy can be extracted from the hole theory vacuum state through the application of an electric field.

id: quant-ph/0607038
title: Tunneling times through barrier with inelasticity
authors: Arya Paul, Arnab Saha, Swarnali Bandopadhyay, Binayak Dutta-Roy
comments: tar.gz, 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607038
abstract: Tunneling delay times of wavepackets in quantum mechanical penetration of rectangular barriers have long been known to show a perplexing independence with respect to the width of the barrier. This also has relevence to the transmission of evanescent waves in optics. Some authors have claimed that in the presence of absorption or inelastic channels (which they model by taking a complex barrier potential) this effect no longer exists, in that the time delay becomes proportional to the barrier width. Taking the point of view that complex potentials imply non-Hermitian Hamiltonians and are as such fraught with conceptual pit-falls particularly in connection to problems involving time evolution, we have constructed a two-channel model which does not suffer from such maladies in order to examine this issue. We find that the conclusions arrived at by the earlier authors need to be qualified.

id: quant-ph/0607039
title: The quantum capacity with symmetric side channels
authors: Graeme Smith, John A. Smolin, Andreas Winter
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: IEEE Trans. Info. Theory 54, 9, 4208-4217 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607039
abstract: We present an upper bound for the quantum channel capacity that is both additive and convex. Our bound can be interpreted as the capacity of a channel for high-fidelity quantum communication when assisted by a family of channels that have no capacity on their own. This family of assistance channels, which we call symmetric side channels, consists of all channels mapping symmetrically to their output and environment. The bound seems to be quite tight, and for degradable quantum channels it coincides with the unassisted channel capacity. Using this symmetric side channel capacity, we find new upper bounds on the capacity of the depolarizing channel. We also briefly indicate an analogous notion for distilling entanglement using the same class of (one-way) channels, yielding one of the few entanglement measures that is monotonic under local operations with one-way classical communication (1-LOCC), but not under the more general class of local operations with classical communication (LOCC).

id: quant-ph/0607040
title: Representation reduction and solution space contraction in quasi-exactly solvable systems
authors: A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 25 pages, 4 figures (2 in color)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 6305-6328
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607040
abstract: In quasi-exactly solvable problems partial analytic solution (energy spectrum and associated wavefunctions) are obtained if some potential parameters are assigned specific values. We introduce a new class in which exact solutions are obtained at a given energy for a special set of values of the potential parameters. To obtain a larger solution space one varies the energy over a discrete set (the spectrum). A unified treatment that includes the standard as well as the new class of quasi-exactly solvable problems is presented and few examples (some of which are new) are given. The solution space is spanned by discrete square integrable basis functions in which the matrix representation of the Hamiltonian is tridiagonal. Imposing quasi-exact solvability constraints result in a complete reduction of the representation into the direct sum of a finite and infinite component. The finite is real and exactly solvable, whereas the infinite is complex and associated with zero norm states. Consequently, the whole physical space contracts to a finite dimensional subspace with normalizable states.

id: quant-ph/0607041
title: Non-adiabatic Arbitary Geometric Gates in 2-qubit NMR Model
authors: Yu Tong, Ruibao Tao
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607041
abstract: We study a 2-qubit nuclear spin system for realizing an arbitrary geometric quantum phase gate by means of non-adiabatic operation. A single magnetic pulse with multi harmonic frequencies is applied to manipulate the quantum states of 2-qubit instantly. Using resonant transition approximation, the time dependent Hamiltonian of two nuclear spins can be solved analytically. The time evolution of the wave function is obtained without adiabatic approximation. The parameters of magnetic pulse, such as the frequency, amplitude, phase of each harmonic part as well as the time duration of the pulse, are determined for achieving an arbitrary non-adiabatic geometric phase gate. The derivation of non-adiabatic geometric controlled phase gates and A-A phase are also addressed.

id: quant-ph/0607042
title: The condition for entanglement enhanced information transmission of Pauli memory channel
authors: Xiao-yu Chen
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607042
abstract: The sufficient condition of entanglement enhanced classical capacity is given for Pauli memory channel with arbitrary channel parameters. In some special case the condition is also necessary but fail to be necessary in general. The theory of majorization and perturbation are used in the proving.

id: quant-ph/0607043
title: Quantum controlled phase gate and cluster states generation via two superconducting quantum interference devices in a cavity
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue, Gang Zhang, Ping Dong, You-Min Yi, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 4 pages, resumitted
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 52, 333 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607043
abstract: A scheme for implementing 2-qubit quantum controlled phase gate (QCPG) is proposed with two superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) in a cavity. The gate operations are realized within the two lower flux states of the SQUIDs by using a quantized cavity field and classical microwave pulses. Our scheme is achieved without any type of measurement, does not use the cavity mode as the data bus and only requires a very short resonant interaction of the SQUID-cavity system. As an application of the QCPG operation, we also propose a scheme for generating the cluster states of many SQUIDs.

id: quant-ph/0607044
title: Thermodynamic and Quantum Thermodynamic Analyses of Brownian Movement
authors: Elias P. Gyftopoulos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607044
abstract: Thermodynamic and quantum thermodynamic analyses of Brownian movement of a solvent and a colloid passing through neutral thermodynamic equilibrium states only. It is shown that Brownian motors and E. coli do not represent Brownian movement.

id: quant-ph/0607045
title: Hypercomplex Dirac Equation and Electrodynamics of Non-Conserved Charges
authors: K. S. Karplyuk, O. O. Zhmudskyy
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607045
abstract: It is shown that the hypercomplex Dirac equation describes the system of connected fields: 4-scalar, 4-pseudoscalar, 4-vector, 4-pseudo-vector and antisymmetric 4-tensor second rank field. If mass is assumed to be zero this system splits into two subsystems. Equations containing tensor, scalar and pseudoscalar fields coincide with Maxwell equations complemented by scalar and pseudoscalar fields. This system describes the electrodynamics of non-conserved charges. The scalar and pseudoscalar fields are generated only by the non-conserved charges - electric and hypothetical magnetic. The influence of these fields on the charged particles is very unusual - it causes a change of their rest mass. This allows us to give a new look at the Wigner paradox and mechanism of mass renormalization.

id: quant-ph/0607046
title: Quantum Hidden Subgroup Algorithms: An Algorithmic Toolkit
authors: Samuel J. Lomonaco Jr., Louis H. Kauffman
comments: 34 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607046
abstract: One of the most promising and versatile approaches to creating new quantum algorithms is based on the quantum hidden subgroup (QHS) paradigm, originally suggested by Alexei Kitaev. This class of quantum algorithms encompasses the Deutsch-Jozsa, Simon, Shor algorithms, and many more. In this paper, our strategy for finding new quantum algorithms is to decompose Shor's quantum factoring algorithm into its basic primitives, then to generalize these primitives, and finally to show how to reassemble them into new QHS algorithms. Taking an "alphabetic building blocks approach," we use these primitives to form an "algorithmic toolkit" for the creation of new quantum algorithms, such as wandering Shor algorithms, continuous Shor algorithms, the quantum circle algorithm, the dual Shor algorithm, a QHS algorithm for Feynman integrals, free QHS algorithms, and more. Toward the end of this paper, we show how Grover's algorithm is most surprisingly "almost" a QHS algorithm, and how this result suggests the possibility of an even more complete "algorithmic tookit" beyond the QHS algorithms.

id: quant-ph/0607047
title: Effective fault-tolerant quantum computation with slow measurements
authors: David P. DiVincenzo, Panos Aliferis
comments: 9 pages, 11 figures. v2: small changes and reference additions
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 (2007) 220501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607047
abstract: How important is fast measurement for fault-tolerant quantum computation? Using a combination of existing and new ideas, we argue that measurement times as long as even 1,000 gate times or more have a very minimal effect on the quantum accuracy threshold. This shows that slow measurement, which appears to be unavoidable in many implementations of quantum computing, poses no essential obstacle to scalability.

id: quant-ph/0607048
title: Nonlinear coherent dynamics of an atom in an optical lattice
authors: V.Yu. Argonov, S.V. Prants
comments: 
journal: V.Yu. Argonov and S.V. Prants. Nonlinear coherent dynamics of an atom in an optical lattice. Journal of Russian Laser Research. V.27 N4 (2006) 360-378.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607048
abstract: We consider a simple model of lossless interaction between a two-level single atom and a standing-wave single-mode laser field which creates a one-dimensional optical lattice. Internal dynamics of the atom is governed by the laser field which is treated to be classical with a large number of photons. Center-of-mass classical atomic motion is governed by the optical potential and the internal atomic degree of freedom. The resulting Hamilton-Schr\"odinger equations of motion are a five-dimensional nonlinear dynamical system with two integrals of motion. The main focus of the paper is chaotic atomic motion that may be quantified strictly by positive values of the maximal Lyapunov exponent. It is shown that atom, depending on the value of its total energy, can either oscillate chaotically in a well of the optical potential or fly ballistically with weak chaotic oscillations of its momentum or wander in the optical lattice changing the direction of motion in a chaotic way. In the regime of chaotic wandering atomic motion is shown to have fractal properties. We find a useful tool to visualize complicated atomic motion -- Poincar\'e mapping of atomic trajectories in an effective three-dimensional phase space onto planes of atomic internal variables and momentum. We find common features with typical non-hyperbolic Hamiltonian systems -- chains of resonant islands of different sizes embedded in a stochastic sea, stochastic layers, bifurcations, and so on. The phenomenon of sticking of atomic trajectories to boundaries of regular islands, that should have a great influence to atomic transport in optical lattices, is found and demonstrated numerically.

id: quant-ph/0607049
title: Asymptotic Entanglement of Two Independent Systems in a Common Bath
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607049
abstract: Two, non-interacting systems immersed in a common bath and evolving with a Markovian, completely positive dynamics can become initially entangled via a purely noisy mechanism. Remarkably, for certain, phenomenologically relevant environments, the quantum correlations can persist even in the asymptotic long-time regime.

id: quant-ph/0607050
title: Dynamics of Loschmidt echoes and fidelity decay
authors: Thomas Gorin, Tomaz Prosen, Thomas H. Seligman, Marko Znidaric
comments: Review article with some original results in integrable systems and random matrix models; 133 pages, 53 figures
journal: Phys. Rep. 435, 33-156 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607050
abstract: Fidelity serves as a benchmark for the relieability in quantum information processes, and has recently atracted much interest as a measure of the susceptibility of dynamics to perturbations. A rich variety of regimes for fidelity decay have emerged. The purpose of the present review is to describe these regimes, to give the theory that supports them, and to show some important applications and experiments. While we mention several approaches we use time correlation functions as a backbone for the discussion. Vanicek's uniform approach to semiclassics and random matrix theory provides an important alternative or complementary aspects. Other methods will be mentioned as we go along. Recent experiments in micro-wave cavities and in elastodynamic systems as well as suggestions for experiments in quantum optics shall be discussed.

id: quant-ph/0607051
title: One-mode quantum Gaussian channels
authors: A. S. Holevo
comments: 12 pages, classification improved, typos corrected, reference added
journal: Problems of Information Transmission, v.43, 1-11, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607051
abstract: A classification of one-mode Gaussian channels is given up to canonical unitary equivalence. A complementary to the quantum channel with additive classical Gaussian noise is described providing an example of one-mode Gaussian channel which is neither degradable nor anti-degradable.

id: quant-ph/0607052
title: Reconstruction of photon statistics using low performance photon counters
authors: G. Zambra, M. G. A. Paris
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 063830 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607052
abstract: The output of a photodetector consists of a current pulse whose charge has the statistical distribution of the actual photon numbers convolved with a Bernoulli distribution. Photodetectors are characterized by a nonunit quantum efficiency, i.e. not all the photons lead to a charge, and by a finite resolution, i.e. a different number of detected photons leads to a discriminable values of the charge only up to a maximum value. We present a detailed comparison, based on Monte Carlo simulated experiments and real data, among the performances of detectors with different upper limits of counting capability. In our scheme the inversion of Bernoulli convolution is performed by maximum-likelihood methods assisted by measurements taken at different quantum efficiencies. We show that detectors that are only able to discriminate between zero, one and more than one detected photons are generally enough to provide a reliable reconstruction of the photon statistics for single-peaked distributions, while detectors with higher resolution limits do not lead to further improvements. In addition, we demonstrate that, for semiclassical states, even on/off detectors are enough to provide a good reconstruction. Finally, we show that a reliable reconstruction of multi-peaked distributions requires either higher quantum efficiency or better capability in discriminating high number of detected photons.

id: quant-ph/0607053
title: Error-Resistant Distributed Quantum Computation in Trapped Ion Chain
authors: Sibylle Braungardt, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX4; v2: another noise model analysed, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042307 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607053
abstract: We consider experimentally feasible chains of trapped ions with pseudo-spin 1/2, and find models that can potentially be used to implement error-resistant quantum computation. Similar in spirit to classical neural networks, the error-resistance of the system is achieved by encoding the qubits distributed over the whole system. We therefore call our system a ''quantum neural network'', and present a ''quantum neural network model of quantum computation''. Qubits are encoded in a few quasi-degenerated low energy levels of the whole system, separated by a large gap from the excited states, and large energy barriers between themselves. We investigate protocols for implementing a universal set of quantum logic gates in the system, by adiabatic passage of a few low-lying energy levels of the whole system. Naturally appearing and potentially dangerous distributed noise in the system leaves the fidelity of the computation virtually unchanged, if it is not too strong. The computation is also naturally resilient to local perturbations of the spins.

id: quant-ph/0607054
title: Feasibility of a quantum memory for continuous variables based on trapped ions
authors: Thomas Coudreau, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Grosshans, Samuel Guibal, Luca Guidoni
comments: v2, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607054
abstract: We propose to use a large cloud of cold trapped ions as a medium for quantum optics and quantum information experiments. Contrary to most recent realizations of qubit manipulation based on a small number of trapped and cooled ions, we study the case of traps containing a macroscopic number of ions. We consider in particular the implementation of a quantum memory for quantum information stored in continuous variables and study the impact of the relevant physical parameters on the expected performances of the system.

id: quant-ph/0607055
title: Photoionization of strontium for trapped-ion quantum information processing
authors: K. Vant, J. Chiaverini, W. Lybarger, D. J. Berkeland
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607055
abstract: We report a demonstration of simple and effective loading of strontium ions into a linear radio frequency Paul trap using photoionization. The ionization pathway is 5s2 1S0 -- 5s5p 1P1 -- 5p2 1D2, and the 5p2 1D2 final state is auto-ionizing. Both transitions are driven using diode lasers: a grating-stabilized 922 nm diode doubled in a single pass through potassium niobate to 461 nm and a bare diode at 405 nm. Using this technique, we have reduced the background pressure during the ion loading process by a factor of 2 compared to the conventional technique of electron bombardment. Initial ion temperatures are low enough that the ions immediately form crystals. It is also possible to observe the trapping region with a CCD camera during ion creation, allowing specific ion number loading with high probability.

id: quant-ph/0607056
title: Security proof of a three-state quantum key distribution protocol without rotational symmetry
authors: Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, 2 columns
journal: Physical Review A 74, 042342 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607056
abstract: Standard security proofs of quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols often rely on symmetry arguments. In this paper, we prove the security of a three-state protocol that does not possess rotational symmetry. The three-state QKD protocol we consider involves three qubit states, where the first two states, |0_z> and |1_z>, can contribute to key generation and the third state, |+>=(|0_z>+|1_z>)/\sqrt{2}, is for channel estimation. This protocol has been proposed and implemented experimentally in some frequency-based QKD systems where the three states can be prepared easily. Thus, by founding on the security of this three-state protocol, we prove that these QKD schemes are, in fact, unconditionally secure against any attacks allowed by quantum mechanics. The main task in our proof is to upper bound the phase error rate of the qubits given the bit error rates observed. Unconditional security can then be proved not only for the ideal case of a single-photon source and perfect detectors, but also for the realistic case of a phase-randomized weak coherent light source and imperfect threshold detectors. Our result on the phase error rate upper bound is independent of the loss in the channel. Also, we compare the three-state protocol with the BB84 protocol. For the single-photon source case, our result proves that the BB84 protocol strictly tolerates a higher quantum bit error rate than the three-state protocol; while for the coherent-source case, the BB84 protocol achieves a higher key generation rate and secure distance than the three-state protocol when a decoy-state method is used.

id: quant-ph/0607057
title: Against `Realism'
authors: Travis Norsen
comments: Revised version, forthcoming in Foundations of Physics
journal: Foundations of Physics, Vol. 37 No. 3, 311-340 (March 2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607057
abstract: We examine the prevalent use of the phrase ``local realism'' in the context of Bell's Theorem and associated experiments, with a focus on the question: what exactly is the `realism' in `local realism' supposed to mean? Carefully surveying several possible meanings, we argue that all of them are flawed in one way or another as attempts to point out a second premise (in addition to locality) on which the Bell inequalities rest, and (hence) which might be rejected in the face of empirical data violating the inequalities. We thus suggest that the phrase `local realism' should be banned from future discussions of these issues, and urge physicists to revisit the foundational questions behind Bell's Theorem.

id: quant-ph/0607058
title: The fidelity of general bosonic channels with pure state input
authors: Meisheng Zhao, Tao Qin, Yongde Zhang
comments: 3 pages, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607058
abstract: We first derive for the general form of the fidelity for various bosonic channels. Thereby we give the fidelity of different quantum bosonic channel, possibly with product input and entangled input respectively, as examples. The properties of the fidelity are carefully examined.

id: quant-ph/0607059
title: Bell's inequalities in the tomographic representation
authors: C. Lupo, V. I. Man'ko, G. Marmo
comments: 11 pages, comments and references added
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 12515-12524
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607059
abstract: The tomographic approach to quantum mechanics is revisited as a direct tool to investigate violation of Bell-like inequalities. Since quantum tomograms are well defined probability distributions, the tomographic approach is emphasized to be the most natural one to compare the predictions of classical and quantum theory. Examples of inequalities for two qubits an two qutrits are considered in the tomographic probability representation of spin states.

id: quant-ph/0607060
title: The efficiencies of generating cluster states with weak non-linearities
authors: Sebastien G.R. Louis, Kae Nemoto, W.J. Munro, T.P. Spiller
comments: 21 pages, to appear in special issue of New J. Phys. on "Measurement-Based Quantum Information Processing"
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 193 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607060
abstract: We propose a scalable approach to building cluster states of matter qubits using coherent states of light. Recent work on the subject relies on the use of single photonic qubits in the measurement process. These schemes can be made robust to detector loss, spontaneous emission and cavity mismatching but as a consequence the overhead costs grow rapidly, in particular when considering single photon loss. In contrast, our approach uses continuous variables and highly efficient homodyne measurements. We present a two-qubit scheme, with a simple bucket measurement system yielding an entangling operation with success probability 1/2. Then we extend this to a three-qubit interaction, increasing this probability to 3/4. We discuss the important issues of the overhead cost and the time scaling. This leads to a "no-measurement" approach to building cluster states, making use of geometric phases in phase space.

id: quant-ph/0607061
title: Class of PPT bound entangled states associated to almost any set of pure entangled states
authors: M. Piani, C. Mora
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012305 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607061
abstract: We analyze a class of entangled states for bipartite $d \otimes d$ systems, with $d$ non-prime. The entanglement of such states is revealed by the construction of canonically associated entanglement witnesses. The structure of the states is very simple and similar to the one of isotropic states: they are a mixture of a separable and a pure entangled state whose supports are orthogonal. Despite such simple structure, in an opportune interval of the mixing parameter their entanglement is not revealed by partial transposition nor by the realignment criterion, i.e. by any permutational criterion in the bipartite setting. In the range in which the states are Positive under Partial Transposition (PPT), they are not distillable; on the other hand, the states in the considered class are provably distillable as soon as they are Nonpositive under Partial Transposition (NPT). The states are associated to any set of more than two pure states. The analysis is extended to the multipartite setting. By an opportune selection of the set of multipartite pure states, it is possible to construct mixed states which are PPT with respect to any choice of bipartite cuts and nevertheless exhibit genuine multipartite entanglement. Finally, we show that every $k$-positive but not completely positive map is associated to a family of nondecomposable maps.

id: quant-ph/0607062
title: Measurements on Composite Qudits
authors: Tomasz Paterek
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 367, 57 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607062
abstract: We study measurements of the unitary generalization of Pauli operators. First, an analytical (constructive) solution to the eigenproblem of these operators is presented. Next, in the case of two subsystems, the Schmidt form of the eigenvectors is derived to identify measurements which are easy to implement. These results are utilized to show that quantum cryptography with two bases, when operating on a two-component qudit, can be realized with measurements on individual subsystems, assisted with classical communication. We also discuss feasible devices which perform tomography of polarisation-path qudits.

id: quant-ph/0607063
title: A Foundation Theory of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Richard A Mould
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures,Trieste/Losinj Conference, 5-9 Sept. 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607063
abstract: The nRules are empirical regularities that were discovered in macroscopic situations where the outcome is known. When they are projected theoretically into the microscopic domain they predict a novel ontology including the frequent collapse of an atomic wave function, thereby defining an nRule based foundation theory. Future experiments can potentially discriminate between this and other foundation theories of (non-relativistic) quantum mechanics. Important features of the nRules are: (1) they introduce probability through probability current rather than the Born rule, (2) they are valid independent of size (micro or macroscopic), (3) they apply to individual trials, not just to ensembles of trials. (4) they allow all observers to be continuously included in the system without ambiguity, (5) they account for the collapse of the wave function without introducing new or using old physical constants, and (6) in dense environments they provide a high frequency of stochastic localizations of quantum mechanical objects. Key words: measurement, stochastic choice, state reduction.

id: quant-ph/0607064
title: Manipulation of matter waves using Bloch and Bloch-Zener oscillations
authors: B. M. Breid, D. Witthaut, H. J. Korsch
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 62
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607064
abstract: We present theoretical and numerical results on the dynamics of ultracold atoms in an accelerated single- and double-periodic optical lattice. In the single-periodic potential Bloch oscillations can be used to generate fast directed transport with very little dispersion. The dynamics in the double-periodic system is dominated by Bloch-Zener oscillations, i.e. the interplay of Bloch oscillations and Zener tunneling between the subbands. Apart from directed transport, the latter system permits various interesting applications, such as widely tunable matter wave beam splitters and Mach-Zehnder interferometry. As an application, a method for efficient probing of small nonlinear mean-field interactions is suggested.

id: quant-ph/0607065
title: Architecture of a Quantum Multicomputer Optimized for Shor's Factoring Algorithm
authors: Rodney Doyle Van Meter III
comments: Ph.D. thesis, Keio University: 256 pages, 57 figures and 60,000+ words in 103 files. Get the PDF file if you can, the PostScript is big
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607065
abstract: The quantum multicomputer consists of a large number of small nodes and a qubus interconnect for creating entangled state between the nodes. The primary metric chosen is the performance of such a system on Shor's algorithm for factoring large numbers: specifically, the quantum modular exponentiation step that is the computational bottleneck. This dissertation introduces a number of optimizations for the modular exponentiation. My algorithms reduce the latency, or circuit depth, to complete the modular exponentiation of an n-bit number from O(n^3) to O(n log^2 n) or O(n^2 log n), depending on architecture. Calculations show that these algorithms are one million times and thirteen thousand times faster, when factoring a 6,000-bit number, depending on architecture. Extending to the quantum multicomputer, five different qubus interconnect topologies are considered, and two forms of carry-ripple adder are found to be the fastest for a wide range of performance parameters. The links in the quantum multicomputer are serial; parallel links would provide only very modest improvements in system reliability and performance. Two levels of the Steane [[23,1,7]] error correction code will adequately protect our data for factoring a 1,024-bit number even when the qubit teleportation failure rate is one percent.

id: quant-ph/0607066
title: Free electron in a laser field: The nonrelativistic solution
authors: C. Yuce
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062106 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607066
abstract: Schrodinger equation for a charged particle interacting with the plane wave electromagnetic field is solved exactly. The exact analytic solution and the perturbative solution up to second order are compared.

id: quant-ph/0607067
title: Broadcasting of three qubit entanglement via local copying and entanglement swapping
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari, B.S.Choudhury
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures, Accepted in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 032323 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607067
abstract: In this work,We investigate the problem of secretly broadcasting of three-qubit entangled state between two distant partners. The interesting feature of this problem is that starting from two particle entangled state shared between two distant partners we find that the action of local cloner on the qubits and the measurement on the machine state vector generates three-qubit entanglement between them. The broadcasting of entanglement is made secret by sending the measurement result secretly using cryptographic scheme based on orthogonal states. Further we show that this idea can be extended to generate three particle entangled state between three distant partners.

id: quant-ph/0607068
title: Self-cooling of a micro-mirror by radiation pressure
authors: S. Gigan, H. R. Boehm, M. Paternostro, F. Blaser, G. Langer, J. B. Hertzberg, K. Schwab, D. Baeuerle, M. Aspelmeyer, A. Zeilinger
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures, minor corrections
journal: Nature 444, 67 - 70 (02 Nov 2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607068
abstract: We demonstrate passive feedback cooling of a mechanical resonator based on radiation pressure forces and assisted by photothermal forces in a high-finesse optical cavity. The resonator is a free-standing high-reflectance micro-mirror (of mass m=400ng and mechanical quality factor Q=10^4) that is used as back-mirror in a detuned Fabry-Perot cavity of optical finesse F=500. We observe an increased damping in the dynamics of the mechanical oscillator by a factor of 30 and a corresponding cooling of the oscillator modes below 10 K starting from room temperature. This effect is an important ingredient for recently proposed schemes to prepare quantum entanglement of macroscopic mechanical oscillators.

id: quant-ph/0607069
title: Spatial Entanglement of a Free Bosonic Field
authors: L. Heaney, J. Anders, V. Vedral
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, extended version of the paper from 5 to 8 pages. We have included a more detailed discussion and added new results that support our original conclusions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607069
abstract: In this paper we discuss the entanglement properties of a thermal non-relativistic free bosonic field. We demonstrate how to formally construct spatial modes in order to use a continuous variable separability criterion and show that the construction of the modes plays a significant role in the way the entanglement manifests itself. For instance the presence of entanglement depends on the shape of the modes and their separation. The temperature of the gas is another crucial factor and for one choice of modes we show that entanglement can be found at arbitrarily high temperatures as long as we can zoom in on suitably small regions in space. Moreover, we show that the entanglement here is useful as it can be extracted to a pair of localised systems.

id: quant-ph/0607070
title: Quantum Capacities of Channels with small Environment
authors: Michael M. Wolf, David Perez-Garcia
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012303 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607070
abstract: We investigate the quantum capacity of noisy quantum channels which can be represented by coupling a system to an effectively small environment. A capacity formula is derived for all cases where both system and environment are two-dimensional--including all extremal qubit channels. Similarly, for channels acting on higher dimensional systems we show that the capacity can be determined if the channel arises from a sufficiently small coupling to a qubit environment. Extensions to instances of channels with larger environment are provided and it is shown that bounds on the capacity with unconstrained environment can be obtained from decompositions into channels with small environment.

id: quant-ph/0607071
title: Tests of Complete Positivity in Fiber Optics
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607071
abstract: We consider the propagation of polarized photons in optical fibers under the action of randomly generated noise. In such situation, the change in time of the photon polarization can be described by a quantum dynamical semigroup. We show that the hierarchy among the decay constants of the polarization density matrix elements as prescribed by complete positivity can be experimentally probed using standard laboratory set-ups.

id: quant-ph/0607072
title: Quantum Many-Body Culling
authors: A.M. Dudarev, M.G. Raizen, Qian Niu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607072
abstract: We propose a method to produce a definite number of ground-state atoms by adiabatic reduction of the depth of a potential well that confines a degenerate Bose gas with repulsive interactions. Using a variety of methods, we map out the maximum number of particles that can be supported by the well as a function of the well depth and interaction strength, covering the limiting case of a Tonks gas as well as the mean-field regime. We also estimate the time scales for adiabaticity and discuss the recent observation of atomic number squeezing (Chuu et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 95}, 260403 (2005)).

id: quant-ph/0607073
title: Constructions of complex Hadamard matrices via tiling Abelian groups
authors: M¨¢t¨¦ Matolcsi, J¨²lia R¨¦ffy, Ferenc Sz?ll?si
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607073
abstract: Applications in quantum information theory and quantum tomography have raised current interest in complex Hadamard matrices. In this note we investigate the connection between tiling Abelian groups and constructions of complex Hadamard matrices. First, we recover a recent very general construction of complex Hadamard matrices due to Dita via a natural tiling construction. Then we find some necessary conditions for any given complex Hadamard matrix to be equivalent to a Dita-type matrix. Finally, using another tiling construction, due to Szabo, we arrive at new parametric families of complex Hadamard matrices of order 8, 12 and 16, and we use our necessary conditions to prove that these families do not arise with Dita's construction. These new families complement the recent catalogue of complex Hadamard matrices of small order.

id: quant-ph/0607074
title: Noncrossing normal ordering for functions of boson operators
authors: Toufik Mansour, Matthias Schork, Simone Severini
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607074
abstract: Normally ordered forms of functions of boson operators are important in many contexts in particular concerning Quantum Field Theory and Quantum Optics. Beginning with the seminal work of Katriel [Lett. Nuovo Cimento, 10(13):565--567, 1974], in the last few years, normally ordered forms have been shown to have a rich combinatorial structure, mainly in virtue of a link with the theory of partitions. In this paper, we attempt to enrich this link. By considering linear representations of noncrossing partitions, we define the notion of noncrossing normal ordering. Given the growing interest in noncrossing partitions, because of their many unexpected connections (like, for example, with free probability), noncrossing normal ordering appears to be an intriguing notion. We explicitly give the noncrossing normally ordered form of the functions (a^{r}(a^{\dag})^{s})^{n}) and (a^{r}+(a^{\dag})^{s})^{n}, plus various special cases. We are able to establish for the first time bijections between noncrossing contractions of these functions, k-ary trees and sets of lattice paths.

id: quant-ph/0607075
title: Iterative Solutions for Low Lying Excited States of a Class of Schroedinger Equation
authors: R. Friedberg, T. D. Lee, W. Q. Zhao
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607075
abstract: The convergent iterative procedure for solving the groundstate Schroedinger equation is extended to derive the excitation energy and the wave function of the low-lying excited states. The method is applied to the one-dimensional quartic potential problem. The results show that the iterative solution converges rapidly when the coupling $g$ is not too small.

id: quant-ph/0607076
title: Onset of Entanglement and Noise Cross-Correlations in Two-Qubit System Interacting with Common Bosonic Bath
authors: Vladimir Privman, Dmitry Solenov, Denis Tolkunov
comments: 4 pages in LaTeX, with EPS figures
journal: Proc. Conf. ICSICT-2006, Part 2, Pages 1054-1057, edited by T.-A. Tang, G.-P. Ru and Y.-L. Jiang (IEEE Press, Piscataway, NJ, 2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607076
abstract: We summarize our recent results for the induced exchange interaction due to thermal bosonic environment (bath) which also generates quantum noise. Our focus here is on the onset of the interaction. We demonstrate that the induced interaction can be used to manipulate and create entanglement over time scales sufficiently large for controlling the two-qubit system for quantum computing applications, though ultimately the noise effects will dominate.

id: quant-ph/0607077
title: A single photon emitted by a single particle in free space vacuum modes and its resonant interaction with two- and three-level absorbers
authors: R. N. Shakhmuratov, J. Odeurs, Paul Mandel
comments: 28 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607077
abstract: We consider the time-delayed coincidence counting of two photons emitted in a cascade by a single particle (atom, molecule, nucleus, etc). The time-dependence of the probability amplitude of the second photon in the cascade has a sharply rising leading edge due to the detection of the first photon, as results from causality. If a macroscopic ensemble of resonant two-level absorbers is placed in the path of the second photon between the radiation source and the detector, the photon absorption does not follow Beer's law due to the time-asymmetric shape of the photon. For very short delay times almost no absorption takes place, even in an optically dense medium. We analyze the propagation of such a second photon in a thick resonant three-level absorber if a narrow electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) window is present at the center of the absorption line. It is shown that the EIT medium can change the asymmetric time dependence of the photon probability amplitude to a bell shape (EIT filtering). This bell-shaped photon interacts much more efficiently with an other ensemble of two-level absorbers chosen, for example, to store this photon and the information it carries.

id: quant-ph/0607078
title: Environment assisted entanglement enhancement
authors: Biplab Ghosh, A. S. Majumdar, N. Nayak
comments: 4 pages, Revtex, 1 eps figure; minor changes to match with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052315 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607078
abstract: We consider dissipative atom-cavity systems and show that their collective dynamics leads to the maximization of entanglement for intermediate values of the cavity leakage parameter $\kappa$. We discuss possible ways the reservoir influences entanglement. We first consider the entanglement of a single two-level atom with a microwave cavity that is coupled to another cavity. We show that the atom-cavity entanglement can be made to increase with cavity leakage. We next show that the entanglement between two atoms passing successively through a cavity can be maximised for intermediate values of $\kappa$. We finally consider the micromaser where the increase of two-atom entanglement for stronger cavity-environment coupling is demonstrated for experimentally attainable values of the micromaser parameters.

id: quant-ph/0607079
title: Exact propagators for atom-laser interactions
authors: A. del Campo, J. G. Muga
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A, 39, 14079 (2006) (extended)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607079
abstract: A class of exact propagators describing the interaction of an $N$-level atom with a set of on-resonance $\delta$-lasers is obtained by means of the Laplace transform method. State-selective mirrors are described in the limit of strong lasers. The ladder, V and $\Lambda$ configurations for a three-level atom are discussed. For the two level case, the transient effects arising as result of the interaction between both a semi-infinite beam and a wavepacket with the on-resonance laser are examined.

id: quant-ph/0607080
title: Squeezed state purification with linear optics and feed forward
authors: O. Gl?ckl, U. L. Andersen, R. Filip, W. P. Bowen, G. Leuchs
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 053601 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607080
abstract: A scheme for optimal and deterministic linear optical purification of mixed squeezed Gaussian states is proposed and experimentally demonstrated. The scheme requires only linear optical elements and homodyne detectors, and allows the balance between purification efficacy and squeezing degradation to be controlled. One particular choice of parameters gave a ten-fold reduction of the thermal noise with a corresponding squeezing degradation of only 11%. We prove optimality of the protocol, and show that it can be used to enhance the performance of quantum informational protocols such as dense coding and entanglement generation.

id: quant-ph/0607081
title: Electromagnetic Casimir energy with extra dimensions
authors: H. Alnes, K. Olaussen, F. Ravndal, I. K. Wehus
comments: 16 pages, typos corrected, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.D74:105017,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607081
abstract: We calculate the energy-momentum tensor due to electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations between two parallel hyperplanes in more than four dimensions, considering both metallic and MIT boundary conditions. Using the axial gauge, the problem can be mapped upon the corresponding problem with a massless, scalar field satisfying respectively Dirichlet or Neumann boundary conditions. The pressure between the plates is constant while the energy density is found to diverge at the boundaries when there are extra dimensions. This can be related to the fact that Maxwell theory is then no longer conformally invariant. A similar behavior is known for the scalar field where a constant energy density consistent with the pressure can be obtained by improving the energy-momentum tensor with the Huggins term. This is not possible for the Maxwell field. However, the change in the energy-momentum tensor with distance between boundaries is finite in all cases.

id: quant-ph/0607082
title: Unconditional security of the Bennett 1992 quantum key-distribution scheme with strong reference pulse
authors: Kiyoshi Tamaki, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus, Masato Koashi, Jamie Batuwantudawe
comments: More detailed presentation and a bit modified security proof
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80 032302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607082
abstract: We prove the unconditional security of the original Bennett 1992 protocol with strong reference pulse. We show that we may place a projection onto suitably defined qubit spaces before the receiver, which makes the analysis as simple as qubit-based protocols. Unlike the single-photon-based qubits, the qubits identified in this scheme are almost surely detected by the receiver even after a lossy channel. This leads to the key generation rate that is proportional to the channel transmission rate for proper choices of experimental parameters.

id: quant-ph/0607083
title: Generation of Entangled Photon Holes using Quantum Interference
authors: T.B. Pittman, J.D. Franson
comments: 4 pages, color figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 041801R (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607083
abstract: In addition to photon pairs entangled in polarization or other variables, quantum mechanics also allows optical beams that are entangled through the absence of the photons themselves. These correlated absences, or ``entangled photon holes'', can lead to counter-intuitive nonlocal effects analogous to those of the more familiar entangled photon pairs. Here we report an experimental observation of photon holes generated using quantum interference effects to suppress the probability that two photons in a weak laser pulse will separate at an optical beam splitter.

id: quant-ph/0607084
title: Evaluable multipartite entanglement measures: are multipartite concurrences entanglement monotones?
authors: Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, Andreas Buchleitner, Marek Kus, Florian Mintert
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, minor changes - clarity of proofs improved
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052303 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607084
abstract: We discuss the monotonicity under local operations and classical communication (LOCC) of systematically constructed quantities aiming at quantification of entanglement properties of multipartite quantum systems. The so-called generalized multipartite concurrences can qualify as legitimate entanglement measures if they are monotonous under LOCC. In the paper we give a necessary and sufficient criterion for their monotonicity.

id: quant-ph/0607085
title: Master equation for a quantum particle in a gas
authors: Klaus Hornberger
comments: 5 pages; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 060601 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607085
abstract: The equation for the quantum motion of a Brownian particle in a gaseous environment is derived by means of S-matrix theory. This quantum version of the linear Boltzmann equation accounts non-perturbatively for the quantum effects of the scattering dynamics and describes decoherence and dissipation in a unified framework. As a completely positive master equation it incorporates both the known equation for an infinitely massive Brownian particle and the classical linear Boltzmann equation as limiting cases.

id: quant-ph/0607086
title: Performance of Deterministic Dynamical Decoupling Schemes: Concatenated and Periodic Pulse Sequences
authors: Kaveh Khodjasteh, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 17 pages, including 2 figures. v2: added a section on decoupling spins in GaAs quantum dots, and some other improvements and additions
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 75, 062310 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607086
abstract: Dynamical decoupling can be used to preserve arbitrary quantum states despite undesired interactions with the environment, using control Hamiltonians affecting the system only. We present a system-independent analysis of dynamical decoupling based on leading order decoupling error estimates, valid for bounded-strength environments. Using as a key tool a renormalization transformation of the effective system-bath coupling Hamiltonian, we delineate the reliability domain of dynamical decoupling used for quantum state preservation, in a general setting for a single qubit. We specifically analyze and compare two deterministic dynamical decoupling schemes -- periodic and concatenated -- and distinguish between two limiting cases of fast versus slow environments. We prove that concatenated decoupling outperforms periodic decoupling over a wide range of parameters. These results are obtained for both ``ideal'' (zero-width) and realistic (finite-width) pulses This work extends and generalizes our earlier work, Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 180501 (2005).

id: quant-ph/0607087
title: Continuous-variable teleportation in the characteristic-function description
authors: Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian
comments: 12 pages
journal: Physical Review A 74, 042306 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607087
abstract: We give a description of the continuous-variable teleportation protocol in terms of the characteristic functions of the quantum states involved. The Braunstein--Kimble protocol is written for an unbalanced homodyne measurement and arbitrary input and resource states. We show that the output of the protocol is a superposition between the input one-mode field and a classical one induced by measurement and classical communication. We choose to describe the input state distortion through teleportation by the average photon number of the measurement-induced field. Only in the case of symmetric resource states we find a relation between the optimal added noise and the minimal EPR correlations used to define inseparability.

id: quant-ph/0607088
title: Local and Global Distinguishability in Quantum Interferometry
authors: Gabriel A. Durkin, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 4 pages, in submission, minor revisions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607088
abstract: A statistical distinguishability based on relative entropy characterises the fitness of quantum states for phase estimation. This criterion is employed in the context of a Mach-Zehnder interferometer and used to interpolate between two regimes, of local and global phase distinguishability. The scaling of distinguishability in these regimes with photon number is explored for various quantum states. It emerges that local distinguishability is dependent on a discrepancy between quantum and classical rotational energy. Our analysis demonstrates that the Heisenberg limit is the true upper limit for local phase sensitivity. Only the `NOON' states share this bound, but other states exhibit a better trade-off when comparing local and global phase regimes.

id: quant-ph/0607089
title: Unconditionally Secure Quantum Bit Commitment Protocols Based on Correlation Immune Boolean Function
authors: Li Yang, Bao Li
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607089
abstract: A class of quantum protocols of bit commitment is constructed based on the nonorthogonal states coding and the correlation immunity of some Boolean functions. The binding condition of these protocols is guaranteed mainly by the law of causality and the concealing condition is guaranteed by the indistinguishability between nonorthogonal quantum states and the correlation immunity of Boolean functions. We also give out an oblivious transfer protocol based on two-nonorthogonal states coding and build a bit commitment protocol on top of it. The relationship between these protocols and the well known no-go theorem is also discussed in details.

id: quant-ph/0607090
title: Efficient generation of entangled photons by cavity QED
authors: X.L. Zhang, M. Feng, K.L. Gao
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, to appear in J. Phys. B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39 (2006) 3211?C3219
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607090
abstract: A potential scheme is proposed to generate complete sets of entangled photons in the context of cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED). The scheme includes twice interactions of atoms with cavities, in which the first interaction is made in two-mode optical cavities and the second one exists in a microwave cavity. In the optical cavities the atoms are resonant with the cavity modes, while the detuned interaction of the atoms with a single-mode of the microwave cavity is driven by a classical field. We show that our scheme is carried out with higher efficiency than previeous schemes, and is close to the reach of current technique.

id: quant-ph/0607091
title: Time domain Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlation
authors: Nobuyuki Takei, Noriyuki Lee, Daiki Moriyama, J. S. Neergaard-Nielsen, Akira Furusawa
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 060101(R) (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607091
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate creation and characterization of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) correlation between optical beams in the time domain. The correlated beams are created with two independent continuous-wave optical parametric oscillators and a half beam splitter. We define temporal modes using a square temporal filter with duration $T$ and make time-resolved measurement on the generated state. We observe the correlations between the relevant conjugate variables in time domain which correspond to the EPR correlation. Our scheme is extendable to continuous variable quantum teleportation of a non-Gaussian state defined in the time domain such as a Schr\"odinger cat-like state.

id: quant-ph/0607092
title: Quantum walks with random phase shifts
authors: Jozef Kosik, Vladimir Buzek, Mark Hillery
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. A (10 pages, 5 figures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607092
abstract: We investigate quantum walks in multiple dimensions with different quantum coins. We augment the model by assuming that at each step the amplitudes of the coin state are multiplied by random phases. This model enables us to study in detail the role of decoherence in quantum walks and to investigate the quantum-to-classical transition. We also provide classical analogues of the quantum random walks studied. Interestingly enough, it turns out that the classical counterparts of some quantum random walks are classical random walks with a memory and biased coin. In addition random phase shifts "simplify" the dynamics (the cross interference terms of different paths vanish on average) and enable us to give a compact formula for the dispersion of such walks.

id: quant-ph/0607093
title: Fundamentals for immediate implementation of a quantum secured Internet
authors: Geraldo A. Barbosa
comments: 8 pages and 6 figures. A typo in the eigenvalues in version V1 was corrected and a few short comments added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607093
abstract: This work shows how a secure Internet for users A and B can be implemented through a fast key distribution system that uses physical noise to encrypt information transmitted in deterministic form. Starting from a shared secret random sequence between them, long sequences of fresh random bits can be shared in a secure way and not involving a third party. The shared decrypted random bits -encrypted by noise at the source- are subsequently utilized for one-time-pad data encryption. The physical generated protection is not susceptible to advances in computation or mathematics. In particular, it does not depend on the difficulty of factoring numbers in primes. Also, there is no use of Linear Feed Back Shift Registers. The attacker has free access to the communication channels and may acquire arbitrary number of copies of the transmitted signal without lowering the security level. No intrusion detection method is needed.

id: quant-ph/0607094
title: Quantum simulations under translational symmetry
authors: Christina V. Kraus, Michael M. Wolf, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, references added, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022303 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607094
abstract: We investigate the power of quantum systems for the simulation of Hamiltonian time evolutions on a cubic lattice under the constraint of translational invariance. Given a set of translationally invariant local Hamiltonians and short range interactions we determine time evolutions which can and those that can not be simulated. Whereas for general spin systems no finite universal set of generating interactions is shown to exist, universality turns out to be generic for quadratic bosonic and fermionic nearest-neighbor interactions when supplemented by all translationally invariant on-site Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0607095
title: Can Bohmian trajectories account for quantum recurrences having classical periodicities?
authors: A. Matzkin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 361, 294 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607095
abstract: Quantum systems in specific regimes display recurrences at the period of the periodic orbits of the corresponding classical system. We investigate the excited hydrogen atom in a magnetic field -- a prototypical system of 'quantum chaos' -- from the point of view of the de Broglie Bohm (BB) interpretation of quantum mechanics. The trajectories predicted by BB theory are computed and contrasted with the time evolution of the wavefunction, which shows pronounced features at times matching the period of closed orbits of the classical hydrogen in a magnetic field problem. Individual BB trajectories do not possess these periodicities and cannot account for the quantum recurrences. These recurrences can however be explained by BB theory by considering the ensemble of trajectories compatible with an initial statistical distribution, although none of the trajectories of the ensemble are periodic, rendering unclear the dynamical origin of the classical periodicities.

id: quant-ph/0607096
title: Specification of the Q Hypothesis: An Alternative Mathematical Foundation for Physics
authors: Paul J. Werbos
comments: New brief appendix explains in simpler terms what Q and P hypotheses are, and why current empirical data appears to support the P hypothesis over both the Q hypothesis and the current standard model of physics, with reference to two new papers
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607096
abstract: Mathematical tools related to coherence theory and classical-quantum equivalence, due to Wigner and Glauber, are essential to modern, practical and empirical understanding of electromagnetics in areas like quantum optics and nanoelectronics. This paper specifies how an extension of these same tools (especially Glauber's "Q" mapping) can be applied to strong nuclear forces as well, and provides a "bottom-up" approach to axiomatic unification of physics, grounded in empirical reality (dice included). The Q hypothesis also has implications for quantum measurement and quantum information technology. The basic hypothesis is that density matrices across all of quantum field theory can be "decoded" or mapped usefully into probability distributions for "classical" fields, by using a generalization of Glauber's Q mapping, which does the same for electromagnetics.

id: quant-ph/0607097
title: A new type of solution of the Schr?dinger equation on a self-similar fractal potential
authors: N L Chuprikov, O V Spiridonova
comments: Latex, 4 pages, 7 eps-figures; the old figures are renewed and new ones are added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) L559-L562
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607097
abstract: Scattering a quantum particle by a self-similar fractal potential on a Cantor set is investigated. We present a new type of solution of the functional equation for the transfer matrix of this potential, which was derived earlier from the Schr\"odinger equation.

id: quant-ph/0607098
title: How to measure the wave-function absolute squared of a moving particle by using mirrors
authors: Volker Hannstein, Gerhard C. Hegerfeldt
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: EPL, 77(2007) 60003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607098
abstract: We consider a slow particle with wave function $\psi_t(\vec{x})$, moving freely in some direction. A mirror is briefly switched on around a time $T$ and its position is scanned. It is shown that the measured reflection probability then allows the determination of $|\psi_T(\vec{x})|^2$. Experimentally available atomic mirrors should make this method applicable to the center-of-mass wave function of atoms with velocities in the cm/s range.

id: quant-ph/0607099
title: Prevent eavesdropping with bright reference pulses for practical quantum key distribution
authors: Guang Wu, Jie Chen, Yao Li, Lilin Xu, Heping Zeng
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062323 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607099
abstract: We analyze the application of bright reference pulses to prevent the photon-number-splitting attack in weak-pulse quantum key distribution. Under the optimal eavesdropping strategy as far as we know, the optimal parameters of bright reference and signal pulses can ensure a secure transmission distance up to 146 km. To realize the quantum key distribution scenario with up-present techniques, we present an experimentally feasible scheme to create a large splitting ratio between bright reference and signal pulses, and to switch the bright reference pulses away from signal pulses to avoid the after-pulse disturbance.

id: quant-ph/0607100
title: Quantum Computation via Paraconsistent Computation
authors: Juan C. Agudelo, Walter Carnielli
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607100
abstract: We present an original model of paraconsistent Turing machines (PTMs), a generalization of the classical Turing machines model of computation using a paraconsistent logic. Next, we briefl y describe the standard models of quantum computation: quantum Turing machines and quantum circuits, and revise quantum algorithms to solve the so-called Deutsch's problem and Deutsch-Jozsa problem. Then, we show the potentialities of the PTMs model of computation simulating the presented quantum algorithms via paraconsistent algorithms. This way, we show that PTMs can resolve some problems in exponentially less time than any classical deterministic Turing machine. Finally, We show that it is not possible to simulate all characteristics (in particular entangled states) of quantum computation by the particular model of PTMs here presented, therefore we open the possibility of constructing a new model of PTMs by which it is feasible to simulate such states.

id: quant-ph/0607101
title: Counterfactual computation revisited
authors: Onur Hosten, Matthew T. Rakher, Julio T. Barreiro, Nicholas A. Peters, Paul Kwiat
comments: 12 Pages, 8 Figures, 4 Tables in total. Mitchison and Jozsa responded to our article and the current form includes a reply (5 pages) to them. The text is unchanged otherwise. We provide two abstracts: one for the original aricle, one for the updates
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607101
abstract: Mitchison and Jozsa recently suggested that the "chained-Zeno" counterfactual computation protocol recently proposed by Hosten et al. is counterfactual for only one output of the computer. This claim was based on the existing abstract algebraic definition of counterfactual computation, and indeed according to this definition, their argument is correct. However, a more general definition (physically adequate) for counterfactual computation is implicitly assumed by Hosten et. al. Here we explain in detail why the protocol is counterfactual and how the "history tracking" method of the existing description inadequately represents the physics underlying the protocol. Consequently, we propose a modified definition of counterfactual computation. Finally, we comment on one of the most interesting aspects of the error-correcting protocol.

id: quant-ph/0607102
title: Continous Measurement of the Energy Eigenstates of a Nanomechanical Resonator without a Non-Demolition Probe
authors: Kurt Jacobs, Pavel Lougovski, Miles Blencowe
comments: 4 pages, revtex4, two eps figures. v2: new results, much improved implementation; v4: published version, some terminology changed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 147201 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607102
abstract: We show that it is possible to perform a continuous measurement that continually projects a nano-resonator into its energy eigenstates by employing a linear coupling with a two-state system. This technique makes it possible to perform a measurement that exposes the quantum nature of the resonator by coupling it to a Cooper-pair Box and a superconducting transmission-line resonator.

id: quant-ph/0607103
title: Tripartite entanglement from interlinked $¦Ö^{(2)}$ parametric interactions
authors: M.K. Olsen, A.S. Bradley
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607103
abstract: We examine the tripartite entanglement properties of an optical system using interlinked $\chi^{(2)}$ interactions, recently studied experimentally in terms of its phase-matching properties by Bondani et al [M. Bondani, A. Allevi, E. Gevinti, A. Agliati, and A. Andreoni, arXiv:quant-ph/0604002.]. We show that the system does produce output modes which are genuinely tripartite entangled and that detection of this entanglement depends crucially on the correlation functions which are measured, with a three-mode Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen inequality being the most sensitive.

id: quant-ph/0607104
title: Construction of a unique metric in quasi-Hermitian quantum mechanics: non-existence of the charge operator in a 2 x 2 matrix model
authors: Miloslav Znojil, Hendrik B. Geyer
comments: 13 pages
journal: Physics Letters B 640 (2006) 52 - 56
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607104
abstract: For a specific exactly solvable 2 by 2 matrix model with a PT-symmetric Hamiltonian possessing a real spectrum, we construct all the eligible physical metrics and show that none of them admits a factorization CP in terms of an involutive charge operator C. Alternative ways of restricting the physical metric to a unique form are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0607105
title: Sequential Quantum Cloning
authors: Y. Delgado, L. Lamata, J. Leon, D. Salgado, E. Solano
comments: 4 pages, no figures. New version with changes. Accepted in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 150502 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607105
abstract: Not all unitary operations upon a set of qubits can be implemented by sequential interactions between each qubit and an ancillary system. We analyze the specific case of sequential quantum cloning 1->M and prove that the minimal dimension D of the ancilla grows linearly with the number of clones M. In particular, we obtain D = 2M for symmetric universal quantum cloning and D = M+1 for symmetric phase-covariant cloning. Furthermore, we provide a recipe for the required ancilla-qubit interactions in each step of the sequential procedure for both cases.

id: quant-ph/0607106
title: Decoherence and Recoherence in a Vibrating RF SQUID
authors: Eyal Buks, M. P. Blencowe
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607106
abstract: We study an RF SQUID, in which a section of the loop is a freely suspended beam that is allowed to oscillate mechanically. The coupling between the RF SQUID and the mechanical resonator originates from the dependence of the total magnetic flux threading the loop on the displacement of the resonator. Motion of the latter affects the visibility of Rabi oscillations between the two lowest energy states of the RF SQUID. We address the feasibility of experimental observation of decoherence and recoherence, namely decay and rise of the visibility, in such a system.

id: quant-ph/0607107
title: Degradation of a quantum directional reference frame as a random walk
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Terry Rudolph, Barry C. Sanders, Peter S. Turner
comments: 5 pages, no figures. Comments are welcome. v2: several changes to clarify the key results. v3: journal reference added, acknowledgements and references updated
journal: J. Mod. Opt., 54, 2211 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607107
abstract: We investigate if the degradation of a quantum directional reference frame through repeated use can be modeled as a classical direction undergoing a random walk on a sphere. We demonstrate that the behaviour of the fidelity for a degrading quantum directional reference frame, defined as the average probability of correctly determining the orientation of a test system, can be fit precisely using such a model. Physically, the mechanism for the random walk is the uncontrollable back-action on the reference frame due to its use in a measurement of the direction of another system. However, we find that the magnitude of the step size of this random walk is not given by our classical model and must be determined from the full quantum description.

id: quant-ph/0607108
title: Teleportation with a Mixed State of Four Qubits and the Generalized Singlet Fraction
authors: Ye Yeo
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607108
abstract: Recently, an explicit protocol ${\cal E}_0$ for faithfully teleporting arbitrary two-qubit states using genuine four-qubit entangled states was presented by us [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 96}, 060502 (2006)]. Here, we show that ${\cal E}_0$ with an arbitrary four-qubit mixed state resource $\Xi$ is equivalent to a generalized depolarizing bichannel with probabilities given by the maximally entangled components of the resource. These are defined in terms of our four-qubit entangled states. We define the generalized singlet fraction ${\cal G}[\Xi]$, and illustrate its physical significance with several examples. We argue that in order to teleport arbitrary two-qubit states with average fidelity better than is classically possible, we have to demand that ${\cal G}[\Xi] > 1/2$. In addition, we conjecture that when ${\cal G}[\Xi] < 1/4$ then no entanglement can be teleported. It is shown that to determine the usefulness of $\Xi$ for ${\cal E}_0$, it is necessary to analyze ${\cal G}[\Xi]$.

id: quant-ph/0607109
title: Normalization of Collisional Decoherence: Squaring the Delta Function, and an Independent Cross-Check
authors: Stephen L. Adler
comments: Tex: 14 pages 7/30/06: revisions to introduction, and references added 9/29/06: further minor revisions and references added
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 14067-14074
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607109
abstract: We show that when the Hornberger--Sipe calculation of collisional decoherence is carried out with the squared delta function a delta of energy instead of a delta of the absolute value of momentum, following a method introduced by Di\'osi, the corrected formula for the decoherence rate is simply obtained. The results of Hornberger and Sipe and of Di\'osi are shown to be in agreement. As an independent cross-check, we calculate the mean squared coordinate diffusion of a hard sphere implied by the corrected decoherence master equation, and show that it agrees precisely with the same quantity as calculated by a classical Brownian motion analysis.

id: quant-ph/0607110
title: Notes on Certain Newton Gravity Mechanisms of Wave Function Localisation and Decoherence
authors: Lajos Di¨®si
comments: 8pp LaTex, Submitted to J. Phys. A: Math-Gen, for the special issue ``The Quantum Universe'' in honor of G. C. Ghirardi
journal: J.Phys. A40 (2007) 2989-2995
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607110
abstract: Both the additional non-linear term in the Schr\"odinger equation and the additional non-Hamiltonian term in the von Neumann equation, proposed to ensure localisation and decoherence of macro-objects, resp., contain the same Newtonian interaction potential formally. We discuss certain aspects that are common for both equations. In particular, we calculate the enhancement of the proposed localisation and/or decoherence effects, which would take place if one could lower the conventional length-cutoff and resolve the mass density on the interatomic scale.

id: quant-ph/0607111
title: `Plausibilities of plausibilities': an approach through circumstances
authors: P. G. L. Porta Mana, A. M?nsson, G. Bj?rk
comments: 30 pages, 3 figures. V2: clarified some points and corrected some typos. V3: corrected typos and added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607111
abstract: Probability-like parameters appearing in some statistical models, and their prior distributions, are reinterpreted through the notion of `circumstance', a term which stands for any piece of knowledge that is useful in assigning a probability and that satisfies some additional logical properties. The idea, which can be traced to Laplace and Jaynes, is that the usual inferential reasonings about the probability-like parameters of a statistical model can be conceived as reasonings about equivalence classes of `circumstances' - viz., real or hypothetical pieces of knowledge, like e.g. physical hypotheses, that are useful in assigning a probability and satisfy some additional logical properties - that are uniquely indexed by the probability distributions they lead to.

id: quant-ph/0607112
title: Reliable entanglement transfer between pure quantum states
authors: Berry Groisman
comments: 6 pages, 4 pictures; revised version; to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042302 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607112
abstract: The problem of the reliable transfer of entanglement from one pure bipartite quantum state to another using local operations is analyzed. It is shown that in the case of qubits the amount that can be transferred is restricted to the difference between the entanglement of the two states. In the presence of a catalytic state the range of the transferrable amount broadens to a certain degree.

id: quant-ph/0607113
title: The Role of Resonances in the Stochastic Limit
authors: F. Gomez
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607113
abstract: In the stochastic limit the resonances play a fundamental role because they determine the generalized susceptivities which are the building blocks of all the physical information which survives in this limit. There are two sources of possible divergences: one related to the singularities of the form factor; another to the chaoticity of the spectrum. The situation will be illustrated starting from the example of the discrete part of the hydrogen atom in interaction with the electromagnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0607114
title: On the Relationship between Resolution Enhancement and Multiphoton Absorption Rate in Quantum Lithography
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, submitted, v2: rewritten in response to referees' comments, v3: rewritten and extended, v4: accepted by Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 75, 043813 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607114
abstract: The proposal of quantum lithography [Boto et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2733 (2000)] is studied via a rigorous formalism. It is shown that, contrary to Boto et al.'s heuristic claim, the multiphoton absorption rate of a ``NOON'' quantum state is actually lower than that of a classical state with otherwise identical parameters. The proof-of-concept experiment of quantum lithography [D'Angelo et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 013602 (2001)] is also analyzed in terms of the proposed formalism, and the experiment is shown to have a reduced multiphoton absorption rate in order to emulate quantum lithography accurately. Finally, quantum lithography by the use of a jointly Gaussian quantum state of light is investigated, in order to illustrate the trade-off between resolution enhancement and multiphoton absorption rate.

id: quant-ph/0607115
title: Proposed realization of the Dicke-model quantum phase transition in an optical cavity QED system
authors: F. Dimer, B. Estienne, A.S. Parkins, H.J. Carmichael
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607115
abstract: The Dicke model consisting of an ensemble of two-state atoms interacting with a single quantized mode of the electromagnetic field exhibits a zero-temperature phase transition at a critical value of the dipole coupling strength. We propose a scheme based on multilevel atoms and cavity-mediated Raman transitions to realise an effective Dicke system operating in the phase transition regime. Output light from the cavity carries signatures of the critical behavior which is analyzed for the thermodynamic limit where the number of atoms is very large.

id: quant-ph/0607116
title: The expansion of orthogonal complete set and teleportation of an arbitrary two-qubit state
authors: Xin-Wei Zha, Cun-Bing Huang
comments: 12 pages, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607116
abstract: In accordance with the principle of superposition and operator rule, the state of the whole system composed of the state of the particles to be teleported and quantum channel can be expanded by Bell bases and transformation operator. Theoretically, if determinant of transformation operators is not zero, the teleportation can be realized only by performing an inverse transformation. Actually, if the transformation operator is not a unitary operation, then by using one auxiliary qubits, the teleportation can be realized only by performing a collective unitary transformation. Moreover, the further analysis of the relationship between collective unitary operation and transformation operators is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0607117
title: Entanglement oscillations in open Heisenberg chains
authors: Ting Wang, Xiaoguang Wang, Zhe Sun
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607117
abstract: We study pairwise entanglements in spin-half and spin-one Heisenberg chains with an open boundary condition, respectively. We find out that the ground-state and the first-excited-state entanglements are equal for the three-site spin-one chain. When the number of sites L>3, the concurrences and negativities display oscillatory behaviors, and the oscillations of the ground-state and the first-excited-state entanglements are out of phase or in phase.

id: quant-ph/0607118
title: General conditions for a quantum adiabatic evolution
authors: Daniel Comparat
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607118
abstract: The smallness of the variation rate of the hamiltonian matrix elements compared to the (square of the) energy spectrum gap is usually believed to be the key parameter for a quantum adiabatic evolution. However it is only perturbatively valid for scaled timed hamiltonian and resonance processes as well as off resonance possible constructive St\"{u}ckelberg interference effects violate this usual condition for general hamiltionian. More general adiabatic condition and exact bounds for adiabatic quantum evolution are derived and studied in the framework of a two-level system. The usual criterion is restored for real two level hamiltonian with small number of monotonicity changes of the hamiltonian matrix elements and its derivative.

id: quant-ph/0607119
title: Bounding the set of quantum correlations
authors: Miguel Navascues, Stefano Pironio, Antonio Acin
comments: 5 pages, no figures. v2: minor modifications
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 010401 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607119
abstract: We introduce a hierarchy of conditions necessarily satisfied by any distribution P(ab) representing the probabilities for two separate observers to obtain outcomes a and b when making local measurements on a shared quantum state. Each condition in this hierarchy is formulated as a semidefinite program. Our approach can be used to obtain upper-bounds on the quantum violation of an arbitrary Bell inequality. It yields, for instance, tight bounds for the violations of the Collins et al. inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0607120
title: Explicit Realization of Pseudo-Hermitian and Quasi-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics for Two-Level Systems
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh, Seher Ozcelik
comments: published version, 11 pages, contributed to the Proceedings of the 5th Worksop on Quantization, Dualities, and Integrable Systems, held in Pamukkale University, Denizle, Turkey, 23-27 January, 2006
journal: Turk J. Phys. 30, 437-443 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607120
abstract: We give an explicit characterization of the most general quasi-Hermitian operator H, the associated metric operators \eta_+, and \eta_+-pseudo-Hermitian operators acting in two-dimensional complex Euclidean space C^2. These operators represent the physical observables of a model whose Hamiltonian and Hilbert space are respectively H and C^2 endowed with the inner product defined by \eta_+. Our calculations allows for a direct demonstration of the fact that the choice of an irreducible family of observables fixes the metric operator up to a multiplicative factor.

id: quant-ph/0607121
title: Scattering of two-level atoms by delta lasers: Exactly solvable models in atom optics
authors: D. Seidel, J.G. Muga, G.C. Hegerfeldt
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607121
abstract: We study the scattering of two-level atoms at narrow laser fields, modeled by a $\delta$-shape intensity profile. The unique properties of these potentials allow us to give simple analytic solutions for one or two field zones. Several applications are studied: a single $\delta$-laser may serve as a detector model for atom detection and arrival-time measurements, either by means of fluorescence or variations in occupation probabilities. We show that, in principle, this ideal detector can measure the particle density, the quantum mechanical flux, arrival time distributions or local kinetic energy densities. Moreover, two spatially separated $\delta$-lasers are used to investigate quantized-motion effects on Ramsey interferometry.

id: quant-ph/0607122
title: Morse potential and its relationship with the Coulomb in a position-dependent mass background
authors: B. Bagchi, P.S. Gorain, C. Quesne
comments: 9 pages, no figure; final published version
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 21 (2006) 2703-2708
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607122
abstract: We provide some explicit examples wherein the Schr\"odinger equation for the Morse potential remains exactly solvable in a position-dependent mass background. Furthermore, we show how in such a context, the map from the full line $(- \infty, \infty)$ to the half line $(0, \infty)$ may convert an exactly solvable Morse potential into an exactly solvable Coulomb one. This generalizes a well-known property of constant-mass problems.

id: quant-ph/0607123
title: Towards optimization of quantum circuits
authors: Michal Sedlak, Martin Plesch
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures, minor changes+typos
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys. vol. 6 no.1 p. 128-134 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607123
abstract: Any unitary operation in quantum information processing can be implemented via a sequence of simpler steps - quantum gates. However, actual implementation of a quantum gate is always imperfect and takes a finite time. Therefore, seeking for a short sequence of gates - efficient quantum circuit for a given operation, is an important task. We contribute to this issue by proposing optimization of the well-known universal procedure proposed by Barenco et.al [1]. We also created a computer program which realizes both Barenco's decomposition and the proposed optimization. Furthermore, our optimization can be applied to any quantum circuit containing generalized Toffoli gates, including basic quantum gate circuits.

id: quant-ph/0607124
title: The "Unromantic Pictures" of Quantum Theory
authors: Roderich Tumulka
comments: 37 pages LaTeX, no figures; written for special volume of J. Phys. A in honor of G.C. Ghirardi
journal: J.Phys.A40:3245-3273,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607124
abstract: I am concerned with two views of quantum mechanics that John S. Bell called ``unromantic'': spontaneous wave function collapse and Bohmian mechanics. I discuss some of their merits and report about recent progress concerning extensions to quantum field theory and relativity. In the last section, I speculate about an extension of Bohmian mechanics to quantum gravity.

id: quant-ph/0607125
title: Phase-conjugate optical coherence tomography
authors: Baris I. Erkmen, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607125
abstract: Quantum optical coherence tomography (Q-OCT) offers a factor-of-two improvement in axial resolution and the advantage of even-order dispersion cancellation when it is compared to conventional OCT (C-OCT). These features have been ascribed to the non-classical nature of the biphoton state employed in the former, as opposed to the classical state used in the latter. Phase-conjugate OCT (PC-OCT), introduced here, shows that non-classical light is not necessary to reap Q-OCT's advantages. PC-OCT uses classical-state signal and reference beams, which have a phase-sensitive cross-correlation, together with phase conjugation to achieve the axial resolution and even-order dispersion cancellation of Q-OCT with a signal-to-noise ratio that can be comparable to that of C-OCT.

id: quant-ph/0607126
title: Random bipartite entanglement from W and W-like states
authors: Ben Fortescue, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX. v2 - upper bound on random distillation is expressed more generally and corollaries to the bound added. Minor notation changes. v3 - further notation changes (Ernd now designated Et), discussion of finite distillation rounds and single-copy bound on Et added. Theorem added - relative entropy is shown to be an upper bound to Et for all pure states. Discussion of W formation from EPRs (previously shown in others' work) removed. Some addition, removal and reordering of references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 260501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607126
abstract: We describe a protocol for distilling maximally entangled bipartite states between random pairs of parties from those sharing a tripartite W state, and show that, rather surprisingly, the total distillation rate (the total number of EPR pairs distilled per W, irrespective of who shares them) may be done at a higher rate than distillation of bipartite entanglement between specified pairs of parties. Specifically, the optimal distillation rate for specified entanglement for the W has been previously shown to be the asymptotic entanglement of assistance of 0.92 EPR pairs per W, while our protocol can asymptotically distill 1 EPR pair per W between random pairs of parties, which we conjecture to be optimal. We thus demonstrate a tradeoff between the overall asymptotic rate of EPR distillation and the distribution of final EPR pairs between parties. We further show that by increasing the number of parties in the protocol that there exist states with fixed lower-bounded distillable entanglement for random parties but arbitrarily small distillable entanglement for specified parties.

id: quant-ph/0607127
title: A modified approach to the measurement problem: Objective reduction in the retinal molecule prior to conformational change
authors: Fred H. Thaheld
comments: 8 pages. A new theory is advanced where the collapse of the wave function now takes place within the retinal molecule, specifically the retinal chromophore. This occurs prior to any retinal molecule conformational change and before any CSL-type reduction mechanism in the retinal rod cells
journal: BioSystems 92 (2008) 114-116
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607127
abstract: A new analysis of the measurement problem reveals the possibility that collapse of the wavefunction may now take place just before photoisomerization of the rhodopsin molecule in the retinal rods. It is known that when a photon is initially absorbed by the retinal molecule which, along with opsin comprises the rhodopsin molecule, an electron in the highest pi orbital is immediately excited to a pi* orbital. This means that a measurement or transfer of information takes place at the quantum level before the retinal molecule commences the conformational change from cis to trans. This could have profound implications for resolving some of the foundational issues confronting quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0607128
title: Quantum heat engine with continuum working medium
authors: S. Li, H. Wang, Y. D. Sun, X. X. Yi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 40, 8655-8664 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607128
abstract: We introduce a new quantum heat engine, in which the working medium is a quantum system with a discrete level and a continuum. Net work done by this engine is calculated and discussed. The results show that this quantum heat engine behaves like the two-level quantum heat engine in both the high-temperature and the low-temperature limits, but it operates differently in temperatures between them. The efficiency of this quantum heat engine is also presented and discussed.

id: quant-ph/0607129
title: Experimental Long-Distance Decoy-State Quantum Key Distribution Based On Polarization Encoding
authors: Cheng-Zhi Peng, Jun Zhang, Dong Yang, Wei-Bo Gao, Huai-Xin Ma, Hao Yin, He-Ping Zeng, Tao Yang, Xiang-Bin Wang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages,3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 010505 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607129
abstract: We demonstrate the decoy-state quantum key distribution (QKD) with one-way quantum communication in polarization space over 102km. Further, we simplify the experimental setup and use only one detector to implement the one-way decoy-state QKD over 75km, with the advantage to overcome the security loopholes due to the efficiency mismatch of detectors. Our experimental implementation can really offer the unconditionally secure final keys. We use 3 different intensities of 0, 0.2 and 0.6 for the pulses of source in our experiment. In order to eliminate the influences of polarization mode dispersion in the long-distance single-mode optical fiber, an automatic polarization compensation system is utilized to implement the active compensation.

id: quant-ph/0607130
title: Topological structures of adiabatic phase for multi-level quantum systems
authors: Zheng-Xin Liu, Xiao-Ting Zhou, Xin Liu, Xiong-Jun Liu, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 15 pages, no figures. Accepted by J.Phys.A
journal: J.Phys. A40 (2007) 1661-1676
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607130
abstract: The topological properties of adiabatic gauge fields for multi-level (three-level in particular) quantum systems are studied in detail. Similar to the result that the adiabatic gauge field for SU(2) systems (e.g. two-level quantum system or angular momentum systems, etc) have a monopole structure, the curvature two-forms of the adiabatic holonomies for SU(3) three-level and SU(3) eight-level quantum systems are shown to have monopole-like (for all levels) or instanton-like (for the degenerate levels) structures.

id: quant-ph/0607131
title: Coherent acceleration of material wavepackets in modulated optical fields
authors: Farhan Saif, Pierre Meystre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607131
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a material wavepacket bouncing off a modulated atomic mirror in the presence of a gravitational field. We find the occurrence of coherent accelerated dynamics for atoms beyond the familiar regime of dynamical localization. The acceleration takes place for certain initial phase space data and within specific windows of modulation strengths. The realization of the proposed acceleration scheme is within the range of present day experimental possibilities.

id: quant-ph/0607132
title: Two Derivations of the Master Equation of Quantum Brownian Motion
authors: J.J.Halliwell
comments: 19 pages, RevTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607132
abstract: Central to many discussion of decoherence is a master equation for the reduced density matrix of a massive particle experiencing scattering from its surrounding environment, such as that of Joos and Zeh. Such master equations enjoy a close relationship with spontaneous localization models, like the GRW model. This aim of this paper is to present two derivations of the master equation. The first derivation is a pedagogical model designed to illustrate the origins of the master equation as simply as possible, focusing on physical principles and without the complications of S-matrix theory. This derivation may serve as a useful tutorial example for students attempting to learn this subject area. The second is the opposite: a very general derivation using non-relativistic many body field theory. It reduces to the equation of the type given by Joos and Zeh in the one-particle sector, but correcting certain numerical factors which have recently become significant in connection with experimental tests of decoherence. This master equation also emphasizes the role of local number density as the ``preferred basis'' for decoherence in this model.

id: quant-ph/0607133
title: Quantum Lyapunov Exponents
authors: P. Falsaperla, G. Fonte, G. Salesi
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures
journal: Found. Phys. 32 (2002) 267
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607133
abstract: We show that it is possible to associate univocally with each given solution of the time-dependent Schroedinger equation a particular phase flow ("quantum flow") of a non-autonomous dynamical system. This fact allows us to introduce a definition of chaos in quantum dynamics (quantum chaos), which is based on the classical theory of chaos in dynamical systems. In such a way we can introduce quantities which may be appelled "Quantum Lyapunov Exponents". Our approach applies to a non-relativistic quantum-mechanical system of n charged particles; in the present work numerical calculations are performed only for the hydrogen atom. In the computation of the trajectories we first neglect the spin contribution to chaos, then we consider the spin effects in quantum chaos. We show how the quantum Lyapunov exponents can be evaluated and give several numerical results which describe some properties found in the present approach. Although the system is very simple and the classical counterpart is regular, the most non-stationary solutions of the corresponding Schroeodinger equation are "chaotic" according to our definition.

id: quant-ph/0607134
title: White noise approach to the low density limit of a quantum particle in a gas
authors: Alexander Pechen
comments: This preprint is a minor modification of the published paper
journal: QP-PQ: Quantum Probability and White Noise Analysis, Vol. 18, Eds. M. Sch\"urmann and U. Franz, (2005) 428--447
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607134
abstract: The white noise approach to the investigation of the dynamics of a quantum particle interacting with a dilute and in general non-equilibrium gaseous environment in the low density limit is outlined. The low density limit is the kinetic Markovian regime when only pair collisions (i.e., collisions of the test particle with one particle of the gas at one time moment) contribute to the dynamics. In the white noise approach one first proves that the appropriate operators describing the gas converge in the sense of appropriate matrix elements to certain operators of quantum white noise. Then these white noise operators are used to derive quantum white noise and quantum stochastic equations describing the approximate dynamics of the total system consisting of the particle and the gas. The derivation is given ab initio, starting from the exact microscopic quantum dynamics. The limiting dynamics is described by a quantum stochastic equation driven by a quantum Poisson process. This equation then applied to the derivation of quantum Langevin equation and linear Boltzmann equation for the reduced density matrix of the test particle. The first part of the paper describes the approach which was developed by L. Accardi, I.V. Volovich and the author and uses the Fock-antiFock (or GNS) representation for the CCR algebra of the gas. The second part presents the approach to the derivation of the limiting equations directly in terms of the correlation functions, without use of the Fock-antiFock representation. This approach simplifies the derivation and allows to express the strength of the quantum number process directly in terms of the one-particle $S$-matrix.

id: quant-ph/0607135
title: N identical particles under quantum confinement: A many-body dimensional perturbation theory approach II, the lowest-order wave function II
authors: M. Dunn, D.K. Watson, J.G. Loeser
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607135
abstract: In this paper, the second in a series of two, we complete the derivation of the lowest-order wave function of a dimensional perturbation theory (DPT) treatment for the N-body quantum-confined system. Taking advantage of the symmetry of the zeroth-order configuration, we use group theoretic techniques and the FG matrix method from quantum chemistry to obtain analytic results for frequencies and normal modes. This method directly accounts for each two-body interaction, rather than an average interaction so that even lowest-order results include beyond-mean-field effects. It is thus appropriate for the study of both weakly and strongly interacting systems and the transition between them. While previous work has focused on energies, lowest-order wave functions yield important information such as the nature of excitations and expectation values of physical observables at low orders including density profiles. Higher orders in DPT also require as input the zeroth-order wave functions. In the earlier paper we presented a program for calculating the analytic normal-mode coordinates of the large-D system and illustrated the procedure by deriving the two simplest normal modes. In this paper we complete this analysis by deriving the remaining, and more complex, normal coordinates of the system.

id: quant-ph/0607136
title: Coherent State Path Integrals in the Weyl Representation
authors: L.C. dos Santos, M.A.M. de Aguiar
comments: 23 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 13465-13482.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607136
abstract: We construct a representation of the coherent state path integral using the Weyl symbol of the Hamiltonian operator. This representation is very different from the usual path integral forms suggested by Klauder and Skagerstan in \cite{Klau85}, which involve the normal or the antinormal ordering of the Hamiltonian. These different representations, although equivalent quantum mechanically, lead to different semiclassical limits. We show that the semiclassical limit of the coherent state propagator in Weyl representation is involves classical trajectories that are independent on the coherent states width. This propagator is also free from the phase corrections found in \cite{Bar01} for the two Klauder forms and provides an explicit connection between the Wigner and the Husimi representations of the evolution operator.

id: quant-ph/0607137
title: Dispersion spreading of polarization-entangled states of light and two-photon interference
authors: G. Brida, M.V. Chekhova, M. Genovese, L.A. Krivitsky
comments: Extended version of our recent PRL paper. Submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 015801 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607137
abstract: We study the interference structure of the second-order intensity correlation function for polarization-entangled two-photon light obtained from type-II collinear frequency-degenerate spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC). The structure is visualised due to the spreading of the two-photon amplitude as two-photon light propagates through optical fibre with group-velocity dispersion (GVD). Because of the spreading, polarization-entangled Bell states can be obtained without any birefringence compensation at the output of the nonlinear crystal; instead, proper time selection of the intensity correlation function is required. A birefringent material inserted at the output of the nonlinear crystal (either reducing the initial o-e delay between the oppositely polarized twin photons or increasing this delay) leads to a more complicated interference structure of the correlation function.

id: quant-ph/0607138
title: Continuous-Discrete Entanglement: An Example with Non-Relativistic Particles
authors: N. L. Harshman
comments: 9 pages, zero figures. v.2. corrects typos and clarifies notion of shape-like entanglement. v.3. more of the same type of corrections
journal: QIC 3 (2007) 273-280
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607138
abstract: This article discusses entanglement between two subsystems, one with discrete degrees of freedom and the other with continuous degrees of freedom. The overlap integral between continuous variable wave functions emerges as an important parameter to characterize this kind entanglement. ``Beam-like'' entanglement and ``shape-like'' entanglement are contrasted. One example of this kind of entanglement is between between the spin degrees of freedom and the momentum degrees of freedom for a non-relativistic particle. This intraparticle entanglement is Galilean invariant.

id: quant-ph/0607139
title: Photon polarization entanglement induced by biexciton: experimental evidence for violation of Bell's inequality
authors: Goro Oohata, Ryosuke Shimizu, Keiichi Edamatsu
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607139
abstract: We have investigated the polarization entanglement between photon pairs generated from a biexciton in a CuCl single crystal via resonant hyper parametric scattering. The pulses of a high repetition pump are seen to provide improved statistical accuracy and the ability to test Bell's inequality. Our results clearly violate the inequality and thus manifest the quantum entanglement and nonlocality of the photon pairs. We also analyzed the quantum state of our photon pairs using quantum state tomography.

id: quant-ph/0607140
title: A semiclassical trace formula for the canonical partition function of one dimensional systems
authors: Fernando Parisio, M. A. M. de Aguiar
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures new section with applications to spin systems
journal: Physica A 380 (2007) 211
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607140
abstract: We present a semiclassical trace formula for the canonical partition function of arbitrary one-dimensional systems. The approximation is obtained via the stationary exponent method applied to the phase-space integration of the density operator in the coherent state representation. The formalism is valid in the low temperature limit, presenting accurate results in this regime. As illustrations we consider a quartic Hamiltonian that cannot be split into kinetic and potential parts, and a system with two local minima. Applications to spin systems are also presented.

id: quant-ph/0607141
title: Finite key analysis for symmetric attacks in quantum key distribution
authors: Tim Meyer, Hermann Kampermann, Matthias Kleinmann, Dagmar Bruss
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042340 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607141
abstract: We introduce a constructive method to calculate the achievable secret key rate for a generic class of quantum key distribution protocols, when only a finite number n of signals is given. Our approach is applicable to all scenarios in which the quantum state shared by Alice and Bob is known. In particular, we consider the six state protocol with symmetric eavesdropping attacks, and show that for a small number of signals, i.e. below the order of 10^4, the finite key rate differs significantly from the asymptotic value for n approaching infinity. However, for larger n, a good approximation of the asymptotic value is found. We also study secret key rates for protocols using higher-dimensional quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0607142
title: TEM10 homodyne detection as an optimal small displacement and tilt measurements scheme
authors: Vincent Delaubert, Nicolas Treps, Mikael Lassen, Charles C. Harb, Claude Fabre, Ping Koy Lam, Hans A. Bachor
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607142
abstract: We report an experimental demonstration of optimal measurements of small displacement and tilt of a Gaussian beam - two conjugate variables - involving a homodyne detection with a TEM10 local oscillator. We verify that the standard split detection is only 64% efficient. We also show a displacement measurement beyond the quantum noise limit, using a squeezed vacuum TEM10 mode within the input beam.

id: quant-ph/0607143
title: Conditional Quantum Walk and Iterated Quantum Games
authors: G. Abal, R. Donangelo, H. Fort
comments: Revtex 4, 6 pages, 3 figures. Expanded version with one more figure and updated references. Abstract was rewritten
journal: Physica A, 387, pp 5326-5332, 2008.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607143
abstract: Iterated bipartite quantum games are implemented in terms of the discrete-time quantum walk on the line. Our proposal allows for conditional strategies, as two rational agents make a choice from a restricted set of two-qubit unitary operations. Several frequently used classical strategies give rise to families of corresponding quantum strategies. A quantum version of the Prisoner's Dilemma in which both players use mixed strategies is presented as a specific example. Since there are now quantum walk physical implementations at a proof-of principle stage, this connection may represent a step towards the experimental realization of quantum games.

id: quant-ph/0607144
title: The basic principles to construct a generalized state-locking pulse field and simulate efficiently the reversible and unitary halting protocol of a universal quantum computer
authors: Xijia Miao
comments: 107 pages. A minor modification
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607144
abstract: It has been shown (Arxiv: quant-ph/0507236) that a universal quantum computer could be powerful enough to solve efficiently the quantum search problem, and the reversible and unitary halting protocol based on the state-locking pulse field is the key component to construct the efficient quantum search processes, while the state-locking pulse field is the key component to generate the reversible and unitary halting protocol. In this paper the reversible and unitary halting protocol and the generalized state-locking pulse field have been extensively investigated theoretically. The basic principles to construct the state-locking pulse field and design the reversible and unitary halting protocol are studied in detail. A generalized state-locking pulse field is generally dependent upon the time and space variables. It could be a sequence of time- and space-dependent electromagnetic pulse fields and could also contain the time- and space-dependent potential fields. Thus, the reversible and unitary halting protocol built up out of the state-locking pulse field generally consists of a sequence of time- and space-dependent unitary evolution processes. It is shown how the quantum control process is constructed to simulate efficiently the reversible and unitary halting protocol. An improved subspace-reduction quantum program and circuit based on the reversible and unitary halting protocol is proposed as the key component to construct further an efficient quantum search process. A simple atomic physical system that is an atomic ion or a neutral atom in the double-well potential field is proposed to show how the state-locking pulse field is generated and how to implement the reversible and unitary halting protocol.

id: quant-ph/0607145
title: Adiabatic Preparation of Topological Order
authors: Alioscia Hamma, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 4 pages, one figure. v4: includes new error estimates for the adiabatic evolution
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 030502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607145
abstract: Topological order characterizes those phases of matter that defy a description in terms of symmetry and cannot be distinguished in terms local order parameters. This type of order plays a key role in the theory of the fractional quantum Hall effect, as well as in topological quantum information processing. Here we show that a system of n spins forming a lattice on a Riemann surface can undergo a second order quantum phase transition between a spin-polarized phase and a string-net condensed phase. This is an example of a phase transition between magnetic and topological order. We furthermore show how to prepare the topologically ordered phase through adiabatic evolution in a time that is upper bounded by O(\sqrt{n}). This provides a physically plausible method for constructing a topological quantum memory. We discuss applications to topological and adiabatic quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0607146
title: Sub-ballistic behaviour of the Quantum Kicked Rotor
authors: A. Romanelli, A. Auyuanet, R. Siri, V. Micenmacher
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys Lett. A 365, 200 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607146
abstract: We study the resonances of the quantum kicked rotor subjected to an excitation that follows an aperiodic Fibonacci prescription. In such a case the secondary resonances show a sub-ballistic behaviour like the quantum walk with the same aperiodic prescription for the coin. The principal resonances maintain the well-known ballistic behaviour. Then the parallelism previusly established between the kicked rotor and the generalized quantum walk is retained only with the secondary resonances.

id: quant-ph/0607147
title: Coherent Population Trapping of Single Spins in Diamond Under Optical Excitation
authors: Charles Santori, Philippe Tamarat, Philipp Neumann, Jorg Wrachtrup, David Fattal, Raymond G. Beausoleil, James Rabeau, Paolo Olivero, Andrew Greentree, Steven Prawer, Fedor Jelezko, Philip Hemmer
comments: minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 247401 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607147
abstract: Coherent population trapping is demonstrated in single nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond under optical excitation. For sufficient excitation power, the fluorescence intensity drops almost to the background level when the laser modulation frequency matches the 2.88 GHz splitting of the ground states. The results are well described theoretically by a four-level model, allowing the relative transition strengths to be determined for individual centers. The results show that all-optical control of single spins is possible in diamond.

id: quant-ph/0607148
title: Sharp probability estimates for Shor's order-finding algorithm
authors: P. S. Bourdon, H. T. Williams
comments: 33 pages, 2 figures. Revised: minor errors corrected, exposition improved, submitted version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607148
abstract: Let N be a (large positive integer, let b > 1 be an integer relatively prime to N, and let r be the order of b modulo N. Finally, let QC be a quantum computer whose input register has the size specified in Shor's original description of his order-finding algorithm. We prove that when Shor's algorithm is implemented on QC, then the probability P of obtaining a (nontrivial) divisor of r exceeds 0.7 whenever N exceeds 2^{11}-1 and r exceeds 39, and we establish that 0.7736 is an asymptotic lower bound for P. When N is not a power of an odd prime, Gerjuoy has shown that P exceeds 90 percent for N and r sufficiently large. We give easily checked conditions on N and r for this 90 percent threshold to hold, and we establish an asymptotic lower bound for P of (2/Pi) Si(4Pi), about .9499, in this situation. More generally, for any nonnegative integer q, we show that when QC(q) is a quantum computer whose input register has q more qubits than does QC, and Shor's algorithm is run on QC(q), then an asymptotic lower bound on P is (2/Pi) Si(2^(q+2) Pi) (if N is not a power of an odd prime). Our arguments are elementary and our lower bounds on P are carefully justified.

id: quant-ph/0607149
title: Experimental phase-covariant cloning of polarization states of single photons
authors: A. Cernoch, L. Bartuskova, J. Soubusta, M. Jezek, J. Fiurasek, M. Dusek
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, REVTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042327 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607149
abstract: The experimental realization of optimal symmetric phase-covariant 1->2 cloning of qubit states is presented. The qubits are represented by polarization states of photons generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion. The experiment is based on the interference of two photons on a custom-made beam splitter with different splitting ratios for vertical and horizontal polarization components. From the measured data we have estimated the implemented cloning transformation using the maximum-likelihood method. The result shows that the realized transformation is very close to the ideal one and the map fidelity reaches 94%.

id: quant-ph/0607150
title: Comment on: "Electromagnetically induced left-handedness in optically excited four-level atomic media"
authors: J¨¹rgen K?stel, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 1 page, one figure, comment on Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 96}, 053601 (2006)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607150
abstract: We discuss the recent proposal by Thommen and Mandel (Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 96}, 053601 (2006)) for electromagnetically induced negative refraction. Although the main conclusion of the paper -- the possibility to achieve negative refraction in an experimentally accessible atomic scheme -- remains valid, we show that the weak-excitation approximation used is invalid in the parameter regime studied and leads to quantitatively incorrect predictions. We show that negative refraction is always accompanied by absorption rather than by gain, and that the maximum value of the refraction-absorption ratio is of order unity.

id: quant-ph/0607151
title: The sum-over-histories formulation of quantum computing
authors: Ben Rudiak-Gould
comments: Draft, no references. Currently under revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607151
abstract: Since Deutsch (1985), quantum computers have been modeled exclusively in the language of state vectors and the Schroedinger equation. We present a complementary view of quantum circuits inspired by the path integral formalism of quantum mechanics, and examine its application to some simple textbook problems.

id: quant-ph/0607152
title: Exponentially Enhanced Quantum Metrology
authors: S. M. Roy, Samuel L. Braunstein
comments: 4 pages, 1 postscript figure ; typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607152
abstract: We show that when a suitable entanglement generating unitary operator depending on a parameter is applied on N qubits in parallel, and an appropriate observable is measured, a precision of order 2 raised to the power (-N) in estimating the parameter may be achieved. This exponentially improves the precision achievable in classical and in quantum non-entangling parallel strategies. We propose a quantum-optics model of laser light interacting with an N-qubit system, say a polyatomic molecule, via a generalized Jaynes-Cummings interaction which, in principle, could achieve the exponentially enhanced precision.

id: quant-ph/0607153
title: Role of Bell Singlet State in the Suppression of Disentanglement
authors: Ru-Fen Liu, Chia-Chu Chen
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 024102 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607153
abstract: The stability of entanglement of two atoms in a cavity is analyzed in this work. By studying the general Werner states we clarify the role of Bell-singlet state in the problem of suppression of disentanglement due to spontaneous emission. It is also shown explicitly that the final amount of entanglement depends on the initial ingredients of the Bell-singlet state.

id: quant-ph/0607154
title: Isospectral Hamiltonians from Moyal products
authors: Carla Figueira de Morisson Faria, Andreas Fring
comments: 10 pages, to appear special issue Czech. J. Phys
journal: Czech. J. Phys. 56 (2006) 899
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607154
abstract: Recently Scholtz and Geyer proposed a very efficient method to compute metric operators for non-Hermitian Hamiltonians from Moyal products. We develop these ideas further and suggest to use a more symmetrical definition for the Moyal products, because they lead to simpler differential equations. In addition, we demonstrate how to use this approach to determine the Hermitian counterpart for a Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonian. We illustrate our suggestions with the explicitly solvable example of the -x^4-potential and the ubiquitous harmonic oscillator in a complex cubic potential.

id: quant-ph/0607155
title: Resilient Quantum Computation in Correlated Environments: A Quantum Phase Transition Perspective
authors: E. Novais, Eduardo R. Mucciolo, Harold U. Baranger
comments: 4.1 pages, minor correction and an improved discussion of Eqs. (4) and (14)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 040501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607155
abstract: We analyze the problem of a quantum computer in a correlated environment protected from decoherence by QEC using a perturbative renormalization group approach. The scaling equation obtained reflects the competition between the dimension of the computer and the scaling dimension of the correlations. For an irrelevant flow, the error probability is reduced to a stochastic form for long time and/or large number of qubits; thus, the traditional derivation of the threshold theorem holds for these error models. In this way, the ``threshold theorem'' of quantum computing is rephrased as a dimensional criterion.

id: quant-ph/0607156
title: Ex-house 2D finite-element simulation of the whispering-gallery modes of arbitrarily shaped axisymmetric electromagnetic resonators
authors: Mark Oxborrow
comments: 21 pages, 8 figures, 4 tables; submitted to IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques. Corrected 20th March 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607156
abstract: It is described, explicitly, how a popular, commercially-available software package for solving partial-differential-equations (PDEs), as based on the finite-element method (FEM), can be configured to calculate the frequencies and fields of the whispering-gallery (WG) modes of axisymmetric dielectric resonators. The approach is traceable; it exploits the PDE-solver's ability to accept the definition of solutions to Maxwell's equations in so-called `weak form'. Associated expressions and methods for estimating a WG mode's volume, filling factor(s) and, in the case of closed(open) resonators, its wall (radiation) loss, are provided. As no transverse approxi-mation is imposed, the approach remains accurate even for so-called quasi-TM and -TE modes of low, finite azimuthal mode order. The approach's generality and utility are demonstrated by modeling several non-trivial structures: (i)two different optical microcavities [one toroidal made of silica, the other an AlGaAs microdisk]; (ii) a 3rd-order microwave Bragg cavity containing alumina layers (iii) two different cryogenic sapphire X-band microwave resonators. By fitting one of the latter to a set of measured resonance frequencies, the dielectric constants of sapphire at liquid-helium temperature have been estimated.

id: quant-ph/0607157
title: Casimir attraction in multilayered plane parallel magnetodielectric systems
authors: Simen A. Ellingsen
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures. Version 2: Updated contact details. Minor changes and corrections
journal: J.Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 1951-1961
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607157
abstract: A powerful procedure is presented for calculating the Casimir attraction between plane parallel multilayers made up of homogeneous regions with arbitrary magnetic and dielectric properties by use of the Minkowski energy-momentum tensor. The theory is applied to numerous geometries and shown to reproduce a number of results obtained by other authors. Although the various pieces of theory drawn upon are well known, the relative ease with which the Casimir force density in even complex planar structures may be calculated, appears not to be widely appreciated, and no single paper to the author's knowledge renders explicitly the procedure demonstrated herein. Results may be seen as an important building block in the settling of issues of fundamental interest, such as the long-standing dispute over the thermal behaviour of the Casimir force or the question of what is the correct stress tensor to apply, a discussion re-quickened by the newly suggested alternative theory due to Raabe and Welsch.

id: quant-ph/0607158
title: Ordering ambiguity revisited via position dependent mass pseudo-momentum operators
authors: Omar Mustafa, S.Habib Mazharimousavi
comments: 10 pages, no figures, revised/expanded, mathematical presentations in section 2 (Especially, the typological Errors in Eqs.(9)-(12))are now corrected. To appear in the Int. J. Theor. Phys
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 46, 1786 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607158
abstract: Ordering ambiguity associated with the von Roos position dependent mass (PDM) Hamiltonian is considered. An affine locally scaled first order differential introduced, in Eq.(9), as a PDM-pseudo-momentum operator. Upon intertwining our Hamiltonian, which is the sum of the square of this operator and the potential function, with the von Roos d-dimensional PDM-Hamiltonian, we observed that the so-called von Roos ambiguity parameters are strictly determined, but not necessarily unique. Our new ambiguity parameters' setting is subjected to Dutra's and Almeida's [11] reliability test and classified as good ordering.

id: quant-ph/0607159
title: Experimental ancilla-assisted qubit transmission against correlated noise using quantum parity checking
authors: Takashi Yamamoto, Ryoji Nagase, Junichi Shimamura, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures; published in New J. Phys. and selected in IOP Select
journal: New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 191
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607159
abstract: We report the experimental demonstration of a transmission scheme of photonic qubits over unstabilized optical fibers, which has the plug-and-play feature as well as the ability to transmit any state of a qubit, regardless of whether it is known, unknown, or entangled to other systems. A high fidelity to the noiseless quantum channel was achieved by adding an ancilla photon after the signal photon within the correlation time of the fiber noise and by performing quantum parity checking. Simplicity, maintenance-free feature and robustness against path-length mismatches among the nodes make our scheme suitable for multi-user quantum communication networks.

id: quant-ph/0607160
title: Arithmetic on a Distributed-Memory Quantum Multicomputer
authors: Rodney Van Meter, W.J. Munro, Kae Nemoto, Kohei M. Itoh
comments: 24 pages, 10 figures, ACM transactions format. Extended version of Int. Symp. on Comp. Architecture (ISCA) paper; v2, correct one circuit error, numerous small changes for clarity, add references
journal: ACM J. Emerging Technologies in Computing Systems, 3(4), Jan. 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607160
abstract: We evaluate the performance of quantum arithmetic algorithms run on a distributed quantum computer (a quantum multicomputer). We vary the node capacity and I/O capabilities, and the network topology. The tradeoff of choosing between gates executed remotely, through ``teleported gates'' on entangled pairs of qubits (telegate), versus exchanging the relevant qubits via quantum teleportation, then executing the algorithm using local gates (teledata), is examined. We show that the teledata approach performs better, and that carry-ripple adders perform well when the teleportation block is decomposed so that the key quantum operations can be parallelized. A node size of only a few logical qubits performs adequately provided that the nodes have two transceiver qubits. A linear network topology performs acceptably for a broad range of system sizes and performance parameters. We therefore recommend pursuing small, high-I/O bandwidth nodes and a simple network. Such a machine will run Shor's algorithm for factoring large numbers efficiently.

id: quant-ph/0607161
title: Generation of Three-Qubit Entangled W-State by Nonlinear Optical State Truncation
authors: R S Said, M R B Wahiddin, B A Umarov
comments: 7 pages, 2 figure
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39 (2006) 1269-1274
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607161
abstract: We propose an alternative scheme to generate W state via optical state truncation using quantum scissors. In particular, these states may be generated through three-mode optical state truncation in a Kerr nonlinear coupler. The more general three-qubit state may be also produced if the system is driven by external classical fields.

id: quant-ph/0607162
title: Quantum teleportation with pair-coherent states
authors: Aurel Gabris, Girish S. Agarwal
comments: Based on talks at the QIP workshop in 6th Joint Conference on Mathematics and Computer Science, Pecs, 12-15 July 2006; and Quantum 2006 - Workshop ad memoriam Carlo Novero, Turin. v2: Added reference to give credit to L. Vaidman
journal: Int. Journal of Quant. Inf. 5, 17-22 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607162
abstract: Recently it has been argued that all presently performed continuous variable quantum teleportation experiments could be explained using a local hidden variable theory. In this paper we study a modification of the original protocol which requires a fully quantum mechanical explanation even when coherent states are teleported. Our calculations of the fidelity of teleportation using a pair-coherent state under ideal conditions suggests that fidelity above the required limit of 1/2 may be achievable in an experiment also.

id: quant-ph/0607163
title: Estimating entanglement measures in experiments
authors: O. G¨¹hne, M. Reimpell, R.F. Werner
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, v2: final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 110502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607163
abstract: We present a method to estimate entanglement measures in experiments. We show how a lower bound on a generic entanglement measure can be derived from the measured expectation values of any finite collection of entanglement witnesses. Hence witness measurements are given a quantitative meaning without the need of further experimental data. We apply our results to a recent multi-photon experiment [M. Bourennane et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 087902 (2004)], giving bounds on the entanglement of formation and the geometric measure of entanglement in this experiment.

id: quant-ph/0607164
title: Generalized qudit Choi maps
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, M. Rezaeen, S.Ahadpour
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607164
abstract: Following the linear programming prescription of Ref. \cite{PRA72}, the $d\otimes d$ Bell diagonal entanglement witnesses are provided. By using Jamiolkowski isomorphism, it is shown that the corresponding positive maps are the generalized qudit Choi maps. Also by manipulating particular $d\otimes d$ Bell diagonal separable states and constructing corresponding bound entangled states, it is shown that thus obtained $d\otimes d$ BDEW's (consequently qudit Choi maps) are non-decomposable in certain range of their parameters.

id: quant-ph/0607165
title: Models of measurement for quantum fields and for classical continuous random fields
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: This is a submission for the Proceedings of the Vaxjo Conference on the Foundations of Probability and Physics-4. Comments very welcome
journal: AIPConf.Proc.889:187-197,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607165
abstract: A quantum field model for an experiment describes thermal fluctuations explicitly and quantum fluctuations implicitly, whereas a comparable continuous random field model would describe both thermal and quantum fluctuations explicitly. An ideal classical measurement does not affect the results of later measurements, in contrast to ideal quantum measurements, but we can describe the consequences of the thermal and quantum fluctuations of classically non-ideal measurement apparatuses explicitly. Some details of continuous random fields and of Bell inequalities for random fields will be discussed.

id: quant-ph/0607166
title: Techniques for the Synthesis of Reversible Toffoli Networks
authors: D. Maslov, D. M. Miller, G. W. Dueck
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: ACM Transactions on Design Automation of Electronic Systems 12(4), Article 42, September 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607166
abstract: This paper presents novel techniques for the synthesis of reversible networks of Toffoli gates, as well as improvements to previous methods. Gate count and technology oriented cost metrics are used. Our synthesis techniques are independent of the cost metrics. Two new iterative synthesis procedure employing Reed-Muller spectra are introduced and shown to complement earlier synthesis approaches. The template simplification suggested in earlier work is enhanced through introduction of a faster and more efficient template application algorithm, updated (shorter) classification of the templates, and presentation of the new templates of sizes 7 and 9. A novel ``resynthesis'' approach is introduced wherein a sequence of gates is chosen from a network, and the reversible specification it realizes is resynthesized as an independent problem in hopes of reducing the network cost. Empirical results are presented to show that the methods are effective both in terms of the realization of all 3x3 reversible functions and larger reversible benchmark specifications.

id: quant-ph/0607167
title: Quantitative entanglement witnesses
authors: Jens Eisert, Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Koenraad M.R. Audenaert
comments: 10 pages RevTeX, 1 figure, replaced with published version
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 46 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607167
abstract: Entanglement witnesses provide tools to detect entanglement in experimental situations without the need of having full tomographic knowledge about the state. If one estimates in an experiment an expectation value smaller than zero, one can directly infer that the state has been entangled, or specifically multi-partite entangled, in the first place. In this article, we emphasize that all these tests - based on the very same data - give rise to quantitative estimates in terms of entanglement measures: "If a test is strongly violated, one can also infer that the state was quantitatively very much entangled". We consider various measures of entanglement, including the negativity, the entanglement of formation, and the robustness of entanglement, in the bipartite and multipartite setting. As examples, we discuss several experiments in the context of quantum state preparation that have recently been performed.

id: quant-ph/0607168
title: Description of resonances within the rigged Hilbert space
authors: R. de la Madrid
comments: 23 pages; written version of the five-lecture course delivered at the 2006 Summer School of CINVESTAV, Mexico City, July 2006
journal: AIPConf.Proc.885:3-25,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607168
abstract: The spectrum of a quantum system has in general bound, scattering and resonant parts. The Hilbert space includes only the bound and scattering spectra, and discards the resonances. One must therefore enlarge the Hilbert space to a rigged Hilbert space, within which the physical bound, scattering and resonance spectra are included on the same footing. In these lectures, I will explain how this is done.

id: quant-ph/0607169
title: Quantum mechanics as a consistency condition on initial and final boundary conditions
authors: D. J. Miller
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures, based on a talk at the conference: Time-symmetry in Quantum Mechanics, Sydney, Australia, 23-26 July 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607169
abstract: If the block universe view is correct, the future and the past have similar status and one would expect physical theories to involve final as well as initial boundary conditions. A plausible consistency condition between the initial and final boundary conditions in non-relativistic quantum mechanics leads to the idea that the properties of macroscopic quantum systems, relevantly measuring instruments, are uniquely determined by the boundary conditions. An important element in reaching that conclusion is that preparations and measurements belong in a special class because they involve many subsystems, at least some of which do not form superpositions of their physical properties before the boundary conditions are imposed. It is suggested that the primary role of the formalism of standard quantum mechanics is to provide the consistency condition on the boundary conditions rather than the properties of quantum systems. Expressions are proposed for assigning a set of (unmeasured) physical properties to a quantum system at all times. The physical properties avoid the logical inconsistencies implied by the no-go theorems because they are assigned differently from standard quantum mechanics. Since measurement outcomes are determined by the boundary conditions, they help determine, rather than are determined by, the physical properties of quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0607170
title: Stark shift control of single optical centers in diamond
authors: Ph. Tamarat, T. Gaebel, J. R. Rabeau, M. Khan, A. D. Greentree, H. Wilson, L. C. L. Hollenberg, S. Prawer, P. Hemmer, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97 (8): Art. No. 083002 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607170
abstract: Lifetime limited optical excitation lines of single nitrogen vacancy (NV) defect centers in diamond have been observed at liquid helium temperature. They display unprecedented spectral stability over many seconds and excitation cycles. Spectral tuning of the spin selective optical resonances was performed via the application of an external electric field (i.e. the Stark shift). A rich variety of Stark shifts were observed including linear as well as quadratic components. The ability to tune the excitation lines of single NV centers has potential applications in quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0607171
title: Quantized Rotation of Atoms From Photons with Orbital Angular Momentum
authors: M. F. Andersen, C. Ryu, Pierre Clade, V. Natarajan, A. Vaziri, K. Helmerson, W. D. Phillips
comments: New version, 4 pages and 3 figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607171
abstract: We demonstrate the coherent transfer of the orbital angular momentum of a photon to an atom in quantized units of hbar, using a 2-photon stimulated Raman process with Laguerre-Gaussian beams to generate an atomic vortex state in a Bose-Einstein condensate of sodium atoms. We show that the process is coherent by creating superpositions of different vortex states, where the relative phase between the states is determined by the relative phases of the optical fields. Furthermore, we create vortices of charge 2 by transferring to each atom the orbital angular momentum of two photons.

id: quant-ph/0607172
title: Anomalies in experimental data for the EPR-Bohm experiment: Are both classical and quantum mechanics wrong?
authors: Guillaume Adenier, Andrei Khrennikov
comments: Presented in talks at conferences: "Foundations of Probability and Physics-4" (Vaxjo, Sweden, June 2006), "Quantum Probability" (Greifswald, Germany, March 2006 and Nottingham, UK, July 2006), "Quantum Structures Association" (Malta, July 2006)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607172
abstract: We analyze anomalies in data to test the violation of Bell's inequality for the EPR-Bohm experiment. We found that the experimental correlations for photon polarization have an intriguing property. In the experimental data there are visible non-negligible deviations of probabilities $P_{++}^{\rm{exp}}(\alpha, \beta), P_{+-}^{\rm{exp}}(\alpha, \beta), P_{-+}^{\rm{exp}}(\alpha, \beta), P_{--}^{\rm{exp}}(\alpha, \beta) $ from the predictions of quantum mechanics, namely, $P_{++}(\alpha, \beta)=P_{--}(\alpha, \beta)= {1/2}\cos^2(\alpha-\beta)$ and $P_{+-}=P_{-+}(\alpha, \beta)={1/2}\sin^2(\alpha-\beta).$ However, in some mysterious way those deviations compensate each other and finally the correlation $E^{\rm{exp}}(\alpha, \beta)= P_{++}^{\rm{exp}}(\alpha, \beta)- P_{+-}^{\rm{exp}}(\alpha, \beta)- P_{-+}^{\rm{exp}}(\alpha, \beta)+ P_{--}^{\rm{exp}}(\alpha, \beta)$ is in the complete agreement with the QM-prediction, namely, $E(\alpha, \beta)= P_{++}(\alpha, \beta)- P_{+-}(\alpha, \beta)- P_{-+}(\alpha, \beta)+ P_{--}(\alpha, \beta)= \cos 2(\alpha-\beta).$ Therefore such anomalies play no role in the Bell's inequality framework. Nevertheless, other linear combinations of experimental probabilities do not have such a compensation property. There can be found non-negligible deviations from predictions of quantum mechanics. Thus neither classical nor quantum model can pass the whole family of statistical tests given by all possible linear combinations of the EPR-Bohm probabilities. Does it mean that both models are wrong?

id: quant-ph/0607173
title: The one-way communication complexity of the Boolean Hidden Matching Problem
authors: Iordanis Kerenidis, Ran Raz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607173
abstract: We give a tight lower bound of Omega(\sqrt{n}) for the randomized one-way communication complexity of the Boolean Hidden Matching Problem [BJK04]. Since there is a quantum one-way communication complexity protocol of O(\log n) qubits for this problem, we obtain an exponential separation of quantum and classical one-way communication complexity for partial functions. A similar result was independently obtained by Gavinsky, Kempe, de Wolf [GKdW06]. Our lower bound is obtained by Fourier analysis, using the Fourier coefficients inequality of Kahn Kalai and Linial [KKL88].

id: quant-ph/0607174
title: Exponential Separation of Quantum and Classical One-Way Communication Complexity for a Boolean Function
authors: Dmitry Gavinsky, Julia Kempe, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607174
abstract: We give an exponential separation between one-way quantum and classical communication complexity for a Boolean function. Earlier such a separation was known only for a relation. A very similar result was obtained earlier but independently by Kerenidis and Raz [KR06]. Our version of the result gives an example in the bounded storage model of cryptography, where the key is secure if the adversary has a certain amount of classical storage, but is completely insecure if he has a similar amount of quantum storage.

id: quant-ph/0607175
title: Universal quantum computation in deocoherence-free subspace with neutral atoms
authors: P. Xue, Y.F. Xiao
comments: 4 pages,2 figures. Final version as published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 97, 140501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607175
abstract: We show how realistic cavity-assisted interaction between neutral atoms and coherent optical pulses, and measurement techniques, combined with optical transportation of atoms, allow for a universal set of quantum gates acting on decoherence-free subspace (DFS) in deterministic way. The logical qubits are immunized to the dominant source of decoherece--dephasing; while, the influences of additional errors are shown by numerical simulations. We analyze the performance and stability of all required operations and emphasize that all techniques we use are feasible with current experimental technology.

id: quant-ph/0607176
title: Quasi-exact solutions for two interacting electrons in two-dimensional anisotropic dots
authors: Przemyslaw Koscik, Anna Okopinska
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: J.Phys .A:Math.Theor.40(2007)1045-1055
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607176
abstract: We present an analysis of the two-dimensional Schrodinger equation for two electrons interacting via Coulombic force and confined in an anizotropic harmonic potential. The separable case of wy = 2wx is studied particularly carefully. The closed-form expressions for bound-state energies and the corresponding eigenfunctions are found at some particular values of wx. For highly-accurate determination of energy levels at other values of wx, we apply an efficient scheme based on the Frobenius expansion.

id: quant-ph/0607177
title: Long-distance quantum key distribution in optical fiber
authors: P. A. Hiskett, D. Rosenberg, C. G. Peterson, R. J. Hughes, S. Nam, A. E. Lita, A. J. Miller, J. E. Nordholt
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607177
abstract: Use of low-noise detectors can both increase the secret bit rate of long-distance quantum key distribution (QKD) and dramatically extend the length of a fibre optic link over which secure key can be distributed. Previous work has demonstrated use of ultra-low-noise transition-edge sensors (TESs) in a QKD system with transmission over 50 km. In this work, we demonstrate the potential of the TESs by successfully generating error-corrected, privacy-amplified key over 148.7 km of dark optical fibre at a mean photon number mu = 0.1, or 184.6 km of dark optical fibre at a mean photon number of 0.5. We have also exchanged secret key over 67.5 km that is secure against powerful photon-number-splitting attacks.

id: quant-ph/0607178
title: Electrical detection of 31P spin quantum states
authors: A. R. Stegner, C. Boehme, H. Huebl, M. Stutzmann, K. Lips, M. S. Brandt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607178
abstract: In recent years, a variety of solid-state qubits has been realized, including quantum dots, superconducting tunnel junctions and point defects. Due to its potential compatibility with existing microelectronics, the proposal by Kane based on phosphorus donors in Si has also been pursued intensively. A key issue of this concept is the readout of the P quantum state. While electrical measurements of magnetic resonance have been performed on single spins, the statistical nature of these experiments based on random telegraph noise measurements has impeded the readout of single spin states. In this letter, we demonstrate the measurement of the spin state of P donor electrons in silicon and the observation of Rabi flops by purely electric means, accomplished by coherent manipulation of spin-dependent charge carrier recombination between the P donor and paramagnetic localized states at the Si/SiO2 interface via pulsed electrically detected magnetic resonance. The electron spin information is shown to be coupled through the hyperfine interaction with the P nucleus, which demonstrates the feasibility of a recombination-based readout of nuclear spins.

id: quant-ph/0607179
title: All-Fiber Source of Polarization-Entangled Photon Pairs Based on a Novel Birefringence Compensated Scheme
authors: Han Chuen Lim, Dexiang Wang, Takuo Tanemura, Kazuhiro Katoh, Kazuro Kikuchi
comments: Presented at LEOS Summer Topical Meetings, Quebec City, Canada, 17-19 July, 2006, paper TuB2.4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607179
abstract: We propose a new all-fiber source of polarization-entangled photon pairs for quantum communications. Fiber birefringence is compensated using Faraday rotator mirror, resulting in enhanced stability against random polarization drifts compared to existing schemes.

id: quant-ph/0607180
title: Interference of quantum channels in single photon interferometer
authors: Guo-Yong Xiang, Jian Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 3 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607180
abstract: We experimently demonstrate the interference of dephasing quantum channel using single photon Mach-Zender interferometer. We extract the information inaccessible to the technology of quantum tomography. Further, We introduce the application of our results in quantum key distribution.

id: quant-ph/0607181
title: Galilean and Dynamical Invariance of Entanglement in Particle Scattering
authors: N. L. Harshman, S. Wickramasekara
comments: 4 pages, no figures; v.3 has typos corrected, a new reference, and a revised conclusion
journal: PRL 98 (2007), 080406
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607181
abstract: Particle systems admit a variety of tensor product structures (TPSs) depending on the algebra of observables chosen for analysis. Global symmetry transformations and dynamical transformations may be resolved into local unitary operators with respect to certain TPSs and not with respect to others. Symmetry-invariant and dynamical-invariant TPSs are defined and various notions of entanglement are considered for scattering states.

id: quant-ph/0607182
title: Free-Space distribution of entanglement and single photons over 144 km
authors: R. Ursin, F. Tiefenbacher, T. Schmitt-Manderbach, H. Weier, T. Scheidl, M. Lindenthal, B. Blauensteiner, T. Jennewein, J. Perdigues, P. Trojek, B. Oemer, M. Fuerst, M. Meyenburg, J. Rarity, Z. Sodnik, C. Barbieri, H. Weinfurter, A. Zeilinger
comments: 10 pages including 2 figures and 1 table, Corrected typos
journal: Nature Physics 3, 481 - 486 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607182
abstract: Quantum Entanglement is the essence of quantum physics and inspires fundamental questions about the principles of nature. Moreover it is also the basis for emerging technologies of quantum information processing such as quantum cryptography, quantum teleportation and quantum computation. Bell's discovery, that correlations measured on entangled quantum systems are at variance with a local realistic picture led to a flurry of experiments confirming the quantum predictions. However, it is still experimentally undecided whether quantum entanglement can survive global distances, as predicted by quantum theory. Here we report the violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality measured by two observers separated by 144 km between the Canary Islands of La Palma and Tenerife via an optical free-space link using the Optical Ground Station (OGS) of the European Space Agency (ESA). Furthermore we used the entangled pairs to generate a quantum cryptographic key under experimental conditions and constraints characteristic for a Space-to-ground experiment. The distance in our experiment exceeds all previous free-space experiments by more than one order of magnitude and exploits the limit for ground-based free-space communication; significantly longer distances can only be reached using air- or space-based platforms. The range achieved thereby demonstrates the feasibility of quantum communication in space, involving satellites or the International Space Station (ISS).

id: quant-ph/0607183
title: Generation of a High-Visibility Four-Photon Entangled State and Realization of a Four-Party Quantum Communication Complexity Scenario
authors: Jin-Shi Xu, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: REVTEX 4.0, 4 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052311 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607183
abstract: We obtain a four-photon polarization-entangled state with a visibility as high as (95.35\pm 0.45)% directly from a single down-conversion source. A success probability of (81.54\pm 1.38)% is observed by applying this entangled state to realize a four-party quantum communication complexity scenario (QCCS), which comfortably surpass the classical limit of 50%. As a comparison, two Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) pairs are shown to implement the scenario with a success probability of (73.89\pm 1.33)%. This four-photon state can be used to fulfill decoherence-free quantum information processing and other advanced quantum communication schemes.

id: quant-ph/0607184
title: Spectroscopic observation of the rotational Doppler effect
authors: S. Barreiro, J.W.R. Tabosa, H. Failache, A. Lezama
comments: Submited to Physical Review Letter
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607184
abstract: We report on the first spectroscopic observation of the rotational Doppler shift associated with light beams carrying orbital angular momentum. The effect is evidenced as the broadening of a Hanle/EIT coherence resonance on Rb vapor when the two incident Laguerre-Gaussian laser beams have opposite topological charges. The observations closely agree with theoretical predictions.

id: quant-ph/0607185
title: Implementations of quantum and classical gates with linear optical devices and photon number quantum non-demolition measurement for polarization encoded qubits
authors: Joao Batista Rosa Silva, Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 14 Pages 8 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607185
abstract: Aiming the construction of quantum computers and quantum communication systems based on optical devices, in this work we present possible implementations of quantum and classical CNOTs gates, as well an optical setup for generation and distribution of bipartite entangled states, using linear optical devices and photon number quantum non-demolition measurement.

id: quant-ph/0607186
title: Long distance decoy state quantum key distribution in optical fiber
authors: Danna Rosenberg, Jim W. Harrington, Patrick R. Rice, Philip A. Hiskett, Charles G. Peterson, Richard J. Hughes, Adriana E. Lita, Sae Woo Nam, Jane E. Nordholt
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 010503 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607186
abstract: The theoretical existence of photon-number-splitting attacks creates a security loophole for most quantum key distribution (QKD) demonstrations that use a highly attenuated laser source. Using ultra-low-noise, high-efficiency transition-edge sensor photodetectors, we have implemented the first version of a decoy-state protocol that incorporates finite statistics without the use of Gaussian approximations in a one-way QKD system, enabling the creation of secure keys immune to photon-number-splitting attacks and highly resistant to Trojan horse attacks over 107 km of optical fiber.

id: quant-ph/0607187
title: Three-party qutrit-state sharing
authors: Zhang-yin Wang, Zhan-jun Zhang
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607187
abstract: A three-party scheme for securely sharing an arbitrary unknown single-qutrit state is presented. Using a general Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state as the quantum channel among the three parties, the quantum information (i.e., the qutrit state) from the sender can be split in such a way that the information can be recovered if and only if both receivers collaborate. Moreover, the generation of the scheme to multi-party case is also sketched.

id: quant-ph/0607188
title: Symmetries and noise in quantum walk
authors: C.M. Chandrashekar, R. Srikanth, Subhashish Banerjee
comments: 19 pages, 24 figures : V3 - Revised version to appear in Phys. Rev. A. - new section on quantum walk in a cycle included
journal: Phys. Rev. A . 76, 022316 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607188
abstract: We study some discrete symmetries of unbiased (Hadamard) and biased quantum walk on a line, which are shown to hold even when the quantum walker is subjected to environmental effects. The noise models considered in order to account for these effects are the phase flip, bit flip and generalized amplitude damping channels. The numerical solutions are obtained by evolving the density matrix, but the persistence of the symmetries in the presence of noise is proved using the quantum trajectories approach. We also briefly extend these studies to quantum walk on a cycle. These investigations can be relevant to the implementation of quantum walks in various known physical systems. We discuss the implementation in the case of NMR quantum information processor and ultra cold atoms.

id: quant-ph/0607189
title: Linear Optical Implemention of a Quantum Network for Quantum Estimation
authors: Zhi-Wei Wang, Jian Li, Yun-Feng Huang, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Xi-Feng Ren, Pei Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 8 pages,4 figures. Revised edition
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607189
abstract: We present a scheme for simulating the quantum network of quantum estimation proposed by A. K. Ekert et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 217901 (2002)]. We experimentally implement the scheme with linear optical elements. We perform overlap measurements of two single-qubit states and entanglement-witness measurements of some two-qubit states. In addition, it can also be used for entanglement quantification for some kinds of states. From the other perspective, we physically realize the positive but not completely positive map, transposition.

id: quant-ph/0607190
title: Correlation criteria for Bell type inequalities and entanglement detection
authors: Che-Ming Li, Li-Yi Hsu, Wei-Yang Lin, Yueh-Nan Chen, Der-San Chuu, Tobias Brandes
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607190
abstract: We provide a novel criterion for identifying quantum correlation, which allows us to find connections between Bell type inequalities, entanglement detection, and correlation. We utilize the criterion to construct witness operators that can detect genuine multi-qubit entanglement with fewer local measurements. The connection between identifications of quantum correlation and Mermin's inequality is discussed. Detection of genuine four-level tripartite entanglement with two local measurement settings is shown in the same manner. Further, through the criterion of quantum correlation, we derive a new Bell inequality for arbitrary high-dimensional bipartite systems, which requires fewer analyses of the measured outcomes.

id: quant-ph/0607191
title: A family of many-body models which are exactly solvable analytically
authors: I. Fuentes-Schuller, P. Barberis-Blostein
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; I. F-S published previously under Fuentes-Guridi
journal: J.Phys.A40:F601-F608,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607191
abstract: We present a family of many-body models which are exactly solvable analytically. The models are an extended n-body interaction Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model which considers spin-flip terms which are associated with the interaction of an external classical field which coherently manipulates the state of the system in order to, for example, process quantum information. The models also describe a two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate with a Josephson-type interaction which includes n-particle elastic and inelastic collisions. One of the models corresponds to the canonical two-mode Bose-Einstein Hamitonian plus a term which we argue must be considered in the description of the two-mode condensate. Intriguingly, this extra term allows for an exact and analytical solution of the two-particle collision two-mode BEC problem. Our results open up an arena to study many-body system properties analytically.

id: quant-ph/0607192
title: Joint Probabilities Reproducing Three EPR Experiments On Two Qubits
authors: S.M. Roy, D. Atkinson, G. Auberson, G. Mahoux, V. Singh
comments: Typo corrected in abstract
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607192
abstract: An eight parameter family of the most general nonnegative quadruple probabilities is constructed for EPR-Bohm-Aharonov experiments when only 3 pairs of analyser settings are used. It is a simultaneous representation of 3 Bohr-incompatible experimental configurations valid for arbitrary quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0607193
title: Efimov states and their Fano resonances in a neutron-rich nucleus
authors: I. Mazumdar, A. R. P. Rau, V. S. Bhasin
comments: 4 double-column pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 97 (2006) 062503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607193
abstract: Asymmetric resonances in elastic n+$^{19}$C scattering are attributed to Efimov states of such neutron-rich nuclei, that is, three-body bound states of the n+n+$^{18}$C system when none of the pairs is bound or some of them only weakly bound. By fitting to the general resonance shape described by Fano, we extract resonance position, width, and the "Fano profile index". While Efimov states have been discussed extensively in many areas of physics, there is only one very recent experimental observation in trimers of cesium atoms. The conjunction that we present of the Efimov and Fano phenomena may lead to experimental realization in nuclei.

id: quant-ph/0607194
title: Experimental Violation of Bell Inequality beyond Cirel'son's Bound
authors: Yu-Ao Chen, Tao Yang, An-Ning Zhang, Zhi Zhao, Adan Cabello, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 170408 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607194
abstract: The correlations between two qubits belonging to a three-qubit system can violate the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt-Bell inequality beyond Cirel'son's bound [A. Cabello, Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 060403 (2002)]. We experimentally demonstrate such a violation by 7 standard deviations by using a three-photon polarization-entangled Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state produced by Type-II spontaneous parametric down-conversion. In addition, using part of our results, we obtain a violation of the Mermin inequality by 39 standard deviations.

id: quant-ph/0607195
title: Separability criteria based on the Bloch representation of density matrices
authors: Julio I. de Vicente
comments: 17 pages, no figures; Section 4.2 improved; final version: minor changes, added references, to appear in QIC
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 7, 624 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607195
abstract: We study the separability of bipartite quantum systems in arbitrary dimensions using the Bloch representation of their density matrix. This approach enables us to find an alternative characterization of the separability problem, from which we derive a necessary condition and sufficient conditions for separability. For a certain class of states the necessary condition and a sufficient condition turn out to be equivalent, therefore yielding a necessary and sufficient condition. The proofs of the sufficient conditions are constructive, thus providing decompositions in pure product states for the states that satisfy them. We provide examples that show the ability of these conditions to detect entanglement. In particular, the necessary condition is proved to be strong enough to detect bound entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0607196
title: The transition from ontic potentiality to actualization of states in quantum mechanical approach to reality: The Proof of a Mathematical Theorem to Support It
authors: Elio Conte, Andrei Khrennikov, Joseph P. Zbilut
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607196
abstract: It is given a preliminary discussion on the ontic nature of quantum states to be intended as potentialities and on the central role of spin to be considered as the basic essence of quantum mechanical reality. The possible fundamental role of potentialities and of spin is evidenced in the framework of physical as well as of biological reality. After such preliminary deepening, using a quantum like scheme delineated on the basis of an algebraic structure, it is given for the first time mathematical demonstration of the transition from potentiality of states to their actualization as basic mechanism of our reality.

id: quant-ph/0607197
title: Towards quantum computing with single atoms and optical cavities on atom chips
authors: M. Trupke, J. Metz, A. Beige, E. A. Hinds
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 54, 1639 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607197
abstract: We report on recent developments in the integration of optical microresonators into atom chips and describe some fabrication and implementation challenges. We also review theoretical proposals for quantum computing with single atoms based on the observation of photons leaking through the cavity mirrors. The use of measurements to generate entanglement can result in simpler, more robust and scalable quantum computing architectures. Indeed, we show that quantum computing with atom-cavity systems is feasible even in the presence of relatively large spontaneous decay rates and finite photon detector efficiencies.

id: quant-ph/0607198
title: Manifestations of quantum holonomy in interferometry
authors: Erik Sj?qvist, David Kult, Johan ?berg
comments: Some changes, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062101 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607198
abstract: Abelian and non-Abelian geometric phases, known as quantum holonomies, have attracted considerable attention in the past. Here, we show that it is possible to associate nonequivalent holonomies to discrete sequences of subspaces in a Hilbert space. We consider two such holonomies that arise naturally in interferometer settings. For sequences approximating smooth paths in the base (Grassmann) manifold, these holonomies both approach the standard holonomy. In the one-dimensional case the two types of holonomies are Abelian and coincide with Pancharatnam's geometric phase factor. The theory is illustrated with a model example of projective measurements involving angular momentum coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0607199
title: Fast cooling of trapped ions using the dynamical Stark shift gate
authors: A. Retzker, M.B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 279
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607199
abstract: A laser cooling scheme for trapped ions is presented which is based on the fast dynamical Stark shift gate, described in [Jonathan etal, PRA 62, 042307]. Since this cooling method does not contain an off resonant carrier transition, low final temperatures are achieved even in traveling wave light field. The proposed method may operate in either pulsed or continuous mode and is also suitable for ion traps using microwave addressing in strong magnetic field gradients.

id: quant-ph/0607200
title: New uncertainty relations for tomographic entropy: Application to squeezed states and solitons
authors: Sergio De Nicola, Renato Fedele, Margarita A. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures, to be published in European Physical Journal B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607200
abstract: Using the tomographic probability distribution (symplectic tomogram) describing the quantum state (instead of the wave function or density matrix) and properties of recently introduced tomographic entropy associated with the probability distribution, the new uncertainty relation for the tomographic entropy is obtained. Examples of the entropic uncertainty relation for squeezed states and solitons of the Bose--Einstein condensate are considered.

id: quant-ph/0607201
title: Second Quantization and Bogoliubov Approximation
authors: Bayram Kurucay
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607201
abstract: Recent experiments with trapped alkali atoms have drawn enormous interest to the theoretical studies concerning Bose-Einstein condensation. The purpose of this paper is to review one of the approaches to study bosonic matter at zero temperature, namely the Bogoliubov approximation. Review of a necessary tool, the second quantization, will also be made.

id: quant-ph/0607202
title: Quantum Separability of the vacuum for Scalar Fields with a Boundary
authors: Jae-Weon Lee, Jaewan Kim, Taeseung Choi
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, Revtex, minor corrections. submitted to Phy. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev. A74 (2006) 044304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607202
abstract: Using the Green's function approach we investigate separability of the vacuum state of a massless scalar field with a single Dirichlet boundary. Separability is demonstrated using the positive partial transpose criterion for effective two-mode Gaussian states of collective operators. In contrast to the vacuum energy, entanglement of the vacuum is not modified by the presence of the boundary.

id: quant-ph/0607203
title: Quantum geometry and quantum algorithms
authors: S. Garnerone, A. Marzuoli, M. Rasetti
comments: Submitted to J. Phys. A: Math-Gen, for the special issue ``The Quantum Universe'' in honor of G. C. Ghirardi
journal: J.Phys.A40:3047-3066,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607203
abstract: Motivated by algorithmic problems arising in quantum field theories whose dynamical variables are geometric in nature, we provide a quantum algorithm that efficiently approximates the colored Jones polynomial. The construction is based on the complete solution of Chern-Simons topological quantum field theory and its connection to Wess-Zumino-Witten conformal field theory. The colored Jones polynomial is expressed as the expectation value of the evolution of the q-deformed spin-network quantum automaton. A quantum circuit is constructed capable of simulating the automaton and hence of computing such expectation value. The latter is efficiently approximated using a standard sampling procedure in quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0607204
title: Permutation groups, minimal degrees and quantum computing
authors: Julia Kempe, Laszlo Pyber, Aner Shalev
comments: 28 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607204
abstract: We study permutation groups of given minimal degree without the classical primitivity assumption. We provide sharp upper bounds on the order of a permutation group of minimal degree m and on the number of its elements of any given support. These results contribute to the foundations of a non-commutative coding theory. A main application of our results concerns the Hidden Subgroup Problem for the symmetric group in Quantum Computing. We completely characterize the hidden subgroups of the symmetric group that can be distinguished from identity with weak Quantum Fourier Sampling, showing these are exactly the subgroups with bounded minimal degree. This implies that the weak standard method for the symmetric group has no advantage whatsoever over classical exhaustive search.

id: quant-ph/0607205
title: Radiation-pressure cooling and optomechanical instability of a micro-mirror
authors: O. Arcizet, P. -F. Cohadon, T. Briant, M. Pinard, A. Heidmann
comments: 
journal: Nature 444 (2006) 71
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607205
abstract: Recent experimental progress in table-top experiments or gravitational-wave interferometers has enlightened the unique displacement sensitivity offered by optical interferometry. As the mirrors move in response to radiation pressure, higher power operation, though crucial for further sensitivity enhancement, will however increase quantum effects of radiation pressure, or even jeopardize the stable operation of the detuned cavities proposed for next-generation interferometers. The appearance of such optomechanical instabilities is the result of the nonlinear interplay between the motion of the mirrors and the optical field dynamics. In a detuned cavity indeed, the displacements of the mirror are coupled to intensity fluctuations, which modifies the effective dynamics of the mirror. Such "optical spring" effects have already been demonstrated on the mechanical damping of an electromagnetic waveguide with a moving wall, on the resonance frequency of a specially designed flexure oscillator, and through the optomechanical instability of a silica micro-toroidal resonator. We present here an experiment where a micro-mechanical resonator is used as a mirror in a very high-finesse optical cavity and its displacements monitored with an unprecedented sensitivity. By detuning the cavity, we have observed a drastic cooling of the micro-resonator by intracavity radiation pressure, down to an effective temperature of 10 K. We have also obtained an efficient heating for an opposite detuning, up to the observation of a radiation-pressure induced instability of the resonator. Further experimental progress and cryogenic operation may lead to the experimental observation of the quantum ground state of a mechanical resonator, either by passive or active cooling techniques.

id: quant-ph/0607206
title: Quantum information processing via a lossy bus
authors: S. D. Barrett, G. J. Milburn
comments: Added more discussion on effects of noise. Typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 060302(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607206
abstract: We describe a method to perform two qubit measurements and logic operations on pairs of qubits which each interact with a harmonic oscillator degree of freedom (the \emph{bus}), but do not directly interact with one another. Our scheme uses only weak interactions between the qubit and the bus, homodyne measurements, and single qubit operations. In contrast to earlier schemes, the technique presented here is extremely robust to photon loss in the bus mode, and can function with high fidelity even when the rate of photon loss is comparable to the strength of the qubit-bus coupling.

id: quant-ph/0607207
title: Single-Shot Generation and Detection of a Two-Photon Generalized Binomial State in a Cavity
authors: R. Lo Franco, G. Compagno, A. Messina, A. Napoli
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys.Rev.A74:045803,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607207
abstract: A "quasi-deterministic" scheme to generate a two-photon generalized binomial state in a single-mode high-Q cavity is proposed. We also suggest a single-shot scheme to measure the generated state based on a probe two-level atom that "reads" the cavity field. The possibility of implementing the schemes is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0607208
title: Non-statistical Weak Measurements
authors: Jeff Tollaksen, Yakir Aharonov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607208
abstract: Non-statistical weak measurements yield weak values that are outside the range of eigenvalues and are not rare, suggesting that weak values are a property of every pre-and-post-selected ensemble. They also extend the applicability and valid regime of weak values.

id: quant-ph/0607209
title: Univariate Functions for the Hilbert-Schmidt Volumes of the Real and Complex Separable Two-Qubit Systems
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607209
abstract: The (complex) two-qubit systems comprise a 15-dimensional convex set and the real two-qubit systems, a 9-dimensional convex set. While formulas for the Hilbert-Schmidt volumes of these two sets are known -- owing to recent important work of Sommers and Zyczkowski (J. Phys. A {36}, 10115 [2003]) -- formulas have not been so far obtained for the volumes of the separable subsets. We reduce these two problems to the determination of certain functions of a single variable.

id: quant-ph/0607210
title: Nonlocality and entanglement in a strange system
authors: Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, extended version
journal: European Physical Journal C, Vol. 50, 73-79 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607210
abstract: We show that the relation between nonlocality and entanglement is subtler than one naively expects. In order to do this we consider the neutral kaon system--which is oscillating in time (particle--antiparticle mixing) and decaying--and describe it as an open quantum system. We consider a Bell--CHSH inequality and show a novel violation for non--maximally entangled states. Considering the change of purity and entanglement in time we find that, despite the fact that only two degrees of freedom at a certain time can be measured, the neutral kaon system does not behave like a bipartite qubit system.

id: quant-ph/0607211
title: On parallel composition of zero-knowledge proofs with black-box quantum simulators
authors: Rahul Jain, Alexandra Kolla, Gatis Midrijanis, Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 18 pages; final version
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 9:513-532, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607211
abstract: Let L be a language decided by a constant-round quantum Arthur-Merlin (QAM) protocol with negligible soundness error and all but possibly the last message being classical. We prove that if this protocol is zero knowledge with a black-box, quantum simulator S, then L in BQP. Our result also applies to any language having a three-round quantum interactive proof (QIP), with all but possibly the last message being classical, with negligible soundness error and a black-box quantum simulator. These results in particular make it unlikely that certain protocols can be composed in parallel in order to reduce soundness error, while maintaining zero knowledge with a black-box quantum simulator. They generalize analogous classical results of Goldreich and Krawczyk (1990). Our proof goes via a reduction to quantum black-box search. We show that the existence of a black-box quantum simulator for such protocols when L notin BQP would imply an impossibly-good quantum search algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0607212
title: Single-photon source characterization with infrared-sensitive superconducting single-photon detectors
authors: Robert H. Hadfield, Martin J. Stevens, Richard P. Mirin, Sae Woo Nam
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607212
abstract: Single-photon sources and detectors are key enabling technologies in quantum information processing. Nanowire-based superconducting single-photon detectors (SSPDs) offer single-photon detection from the visible well into the infrared with low dark counts, low jitter and short dead times. We report on the high fidelity characterization (via antibunching and spontaneous emission lifetime measurements) of a cavity-coupled single-photon source at 902 nm using a pair of SSPDs. The twin SSPD scheme reported here is well-suited to the characterization of single-photon sources at telecom wavelengths (1310 nm, 1550 nm).

id: quant-ph/0607213
title: Single-atom as a macroscopic entanglement source
authors: Ling Zhou, Han Xiong, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: Accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022321 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607213
abstract: We discuss the generation of a macroscopic entangled state in a single atom cavity-QED system. The three-level atom in a cascade configuration interacts dispersively with two classical coherent fields inside a doubly resonant cavity. We show that a macroscopic entangled state between these two cavity modes can be generated under large detuning conditions. The entanglement persists even under the presence of cavity losses.

id: quant-ph/0607214
title: Hawking effects on the entanglement near the Schwarzschild black hole
authors: Doyeol Ahn
comments: Journal of Korean Physical Society, accepted for publication
journal: J.Korean Phys.Soc.50:368-372,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607214
abstract: Hawking radiation effects on an entangled pair near the event horizon of a Schwarzschild black hole are investigated. The Hawking radiation was found to degrade both the quantum coherence of the entangled state and the mutual correlations of the entangled pair. When the black hole evaporated completely, the measure of entanglement vanished, but the classical correlation between the entangled pair still remained.

id: quant-ph/0607215
title: Inclusion of non-idealities in the continuous photodetection model
authors: A. V. Dodonov, S. S. Mizrahi, V. V. Dodonov
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 75, 013806 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607215
abstract: Some non-ideal effects as non-unit quantum efficiency, dark counts, dead time and cavity losses that occur in experiments are incorporated within the continuous photodetection model by using the analytical quantum trajectories approach. We show that in standard photocounting experiments the validity of the model can be verified, and the formal expression for the quantum jump superoperator can also be checked.

id: quant-ph/0607216
title: The Chernoff lower bound for symmetric quantum hypothesis testing
authors: Michael Nussbaum, Arleta Szko?a
comments: Published in at this http URL the Annals of Statistics (this http URL) by the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (this http URL)
journal: Annals of Statistics 2009, Vol. 37, No. 2, 1040-1057
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607216
abstract: We consider symmetric hypothesis testing in quantum statistics, where the hypotheses are density operators on a finite-dimensional complex Hilbert space, representing states of a finite quantum system. We prove a lower bound on the asymptotic rate exponents of Bayesian error probabilities. The bound represents a quantum extension of the Chernoff bound, which gives the best asymptotically achievable error exponent in classical discrimination between two probability measures on a finite set. In our framework, the classical result is reproduced if the two hypothetic density operators commute. Recently, it has been shown elsewhere [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 (2007) 160504] that the lower bound is achievable also in the generic quantum (noncommutative) case. This implies that our result is one part of the definitive quantum Chernoff bound.

id: quant-ph/0607217
title: Optimization of segmented linear Paul traps and transport of stored particles
authors: Stephan Schulz, Ulrich Poschinger, Kilian Singer, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 54, No. 8-10, 648-665 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607217
abstract: Single ions held in linear Paul traps are promising candidates for a future quantum computer. Here, we discuss a two-layer microstructured segmented linear ion trap. The radial and axial potentials are obtained from numeric field simulations and the geometry of the trap is optimized. As the trap electrodes are segmented in the axial direction, the trap allows the transport of ions between different spatial regions. Starting with realistic numerically obtained axial potentials, we optimize the transport of an ion such that the motional degrees of freedom are not excited, even though the transport speed far exceeds the adiabatic regime. In our optimization we achieve a transport within roughly two oscillation periods in the axial trap potential compared to typical adiabatic transports that take of the order 100 oscillations. Furthermore heating due to quantum mechanical effects is estimated and suppression strategies are proposed.

id: quant-ph/0607218
title: Quantum coherence and population trapping in three-photon processes
authors: Caroline Champenois, Giovanna Morigi, Juergen Eschner
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 74 (2006) 053404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607218
abstract: The spectroscopic properties of a single, tightly trapped atom are studied, when the electronic levels are coupled by three laser fields in an $N$-shaped configuration of levels, whereby a $\Lambda$-type level system is weakly coupled to a metastable state. We show that depending on the laser frequencies the response can be tuned from coherent population trapping at two-photon resonance to novel behaviour at three photon resonance, where the metastable state can get almost unit occupation in a wide range of parameters. For certain parameter regimes the system switches spontaneously between dissipative and coherent dynamics over long time scales.

id: quant-ph/0607219
title: Slipped non-Positive Reduced Dynamics and Entanglement
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, S. Breteaux
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607219
abstract: Non-positive Markov approximations are sometimes used to describe the dynamics of qubits in weak interaction with suitable environments; the appearance of negative probabilities is avoided by assuming that the transient regime eliminates from the possible initial conditions those qubit states which would otherwise be mapped out of the Bloch sphere by the subsequent Markovian time-evolution. By means of a simple model, we discuss some physical inconsistencies of this approach in relation to entanglement; in particular, we show that slipped non-positive reduced dynamics might create entanglement through a purely local action.

id: quant-ph/0607220
title: Entanglement by linear SU(2) transformations: generation and evolution of quantum vortex states
authors: G. S. Agarwal, J. Banerji
comments: 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607220
abstract: We consider the evolution of a two-mode system of bosons under the action of a Hamiltonian that generates linear SU(2) transformations. The Hamiltonian is generic in that it represents a host of entanglement mechanisms, which can thus be treated in a unified way. We start by solving the quantum dynamics analytically when the system is initially in a Fock state. We show how the two modes get entangled by evolution to produce a coherent superposition of vortex states in general, and a single vortex state under certain conditions. The degree of entanglement between the modes is measured by finding the explicit analytical dependence of the Von Neumann entropy on the system parameters. The reduced state of each mode is analyzed by means of its correlation function and spatial coherence function. Remarkably, our analysis is shown to be equally as valid for a variety of initial states that can be prepared from a two-mode Fock state via a unitary transformation and for which the results can be obtained by mere inspection of the corresponding results for an initial Fock state. As an example, we consider a quantum vortex as the initial state and also find conditions for its revival and charge conjugation. While studying the evolution of the initial vortex state, we have encountered and explained an interesting situation in which the entropy of the system does not evolve whereas its wave function does. Although the modal concept has been used throughout the paper, it is important to note that the theory is equally applicable for a two-particle system in which each particle is represented by its bosonic creation and annihilation operators.

id: quant-ph/0607221
title: Nonadiabatic Transitions for a Decaying Two-Level-System: Geometrical and Dynamical Contributions
authors: R. Schilling, Mark Vogelsberger, D. A. Garanin
comments: 12 PR pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607221
abstract: We study the Landau-Zener Problem for a decaying two-level-system described by a non-hermitean Hamiltonian, depending analytically on time. Use of a super-adiabatic basis allows to calculate the non-adiabatic transition probability P in the slow-sweep limit, without specifying the Hamiltonian explicitly. It is found that P consists of a ``dynamical'' and a ``geometrical'' factors. The former is determined by the complex adiabatic eigenvalues E_(t), only, whereas the latter solely requires the knowledge of \alpha_(+-)(t), the ratio of the components of each of the adiabatic eigenstates. Both factors can be split into a universal one, depending only on the complex level crossing points, and a nonuniversal one, involving the full time dependence of E_(+-)(t). This general result is applied to the Akulin-Schleich model where the initial upper level is damped with damping constant $\gamma$. For analytic power-law sweeps we find that Stueckelberg oscillations of P exist for gamma smaller than a critical value gamma_c and disappear for gamma > gamma_c. A physical interpretation of this behavior will be presented by use of a damped harmonic oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0607222
title: Universality in an Information-theoretic Motivated Nonlinear Schrodinger Equation
authors: R.Parwani, G.Tabia
comments: Final Journal Version; 23 pages inclusive of 3 figures
journal: J.Phys.A40:5621-5636,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607222
abstract: Using perturbative methods, we analyse a nonlinear generalisation of Schrodinger's equation that had previously been obtained through information-theoretic arguments. We obtain analytical expressions for the leading correction, in terms of the nonlinearity scale, to the energy eigenvalues of the linear Schrodinger equation in the presence of an external potential and observe some generic features. In one space dimension these are: (i) For nodeless ground states, the energy shifts are subleading in the nonlinearity parameter compared to the shifts for the excited states, (ii) the shifts for the excited states are due predominantly to contribution from the nodes of the unperturbed wavefunctions and (iii) the energy shifts for excited states are positive for small values of a regulating parameter and negative at large values, vanishing at a universal critical value that is not manifest in the equation. Some of these features hold true for higher dimensional problems. We also study two exactly solved nonlinear Schrodinger equations so as to contrast our observations. Finally, we comment on the possible significance of our results if the nonlinearity is physically realised.

id: quant-ph/0607223
title: Klein paradox for bound states - A puzzling phenomenon
authors: Nagalakshmi A Rao, B. A. Kagali
comments: 6 pages
journal: Mapana, MUS Vol.5(2) 2006, 14 - 18
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607223
abstract: While Klein paradox is often encountered in the context of scattering of relativistic particles at a potential barrier, we presently discuss a puzzling situation that arises with the Klein-Gordon equation for bound states. With the usual minimal coupling procedure of introducing the interaction potential, a paradoxical situation arises when the 'hill' becomes a 'well', simulating a bound-state like situation. The phenomenal phenomenon for bound states is contrary to the conventional wisdom of quantum mechanics and is analogous to the well-known Klein paradox, a generic property of relativistic wave equations. PACs Nos. 03.65.Ge, 03.65.Pm

id: quant-ph/0607224
title: How to Extract Entanglement from a Piece of Solid or a Bunch of Neutrons
authors: Marcelo O Terra Cunha, Vlatko Vedral
comments: Prepared for the Proceedings of Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics, Vienna - 2006
journal: Acta Physica Hungarica A 26, 261-268 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607224
abstract: We review how to obtain spin entangled pairs of fermions from a Fermi gas. An experiment with neutrons is proposed in order to get such pairs.

id: cond-mat/0607057
title: Magnetic effects on the phase transitions in unconventional superconductors
authors: Dimo I. Uzunov
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures; minor style changes, title change
journal: Europhys.Lett.77:20008,2007
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607057
abstract: A new critical behavior in unconventional superconductors and superfluids is established and described by the Wilson-Fisher renormalization-group method. For certain symmetries of order a new type of fluctuation-driven first order phase transitions at finite and zero temperature are predicted. The results can be applied to a wide class of ferromagnetic superconductive and superfluid systems, in particular, to itinerant ferromagnets as UGe_2 and URhGe.

id: cond-mat/0607125
title: Topologically protected quantum gates for computation with non-Abelian anyons in the Pfaffian quantum Hall state
authors: Lachezar S. Georgiev
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX; version 3: introduced section names, new reference added; new comment added about the embedding of the one- and two- qubit gates into a three-qubit system
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74 (2006) 235112
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607125
abstract: We extend the topological quantum computation scheme using the Pfaffian quantum Hall state, which has been recently proposed by Das Sarma et al., in a way that might potentially allow for the topologically protected construction of a universal set of quantum gates. We construct, for the first time, a topologically protected Controlled-NOT gate which is entirely based on quasihole braidings of Pfaffian qubits. All single-qubit gates, except for the pi/8 gate, are also explicitly implemented by quasihole braidings. Instead of the pi/8 gate we try to construct a topologically protected Toffoli gate, in terms of the Controlled-phase gate and CNOT or by a braid-group based Controlled-Controlled-Z precursor. We also give a topologically protected realization of the Bravyi-Kitaev two-qubit gate g_3.

id: cond-mat/0607127
title: Spin Hall effects for cold atoms in a light induced gauge potential
authors: Shi-Liang Zhu, Hao Fu, C.-J. Wu, S. -C. Zhang, L. -M. Duan
comments: 4 pages; The published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 240401 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607127
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to observe spin Hall effects with cold atoms in a light induced gauge potential. Under an appropriate configuration, the cold atoms moving in a spatially varying laser field experience an effective spin-dependent gauge potential. Through numerical simulation, we demonstrate that such a gauge field leads to observable spin Hall currents under realistic conditions. We also discuss the quantum spin Hall state in an optical lattice.

id: cond-mat/0607180
title: Controllable Coupling between Flux Qubit and Nanomechanical Resonator by Magnetic Field
authors: Fei Xue, Y.D Wang, C.P.Sun, H. Okamoto, H. Yamaguchi, K. Semba
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 9 (2007) 35
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607180
abstract: We propose an active mechanism for coupling the quantized mode of a nanomechanical resonator to the persistent current in the loop of a superconducting Josephson junction (or phase slip) flux qubit. This coupling is independently controlled by an external coupling magnetic field. The whole system forms a novel solid-state cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) architecture in the strong coupling limit. This architecture can be used to demonstrate quantum optics phenomena and coherently manipulate the qubit for quantum information processing. The coupling mechanism is applicable for more generalized situations where the superconducting Josephson junction system is a multi-level system.We also address the practical issues concerning experimental realization.

id: cond-mat/0607205
title: Casimir-Lifshitz force out of thermal equilibrium and asymptotic non-additivity
authors: Mauro Antezza, Lev P. Pitaevskii, Sandro Stringari, Vitaly B. Svetovoy
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Published version, revised and more detailed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 223203 (2006)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607205
abstract: We investigate the force acting between two parallel plates held at different temperatures. The force reproduces, as limiting cases, the well known Casimir-Lifshitz surface-surface force at thermal equilibrium and the surface-atom force out of thermal equilibrium recently derived by M. Antezza \emph{et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 95}, 113202 (2005). The asymptotic behavior of the force at large distances is explicitly discussed. In particular when one of the two bodies is a rarefied gas the force is not additive, being proportional to the square root of the density. Nontrivial cross-over regions at large distances are also identified.

id: cond-mat/0607222
title: Adiabatic feedback control of Hamiltonian systems
authors: A.E. Allahverdyan, K.G. Petrosyan, D.B. Saakian
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607222
abstract: We study feedback control of classical Hamiltonian systems with the controlling parameter varying slowly in time. The control aims to change system's energy. We show that the control problems can be solved with help of an adiabatic invariant that generalizes the conservation of the phase-space volume to control situations. New mechanisms of control for achieving heating, cooling, entropy reduction and particle trapping are found. The feedback control of a many-body system via one of its coordinates is discussed. The results are illustrated by two basic models of non-linear physics.

id: cond-mat/0607254
title: Dark state cooling of atoms by superfluid immersion
authors: A. Griessner, A. J. Daley, S. R. Clark, D. Jaksch, P. Zoller
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 97, 220403 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607254
abstract: We propose and analyse a scheme to cool atoms in an optical lattice to ultra-low temperatures within a Bloch band, and away from commensurate filling. The protocol is inspired by ideas from dark state laser cooling, but replaces electronic states with motional levels, and spontaneous emission of photons by emission of phonons into a Bose-Einstein condensate, in which the lattice is immersed. In our model, achievable temperatures correspond to a small fraction of the Bloch band width, and are much lower than the reservoir temperature.

id: cond-mat/0607346
title: Entanglement, Dephasing, and Phase Recovery via Cross-Correlation Measurements of Electrons
authors: I. Neder, M. Heiblum, D. Mahalu, V. Umansky
comments: 13 Pages, 5 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607346
abstract: Determination of the path taken by a quantum particle leads to a suppression of interference and to a classical behavior. We employ here a quantum 'which path' detector to perform accurate path determination in a two-path-electron-interferometer; leading to full suppression of the interference. Following the dephasing process we recover the interference by measuring the cross-correlation between the interferometer and detector currents. Under our measurement conditions every interfering electron is dephased by approximately a single electron in the detector - leading to mutual entanglement of approximately single pairs of electrons.

id: cond-mat/0607394
title: An Index Theorem for Graphene
authors: Jiannis K. Pachos, Michael Stone
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, new version to appear in IJMPB
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.B21:5113-5120,2007
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607394
abstract: We consider a graphene sheet folded in an arbitrary geometry, compact or with nanotube-like open boundaries. In the continuous limit, the Hamiltonian takes the form of the Dirac operator, which provides a good description of the low energy spectrum of the lattice system. We derive an index theorem that relates the zero energy modes of the graphene sheet with the topology of the lattice. The result coincides with analytical and numerical studies for the known cases of fullerene molecules and carbon nanotubes and it extend to more complicated molecules. Potential applications to topological quantum computation are discussed.

id: cond-mat/0607416
title: Stabilized parametric Cooper-pair pumping in a linear array of coupled Josephson junctions
authors: Mateusz Cholascinski, Ravindra W. Chhajlany
comments: Title changed, other corrections and modifications requested from Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 127001 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607416
abstract: We present an experimentally realizable stabilized charge pumping scheme in a linear array of Cooper-pair boxes. The system design intrinsically protects the pumping mechanism from severe errors, especially current reversal and spontaneous charge excitation. The quantum Zeno effect is implemented to further diminish pumping errors. The characteristics of this scheme are considered from the perspective of improving the current standard. Such an improvement bears relevence to the closure of the so-called measurement triangle (see D. Averin [Nature 434, 285 (2005)]).

id: cond-mat/0607445
title: Minimal length scales for the existence of local temperature
authors: Michael J Hartmann
comments: review, 13 pages, 11 figures
journal: Contemporary Physics, 2006, Vol: 47, Pages: 89 - 102, ISSN: 0010-7514
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607445
abstract: We review a recent approach to determine the minimal spatial length scales on which local temperature exists. After mentioning an experiment where such considerations are of relevance, we first discuss the precise definition of the existence of local temperature and its physical relevance. The approach to calculate the length scales in question considers homogenous chains of particles with nearest neighbor interactions. The entire chain is assumed to be in a thermal equilibrium state and it is analyzed when such an equilibrium state at the same time exists for a local part of it. The result yields estimates for real materials, the liability of which is discussed in the sequel. We finally consider a possibility to detect the existence or non-existence of a local thermal state in experiment.

id: cond-mat/0607495
title: Controlled Dephasing of a Quantum Dot: From Coherent to Sequential Tunneling
authors: Daniel Rohrlich, Oren Zarchin, Moty Heiblum, Diana Mahalu, Vladimir Umansky
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607495
abstract: Resonant tunneling through identical potential barriers is a textbook problem in quantum mechanics. Its solution yields total transparency (100% tunneling) at discrete energies. This dramatic phenomenon results from coherent interference among many trajectories, and it is the basis of transport through periodic structures. Resonant tunneling of electrons is commonly seen in semiconducting 'quantum dots'. Here we demonstrate that detecting (distinguishing) electron trajectories in a quantum dot (QD) renders the QD nearly insulating. We couple trajectories in the QD to a 'detector' by employing edge channels in the integer quantum Hall regime. That is, we couple electrons tunneling through an inner channel to electrons in the neighboring outer, 'detector' channel. A small bias applied to the detector channel suffices to dephase (quench) the resonant tunneling completely. We derive a formula for dephasing that agrees well with our data and implies that just a few electrons passing through the detector channel suffice to dephase the QD completely. This basic experiment shows how path detection in a QD induces a transition from delocalization (due to coherent tunneling) to localization (sequential tunneling).

id: cond-mat/0607594
title: The role of the electromagnetic field in the formation of domains in the process of symmetry breaking phase transitions
authors: Emilio Del Giudice, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: Physical Review A, in the press
journal: Phys.Rev. A74 (2006) 022105
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607594
abstract: In the framework of quantum field theory we discuss the emergence of a phase locking among the electromagnetic modes and the matter components on an extended space-time region. We discuss the formation of extended domains exhibiting in their fundamental states non-vanishing order parameters, whose existence is not included in the Lagrangian. Our discussion is motivated by the interest in the study of the general problem of the stability of mesoscopic and macroscopic complex systems arising from fluctuating quantum components in connection with the problem of defect formation during the process of non-equilibrium symmetry breaking phase transitions characterized by an order parameter.

id: cond-mat/0607603
title: Two-spin entanglement induced by electron scattering in nanostructures
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi, Ferdinando de Pasquale
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74, 153308 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607603
abstract: We present a model where two magnetic impurities in a discrete tight-binding ring become entangled because of scattering processes associated to the injection of a conduction electron. We introduce a weak coupling approximation that allows us to solve the problem in a analytical way and compare the theory with the exact numerical results. We obtain the generation of entanglement both in a deterministic way and in a probabilistic one. The first case is intrinsically related to the structure of the two-impurity reduced density matrix, while the second one occurs when a projection on the electron state is performed.

id: cond-mat/0607645
title: Entanglement detection for electrons via witness operators
authors: Lara Faoro, Fabio Taddei
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 165327 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607645
abstract: We discuss an implementation of the entanglement witness, a method to detect entanglement with few local measurements, in systems where entangled electrons are generated both in the spin and orbital degrees of freedom. We address the efficiency of this method in various setups, including two different particle-hole entanglement structures, and we demonstrate that it can also be used to infer information on the possible dephasing afflicting the devices.

id: cond-mat/0607680
title: Entanglement of two delocalised electrons
authors: A. Ramsak, I. Sega, J.H. Jefferson
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 010304(R) (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607680
abstract: Several convenient formulae for the entanglement of two indistinguishable delocalised spin-1/2 particles are introduced. This generalizes the standard formula for concurrence, valid only in the limit of localised or distinguishable particles. Several illustrative examples are given.

id: cond-mat/0607736
title: Exact Topological Quantum Order in D=3 and Beyond: Branyons and Brane-Net Condensates
authors: H. Bombin, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: Revtex4 file, color figures, minor corrections
journal: Phys.Rev.B75:075103,2007
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607736
abstract: We construct an exactly solvable Hamiltonian acting on a 3-dimensional lattice of spin-$\frac 1 2$ systems that exhibits topological quantum order. The ground state is a string-net and a membrane-net condensate. Excitations appear in the form of quasiparticles and fluxes, as the boundaries of strings and membranes, respectively. The degeneracy of the ground state depends upon the homology of the 3-manifold. We generalize the system to $D\geq 4$, were different topological phases may occur. The whole construction is based on certain special complexes that we call colexes.

id: cond-mat/0607752
title: Entanglement in Anderson Nanoclusters
authors: Peter Samuelsson, Claudio Verdozzi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 132405 (2007).
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607752
abstract: We investigate the two-particle spin entanglement in magnetic nanoclusters described by the periodic Anderson model. An entanglement phase diagram is obtained, providing a novel perspective on a central property of magnetic nanoclusters, namely the temperature dependent competition between local Kondo screening and nonlocal Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yoshida spin ordering. We find that multiparticle entangled states are present for finite magnetic field as well as in the mixed valence regime and away from half filling. Our results emphasize the role of charge fluctuations.

id: cond-mat/0607782
title: BCS-BEC Crossover in the Strongly Correlated Regime of ultra-cold Fermi gases
authors: S. G. Bhongale, S. J. J. M. F. Kokkelmans
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0607782
abstract: We study BCS-BEC crossover in the strongly correlated regime of two component rotating Fermi gases. We predict that the strong correlations induced by rotation will have the effect of modifying the crossover region relative to the non-rotating situation. We show via the two particle correlation function that the crossover smoothly connects the s-wave paired fermionic fractional quantum Hall state to the bosonic Laughlin state.

id: cs/0607036
title: Combinatorial laplacians and positivity under partial transpose
authors: Roland Hildebrand, Stefano Mancini, Simone Severini
comments: 19 pages, 7 eps figures, final version accepted for publication in Math. Struct. in Comp. Sci
journal: Math. Struct. in Comp. Sci. Vol.18, pp.205-219 (2008)
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0607036
abstract: Density matrices of graphs are combinatorial laplacians normalized to have trace one (Braunstein \emph{et al.} \emph{Phys. Rev. A,} \textbf{73}:1, 012320 (2006)). If the vertices of a graph are arranged as an array, then its density matrix carries a block structure with respect to which properties such as separability can be considered. We prove that the so-called degree-criterion, which was conjectured to be necessary and sufficient for separability of density matrices of graphs, is equivalent to the PPT-criterion. As such it is not sufficient for testing the separability of density matrices of graphs (we provide an explicit example). Nonetheless, we prove the sufficiency when one of the array dimensions has length two (for an alternative proof see Wu, \emph{Phys. Lett. A}\textbf{351} (2006), no. 1-2, 18--22). Finally we derive a rational upper bound on the concurrence of density matrices of graphs and show that this bound is exact for graphs on four vertices.

id: cs/0607139
title: Parallel repetition: simplifications and the no-signaling case
authors: Thomas Holenstein
comments: 27 pages; v2:PRW97 strengthening added, references added, typos fixed; v3: fixed error in the proof of the no-signaling theorem, minor changes
journal: Theory of Computing 5 (2009) 1, pp. 141-172
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0607139
abstract: Consider a game where a refereed a referee chooses (x,y) according to a publicly known distribution P_XY, sends x to Alice, and y to Bob. Without communicating with each other, Alice responds with a value "a" and Bob responds with a value "b". Alice and Bob jointly win if a publicly known predicate Q(x,y,a,b) holds. Let such a game be given and assume that the maximum probability that Alice and Bob can win is v<1. Raz (SIAM J. Comput. 27, 1998) shows that if the game is repeated n times in parallel, then the probability that Alice and Bob win all games simultaneously is at most v'^(n/log(s)), where s is the maximal number of possible responses from Alice and Bob in the initial game, and v' is a constant depending only on v. In this work, we simplify Raz's proof in various ways and thus shorten it significantly. Further we study the case where Alice and Bob are not restricted to local computations and can use any strategy which does not imply communication among them.

id: gr-qc/0607072
title: Spacetime Coarse Grainings in the Decoherent Histories Approach to Quantum Theory
authors: Petros Wallden
comments: 23 pages, Few changes and added references in v2
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.47:1512-1532,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0607072
abstract: We investigate the possibility of assigning consistent probabilities to sets of histories characterized by whether they enter a particular subspace of the Hilbert space of a closed system during a given time interval. In particular we investigate the case that this subspace is a region of the configuration space. This corresponds to a particular class of coarse grainings of spacetime regions. We consider the arrival time problem and the problem of time in reparametrization invariant theories as for example in canonical quantum gravity. Decoherence conditions and probabilities for those application are derived. The resulting decoherence condition does not depend on the explicit form of the restricted propagator that was problematic for generalizations such as application in quantum cosmology. Closely related is the problem of tunnelling time as well as the quantum Zeno effect. Some interpretational comments conclude, and we discuss the applicability of this formalism to deal with the arrival time problem.

id: hep-th/0607036
title: Vacuum polarization by a global monopole with finite core
authors: E.R. Bezerra de Mello, A.A. Saharian
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures, misprint is corrected, discussion is added, figures are changed
journal: JHEP0610:049,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0607036
abstract: We investigate the effects of a $(D+1)$-dimensional global monopole core on the behavior of a quantum massive scalar field with general curvature coupling parameter. In the general case of the spherically symmetric static core, formulae are derived for the Wightman function, for the vacuum expectation values of the field square and the energy-momentum tensor in the exterior region. These expectation values are presented as the sum of point-like global monopole part and the core induced one. The asymptotic behavior of the core induced vacuum densities is investigated at large distances from the core, near the core and for small values of the solid angle corresponding to strong gravitational fields. In particular, in the latter case we show that the behavior of the vacuum densities is drastically different for minimally and non-minimally coupled fields. As an application of general results the flower-pot model for the monopole's core is considered and the expectation values inside the core are evaluated.

id: hep-th/0607082
title: Physical limits on information processing
authors: Stephen D.H. Hsu
comments: 2 pages, revtex, version to appear in Physics Letters B (reference added)
journal: Phys.Lett. B641 (2006) 99-100
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0607082
abstract: We derive a fundamental upper bound on the rate at which a device can process information (i.e., the number of logical operations per unit time), arising from quantum mechanics and general relativity. In Planck units a device of volume V can execute no more than the cube root of V operations per unit time. We compare this to the rate of information processing performed by nature in the evolution of physical systems, and find a connection to black hole entropy and the holographic principle.

id: hep-th/0607133
title: Compactified Strings as Quantum Statistical Partition Function on the Jacobian Torus
authors: Marco Matone, Paolo Pasti, Sergey Shadchin, Roberto Volpato
comments: 10 pages, typos corrected, minor changes; to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.97:261601,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0607133
abstract: We show that the solitonic contribution of compactified strings corresponds to the quantum statistical partition function of a free particle living on higher dimensional spaces. In the simplest case of a compactification in a circle, the Hamiltonian corresponds to the Laplacian on the 2g-dimensional Jacobian torus associated to the genus g Riemann surface corresponding to the string worldsheet. T-duality leads to a symmetry of the partition function mixing time and temperature. Such a classical/quantum correspondence and T-duality shed some light on the well-known interplay between time and temperature in QFT and classical statistical mechanics.

id: hep-th/0607144
title: Black Holes with Flavors of Quantum Hair?
authors: Gia Dvali
comments: 22 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0607144
abstract: We show that black holes can posses a long-range quantum hair of super-massive tensor fields, which can be detected by Aharonov-Bohm tabletop interference experiments, in which a quantum-hairy black hole, or a remnant particle, passes through the loop of a magnetic solenoid. The long distance effect does not decouple for an arbitrarily high mass of the hair-providing field. Because Kaluza-Klein and String theories contain infinite number of massive tensor fields, we study black holes with quantum Kaluza-Klein hair. We show that in five dimensions such a black hole can be interpreted as a string of `combed' generalized magnetic monopoles, with their fluxes confined along it. For the compactification on a translation-invariant circle, this substructure uncovers hidden flux conservation and quantization of the monopole charges, which constrain the quantum hair of the resulting four-dimensional black hole. For the spin-2 quantum hair this result is somewhat unexpected, since the constituent `magnetic' charges have no `electric' counterparts. Nevertheless, the information about their quantization is encoded in singularity.

id: hep-th/0607154
title: Local and Global Casimir Energies for a Semitransparent Cylindrical Shell
authors: Ines Cavero-Pelaez, Kimball A. Milton, Klaus Kirsten
comments: 28 pages, REVTeX, no figures. Appendix added on perturbative divergences
journal: J.Phys.A40:3607-3632,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0607154
abstract: The local Casimir energy density and the global Casimir energy for a massless scalar field associated with a $\lambda\delta$-function potential in a 3+1 dimensional circular cylindrical geometry are considered. The global energy is examined for both weak and strong coupling, the latter being the well-studied Dirichlet cylinder case. For weak-coupling,through $\mathcal{O}(\lambda^2)$, the total energy is shown to vanish by both analytic and numerical arguments, based both on Green's-function and zeta-function techniques. Divergences occurring in the calculation are shown to be absorbable by renormalization of physical parameters of the model. The global energy may be obtained by integrating the local energy density only when the latter is supplemented by an energy term residing precisely on the surface of the cylinder. The latter is identified as the integrated local energy density of the cylindrical shell when the latter is physically expanded to have finite thickness. Inside and outside the delta-function shell, the local energy density diverges as the surface of the shell is approached; the divergence is weakest when the conformal stress tensor is used to define the energy density. A real global divergence first occurs in $\mathcal{O}(\lambda^3)$, as anticipated, but the proof is supplied here for the first time; this divergence is entirely associated with the surface energy, and does {\em not} reflect divergences in the local energy density as the surface is approached.

id: hep-th/0607170
title: Information paradox and black hole final state for fermions
authors: Doyeol Ahn
comments: minor typos are corrected
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0607170
abstract: The black hole information paradox is the result of contradiction between Hawking's semi-classical argument, which dictates that the quantum coherence should be lost during the black hole evaporation and the fundamental principles of quantum mechanics, the evolution of pure states to pure states. For over three decades, this contradiction has been one of the major obstacles to the ultimate unification of quantum mechanics and general relativity. Recently, a final-state boundary condition inside the black hole was proposed to resolve this contradiction for bosons. However, no such a remedy exists for fermions yet even though Hawking effect for fermions has been studied for sometime. Here, I report that the black hole information paradox can be resolved for the fermions by imposing a final state boundary condition, which resembles local measurement with post selection. In this scenario, the evaporation can be seen as the post selection determined by random unitary transformation. It is also found that the evaporation processes strongly depends on the boundary condition at the event horizon. This approach may pave the way towards the unified theory for the resolution of information paradox and beyond.

id: hep-th/0607210
title: Quantum-classical interactions through the path integral
authors: Dimitrios Metaxas
comments: 16 pages, LaTeX, 1 fig, final version to appear in PRD
journal: Phys.Rev.D75:065023,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0607210
abstract: I consider the case of two interacting scalar fields, \phi and \psi, and use the path integral formalism in order to treat the first classically and the second quantum-mechanically. I derive the Feynman rules and the resulting equation of motion for the classical field, which should be an improvement of the usual semi-classical procedure. As an application I use this method in order to enforce Gauss's law as a classical equation in a non-abelian gauge theory. I argue that the theory is renormalizable and equivalent to the usual Yang-Mills as far as the gauge field terms are concerned. There are additional terms in the effective action that depend on the Lagrange multiplier field \lambda that is used to enforce the constraint. These terms and their relation to the confining properties of the theory are discussed.

id: math-ph/0607019
title: Properties of probability measures on the set of quantum states and their applications
authors: M.E.Shirokov
comments: 19 pages; completely revised version, several new results have been added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0607019
abstract: Two basic properties of the set of all probability measures on the set of quantum states and their corollaries are considered. Several applications of these properties to analysis of functional constructions widely used in quantum information theory are discussed.

id: math-ph/0607035
title: Lorentz Group applicable to Finite Crystals
authors: Sibel Baskal, Elena Georgieva, Y. S. Kim
comments: LaTex 5 pages, presented at 26th International Colloquium on Group Theoretical Methods in Physics (New York, June 2006)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0607035
abstract: The two-by-two scattering matrix for one-dimensional scattering processes is a three-parameter Sp(2) matrix or its unitary equivalent. For one-dimensional crystals, it would be repeated applications of this matrix. The problem is how to calculate N repeated multiplications of this matrix. It is shown that the original Sp(2) matrix can be written as a similarity transformation of Wigner's little group matrix which can be diagonalized. It is then possible to calculate the repeated applications of the original Sp(2) matrix.

id: math-ph/0607064
title: Invariant integration over the orthogonal group
authors: Daniel Braun
comments: 13 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 14581-14590
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0607064
abstract: I adapt a recently introduced method for integrating over the unitary group (S. Aubert and C.S. Lam, J.Math.Phys. 44, 6112-6131 (2003)) to the orthogonal group. I derive explicit formulas for a number of one, two and three-vector integrals, as well as recursion formulas for more complicated cases.

id: math/0607377
title: Towards a skew lattice approach to quantum (computational) logic
authors: Karin Cvetko-Vah
comments: The paper has been remowed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Logic (math.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0607377
abstract: In quantum mechanics, each observable is assigned a collection of projections. Two observables are compatible (can be measured simultaneously) if and only if any two projections that are assigned to them commute. This led to the study of noncommuting sets of idempotents which further led to the skew lattice theory that was founded and explored by Jonathan Leech. In the present paper we shall see how noncommuting projections can be regarded as generators of a skew lattice.

id: nlin/0607035
title: Resonance-assisted decay of nondispersive wave packets
authors: Sandro Wimberger, Peter Schlagheck, Christopher Eltschka, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 043001 (2006)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0607035
abstract: We present a quantitative semiclassical theory for the decay of nondispersive electronic wave packets in driven, ionizing Rydberg systems. Statistically robust quantities are extracted combining resonance assisted tunneling with subsequent transport across chaotic phase space and a final ionization step.

id: nlin/0607038
title: Wave packet autocorrelation functions for quantum hard-disk and hard-sphere billiards in the high-energy, diffraction regime
authors: Arseni Goussev, J. R. Dorfman
comments: 24 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 74, 016204 (2006)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0607038
abstract: We consider the time evolution of a wave packet representing a quantum particle moving in a geometrically open billiard that consists of a number of fixed hard-disk or hard-sphere scatterers. Using the technique of multiple collision expansions we provide a first-principle analytical calculation of the time-dependent autocorrelation function for the wave packet in the high-energy diffraction regime, in which the particle's de Broglie wave length, while being small compared to the size of the scatterers, is large enough to prevent the formation of geometric shadow over distances of the order of the particle's free flight path. The hard-disk or hard-sphere scattering system must be sufficiently dilute in order for this high-energy diffraction regime to be achievable. Apart from the overall exponential decay, the autocorrelation function exhibits a generally complicated sequence of relatively strong peaks corresponding to partial revivals of the wave packet. Both the exponential decay (or escape) rate and the revival peak structure are predominantly determined by the underlying classical dynamics. A relation between the escape rate, and the Lyapunov exponents and Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy of the counterpart classical system, previously known for hard-disk billiards, is strengthened by generalization to three spatial dimensions. The results of the quantum mechanical calculation of the time-dependent autocorrelation function agree with predictions of the semiclassical periodic orbit theory.

id: physics/0607141
title: Time-frequency Domain Analogues of Phase Space Sub-Planck Structures
authors: Ludmila Praxmeyer, Piotr Wasylczyk, Czeslaw Radzewicz, Krzysztof Wodkiewicz
comments: New title, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 063901 (2007)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0607141
abstract: We present experimental data of the frequency resolved optical gating (FROG) measurements of light pulses revealing interference features corresponding to sub-Planck structures in phase space. For superpositions of pulses a small, sub-Fourier shift in the carrier frequency leads to a state orthogonal to the initial one, although in the representation of standard time-frequency distributions these states seem to have a nonvanishing overlap.

id: physics/0607195
title: High-resolution, large dynamic range fiber length measurement based on frequency-shifted asymmetrical Sagnac interferometer
authors: Bing Qi, Andrew Tausz, Li Qian, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 3 pages
journal: Optics Letters Vol.30 pp3287-3289 (2005)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0607195
abstract: We propose and experimentally demonstrate a single-mode fiber length and dispersion measurement system based on a novel frequency-shifted asymmetric Sagnac interferometer incorporating an acousto-optic modulator (AOM). By sweeping the driving frequency of the AOM, which is asymmetrically placed in the Sagnac loop, the optical length of the fiber can be determined by measuring the corresponding variation in the phase delay between the two counter-propagating light beams. Combined with a high-resolution data processing algorithm, this system yields a dynamic range from a few centimeters to 60km (limited only by our availability of long fibers) with a resolution about 1ppm for long fibers.

