id: quant-ph/0607092
title: Quantum walks with random phase shifts
authors: Jozef Kosik, Vladimir Buzek, Mark Hillery
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. A (10 pages, 5 figures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607092
abstract: We investigate quantum walks in multiple dimensions with different quantum coins. We augment the model by assuming that at each step the amplitudes of the coin state are multiplied by random phases. This model enables us to study in detail the role of decoherence in quantum walks and to investigate the quantum-to-classical transition. We also provide classical analogues of the quantum random walks studied. Interestingly enough, it turns out that the classical counterparts of some quantum random walks are classical random walks with a memory and biased coin. In addition random phase shifts "simplify" the dynamics (the cross interference terms of different paths vanish on average) and enable us to give a compact formula for the dispersion of such walks.

id: quant-ph/0607107
title: Degradation of a quantum directional reference frame as a random walk
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Terry Rudolph, Barry C. Sanders, Peter S. Turner
comments: 5 pages, no figures. Comments are welcome. v2: several changes to clarify the key results. v3: journal reference added, acknowledgements and references updated
journal: J. Mod. Opt., 54, 2211 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607107
abstract: We investigate if the degradation of a quantum directional reference frame through repeated use can be modeled as a classical direction undergoing a random walk on a sphere. We demonstrate that the behaviour of the fidelity for a degrading quantum directional reference frame, defined as the average probability of correctly determining the orientation of a test system, can be fit precisely using such a model. Physically, the mechanism for the random walk is the uncontrollable back-action on the reference frame due to its use in a measurement of the direction of another system. However, we find that the magnitude of the step size of this random walk is not given by our classical model and must be determined from the full quantum description.

id: quant-ph/0607143
title: Conditional Quantum Walk and Iterated Quantum Games
authors: G. Abal, R. Donangelo, H. Fort
comments: Revtex 4, 6 pages, 3 figures. Expanded version with one more figure and updated references. Abstract was rewritten
journal: Physica A, 387, pp 5326-5332, 2008.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607143
abstract: Iterated bipartite quantum games are implemented in terms of the discrete-time quantum walk on the line. Our proposal allows for conditional strategies, as two rational agents make a choice from a restricted set of two-qubit unitary operations. Several frequently used classical strategies give rise to families of corresponding quantum strategies. A quantum version of the Prisoner's Dilemma in which both players use mixed strategies is presented as a specific example. Since there are now quantum walk physical implementations at a proof-of principle stage, this connection may represent a step towards the experimental realization of quantum games.

id: quant-ph/0607146
title: Sub-ballistic behaviour of the Quantum Kicked Rotor
authors: A. Romanelli, A. Auyuanet, R. Siri, V. Micenmacher
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys Lett. A 365, 200 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607146
abstract: We study the resonances of the quantum kicked rotor subjected to an excitation that follows an aperiodic Fibonacci prescription. In such a case the secondary resonances show a sub-ballistic behaviour like the quantum walk with the same aperiodic prescription for the coin. The principal resonances maintain the well-known ballistic behaviour. Then the parallelism previusly established between the kicked rotor and the generalized quantum walk is retained only with the secondary resonances.

id: quant-ph/0607188
title: Symmetries and noise in quantum walk
authors: C.M. Chandrashekar, R. Srikanth, Subhashish Banerjee
comments: 19 pages, 24 figures : V3 - Revised version to appear in Phys. Rev. A. - new section on quantum walk in a cycle included
journal: Phys. Rev. A . 76, 022316 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0607188
abstract: We study some discrete symmetries of unbiased (Hadamard) and biased quantum walk on a line, which are shown to hold even when the quantum walker is subjected to environmental effects. The noise models considered in order to account for these effects are the phase flip, bit flip and generalized amplitude damping channels. The numerical solutions are obtained by evolving the density matrix, but the persistence of the symmetries in the presence of noise is proved using the quantum trajectories approach. We also briefly extend these studies to quantum walk on a cycle. These investigations can be relevant to the implementation of quantum walks in various known physical systems. We discuss the implementation in the case of NMR quantum information processor and ultra cold atoms.

