id: quant-ph/0608001
title: Unconditional security at a low cost
authors: Xiongfeng Ma
comments: Accepted by International Conference on Quantum Foundation and Technology: Frontier and Future 2006 (ICQFT'06)
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 74, 052325 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608001
abstract: By simulating four quantum key distribution (QKD) experiments and analyzing one decoy-state QKD experiment, we compare two data post-processing schemes based on security against individual attack by L\"{u}tkenhaus, and unconditional security analysis by Gottesman-Lo-L\"{u}tkenhaus-Preskill. Our results show that these two schemes yield close performances. Since the Holy Grail of QKD is its unconditional security, we conclude that one is better off considering unconditional security, rather than restricting to individual attacks.

id: quant-ph/0608002
title: Relation between quantum tunneling times for bosons
authors: C.A. Bonin, J.T. Lunardi, L.A. Manzoni, B.M. Pimentel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608002
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors

id: quant-ph/0608003
title: Proposed experiment to test the non-locality hypothesis in transient light-interference phenomena
authors: Masanori Sato
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Annales de la Foundation Lois de Broglie, 33, 307, (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608003
abstract: The transient phenomena of the Mach-Zender interferometer are discussed. To test the non-locality hypothesis, a single mode laser with a large coherence length is used. The behavior of a photon and its wave packets in the paths of the interferometer are discussed. Coherent photons have wave packets that overlap, thus their interference pattern is influenced by the overlap of the wave packets of other photons in transient phenomena. The proposed transient light-interference experiment will provide experimental data testing the non-locality hypothesis.

id: quant-ph/0608004
title: Limitations on entropic Bell inequalities
authors: Ian T. Durham
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608004
abstract: The derivation of Bell inequalities in terms of quantum statistical (thermodynamic) entropies is considered. Inequalities of the Wigner form are derived but shown to be extremely limiting in their applicability due to the nature of the density matrices involved. This also helps to identify a limitation in the Cerf-Adami inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0608005
title: Analysis of an experimental quantum logic gate by complementary classical operations
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Ryo Okamoto, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure, 3 tables, Brief Review for Modern Physics Letters A, includes a more detailed analysis of the experimental data in Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 210506 (2005) (quant-ph/0506263). v2 has minor corrections in layout
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 21, 1837 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608005
abstract: Quantum logic gates can perform calculations much more efficiently than their classical counterparts. However, the level of control needed to obtain a reliable quantum operation is correspondingly higher. In order to evaluate the performance of experimental quantum gates, it is therefore necessary to identify the essential features that indicate quantum coherent operation. In this paper, we show that an efficient characterization of an experimental device can be obtained by investigating the classical logic operations on a pair of complementary basis sets. It is then possible to obtain reliable predictions about the quantum coherent operations of the gate such as entanglement generation and Bell state discrimination even without performing these operations directly.

id: quant-ph/0608006
title: Witnessing Entanglement with Second-Order Interference and Stokes Parameters
authors: Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, Krzysztof W¨®dkiewicz
comments: 10 pages, 2 figure
journal: Acta Physica Hungarica A 26, 301 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608006
abstract: We propose to use Stokes parameter as an entanglement witness for correlated EPR mixed states of light. Such states can be generated with a beam splitter acting on two mixed squeezed states of light. Stokes witness operators are closely related to the Hanbury-Brown and Twiss interference and can be used to test entanglement in balanced homodyne experiments involving fluctuations of quantum quadratures of the electric field.

id: quant-ph/0608007
title: Quantum information becomes classical when distributed to many users
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano
comments: 4 pages, no figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 250503 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608007
abstract: Any physical transformation that equally distributes quantum information over a large number M of users can be approximated by a classical broadcasting of measurement outcomes. The accuracy of the approximation is at least of the order 1/M. In particular, quantum cloning of pure and mixed states can be approximated via quantum state estimation. As an example, for optimal qubit cloning with 10 output copies, a single user has error probability p > 0.45 in distinguishing classical from quantum output--a value close to the error probability of the random guess.

id: quant-ph/0608008
title: A Bell Theorem with no locality assumption
authors: Charles Tresser
comments: Replaces with essential changes quant-ph/0501030 that is not removed or replaced in quant-ph because it is quite different
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608008
abstract: We prove here a version of Bell Theorem that does not assume locality. As a consequence classical realism, and not locality, is the common source of the violation by nature of all Bell Inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0608009
title: Joint Spectrum Mapping of Polarization Entanglement in Spontaneous Parametric Down-conversion
authors: Hou Shun Poh, Chune Yang Lum, Ivan Marcikic, Antia Lamas-Linares, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 043816 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608009
abstract: Polarization-entangled photon pairs can be efficiently prepared into pure Bell states with a high fidelity via type-II spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) of narrow-band pump light. However, the use of femtosecond pump pulses to generate multi-photon states with precise timing often requires spectral filtering to maintain a high quality of polarization entanglement. This typically reduces the efficiency of photon pair collection. We experimentally map the polarization correlations of photon pairs from such a source over a range of down-converted wavelengths with a high spectral resolution and find strong polarization correlations everywhere. A spectrally dependent imbalance between contributions from the two possible decay paths of SPDC is identified as the reason for a reduction in entanglement quality observed with femtosecond pump pulses. Our spectral measurements allow to predict the polarization correlations for arbitrary filter profiles when the frequency degree of freedom of the photon pairs is ignored.

id: quant-ph/0608010
title: Simplification of additivity conjecture in quantum information theory
authors: Motohisa Fukuda
comments: 8 pages
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol. 6, 179-186, (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608010
abstract: We simplify some conjectures in quantum information theory; the additivity of minimal output entropy, the multiplicativity of maximal output p-norm and the superadditivity of convex closure of output entropy. We construct a unital channel for a given channel so that they share the above additivity properties; we can reduce the conjectures for all channels to those for unital channels.

id: quant-ph/0608011
title: Questions and Physical Reality -Simple Philosophical considerations-
authors: Michele Caponigro, Helen Lynn
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608011
abstract: We argue, through some philosophical considerations, on (i)dependent or (ii) an independent existence of physical reality underlying quantum states. According these simple considerations, we conclude that is impossible to have a clear independent existence of physical reality, we need to search the reasons in the relationship between our questions (the observers) and the consequent answers (always estimated by the same observers). Finally, we infer that every theory is affected by our "questions", so we cannot speak about an unconditional and independent theory underlying physical reality. Plan of the paper. The existence of physical reality underlying quantum states: (i) it before bit,(ii)it without bit,(iii)it from bit.

id: quant-ph/0608012
title: Measuring Multipartite Concurrence with a Single Factorizable Observable
authors: Leandro Aolita, Florian Mintert
comments: 4 pages; no figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 050501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608012
abstract: We show that, for any composite system with an arbitrary number of finite-dimensional subsystems, it is possible to directly measure the multipartite concurrence of pure states by detecting only one single factorizable observable, provided that two copies of the composite state are available. This result can be immediately put into practice in trapped-ion and entangled-photon experiments.

id: quant-ph/0608013
title: Entanglement, quantum phase transitions and quantum algorithms
authors: Roman Orus
comments: PhD Thesis, July 2006, University of Barcelona, 162 pages, compressed figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608013
abstract: The work that we present in this thesis tries to be at the crossover of quantum information science, quantum many-body physics, and quantum field theory. We use tools from these three fields to analyze problems that arise in the interdisciplinary intersection. More concretely, in Chapter 1 we consider the irreversibility of renormalization group flows from a quantum information perspective by using majorization theory and conformal field theory. In Chapter 2 we compute the entanglement of a single copy of a bipartite quantum system for a variety of models by using techniques from conformal field theory and Toeplitz matrices. The entanglement entropy of the so-called Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model is computed in Chapter 3, showing analogies with that of (1+1)-dimensional quantum systems. In Chapter 4 we apply the ideas of scaling of quantum correlations in quantum phase transitions to the study of quantum algorithms, focusing on Shor's factorization algorithm and quantum algorithms by adiabatic evolution solving an NP-complete and the searching problems. Also, in Chapter 5 we use techniques originally inspired by condensed-matter physics to develop classical simulations, using the so-called matrix product states, of an adiabatic quantum algorithm. Finally, in Chapter 6 we consider the behavior of some families of quantum algorithms from the perspective of majorization theory. The structure within each Chapter is such that the last section always summarizes the basic results. Some general conclusions and possible future directions are briefly discussed in Chapter 7. Appendix A, Appendix B and Appendix C respectively deal with some basic notions on majorization theory, conformal field theory, and classical complexity theory.

id: quant-ph/0608014
title: State Discrimination with Post-Measurement Information
authors: Manuel A. Ballester, Stephanie Wehner, Andreas Winter
comments: twentynine pages, no figures, equations galore. v2 thirtyone pages, one new result w.r.t. v1
journal: IEEE Trans. on Information Theory, vol 54, issue 9 (2008), pages 4183 - 4198
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608014
abstract: We introduce a new state discrimination problem in which we are given additional information about the state after the measurement, or more generally, after a quantum memory bound applies. In particular, the following special case plays an important role in quantum cryptographic protocols in the bounded storage model: Given a string x encoded in an unknown basis chosen from a set of mutually unbiased bases, you may perform any measurement, but then store at most q qubits of quantum information. Later on, you learn which basis was used. How well can you compute a function f(x) of x, given the initial measurement outcome, the q qubits and the additional basis information? We first show a lower bound on the success probability for any balanced function, and any number of mutually unbiased bases, beating the naive strategy of simply guessing the basis. We then show that for two bases, any Boolean function f(x) can be computed perfectly if you are allowed to store just a single qubit, independent of the number of possible input strings x. However, we show how to construct three bases, such that you need to store all qubits in order to compute f(x) perfectly. We then investigate how much advantage the additional basis information can give for a Boolean function. To this end, we prove optimal bounds for the success probability for the AND and the XOR function for up to three mutually unbiased bases. Our result shows that the gap in success probability can be maximal: without the basis information, you can never do better than guessing the basis, but with this information, you can compute f(x) perfectly. We also exhibit an example where the extra information does not give any advantage at all.

id: quant-ph/0608015
title: Security of coherent state quantum cryptography in the presence of Gaussian noise
authors: Matthias Heid, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures updated version including two-way communication; changed the definition of the excess noise to match the definition given earlier (Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 117901); submitted to PRA; presented at the 8th International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing, Tsukuba
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 76, 022313 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608015
abstract: We investigate the security against collective attacks of a continuous variable quantum key distribution scheme in the asymptotic key limit for a realistic setting. The quantum channel connecting the two honest parties is assumed to be lossy and imposes Gaussian noise on the observed quadrature distributions. Secret key rates are given for direct and reverse reconciliation schemes including postselection in the collective attack scenario. The effect of a non-ideal error correction and two-way communication in the classical post-processing step is also taken into account.

id: quant-ph/0608016
title: On the quantum chromatic number of a graph
authors: Peter J. Cameron, Ashley Montanaro, Michael W. Newman, Simone Severini, Andreas Winter
comments: 7 pages, 1 eps figure; revtex4. v2 has some new references; v3 furthe small improvements
journal: Electronic Journal of Combinatorics 14(1), 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608016
abstract: We investigate the notion of quantum chromatic number of a graph, which is the minimal number of colours necessary in a protocol in which two separated provers can convince an interrogator with certainty that they have a colouring of the graph. After discussing this notion from first principles, we go on to establish relations with the clique number and orthogonal representations of the graph. We also prove several general facts about this graph parameter and find large separations between the clique number and the quantum chromatic number by looking at random graphs. Finally, we show that there can be no separation between classical and quantum chromatic number if the latter is 2, nor if it is 3 in a restricted quantum model; on the other hand, we exhibit a graph on 18 vertices and 44 edges with chromatic number 5 and quantum chromatic number 4.

id: quant-ph/0608017
title: Adiabatic quantum algorithms as quantum phase transitions: first versus second order
authors: Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, Gernot Schaller
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608017
abstract: In the continuum limit (large number of qubits), adiabatic quantum algorithms display a remarkable similarity to sweeps through quantum phase transitions. We find that transitions of second or higher order are advantageous in comparison to those of first order. With this insight, we propose a novel adiabatic quantum algorithm for the solution of 3-satisfiability (3-SAT) problems (exact cover), which is significantly faster than previous proposals according to numerical simulations (up to 20 qubits). These findings suggest that adiabatic quantum algorithms can solve NP-complete problems such as 3-SAT much faster than the Grover search routine (yielding a quadratic enhancement), possibly even with an exponential speed-up. PACS: 03.67.-a, 03.67.Lx, 73.43.Nq, 64.70.-p.

id: quant-ph/0608018
title: Postselection threshold against biased noise
authors: Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 13 pages, FOCS 2006; conference version
journal: Proc. 47th FOCS, 2006, pages 420-428
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608018
abstract: The highest current estimates for the amount of noise a quantum computer can tolerate are based on fault-tolerance schemes relying heavily on postselecting on no detected errors. However, there has been no proof that these schemes give even a positive tolerable noise threshold. A technique to prove a positive threshold, for probabilistic noise models, is presented. The main idea is to maintain strong control over the distribution of errors in the quantum state at all times. This distribution has correlations which conceivably could grow out of control with postselection. But in fact, the error distribution can be written as a mixture of nearby distributions each satisfying strong independence properties, so there are no correlations for postselection to amplify.

id: quant-ph/0608019
title: Classical search algorithm with resonances in $\sqrt{N}$ cycles
authors: A. Romanelli, R. Donangelo
comments: 
journal: Physica A 383, 309 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608019
abstract: In this work we use the wave equation to obtain a classical analog of the quantum search algorithm and we verify that the essence of search algorithms resides in the establishment of resonances between the initial and the serched states. In particular we show that, within a set of $N$ vibration modes, it is possible to excite the searched mode in a number of steps proportional to $\sqrt N$.

id: quant-ph/0608020
title: Damped Population Oscillation in a Spontaneously Decaying Two-Level Atom Coupled to a Monochromatic Field
authors: Sun Kyung Lee, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608020
abstract: We investigate the time evolution of atomic population in a two-level atom driven by a monochromatic radiation field, taking spontaneous emission into account. The Rabi oscillation exhibits amplitude damping in time caused by spontaneous emission. We show that the semiclassical master equation leads in general to an overestimation of the damping rate and that a correct quantitative description of the damped Rabi oscillation can thus be obtained only with a full quantum mechanical theory.

id: quant-ph/0608021
title: Reduced coherence in double-slit diffraction of neutrons
authors: R. Tumulka, A. Viale, N. Zanghi
comments: 4 pages LaTeX, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 055602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608021
abstract: In diffraction experiments with particle beams, several effects lead to a fringe visibility reduction of the interference pattern. We theoretically describe the intensity one can measure in a double-slit setup and compare the results with the experimental data obtained with cold neutrons. Our conclusion is that for cold neutrons the fringe visibility reduction is due not to decoherence, but to initial incoherence.

id: quant-ph/0608022
title: Statistical analysis on testing of an entangled state based on Poisson distribution framework
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Akihisa Tomita, Keiji Matsumoto
comments: This paper is an extended version of the theoretical part of v1 of quant-ph/0603254.quant-ph/0603254 is revised so that it is more familiar to experimentalists
journal: New J. Phys., 10, 043029, (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608022
abstract: A hypothesis testing scheme for entanglement has been formulated based on the Poisson distribution framework instead of the POVM framework. Three designs were proposed to test the entangled states in this framework. The designs were evaluated in terms of the asymptotic variance. It has been shown that the optimal time allocation between the coincidence and anti-coincidence measurement bases improves the conventional testing method. The test can be further improved by optimizing the time allocation between the anti-coincidence bases.

id: quant-ph/0608023
title: Impossibility of Probabilistic splitting of quantum information
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, B.S.Choudhury
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608023
abstract: We know that we cannot split the information encoded in two non-orthogonal qubits into complementary parts deterministically. Here we show that each of the copies of the state randomly selected from a set of non orthogonal linearly independent states, splitting of quantum information can not be done even probabilistically. Here in this work we also show that under certain restricted conditions, we can probabilistically split the quantum information encoded in a qubit.

id: quant-ph/0608024
title: Quamtumness, Generalized Spherical 2-Design and Symmetric Informationally Complete POVM
authors: Isaac H. Kim
comments: 8 pages, accepted to QIC
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp Vol. 7, No. 8 (2007) 730--737
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608024
abstract: C. A. Fuchs and M. Sasaki defined the quantumness of a set of quantum states in \cite{Quantumness}, which is closely related to the fidelity loss in transmission of the quantum states through a classical channel. In \cite{Fuchs}, Fuchs showed that in $d$-dimensional Hilbert space, minimum quantumness is $\frac{2}{d+1}$, and this can be achieved by all rays in the space. He left an open problem, asking whether fewer than $d^2$ states can achieve this bound. Recently, in a different context, A. J. Scott introduced a concept of generalized $t$-design in \cite{GenSphet}, which is a natural generalization of spherical $t$-design. In this paper, we show that the lower bound on the quantumness can be achieved if and only if the states form a generalized 2-design. As a corollary, we show that this bound can be only achieved if the number of states are larger or equal to $d^2$, answering the open problem. Furthermore, we also show that the minimal set of such ensemble is Symmetric Informationally Complete POVM(SIC-POVM). This leads to an equivalence relation between SIC-POVM and minimal set of ensemble achieving minimal quantumness.

id: quant-ph/0608025
title: Quantum mechanics is a relativity theory
authors: L¨¦on Brenig
comments: submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608025
abstract: Non-relativistic quantum mechanics is shown to emerge from classical mechanics through the requirement of a relativity principle based on special transformations acting on position and momentum uncertainties. These transformations keep the Heisenberg inequalities invariant and form a group. They are related to dilatations of space variables provided the quantum potential is added to the classical Hamiltonian functional. The Schr\"odinger equation appears to have a nonunitary and nonlinear companion acting in another time variable. Evolution in this time seems related to the state vector reduction.

id: quant-ph/0608026
title: Search via Quantum Walk
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Magniez, Ashwin Nayak, J¨¦r¨¦mie Roland, Miklos Santha
comments: 21 pages. Various modifications and improvements, especially in Section 4
journal: SIAM Journal on Computing, 40(1):142-164, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608026
abstract: We propose a new method for designing quantum search algorithms for finding a "marked" element in the state space of a classical Markov chain. The algorithm is based on a quantum walk \'a la Szegedy (2004) that is defined in terms of the Markov chain. The main new idea is to apply quantum phase estimation to the quantum walk in order to implement an approximate reflection operator. This operator is then used in an amplitude amplification scheme. As a result we considerably expand the scope of the previous approaches of Ambainis (2004) and Szegedy (2004). Our algorithm combines the benefits of these approaches in terms of being able to find marked elements, incurring the smaller cost of the two, and being applicable to a larger class of Markov chains. In addition, it is conceptually simple and avoids some technical difficulties in the previous analyses of several algorithms based on quantum walk.

id: quant-ph/0608027
title: Catalytic quantum error correction
authors: Todd Brun, Igor Devetak, Min-Hsiu Hsieh
comments: 30 pages, 10 figures. Notation change: [[n,k;c]] instead of [[n,k-c;c]]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608027
abstract: We develop the theory of entanglement-assisted quantum error correcting (EAQEC) codes, a generalization of the stabilizer formalism to the setting in which the sender and receiver have access to pre-shared entanglement. Conventional stabilizer codes are equivalent to dual-containing symplectic codes. In contrast, EAQEC codes do not require the dual-containing condition, which greatly simplifies their construction. We show how any quaternary classical code can be made into a EAQEC code. In particular, efficient modern codes, like LDPC codes, which attain the Shannon capacity, can be made into EAQEC codes attaining the hashing bound. In a quantum computation setting, EAQEC codes give rise to catalytic quantum codes which maintain a region of inherited noiseless qubits. We also give an alternative construction of EAQEC codes by making classical entanglement assisted codes coherent.

id: quant-ph/0608028
title: On the Security of Y-00 under Fast Correlation and Other Attacks on the Key
authors: Horace P. Yuen, Ranjith Nair
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608028
abstract: The potential weakness of the Y-00 direct encryption protocol when the encryption box ENC in Y-00 is not chosen properly is demonstrated in a fast correlation attack by S. Donnet et al in Phys. Lett. A 35, 6 (2006) 406-410. In this paper, we show how this weakness can be eliminated with a proper design of ENC. In particular, we present a Y-00 configuration that is more secure than AES under known-plaintext attack. It is also shown that under any ciphertext-only attack, full information-theoretic security on the Y-00 seed key is obtained for any ENC when proper deliberate signal randomization is employed.

id: quant-ph/0608029
title: Efficiently implementable codes for quantum key expansion
authors: Zhicheng Luo, Igor Devetak
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. The new version has the title changed, the abstract, introduction and conclusion rewritten. To appear in PRA Rapid Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608029
abstract: The Shor-Preskill proof of the security of the BB84 quantum key distribution protocol relies on the theoretical existence of good classical error-correcting codes with the ``dual-containing'' property. A practical implementation of BB84 thus requires explicit and efficiently decodable constructions of such codes, which are not known. On the other hand, modern coding theory abounds with non-dual-containing codes with excellent performance and efficient decoding algorithms. We show that the dual-containing constraint can be lifted at a small price: instead of a key distribution protocol, an efficiently implementable key expansion protocol is obtained, capable of increasing the size of a pre-shared key by a constant factor.

id: quant-ph/0608030
title: Security of quantum key distribution protocol with two-way classical communication assisted by one-time pad encryption
authors: Shun Watanabe, Ryutaroh Matsumoto, Tomohiko Uyematsu
comments: 12 pages, 2 figure, version 2 corrected typo errors, version 3 added the analysis of the key rate in the BB84 protocol
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608030
abstract: In this paper, we consider a quantum key distribution protocol (QKD) with two-way classical communication that is assisted by one-time pad encryption. We propose a two-way preprocessing that uses one-time pad encryption by previously shared secret key, and the net key rate of the QKD with proposed preprocessing exceeds the key rate of the QKD without it. The preprocessing is reduced to the entanglement distillation protocol with two-way classical communication and previously shared EPR pairs (two-way breeding protocol), and the security of QKD with the preprocessing is guaranteed in the same way as Shor and Preskill's arguments.

id: quant-ph/0608031
title: Arrival Time in Relativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong
comments: 16 pages, no figure, revised version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 1897-1905
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608031
abstract: Relativistic free-motion time-of-arrival theory for massive spin-1/2 particles is systematically developed. Contrary to the nonrelativistic time-of-arrival operator studied thoroughly in previous literatures, the relativistic time-of-arrival operator possesses self-adjoint extensions because of the particle-antiparticle symmetry. The nonrelativistic limit of our theory is in agreement with the nonrelativistic time-of-arrival theory.

id: quant-ph/0608032
title: Unconditional optimality of Gaussian attacks against continuous-variable QKD
authors: Raul Garcia-Patron, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 190503 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608032
abstract: A fully general approach to the security analysis of continuous-variable quantum key distribution (CV-QKD) is presented. Provided that the quantum channel is estimated via the covariance matrix of the quadratures, Gaussian attacks are shown to be optimal against all eavesdropping strategies, including collective and coherent attacks. The proof is made strikingly simple by combining a physical model of measurement, an entanglement-based description of CV-QKD, and a recent powerful result on the extremality of Gaussian states [Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 080502 (2006)].

id: quant-ph/0608033
title: Exact Casimir interaction between eccentric cylinders
authors: D.A.R. Dalvit, F.C. Lombardo, F.D. Mazzitelli, R. Onofrio
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 020101(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608033
abstract: The Casimir force is the ultimate background in ongoing searches of extra-gravitational forces in the micrometer range. Eccentric cylinders offer favorable experimental conditions for such measurements as spurious gravitational and electrostatic effects can be minimized. Here we report on the evaluation of the exact Casimir interaction between perfectly conducting eccentric cylinders using a mode summation technique, and study different limiting cases of relevance for Casimir force measurements, with potential implications for the understanding of mechanical properties of nanotubes.

id: quant-ph/0608034
title: Optimality of Gaussian Attacks in Continuous Variable Quantum Cryptography
authors: Miguel Navascues, Frederic Grosshans, Antonio Acin
comments: See also R. Garcia-Patron and N. Cerf, quant-ph/0608032
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608034
abstract: We analyze the asymptotic security of the family of Gaussian modulated Quantum Key Distribution protocols for Continuous Variables systems. We prove that the Gaussian unitary attack is optimal for all the considered bounds on the key rate when the first and second momenta of the canonical variables involved are known by the honest parties.

id: quant-ph/0608035
title: Quantum measurements without sums
authors: Bob Coecke, Dusko Pavlovic
comments: 41 pages and 46 pictures; earlier version circulated since November 2005 with as title "Quantum Measurements as Coalgebras"
journal: The Mathematics of Quantum Computation and Technology, pp.559-596, Chen, Kauffman and Lomonaco (eds.), Taylor and Francis, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Logic (math.LO); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608035
abstract: Sums play a prominent role in the formalisms of quantum mechanics, be it for mixing and superposing states, or for composing state spaces. Surprisingly, a conceptual analysis of quantum measurement seems to suggest that quantum mechanics can be done without direct sums, expressed entirely in terms of the tensor product. The corresponding axioms define classical spaces as objects that allow copying and deleting data. Indeed, the information exchange between the quantum and the classical worlds is essentially determined by their distinct capabilities to copy and delete data. The sums turn out to be an implicit implementation of this capabilities. Realizing it through explicit axioms not only dispenses with the unnecessary structural baggage, but also allows a simple and intuitive graphical calculus. In category-theoretic terms, classical data types are dagger-compact Frobenius algebras, and quantum spectra underlying quantum measurements are Eilenberg-Moore coalgebras induced by these Frobenius algebras.

id: quant-ph/0608036
title: Two interacting spins in external fields. Four-level systems
authors: V.G. Bagrov, M.C. Baldiotti, D.M. Gitman, A.D. Levin
comments: 14 pages
journal: AnnalenPhys.16:274-285,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608036
abstract: In the present article, we consider the so-called two-spin equation that describes four-level quantum systems. Recently, these systems attract attention due to their relation to the problem of quantum computation. We study general properties of the two-spin equation and show that the problem for certain external backgrounds can be identified with the problem of one spin in an appropriate background. This allows one to generate a number of exact solutions for two-spin equations on the basis of already known exact solutions of the one-spin equation. Besides, we present some exact solutions for the two-spin equation with an external background different for each spin but having the same direction. We study the eigenvalue problem for a time-independent spin interaction and a time-independent external background. A possible analogue of the Rabi problem for the two-spin equation is defined. We present its exact solution and demonstrate the existence of magnetic resonances in two specific frequencies, one of them coinciding with the Rabi frequency, and the other depending on the rotating field magnitude. The resonance that corresponds to the second frequency is suppressed with respect to the first one.

id: quant-ph/0608037
title: Quantum Control of a Single Qubit
authors: Agata M. Branczyk, Paulo E. M. F. Mendonca, Alexei Gilchrist, Andrew C. Doherty, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures, v2 includes new references and minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 75, 012329 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608037
abstract: Measurements in quantum mechanics cannot perfectly distinguish all states and necessarily disturb the measured system. We present and analyse a proposal to demonstrate fundamental limits on quantum control of a single qubit arising from these properties of quantum measurements. We consider a qubit prepared in one of two non-orthogonal states and subsequently subjected to dephasing noise. The task is to use measurement and feedback control to attempt to correct the state of the qubit. We demonstrate that projective measurements are not optimal for this task, and that there exists a non-projective measurement with an optimum measurement strength which achieves the best trade-off between gaining information about the system and disturbing it through measurement back-action. We study the performance of a quantum control scheme that makes use of this weak measurement followed by feedback control, and demonstrate that it realises the optimal recovery from noise for this system. We contrast this approach with various classically inspired control schemes.

id: quant-ph/0608038
title: The one dimensional Hydrogen atom revisited
authors: G. Palma, U. Raff
comments: Accepted for publication in the Canadian Journal of Physics, July 28th, 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608038
abstract: The one dimensional Schroedinger hydrogen atom is an interesting mathematical and physical problem to study bound states, eigenfunctions and quantum degeneracy issues. This 1D physical system gave rise to some intriguing controversy over more than four decades. Presently, still no definite consensus seems to have been reached. We reanalyzed this apparently controversial problem, approaching it from a Fourier transform representation method combined with some fundamental (basic) ideas found in self-adjoint extensions of symmetric operators. In disagreement with some previous claims, we found that the complete Balmer energy spectrum is obtained together with an odd parity set of eigenfunctions. Closed form solutions in both coordinate and momentum spaces were obtained. No twofold degeneracy was observed as predicted by the degeneracy theorem in one dimension, though it does not necessarily have to hold for potentials with singularities. No ground state with infinite energy exists since the corresponding eigenfunction does not satisfy the Schroedinger equation at the origin.

id: quant-ph/0608039
title: Time Optimal Unitary Operations
authors: Alberto Carlini, Akio Hosoya, Tatsuhiko Koike, Yosuke Okudaira
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. References added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042308 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608039
abstract: Extending our previous work on time optimal quantum state evolution, we formulate a variational principle for the time optimal unitary operation, which has direct relevance to quantum computation. We demonstrate our method with three examples, i.e. the swap of qubits, the quantum Fourier transform and the entangler gate, by choosing a two-qubit anisotropic Heisenberg model.

id: quant-ph/0608040
title: Local Distinguishability of Orthogonal Quantum States and Generators of SU(N)
authors: Ming-Yong Ye, Wei Jiang, Ping-Xing Chen, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: some discussions added
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 76, 032329 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608040
abstract: We investigate the possibility of distinguishing a set of mutually orthogonal multipartite quantum states by local operations and classical communication (LOCC). We connect this problem with generators of SU(N) and present a new condition that is necessary for a set of orthogonal states to be locally distinguishable. We show that even in multipartite cases there exists a systematic way to check whether the presented condition is satisfied for a given set of orthogonal states. Based on the proposed checking method, we find that LOCC cannot distinguish three mutually orthogonal states in which two of them are GHZ-like states.

id: quant-ph/0608041
title: Entanglement quantification through local observable correlations
authors: Christian Kothe, Gunnar Bj?rk
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, revised version with new proof and replaced figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012336 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608041
abstract: We present a significantly improved scheme of entanglement detection inspired by local uncertainty relations for a system consisting of two qubits. Developing the underlying idea of local uncertainty relations, namely correlations, we demonstrate that it's possible to define a measure which is invariant under local unitary transformations and which is based only on local measurements. It is quite simple to implement experimentally and it allows entanglement quantification in a certain range for mixed states and exactly for pure states, without first obtaining full knowledge (e.g. through tomography) of the state.

id: quant-ph/0608042
title: Secret quantum communication of a reference frame
authors: Giulio Chiribella, Lorenzo Maccone, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 4 pages, no figures; published version
journal: Phys. Phys, Rev. Lett. 98, 120501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608042
abstract: We propose quantum cryptographic protocols to secretly communicate a reference frame- unspeakable information in the sense it cannot be encoded into a string of bits. Two distant parties can secretly align their Cartesian axes by exchanging N spin 1/2 particles, achieving the optimal accuracy 1/N. A possible eavesdropper cannot gain any information without being detected.

id: quant-ph/0608043
title: Efficient Photoionization-Loading of Trapped Cadmium Ions with Ultrafast Pulses
authors: L. Deslauriers, M. Acton, B. B. Blinov, K.-A. Brickman, P. C. Haljan, W. K. Hensinger, D. Hucul, S. Katnik, R. N. Kohn, Jr., P. J. Lee, M. J. Madsen, P. Maunz, S. Olmschenk, D. L. Moehring, D. Stick, J. Sterk, M. Yeo, K. C. Younge, C. Monroe
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608043
abstract: Atomic cadmium ions are loaded into radiofrequency ion traps by photoionization of atoms in a cadmium vapor with ultrafast laser pulses. The photoionization is driven through an intermediate atomic resonance with a frequency-quadrupled mode-locked Ti:Sapphire laser that produces pulses of either 100 fsec or 1 psec duration at a central wavelength of 229 nm. The large bandwidth of the pulses photoionizes all velocity classes of the Cd vapor, resulting in high loading efficiencies compared to previous ion trap loading techniques. Measured loading rates are compared with a simple theoretical model, and we conclude that this technique can potentially ionize every atom traversing the laser beam within the trapping volume. This may allow the operation of ion traps with lower levels of background pressures and less trap electrode surface contamination. The technique and laser system reported here should be applicable to loading most laser-cooled ion species.

id: quant-ph/0608044
title: Universal Mixing of Quantum Walk on Graphs
authors: W. Carlson, A. Ford, E. Harris, J. Rosen, C. Tamon, K. Wrobel
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 7(8):738-751, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608044
abstract: We study the set of probability distributions visited by a continuous-time quantum walk on graphs. An edge-weighted graph G is universal mixing if the instantaneous or average probability distribution of the quantum walk on G ranges over all probability distributions on the vertices as the weights are varied over non-negative reals. The graph is uniform mixing if it visits the uniform distribution. Our results include the following: (a) All weighted complete multipartite graphs are instantaneous universal mixing. This is in contrast to the fact that no unweighted complete multipartite graphs are uniform mixing (except for the four-cycle). (b) The weighted claw or star graph is a minimally connected instantaneous universal mixing graph. In fact, as a corollary, the unweighted claw is instantaneous uniform mixing. This adds a new family of uniform mixing graphs to a list that so far contains only the hypercubes. (c) Any weighted graph is average almost-uniform mixing unless its spectral type is sublinear in the size of the graph. This provides a nearly tight characterization for average uniform mixing on circulant graphs. (d) No weighted graphs are average universal mixing. This shows that weights do not help to achieve average universal mixing, unlike the instantaneous case. Our proofs exploit the spectra of the underlying weighted graphs and path collapsing arguments.

id: quant-ph/0608045
title: Quantum Error Correcting Subsystems are Unitarily Recoverable Subsystems
authors: David W. Kribs, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: Physical Review A, to appear, 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042329 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608045
abstract: We show that every correctable subsystem for an arbitrary noise operation can be recovered by a unitary operation, where the notion of recovery is more relaxed than the notion of correction insofar as it does not protect the subsystem from subsequent iterations of the noise. We also demonstrate that in the case of unital noise operations one can identify a subset of all correctable subsystems -- those that can be corrected by a single unitary operation -- as the noiseless subsystems for the composition of the noise operation with its dual. Using the recently developed structure theory for noiseless subsystems, the identification of such unitarily correctable subsystems is reduced to an algebraic exercise.

id: quant-ph/0608046
title: On derivation of Wigner distribution function
authors: Siamak Khademi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608046
abstract: Wigner distribution function has much importance in quantum statistical mechanics. It finds applications in various disciplines of physics including condense matter, quantum optics, to name but a few. Wigner distribution function is introduced by E. Wigner in 1932. However, there is no analytical derivation of Wigner distribution function in the literatures, to date. In this paper, a simple analytical derivation of Wigner distribution function is presented. Our derivation is based on two assumptions, these are A) by taking the integral of Wigner distribution function, with respect to configuration space, the momentum space distribution function is obtained B) WDF is real. Similarly, and in addition to Wigner distribution function, the distribution function of Sobouti-Nasiri, which is imaginary, is also derived.

id: quant-ph/0608047
title: Quantum Interference of Photon Pairs from Two Trapped Atomic Ions
authors: P. Maunz, D. L. Moehring, M. J. Madsen, R. N. Kohn Jr., K. C. Younge, C. Monroe
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608047
abstract: We collect the fluorescence from two trapped atomic ions, and measure quantum interference between photons emitted from the ions. The interference of two photons is a crucial component of schemes to entangle atomic qubits based on a photonic coupling. The ability to preserve the generated entanglement and to repeat the experiment with the same ions is necessary to implement entangling quantum gates between atomic qubits, and allows the implementation of protocols to efficiently scale to larger numbers of atomic qubits.

id: quant-ph/0608048
title: Some Non-Perturbative and Non-Linear Effects in Laser-Atom Interaction
authors: Qi-Ren Zhang
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608048
abstract: We show that if the laser is intense enough, it may always ionize an atom or induce transitions between discrete energy levels of the atom, no matter what is its frequency. It means in the quantum transition of an atom interacting with an intense laser of circular frequency $\omega$, the energy difference between the initial and the final states of the atom is not necessarily being an integer multiple of the quantum energy $\hbar\omega$. The absorption spectra become continuous. The Bohr condition is violated. The energy of photoelectrons becomes light intensity dependent in the intense laser photoelectric effect. The transition probabilities and cross sections of photo-excitations and photo-ionizations are laser intensity dependent, showing that these processes cannot be reduced to the results of interactions between the atom and separate individual photons, they are rather the processes of the atom interacting with the laser as a whole. The interaction of photons on atoms are not simply additive. The effects are non-perturbative and non-linear. Some numerical results for processes between hydrogen atom and intense circularly polarized laser, illustrating the non-perturbative and non-linear character of the atom-laser interaction, are given.

id: quant-ph/0608049
title: Locality and the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger Theorem
authors: A. Fahmi, M. Golshani
comments: 9 pages, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608049
abstract: In all local realistic theories worked out till now, locality is considered as a basic assumption. Most people in the field consider the inconsistency between local realistic theories and quantum mechanics to be a result of non-local nature of quantum mechanics. In this Paper, we derive the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger type theorem for particles with instantaneous (non-local) interactions at the hidden-variable level. Then, we show that the previous contradiction still exists between quantum mechanics and non-local hidden variable models.

id: quant-ph/0608050
title: On the classification of pure multipartite states
authors: Itamar Pitowsky
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608050
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to an error.

id: quant-ph/0608051
title: Excitation and Entanglement Transfer Near Quantum Critical Points
authors: Michael J. Hartmann, Moritz E. Reuter, Martin B. Plenio
comments: submitted to Optics and Spectroscopy special issue for ICQO'2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608051
abstract: Recently, there has been growing interest in employing condensed matter systems such as quantum spin or harmonic chains as quantum channels for short distance communication. Many properties of such chains are determined by the spectral gap between their ground and excited states. In particular this gap vanishes at critical points of quantum phase transitions. In this article we study the relation between the transfer speed and quality of such a system and the size of its spectral gap. We find that the transfer is almost perfect but slow for large spectral gaps and fast but rather inefficient for small gaps.

id: quant-ph/0608052
title: Entanglement generation by Fock-state filtration
authors: K. J. Resch, J. L. O'Brien, T. J. Weinhold, K. Sanaka, A. G. White
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 98, 203602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608052
abstract: We demonstrate a Fock-state filter which is capable of preferentially blocking single photons over photon pairs. The large conditional nonlinearities are based on higher-order quantum interference, using linear optics, an ancilla photon, and measurement. We demonstrate that the filter acts coherently by using it to convert unentangled photon pairs to a path-entangled state. We quantify the degree of entanglement by transforming the path information to polarisation information, applying quantum state tomography we measure a tangle of T=(20+/-9)%.

id: quant-ph/0608053
title: Purifying and Reversible Physical Processes
authors: Matthias Kleinmann, Hermann Kampermann, Tim Meyer, Dagmar Bruss
comments: 5 pages, no figures, v2: only minimal changes
journal: Appl. Phys. B 86, 371 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608053
abstract: Starting from the observation that reversible processes cannot increase the purity of any input state, we study deterministic physical processes, which map a set of states to a set of pure states. Such a process must map any state to the same pure output, if purity is demanded for the input set of all states. But otherwise, when the input set is restricted, it is possible to find non-trivial purifying processes. For the most restricted case of only two input states, we completely characterize the output of any such map. We furthermore consider maps, which combine the property of purity and reversibility on a set of states, and we derive necessary and sufficient conditions on sets, which permit such processes.

id: quant-ph/0608054
title: Effective Mass Schrodinger Equation for Exactly Solvable Class of One-Dimensional Potentials
authors: Metin Aktas, Ramazan Sever
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Math. Chem. 43, 92(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608054
abstract: We deal with the exact solutions of Schrodinger equation characterized by position-dependent effective mass via point canonical transformations. The Morse, Poschl-Teller and Hulthen type potentials are considered respectively. With the choice of position-dependent mass forms, exactly solvable target potentials are constructed. Their energy of the bound states and corresponding wavefunctions are determined exactly.

id: quant-ph/0608055
title: Demonstrating multipartite entanglement of single-particle W states: linear optical schemes
authors: Hyunchul Nha, Jaewan Kim
comments: 5.5 pages, 2 figures, published version with slight modifications
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012326 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608055
abstract: We present two linear optical schemes using nonideal photodetectors to demonstrate inseparability of W-type N-partite entangled states containing only a single photon. First, we show that the pairwise entanglement of arbitrary two modes chosen from N optical modes can be detected using the method proposed by Nha and Kim [Phys. Rev. A 74, 012317 (2006)], thereby suggesting the full inseparability among N parties. In particular, this scheme is found to succeed for any nonzero quantum efficiency of photodetectors. Second, we consider a quantum teleportation network using linear optics without auxiliary modes. The conditional teleportation can be optimized by a suitable choice of the transmittance of the beam splitter in the Bell measurement. Specifically, we identify the conditions under which maximum fidelity larger than classical bound 2/3 is achieved only in cooperation with other parties. We also investigate the case of on-off photodetectors that cannot discriminate the number of detected photons.

id: quant-ph/0608056
title: Entanglement and Symmetry: A Case Study in Superselection Rules, Reference Frames, and Beyond
authors: S. J. Jones, H. M. Wiseman, S. D. Bartlett, J. A. Vaccaro, D. T. Pope
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures. v2 updated version published in Phys Rev A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062313 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608056
abstract: This paper concentrates on a particular example of a constraint imposed by superselection rules (SSRs): that which applies when the parties (Alice and Bob) cannot distinguish among certain quantum objects they have. This arises naturally in the context of ensemble quantum information processing such as in liquid NMR. We discuss how a SSR for the symmetric group can be applied, and show how the extractable entanglement can be calculated analytically in certain cases, with a maximum bipartite entanglement in an ensemble of N Bell-state pairs scaling as log(N) as N goes to infinity . We discuss the apparent disparity with the asymptotic (N >> 1) recovery of unconstrained entanglement for other sorts of superselection rules, and show that the disparity disappears when the correct notion of applying the symmetric group SSR to multiple copies is used. Next we discuss reference frames in the context of this SSR, showing the relation to the work of von Korff and Kempe [Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 260502 (2004)]. The action of a reference frame can be regarded as the analog of activation in mixed-state entanglement. We also discuss the analog of distillation: there exist states such that one copy can act as an imperfect reference frame for another copy. Finally we present an example of a stronger operational constraint, that operations must be non-collective as well as symmetric. Even under this stronger constraint we nevertheless show that Bell-nonlocality (and hence entanglement) can be demonstrated for an ensemble of N Bell-state pairs no matter how large N is. This last work is a generalization of that of Mermin [Phys. Rev. D 22, 356 (1980)].

id: quant-ph/0608057
title: Is efficiency of classical simulations of quantum dynamics related to integrability?
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Marko Znidaric
comments: 4 pages; v2. added paragraph discussing pure states
journal: Phys.Rev.E 75, 015202 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608057
abstract: Efficiency of time-evolution of quantum observables, and thermal states of quenched hamiltonians, is studied using time-dependent density matrix renormalization group method in a family of generic quantum spin chains which undergo a transition from integrable to non-integrable - quantum chaotic case as control parameters are varied. Quantum states (observables) are represented in terms of matrix-product-operators with rank D_\epsilon(t), such that evolution of a long chain is accurate within fidelity error \epsilon up to time t. We find that rank generally increases exponentially, D_\epsilon(t) \propto \exp(const t), unless the system is integrable in which case we find polynomial increase.

id: quant-ph/0608058
title: Entanglement witnesses and a loophole problem
authors: Patrick Skwara, Hermann Kampermann, Matthias Kleinmann, Dagmar Bruss
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012312 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608058
abstract: We consider a possible detector-efficiency loophole in experiments that detect entanglement via the local measurement of witness operators. Here, only local properties of the detectors are known. We derive a general threshold for the detector efficiencies which guarantees that a negative expectation value of a witness is due to entanglement, rather than to erroneous detectors. This threshold depends on the local decomposition of the witness and its measured expectation value. For two-qubit witnesses we find the local operator decomposition that is optimal with respect to closing the loophole.

id: quant-ph/0608059
title: Quantum phase transitions and quantum fidelity in free fermion graphs
authors: M. Cozzini, P. Giorda, P. Zanardi
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608059
abstract: In this paper we analyze the ground state phase diagram of a class of fermionic Hamiltonians by looking at the fidelity of ground states corresponding to slightly different Hamiltonian parameters. The Hamiltonians under investigation can be considered as the variable range generalization of the fermionic Hamiltonian obtained by the Jordan-Wigner transformation of the XY spin-chain in a transverse magnetic field. Under periodic boundary conditions, the matrices of the problem become circulant and the models are exactly solvable. Their free-ends counterparts are instead analyzed numerically. In particular, we focus on the long range model corresponding to a fully connected directed graph, providing asymptotic results in the thermodynamic limit, as well as the finite-size scaling analysis of the second order quantum phase transitions of the system. A strict relation between fidelity and single particle spectrum is demonstrated, and a peculiar gapful transition due to the long range nature of the coupling is found. A comparison between fidelity and another transition marker borrowed from quantum information i.e., single site entanglement, is also considered.

id: quant-ph/0608060
title: Classical simulation versus universality in measurement based quantum computation
authors: M. Van den Nest, W. D¨¹r, G. Vidal, H. J. Briegel
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012337 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608060
abstract: We investigate for which resource states an efficient classical simulation of measurement based quantum computation is possible. We show that the Schmidt--rank width, a measure recently introduced to assess universality of resource states, plays a crucial role in also this context. We relate Schmidt--rank width to the optimal description of states in terms of tree tensor networks and show that an efficient classical simulation of measurement based quantum computation is possible for all states with logarithmically bounded Schmidt--rank width (with respect to the system size). For graph states where the Schmidt--rank width scales in this way, we efficiently construct the optimal tree tensor network descriptions, and provide several examples. We highlight parallels in the efficient description of complex systems in quantum information theory and graph theory.

id: quant-ph/0608061
title: Lorentz transformations that entangle spins and entangle momenta
authors: Thomas F. Jordan, Anil Shaji, E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 5 Pages, 2 Figures, One new paragraph and reference added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608061
abstract: Simple examples are presented of Lorentz transformations that entangle the spins and momenta of two particles with positive mass and spin 1/2. They apply to indistinguishable particles, produce maximal entanglement from finite Lorentz transformations of states for finite momenta, and describe entanglement of spins produced together with entanglement of momenta. From the entanglements considered, no sum of entanglements is found to be unchanged.

id: quant-ph/0608062
title: The K-way negativities as entanglement measures
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: revtex, 13 pages, 6 figures, Section VII replaced by Sections VII and VIII, Figures revised and typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608062
abstract: A classification of N-partite states, based on K-way negativities (K=2 to N), is proposed. The K-way partial transpose with respect to a subsystem is defined so as to shift the focus to K-way coherences instead of K subsystems of the composite system. For an N-partite system, the fraction of K-way negativity contributing to global negativity, is obtained. After minimizing K-way negativities through local unitary qubit rotations, a combined analysis of 2-way, 3-way and global negativities is shown to provide distinct measures of genuine tripartite, W-state like and bipartite entanglement, for three qubit composite system. To illustrate the point, entanglement of three qubit GHZ class states, W-class states, three boson state and noisy states is analysed. While genuine N-partite entanglement of a composite system is generated by N-way coherences, N-partite entanglement in general can be present due to (K<N)-way coherences as well.

id: quant-ph/0608063
title: Several Classes of Concatenated Quantum Codes: Constructions and Bounds
authors: Hachiro Fujita
comments: This paper was presented in part at the IEICE Technical Meeting on Information Theory, Nagoya, Japan, March 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608063
abstract: In this paper we present several classes of asymptotically good concatenated quantum codes and derive lower bounds on the minimum distance and rate of the codes. We compare these bounds with the best-known bound of Ashikhmin--Litsyn--Tsfasman and Matsumoto. We also give a polynomial-time decoding algorithm for the codes that can decode up to one fourth of the lower bound on the minimum distance of the codes.

id: quant-ph/0608064
title: Simulation of bipartite qudit correlations
authors: Julien Degorre, Sophie Laplante, J¨¦r¨¦mie Roland
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012309 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608064
abstract: We present a protocol to simulate the quantum correlations of an arbitrary bipartite state, when the parties perform a measurement according to two traceless binary observables. We show that $\log(d)$ bits of classical communication is enough on average, where $d$ is the dimension of both systems. To obtain this result, we use the sampling approach for simulating the quantum correlations. We discuss how to use this method in the case of qudits.

id: quant-ph/0608065
title: Spin qubits in double quantum dots - entanglement versus the Kondo effect
authors: A. Ramsak, J. Mravlje, R. Zitko, J. Bonca
comments: 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74, 241305(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608065
abstract: We investigate the competition between pair entanglement of two spin qubits in double quantum dots attached to leads with various topologies and the separate entanglement of each spin with nearby electrodes. Universal behavior of entanglement is demonstrated in dependence on the mutual interactions between the spin qubits, the coupling to their environment, temperature and magnetic field. As a consequence of quantum phase transition an abrupt switch between fully entangled and unentangled states takes place when the dots are coupled in parallel.

id: quant-ph/0608066
title: Interaction-free measurement with an imperfect absorber
authors: Hiroo Azuma
comments: 6 pages, 3 eps figures, latex2e; v2: minor corrections; v3: the title is changed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 054301 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608066
abstract: In this paper, we consider interaction-free measurement (IFM) with imperfect interaction. In the IFM proposed by Kwiat et al., we assume that interaction between an absorbing object and a probe photon is imperfect, so that the photon is absorbed with probability 1-\eta (0\leq\eta\leq 1) and it passes by the object without being absorbed with probability \eta when it approaches close to the object. We derive the success probability P that we can find the object without the photon absorbed under the imperfect interaction as a power series in 1/N, and show the following result: Even if the interaction between the object and the photon is imperfect, we can let the success probability P of the IFM get close to unity arbitrarily by making the reflectivity of the beam splitter larger and increasing the number of the beam splitters. Moreover, we obtain an approximating equation of P for large N from the derived power series in 1/N.

id: quant-ph/0608067
title: When are correlations quantum? -- Verification and quantification of entanglement by simple measurements
authors: K.M.R. Audenaert, M.B. Plenio
comments: 10 pages and 4 figures, material and references added
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 266 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608067
abstract: The verification and quantification of experimentally created entanglement by simple measurements, especially between distant particles, is an important basic task in quantum processing. When composite systems are subjected to local measurements the measurement data will exhibit correlations, whether these systems are classical or quantum. Therefore, the observation of correlations in the classical measurement record does not automatically imply the presence of quantum correlations in the system under investigation. In this work we explore the question of when correlations, or other measurement data, are sufficient to guarantee the existence of a certain amount of quantum correlations in the system and when additional information, such as the degree of purity of the system, is needed to do so. Various measurement settings are discussed, both numerically and analytically. Exact results and lower bounds on the least entanglement consistent with the observations are presented. The approach is suitable both for the bi-partite and the multi-partite setting.

id: quant-ph/0608068
title: Physical implementation of holonomic quantum computation in decoherence-free subspaces with trapped ions
authors: Xin-Ding Zhang, Q. Zhang, Z. D. Wang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. A 74 (2006)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 034302 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608068
abstract: We propose a feasible scheme to achieve holonomic quantum computation in a decoherence-free subspace (DFS) with trapped ions. By the application of appropriate bichromatic laser fields on the designated ions, we are able to construct two noncommutable single-qubit gates and one controlled-phase gate using the holonomic scenario in the encoded DFS.

id: quant-ph/0608069
title: Variational collocation on finite intervals
authors: Paolo Amore, Mayra Cervantes, Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608069
abstract: In this paper we study a new family of sinc--like functions, defined on an interval of finite width. These functions, which we call ``little sinc'', are orthogonal and share many of the properties of the sinc functions. We show that the little sinc functions supplemented with a variational approach enable one to obtain accurate results for a variety of problems. We apply them to the interpolation of functions on finite domain and to the solution of the Schr\"odinger equation, and compare the performance of present approach with others.

id: quant-ph/0608070
title: Probability distributions and Gleason's Theorem
authors: Sebastian Rieder, Karl Svozil
comments: Presented at the 4th conference on Foundations of Probability and Physics, held in Vaexjoe, June 4-9, 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608070
abstract: We discuss concrete examples for frame functions and their associated density operators, as well as for non-Gleason type probability measures.

id: quant-ph/0608071
title: Generalization of Quantum Error Correction via the Heisenberg Picture
authors: Cedric Beny, Achim Kempf, David W. Kribs
comments: 5 pages, preprint version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 98, 100502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608071
abstract: We show that the theory of operator quantum error correction can be naturally generalized by allowing constraints not only on states but also on observables. The resulting theory describes the correction of algebras of observables (and may therefore suitably be called ``operator algebra quantum error correction''). In particular, the approach provides a framework for the correction of hybrid quantum-classical information and it does not require the state to be entirely in one of the corresponding subspaces or subsystems. We discuss applications to quantum teleportation and to the study of information flows in quantum interactions.

id: quant-ph/0608072
title: POVMs and Naimark's theorem without sums
authors: Bob Coecke, Eric Oliver Paquette
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608072
abstract: We provide a definition of POVM in terms of abstract tensor structure only. It is justified in two distinct manners. i. At this abstract level we are still able to prove Naimark's theorem, hence establishing a bijective correspondence between abstract POVMs and abstract projective measurements on an extended system, and this proof is moreover purely graphical. ii. Our definition coincides with the usual one for the particular case of the Hilbert space tensor product. We also point to a very useful normal form result for the classical object structure introduced in quant-ph/0608035.

id: quant-ph/0608073
title: Comment on a paper by Lapaire and Sipe
authors: Morton H. Rubin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608073
abstract: In a recent paper [quant-ph/0607008] Lapaire and Sipe argue that one can discuss interference experiments using entangled photons in terms of single photon wave functions. Furthermore, they argue that contrary to the claim of the authors of the postponed compensation experiment [2], the single photon wave functions overlap on the beam splitter when interference is observed. In this comment, we show that the claim in [2] is correct and we argue that the idea of single photon wave functions in entangled states is misleading.

id: quant-ph/0608074
title: Optimal estimation of qubit states with continuous time measurements
authors: Madalin Guta, Bas Janssens, Jonas Kahn
comments: 32 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Commun. Math. Phys
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 277, 127-160 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608074
abstract: We propose an adaptive, two steps strategy, for the estimation of mixed qubit states. We show that the strategy is optimal in a local minimax sense for the trace norm distance as well as other locally quadratic figures of merit. Local minimax optimality means that given $n$ identical qubits, there exists no estimator which can perform better than the proposed estimator on a neighborhood of size $n^{-1/2}$ of an arbitrary state. In particular, it is asymptotically Bayesian optimal for a large class of prior distributions. We present a physical implementation of the optimal estimation strategy based on continuous time measurements in a field that couples with the qubits. The crucial ingredient of the result is the concept of local asymptotic normality (or LAN) for qubits. This means that, for large $n$, the statistical model described by $n$ identically prepared qubits is locally equivalent to a model with only a classical Gaussian distribution and a Gaussian state of a quantum harmonic oscillator. The term `local' refers to a shrinking neighborhood around a fixed state $\rho_{0}$. An essential result is that the neighborhood radius can be chosen arbitrarily close to $n^{-1/4}$. This allows us to use a two steps procedure by which we first localize the state within a smaller neighborhood of radius $n^{-1/2+\epsilon}$, and then use LAN to perform optimal estimation.

id: quant-ph/0608075
title: Finite Controllability of Infinite-Dimensional Quantum Systems
authors: A.M. Bloch, R.W. Brockett, C. Rangan
comments: This is a much improved version of the paper first submitted to the arxiv in 2006 that has been under review since 2005. A shortened version of this paper has been conditionally accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions in Automatic Control (2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608075
abstract: Quantum phenomena of interest in connection with applications to computation and communication almost always involve generating specific transfers between eigenstates, and their linear superpositions. For some quantum systems, such as spin systems, the quantum evolution equation (the Schr\"{o}dinger equation) is finite-dimensional and old results on controllability of systems defined on on Lie groups and quotient spaces provide most of what is needed insofar as controllability of non-dissipative systems is concerned. However, in an infinite-dimensional setting, controlling the evolution of quantum systems often presents difficulties, both conceptual and technical. In this paper we present a systematic approach to a class of such problems for which it is possible to avoid some of the technical issues. In particular, we analyze controllability for infinite-dimensional bilinear systems under assumptions that make controllability possible using trajectories lying in a nested family of pre-defined subspaces. This result, which we call the Finite Controllability Theorem, provides a set of sufficient conditions for controllability in an infinite-dimensional setting. We consider specific physical systems that are of interest for quantum computing, and provide insights into the types of quantum operations (gates) that may be developed.

id: quant-ph/0608076
title: Spectral statistics for scaling quantum graphs
authors: Yu. Dabaghian
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608076
abstract: The explicit solution to the spectral problem of quantum graphs is used to obtain the exact distributions of several spectral statistics, such as the oscillations of the quantum momentum eigenvalues around the average, $\delta k_{n}=k_{n}-\bar k_{n}$, and the nearest neighbor separations, $s_{n}=k_{n}-k_{n-1}$.

id: quant-ph/0608077
title: Universal potential barrier penetration by initially confined wavepackets
authors: Er'el Granot, Avi Marchewka
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608077
abstract: The dynamics of an initially sharp-boundary wavepacket in the presence of an arbitrary potential barrier are investigated. It is shown that the penetration through the barrier is universal in the sense that it depends only on the values of the wavefunction and its derivatives at the boundary. The dependence on the derivatives vanishes at long distances from the barrier, where the dynamics are governed solely by the initial value of the wavefunction at the boundary.

id: quant-ph/0608078
title: Laser Noise Reduction in Air
authors: Pierre Bejot, Jerome Kasparian, Estelle Salmon, Roland Ackermann, Nicolas Gisin, Jean-Pierre Wolf
comments: 8 pages
journal: Applied Phys. Lett. 88, 251112, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608078
abstract: Fluctuations of the white-light supercontinuum produced by ultrashort laser pulses in selfguided filaments (spatio-temporal solitons) in air are investigated. We demonstrate that correlations exist within the white-light supercontinuum, and that they can be used to significantly reduce the laser intensity noise by filtering the spectrum. More precisely, the fundamental wavelength is anticorrelated with the wings of the continuum, while conjugated wavelength pairs on both sides of the continuum are strongly correlated. Spectral filtering of the continuum reduces the laser intensity noise by 1.2 dB, showing that fluctuations are rejected to the edges of the spectrum.

id: quant-ph/0608079
title: Understanding Long-Distance Quantum Correlations
authors: Louis Marchildon
comments: 11 pages, contribution to the Beyond the Quantum workshop
journal: Proc. of the Beyond the Quantum Workshop, Leiden (World Scientific, Singapore, 2007), pp. 155-62
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608079
abstract: The interpretation of quantum mechanics (or, for that matter, of any physical theory) consists in answering the question: How can the world be for the theory to be true? That question is especially pressing in the case of the long-distance correlations predicted by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen, and rather convincingly established during the past decades in various laboratories. I will review four different approaches to the understanding of long-distance quantum correlations: (i) the Copenhagen interpretation and some of its modern variants; (ii) Bohmian mechanics of spin-carrying particles; (iii) Cramer's transactional interpretation; and (iv) the Hess-Philipp analysis of extended parameter spaces.

id: quant-ph/0608080
title: Multipartite purification protocols: upper and optimal bounds
authors: Alastair Kay, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 15 pages, 16 figures. v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062307 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608080
abstract: A method for producing an upper bound for all multipartite purification protocols is devised, based on knowing the optimal protocol for purifying bipartite states. When applied to a range of noise models, both local and correlated, the optimality of certain protocols can be demonstrated for a variety of graph and valence bond states.

id: quant-ph/0608081
title: A generalization of boson normal ordering
authors: Toufik Mansour, Matthias Schork, Simone Severini
comments: 10 pages, 1 (LaTeX) figure
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 364, Issues 3-4, 30 April 2007, Pages 214-220
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608081
abstract: In this paper we define generalizations of boson normal ordering. These are based on the number of contractions whose vertices are next to each other in the linear representation of the boson operator function. Our main motivation is to shed further light onto the combinatorics arising from algebraic and Fock space properties of boson operators.

id: quant-ph/0608082
title: Quantum metrology at the Heisenberg limit with ion traps
authors: D.A.R. Dalvit, R.L. de Matos Filho, F. Toscano
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 8 (2006) 276
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608082
abstract: Sub-Planck phase-space structures in the Wigner function of the motional degree of freedom of a trapped ion can be used to perform weak force measurements with Heisenberg-limited sensitivity. We propose methods to engineer the Hamiltonian of the trapped ion to generate states with such small scale structures, and we show how to use them in quantum metrology applications.

id: quant-ph/0608083
title: Path Integral Approach for Superintegrable Potentials on Spaces of Non-constant Curvature: I. Darboux Spaces DI and DII
authors: Christian Grosche, George S. Pogosyan, Alexei N. Sissakian
comments: 
journal: Phys.Part.Nucl.38:299-325,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608083
abstract: In this paper the Feynman path integral technique is applied for superintegrable potentials on two-dimensional spaces of non-constant curvature: these spaces are Darboux spaces D_I and D_II, respectively. On D_I there are three and on D_II four such potentials, respectively. We are able to evaluate the path integral in most of the separating coordinate systems, leading to expressions for the Green functions, the discrete and continuous wave-functions, and the discrete energy-spectra. In some cases, however, the discrete spectrum cannot be stated explicitly, because it is either determined by a transcendental equation involving parabolic cylinder functions (Darboux space I), or by a higher order polynomial equation. The solutions on D_I in particular show that superintegrable systems are not necessarily degenerate. We can also show how the limiting cases of flat space (constant curvature zero) and the two-dimensional hyperboloid (constant negative curvature) emerge.

id: quant-ph/0608084
title: A three grating electron interferometer
authors: Glen Gronniger, Brett Barwick, Herman Batelaan
comments: 6 pages 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608084
abstract: We report the observation of fringes from a three grating electron interferometer. Interference fringes have been observed at low energies ranging from 6 keV to 10 keV. Contrasts of up to 25% are recorded and exceed the maximal contrast of the classical equivalent, Moire deflectometer. This type of interferometer could serve as a separate beam Mach-Zehnder interferometer for low energy electron interferometry experiments.

id: quant-ph/0608085
title: Quantum universality by state distillation
authors: Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 24 pages, 4 figures; improved presentation, new stability result
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 9:1030-1052, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608085
abstract: Quantum universality can be achieved using classically controlled stabilizer operations and repeated preparation of certain ancilla states. Which ancilla states suffice for universality? This "magic states distillation" question is closely related to quantum fault tolerance. Lower bounds on the noise tolerable on the ancilla help give lower bounds on the tolerable noise rate threshold for fault-tolerant computation. Upper bounds show the limits of threshold upper-bound arguments based on the Gottesman-Knill theorem. We extend the range of single-qubit mixed states that are known to give universality, by using a simple parity-checking operation. For applications to proving threshold lower bounds, certain practical stability characteristics are often required, and we also show a stable distillation procedure. No distillation upper bounds are known beyond those given by the Gottesman-Knill theorem. One might ask whether distillation upper bounds reduce to upper bounds for single-qubit ancilla states. For multi-qubit pure states and previously considered two-qubit ancilla states, the answer is yes. However, we exhibit two-qubit mixed states that are not mixtures of stabilizer states, but for which every postselected stabilizer reduction from two qubits to one outputs a mixture of stabilizer states. Distilling such states would require true multi-qubit state distillation methods.

id: quant-ph/0608086
title: Doubly constrained bounds on the entanglement of formation
authors: Animesh Datta, Steven T. Flammia, Anil Shaji, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608086
abstract: We derive bounds on the entanglement of formation of states of a 4xN bipartite system using two entanglement monotones constructed from operational separability criteria. The bounds are used simultaneously as constraints on the entanglement of formation. One monotone is the negativity, which is based on the Peres positive-partial-transpose criterion. For the other, we formulate a monotone based on a separability criterion introduced by Breuer (H.-P. Breuer, e-print quant-ph/0605036).

id: quant-ph/0608087
title: POVMs: a small but important step beyond standard quantum mechanics
authors: Willem M. de Muynck
comments: Contribution to Proceedings of the Workshop `Beyond the quantum', Leiden, May/June 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608087
abstract: It is the purpose of the present contribution to demonstrate that the generalization of the concept of a quantum mechanical observable from the Hermitian operator of standard quantum mechanics to a positive operator-valued measure is not a peripheral issue, allegedly to be understood in terms of a trivial nonideality of practical measurement procedures, but that this generalization touches the very core of quantum mechanics, viz. complementarity and violation of the Bell inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0608088
title: VIP: An Experiment to Search for a Violation of the Pauli Exclusion Principle
authors: S. Bartalucci, S. Bertolucci, M. Bragadireanu, M. Cargnelli, M. Catitti, C. Curceanu, S. Di Matteo, J.-P. Egger, C. Guaraldo, M. Iliescu, T. Ishiwatari, M. Laubenstein, J. Marton, E. Milotti, D. Pietreanu, T. Ponta, D. L. Sirghi, F. Sirghi, L. Sperandio, E. Widmann, J. Zmeskal
comments: Plenary talk presented by E. Milotti at Meson 2006, Cracow, 9-13 June 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608088
abstract: The Pauli Exclusion Principle is a basic principle of Quantum Mechanics, and its validity has never been seriously challenged. However, given its fundamental standing, it is very important to check it as thoroughly as possible. Here we describe the VIP (VIolation of the Pauli exclusion principle) experiment, an improved version of the Ramberg and Snow experiment (E. Ramberg and G. Snow, {\it Phys. Lett. B} {\bf 238}, 438 (1990)); VIP has just completed the installation at the Gran Sasso underground laboratory, and aims to test the Pauli Exclusion Principle for electrons with unprecedented accuracy, down to $\beta^2/2 \approx 10^{-30} - 10^{-31}$. We report preliminary experimental results and briefly discuss some of the implications of a possible violation.

id: quant-ph/0608089
title: Efficient coherent internal state transfer in trapped ions using Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage
authors: Jens L. S?rensen, Ditte M?ller, Theis Iversen, Jakob B. Thomsen, Frank Jensen, Peter Staanum, Dirk Voigt, Michael Drewsen
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608089
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally how the process of Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage (STIRAP) can be utilized for efficient coherent internal state transfer in single trapped and laser-cooled $^{40}$Ca$^+$ ions. The transfer from the D$_{3/2}$ to the D$_{5/2}$ state, is detected by a fluorescence measurement revealing the population not transfered to the D$_{5/2}$ state. A coherent population transfer efficiency at the level of 95 % in a setup allowing for the internal state detection of individual ions in a string has been obtained.

id: quant-ph/0608090
title: The Convex Closure of the Output Entropy of Infinite Dimensional Channels and the Additivity Problem
authors: M.E.Shirokov
comments: 24 pages
journal: Russian Mathematical Surveys, Vol. 61, No. 6, (2006), 1186--1188
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608090
abstract: The continuity properties of the convex closure of the output entropy of infinite dimensional channels and their applications to the additivity problem are considered. The main result of this paper is the statement that the superadditivity of the convex closure of the output entropy for all finite dimensional channels implies the superadditivity of the convex closure of the output entropy for all infinite dimensional channels, which provides the analogous statements for the strong superadditivity of the EoF and for the additivity of the minimal output entropy. The above result also provides infinite dimensional generalization of Shor's theorem stated equivalence of different additivity properties. The superadditivity of the convex closure of the output entropy (and hence the additivity of the minimal output entropy) for two infinite dimensional channels with one of them a direct sum of noiseless and entanglement-breaking channels are derived from the corresponding finite dimensional results. In the context of the additivity problem some observations concerning complementary infinite dimensional channels are considered.

id: quant-ph/0608091
title: An ansatz for the eigenstates in PT-symmetric quantum mechanics
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: To appear in Phys. Lett. A, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608091
abstract: We suggest a general ansatz for the energy-eigenstates when a complex one-dimensional PT-symmetric potential possesses real discrete spectrum. Several interesting features of PT-symmetric quantum mechanics have been brought out using this ansatz.

id: quant-ph/0608092
title: Sum Uncertainty Relation in Quantum Theory
authors: A. K. Pati, P. K. Sahu
comments: LaTeX file, no figure, 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608092
abstract: We prove a new sum uncertainty relation in quantum theory which states that the uncertainty in the sum of two or more observables is always less than or equal to the sum of the uncertainties in corresponding observables. This shows that the quantum mechanical uncertainty in any observable is a convex function. We prove that if we have a finite number $N$ of identically prepared quantum systems, then a joint measurement of any observable gives an error $\sqrt N$ less than that of the individual measurements. This has application in quantum metrology that aims to give better precision in the parameter estimation. Furthermore, this proves that a quantum system evolves slowly under the action of a sum Hamiltonian than the sum of individuals, even if they are non-commuting.

id: quant-ph/0608093
title: A gauge theory of quantum mechanics
authors: J.M. Isidro, M.A. de Gosson
comments: 9
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A22:191-200,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608093
abstract: An Abelian gerbe is constructed over classical phase space. The 2-cocycles defining the gerbe are given by Feynman path integrals whose integrands contain the exponential of the Poincare-Cartan form. The U(1) gauge group on the gerbe has a natural interpretation as the invariance group of the Schroedinger equation on phase space.

id: quant-ph/0608094
title: Spectrum of coherent backscattering of light by two atoms
authors: Vyacheslav Shatokhin
comments: Presented at XI International Conference on Quantum Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608094
abstract: We study theoretically inelastic spectrum of coherent backscattering of laser light by two atoms. For an intense laser field, there are frequency domains of not only constructive but also destructive (self-)interference of the inelastic photons. We interpret the emergent spectral features using the dressed states and considering coherent backscattering as a kind of the pump-probe experiment.

id: quant-ph/0608095
title: Study of the Distillability of Werner States Using Entanglement Witnesses and Robust Semidefinite Programs
authors: Reinaldo O. Vianna, Andrew C. Doherty
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 74, 052306 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608095
abstract: We use Robust Semidefinite Programs and Entanglement Witnesses to study the distillability of Werner states. We perform exact numerical calculations which show 2-undistillability in a region of the state space which was previously conjectured to be undistillable. We also introduce bases which yield interesting expressions for the {\em distillability witnesses} and for a tensor product of Werner states with arbitrary number of copies.

id: quant-ph/0608096
title: Coalitions in the quantum Minority game: classical cheats and quantum bullies
authors: Adrian P. Flitney, Andrew D. Greentree
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A 362 (2007) 132--137
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608096
abstract: In a one-off Minority game, when a group of players agree to collaborate they gain an advantage over the remaining players. We consider the advantage obtained in a quantum Minority game by a coalition sharing an initially entangled state versus that obtained by a coalition that uses classical communication to arrive at an optimal group strategy. In a model of the quantum Minority game where the final measurement basis is randomized, quantum coalitions outperform classical ones when carried out by up to four players, but an unrestricted amount of classical communication is better for larger coalition sizes.

id: quant-ph/0608097
title: Coupled Ito equations of continuous quantum state measurement, and estimation
authors: Lajos Diosi, Thomas Konrad, Artur Scherer, Juergen Audretsch
comments: 5 pages, RevTeX4. In version v2 some minor revisions and clarifications have been incorporated. Moreover, a new reference has been included. Accepted for publication in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) L575-L581
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608097
abstract: We discuss a non-linear stochastic master equation that governs the time-evolution of the estimated quantum state. Its differential evolution corresponds to the infinitesimal updates that depend on the time-continuous measurement of the true quantum state. The new stochastic master equation couples to the two standard stochastic differential equations of time-continuous quantum measurement. For the first time, we can prove that the calculated estimate almost always converges to the true state, also at low-efficiency measurements. We show that our single-state theory can be adapted to weak continuous ensemble measurements as well.

id: quant-ph/0608098
title: Entanglement fidelity of quantum memories
authors: K. Surmacz, J. Nunn, F. C. Waldermann, Z. Wang, I. Walmsley, D. Jaksch
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A (74), 050302(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608098
abstract: We introduce a figure of merit for a quantum memory which measures the preservation of entanglement between a qubit stored in and retrieved from the memory and an auxiliary qubit. We consider a general quantum memory system consisting of a medium of two level absorbers, with the qubit to be stored encoded in a single photon. We derive an analytic expression for our figure of merit taking into account Gaussian fluctuations in the Hamiltonian parameters, which for example model inhomogeneous broadening and storage time dephasing. Finally we specialize to the case of an atomic quantum memory where fluctuations arise predominantly from Doppler broadening and motional dephasing.

id: quant-ph/0608099
title: Uniform semiclassical approximations of the nonlinear Schroedinger equation by a Painleve mapping
authors: D. Witthaut, H. J. Korsch
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39, 14687 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608099
abstract: A useful semiclassical method to calculate eigenfunctions of the Schroedinger equation is the mapping to a well-known ordinary differential equation, as for example Airy's equation. In this paper we generalize the mapping procedure to the nonlinear Schroedinger equation or Gross-Pitaevskii equation describing the macroscopic wave function of a Bose-Einstein condensate. The nonlinear Schroedinger equation is mapped to the second Painleve equation, which is one of the best-known differential equations with a cubic nonlinearity. A quantization condition is derived from the connection formulae of these functions. Comparison with numerically exact results for a harmonic trap demonstrates the benefit of the mapping method. Finally we discuss the influence of a shallow periodic potential on bright soliton solutions by a mapping to a constant potential.

id: quant-ph/0608100
title: Causality, Joint measurement and Tsirelson's bound
authors: Sujit K. Choudhary, Guruprasad Kar, Samir Kunkri, Ramij Rahaman
comments: 8 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 371 (2007) 395-398
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608100
abstract: Tsirelson showed that $2\sqrt{2}$ is the maximum value that CHSH expression can take for quantum-correlations [B. S.Tsirelson, Lett. Math. Phys, 4 (1980) 93]. This bound simply follows from the algebra of observables. Recently by exploiting the physical structure of quantum mechanics like unitarity and linearity, Buhrman and Massar [H. Buhrman and S.Massar, Phys. Rev. A, 72 (2005) 052103] have established that violation of Tsirelson's bound in quantum mechanics will imply signalling. We prove the same with the help of realistic joint measurement in quantum mechanics and a Bell's inequality which has been derived under the assumption of existence of joint measurement and no signalling condition.

id: quant-ph/0608101
title: The Bounded Storage Model in The Presence of a Quantum Adversary
authors: Robert Koenig, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 13 pages Latex, v3: discussion of independent randomizers added
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th., vol. 54, no. 2 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608101
abstract: An extractor is a function E that is used to extract randomness. Given an imperfect random source X and a uniform seed Y, the output E(X,Y) is close to uniform. We study properties of such functions in the presence of prior quantum information about X, with a particular focus on cryptographic applications. We prove that certain extractors are suitable for key expansion in the bounded storage model where the adversary has a limited amount of quantum memory. For extractors with one-bit output we show that the extracted bit is essentially equally secure as in the case where the adversary has classical resources. We prove the security of certain constructions that output multiple bits in the bounded storage model.

id: quant-ph/0608102
title: A study of the bound states for square potential wells with position-dependent mass
authors: A. Ganguly, S. Kuru, J. Negro, L. M. Nieto
comments: To appear in Phys. Lett. A (Present e-mail of A.G: gangulyasish@rediffmail.com)
journal: Phys.Lett. A360 (2006) 228-233
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608102
abstract: A square potential well with position-dependent mass is studied for bound states. Applying appropriate matching conditions, a transcendental equation is derived for the energy eigenvalues. Numerical results are presented graphically and the variation of the energy of the bound states are calculated as a function of the well-width and mass.

id: quant-ph/0608103
title: Optical parametric oscillation under injection of orbital angular momentum
authors: B. Coutinho dos Santos, C. E. R. Souza, K. Dechoum, A. Z. Khoury
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608103
abstract: We present a theoretical model for the spatial mode dynamics of an optical parametric oscillator under injection of orbital angular momentum. This process is then interpreted in terms of an interesting picture based on a Poincare representation of first order spatial modes. The spatial properties of the down-converted fields can be easily understood from their symmetries in this geometric representation. By considering the adiabatic mode conversion of the injected signal, we also predict the occurrence of a geometric phase conjugation in the down-converted beams. An experimental setup to measure this effect is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0608104
title: Slow-light solitons revisited
authors: A.V. Rybin, I.P. Vadeiko, A.R. Bishop
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608104
abstract: We investigate propagation of slow-light solitons in atomic media described by the nonlinear $\Lambda$-model. Under a physical assumption, appropriate to the slow light propagation, we reduce the $\Lambda$-scheme to a simplified nonlinear model, which is also relevant to 2D dilatonic gravity. Exact solutions describing various regimes of stopping slow-light solitons can then be readily derived.

id: quant-ph/0608105
title: Implementation of qutrit-based quantum information processing via state-dependent forces on trapped ions
authors: Li-Xiang Cen, Bang-Pin Hou, Ming-Lun Chen
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608105
abstract: We propose a scheme to realize quantum logic and entanglement for qutrit systems via state-dependent forces on trapped ions. By exploiting the laser-ion coupling in the presence of Coulomb interactions, the set of quantum gate operations including the conditional phase shifts on two qutrits as well as arbitrary SU(3) rotations on single qutrits are derived for universal quantum manipulation. As an illustration, we demonstrate in detail how these gate resources could be used to generate the maximally entangled state of two qutrits. Besides being insensitive to vibrational heating of the trapped ions, the present scheme is also shown to be scalable through designing appropriately the pulse configuration of the laser-ion interactions.

id: quant-ph/0608106
title: Quantum Partial Search of a Database with Several Target Items
authors: Byung-Soo Choi, Vladimir Korepin
comments: 13 pages
journal: Quantum Information Processing, vol 6, Number 4, page 37, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608106
abstract: We consider a database separated into blocks. Blocks containing target items are called target blocks. Blocks without target items are called non-target blocks. We consider a case, when each target block has the same number of target items. We present a fast quantum algorithm, which finds one of the target blocks. Our algorithm is based on Grover-Radhakrishnan algorithm of partial search. We minimize the number of queries to the oracle.

id: quant-ph/0608107
title: Multiuser quantum communication networks
authors: A. Wojcik, T. Luczak, P. Kurzynski, A. Grudka, T. Gdala, M. Bednarska
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608107
abstract: We study a quantum state transfer between spins interacting with an arbitrary network of spins coupled by uniform XX interactions. It is shown that in such a system under fairly general conditions, we can expect a nearly perfect transfer of states. Then we analyze a generalization of this model to the case of many network users, where the sender can choose which party he wants to communicate with by appropriately tuning his local magnetic field. We also remark that a similar idea can be used to create an entanglement between several spins coupled to the network.

id: quant-ph/0608108
title: Factorization of Dephasing Process in Quantum Open System
authors: Y. B. Gao, C. P. Sun
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 75, 011105 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608108
abstract: The fluctuation-dissipation relation is well known for the quantum open system with energy dissipation. In this paper a similar underlying relation is found between the bath fluctuation and the dephasing of the quantum open system, of which energy is conserved, but the information is leaking into the bath. To obtain this relation we revisit the universal, but simple dephasing model with quantum non-demolition interaction between the bath and the open system. Then we show that the decoherence factor describing the dephasing process is factorized into two parts, to indicate the two sources of dephasing, the vacuum quantum fluctuation and the thermal excitations defined in the initial state of finite temperature.

id: quant-ph/0608109
title: Controlled splitting of an atomic wave packet
authors: M. Zhang, P. Zhang, M. S. Chapman, L. you
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 070403 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608109
abstract: We propose a simple scheme capable of adiabatically splitting an atomic wave packet using two independent translating traps. Implemented with optical dipole traps, our scheme allows a high degree of flexibility for atom interferometry arrangements and highlights its potential as an efficient and high fidelity atom optical beam splitter.

id: quant-ph/0608110
title: 100 km secure differential phase shift quantum key distribution with low jitter up-conversion detectors
authors: Eleni Diamanti, Hiroki Takesue, Carsten Langrock, M. M. Fejer, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express 14, 13073 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608110
abstract: We present a quantum key distribution experiment in which keys that were secure against all individual eavesdropping attacks allowed by quantum mechanics were distributed over 100 km of optical fiber. We implemented the differential phase shift quantum key distribution protocol and used low timing jitter 1.55 um single-photon detectors based on frequency up-conversion in periodically poled lithium niobate waveguides and silicon avalanche photodiodes. Based on the security analysis of the protocol against general individual attacks, we generated secure keys at a practical rate of 166 bit/s over 100 km of fiber. The use of the low jitter detectors also increased the sifted key generation rate to 2 Mbit/s over 10 km of fiber.

id: quant-ph/0608111
title: Preparation of cluster states and W states with superconducting- quantum-interference-device qubits in cavity QED
authors: X.L. Zhang, K.L. Gao, M. Feng
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 024303 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608111
abstract: We propose schemes to create cluster states and W states by many superconducting-quantum-interference-device (SQUID) qubits in cavities under the influence of the cavity decay. Our schemes do not require auxiliary qubits, and the excited levels are only virtually coupled throughout the scheme, which could much reduce the experimental challenge. We consider the cavity decay in our model and analytically demonstrate its detrimental influence on the prepared entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0608112
title: Gate-level simulation of logical state preparation
authors: A. M. Stephens, S. J. Devitt, A. G. Fowler, J. C. Ang, L. C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608112
abstract: Quantum error correction and fault-tolerant quantum computation are two fundamental concepts which make quantum computing feasible. While providing a theoretical means with which to ensure the arbitrary accuracy of any quantum circuit, fault-tolerant error correction is predicated upon the robust preparation of logical states. An optimal direct circuit and a more complex fault-tolerant circuit for the preparation of the [[7,1,3]] Steane logical-zero are simulated in the presence of discrete quantum errors to quantify the regime within which fault-tolerant preparation of logical states is preferred.

id: quant-ph/0608113
title: Retrodictive fidelities for pure state postselectors
authors: John Jeffers
comments: 8 Pages, 5 Figs. Accepted version, typos corrected
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 268 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608113
abstract: Two measures of fidelity are proposed for postselecting devices, the retrodictive conditional probability that the state in the measurement arm is the one indicated by the detectors, and the probability that the device produces the state that it would produce if working perfectly. The first is the natural quantity that one wishes to maximise to improve the device operation. The second corresponds more closely with the accurate operation of the device than the more usual overlap-based fidelity. The results are particularly applicable to the types of state preparation and logic gate operation in linear optical quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0608114
title: Phase Dynamics of Two Entangled Qubits
authors: P¨¦rola Milman
comments: 9 figures, slightly different version from the accepted one
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062118 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608114
abstract: We make a geometric study of the phases acquired by a general pure bipartite two level system after a cyclic unitary evolution. The geometric representation of the two particle Hilbert space makes use of Hopf fibrations. It allows for a simple description of the dynamics of the entangled state's phase during the whole evolution. The global phase after a cyclic evolution is always an entire multiple of $\pi$ for all bipartite states, a result that does not depend on the degree of entanglement. There are three different types of phases combining themselves so as to result in the $n \pi$ global phase. They can be identified as dynamical, geometrical and topological. Each one of them can be easily identified using the presented geometric description. The interplay between them depends on the initial state and on its trajectory and the results obtained are shown to be in connection to those on mixed states phases.

id: quant-ph/0608115
title: Quantum levitation by left-handed metamaterials
authors: U. Leonhardt, T. G. Philbin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608115
abstract: Left-handed metamaterials make perfect lenses that image classical electromagnetic fields with significantly higher resolution than the diffraction limit. Here we consider the quantum physics of such devices. We show that the Casimir force of two conducting plates may turn from attraction to repulsion if a perfect lens is sandwiched between them. For optical left-handed metamaterials this repulsive force of the quantum vacuum may levitate ultra-thin mirrors.

id: quant-ph/0608116
title: Formulation of the uncertainty relations in terms of the Renyi entropies
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052101 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608116
abstract: Quantum mechanical uncertainty relations for position and momentum are expressed in the form of inequalities involving the Renyi entropies. The proof of these inequalities requires the use of the exact expression for the (p,q)-norm of the Fourier transformation derived by Babenko and Beckner. Analogous uncertainty relations are derived for angle and angular momentum and also for a pair of complementary observables in N-level systems. All these uncertainty relations become more attractive when expressed in terms of the symmetrized Renyi entropies.

id: quant-ph/0608117
title: Quantum fractals on n-spheres. Clifford Algebra approach
authors: Arkadiusz Jadczyk
comments: Latex. 49 pages. 9 figures. Corrected two misprints in Sec. 3. R(2,C) at the beginning has been replaced by C(V,Q), and `isomorphism' just before Theorem 1 has been replaced by `homomorphism'
journal: Adv.Appl.CliffordAlgebras17:201-240,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608117
abstract: Using the Clifford algebra formalism we extend the quantum jumps algorithm of the Event Enhanced Quantum Theory (EEQT) to convex state figures other than those stemming from convex hulls of complex projective spaces that form the basis for the standard quantum theory. We study quantum jumps on n-dimensional spheres, jumps that are induced by symmetric configurations of non-commuting state monitoring detectors. The detectors cause quantum jumps via geometrically induced conformal maps (Mobius transformations) and realize iterated function systems (IFS) with fractal attractors located on n-dimensional spheres. We also extend the formalism to mixed states, represented by "density matrices". As a numerical illustration we study quantum fractals on the circle, two--sphere (octahedron), and on three-dimensional sphere (hypercube-tesseract, 24 cell, 600 cell,and 120 cell). The invariant measure on the attractor is approximated by the powers of the Markov operator. In the appendices we calculate the Radon-Nikodym derivative of the SO(n+1) invariant measure on S^n under SO(1,n+1) transformations and discuss the Hamilton's "icossian calculus" as well as its application to quaternionic realization of the binary icosahedral group that is at the basis of the 600 cell and its dual, the 120 cell. As a by-product of this work we obtain several Clifford algebraic results, such as a characterization of positive elements in a Clifford algebra Cl(n+1) as generalized Lorentz boosts, and their action as Moebius transformation on n-sphere, and a decomposition of any element of Spin^+(1,n+1) into a boost and a rotation, including the explicit formula for the pullback of the O(n+1) invariant Riemannian metric with respect to the associated Mobius transformation.

id: quant-ph/0608118
title: Dispersion forces in macroscopic quantum electrodynamics
authors: Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 112 pages, 7 figures, 4 tables, extended version
journal: Progress in Quantum Electronics 31 (2) 51 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608118
abstract: The description of dispersion forces within the framework of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics in linear, dispersing, and absorbing media combines the benefits of approaches based on normal-mode techniques of standard quantum electrodynamics and methods based on linear response theory in a natural way. It renders generally valid expressions for both the forces between bodies and the forces on atoms in the presence of bodies, while showing very clearly the intimate relation between the different types of dispersion forces. By considering examples, the influence of various factors like form, size, electric and magnetic properties, or intervening media on the forces is addressed. Since the approach based on macroscopic quantum electrodynamics does not only apply to equilibrium systems, it can be used to investigate dynamical effects such as the temporal evolution of forces on arbitrarily excited atoms.

id: quant-ph/0608119
title: Decoherence of Anyonic Charge in Interferometry Measurements
authors: Parsa Bonderson, Kirill Shtengel, J. K. Slingerland
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; v2: reference added, example added, clarifying changes made to conform to the version published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 070401 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608119
abstract: We examine interferometric measurements of the topological charge of (non-Abelian) anyons. The target's topological charge is measured from its effect on the interference of probe particles sent through the interferometer. We find that superpositions of distinct anyonic charges a and a' in the target decohere (exponentially in the number of probes particles used) when the probes have nontrivial monodromy with the charges that may be fused with a to give a'.

id: quant-ph/0608120
title: Ontological Models for Quantum Mechanics and the Kochen-Specker theorem
authors: Terry Rudolph
comments: These theories are not quantum mechanics. But they should be
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608120
abstract: Certain concrete "ontological models" for quantum mechanics (models in which measurement outcomes are deterministic and quantum states are equivalent to classical probability distributions over some space of `hidden variables') are examined. The models are generalizations of Kochen and Specker's such model for a single 2-dimensional system - in particular a model for a three dimensional quantum system is considered in detail. Unfortunately, it appears the models do not quite reproduce the quantum mechanical statistics. They do, however, come close to doing so, and in as much as they simply involve probability distributions over the complex projective space they do reproduce pretty much everything else in quantum mechanics. The Kochen-Specker theorem is examined in the light of these models, and the rather mild nature of the manifested contextuality is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0608121
title: Entanglement in general two-mode continuous-variable states: local approach and mapping to a two-qubit system
authors: H.-C. Lin, A.J. Fisher
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX 4, one figure. Further modifications in response to journal referees, correction to expression for negativity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608121
abstract: We present a new approach to the analysis of entanglement in smooth bipartite continuous-variable states. One or both parties perform projective filterings via preliminary measurements to determine whether the system is located in some region of space; we study the entanglement remaining after filtering. For small regions, a two-mode system can be approximated by a pair of qubits and its entanglement fully characterized, even for mixed states. Our approach may be extended to any smooth bipartite pure state or two-mode mixed state, leading to natural definitions of concurrence and negativity densities. For Gaussian states both these quantities are constant throughout configuration space.

id: quant-ph/0608122
title: Repulsive Casimir Pistons
authors: S. A. Fulling, J. H. Wilson
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; RevTeX. Minor additions and corrections
journal: Superseded by Phys. Rev. A 76 (2007) 012118 (quant-ph/0703248)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608122
abstract: Casimir pistons are models in which finite Casimir forces can be calculated without any suspect renormalizations. It has been suggested that such forces are always attractive. We present three scenarios in which that is not true. Two of these depend on mixing two types of boundary conditions. The other, however, is a simple type of quantum graph in which the sign of the force depends upon the number of edges.

id: quant-ph/0608123
title: Non-Markovian decoherence in the adiabatic quantum search algorithm
authors: Markus Tiersch, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062313 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608123
abstract: We consider an adiabatic quantum algorithm (Grover's search routine) weakly coupled to a rather general environment, i.e., without using the Markov approximation. Markovian errors generally require high-energy excitations (of the reservoir) and tend to destroy the scalability of the adiabatic quantum algorithm. We find that, under appropriate conditions (such as low temperatures), the low-energy (i.e., non-Markovian) modes of the bath are most important. Hence the scalability of the adiabatic quantum algorithm depends on the infra-red behavior of the environment: a reasonably small coupling to the three-dimensional electromagnetic field does not destroy the scaling behavior, whereas phonons or localized degrees of freedom can be problematic. PACS: 03.67.Pp, 03.67.Lx, 03.67.-a, 03.65.Yz.

id: quant-ph/0608124
title: Dimensions of generic local orbits of multipartite quantum systems
authors: Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: 5 pages. The spelling of author's name corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608124
abstract: We consider the action of the group of local unitary transformations, U(m) x U(n), on the set of (mixed) states W of the bipartite m x n quantum system. We prove that the generic U(m) x U(n)--orbits in W have dimension m^2+n^2-2. This problem was mentioned (and left open) by Kus and Zyczkowski in their paper Geometry of entangled states. The proof can be extended to the case of arbitrary finite-dimensional multipartite quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0608125
title: The spin-statistics relation in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics and projective modules
authors: N. A. Papadopoulos, M. Paschke, A. F. Reyes-Lega, F. Scheck
comments: 16 pages
journal: Annales Mathematiques Blaise Pascal 11, 205-220 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608125
abstract: In this work we consider non-relativistic quantum mechanics, obtained from a classical configuration space Q of indistinguishable particles. Following an approach proposed by one of the authors, wave functions are regarded as elements of suitable projective modules over C(Q). We take furthermore into account the G-Theory point of view, where the role of group action is particularly emphasized. As an example illustrating the method, the case of two particles is worked out in detail. Previous works aiming at a proof of a spin-statistics theorem for non-relativistic quantum mechanics are re-considered from the point of view of our approach, enabling us to clarify several points.

id: quant-ph/0608126
title: Characterization of unwanted noise in realistic cavities
authors: A.A. Semenov, D.Yu. Vasylyev, W. Vogel, M. Khanbekyan, D.-G. Welsch
comments: Contribution to XI International Conference on Quantum Optics, Minsk, Belarus, 26-31 May, 2006
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy 103, 245-251 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608126
abstract: The problem of the description of absorption and scattering losses in high-Q cavities is studied. The considerations are based on quantum noise theories, hence the unwanted noise associated with scattering and absorption is taken into account by introduction of additional damping and noise terms in the quantum Langevin equations and input--output relations. Completeness conditions for the description of the cavity models obtained in this way are studied and corresponding replacement schemes are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0608127
title: Classical and quantum theory for Superluminal particle
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Xiao-Jing Liu, Li Wang, Yi-Qing Guo, Xi-Hui Fan
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608127
abstract: As we all know, when the relative velocity of two inertial reference frames $\sum$ and $\sum^{'}$ is less than the speed of light, the relations of $x_{\mu}$ with $x_{\mu}^{'}$, a particle mass $m$ with its velocity $\upsilon$, and a particle mass with its energy are all given by Einstein's special relativity. In this paper, we will give new relation of $x_{\mu}$ and $x_{\mu}^{'}$ when the relative velocity of $\sum$ and $\sum^{'}$ frame is larger than the speed of light, and also we give the relation of a particle mass $m$ with its velocity $\upsilon$, and a particle mass $m$ with its energy $E$ when the particle velocity $v$ is larger than the speed of light.

id: quant-ph/0608128
title: Bounds on Quantum Correlations in Bell Inequality Experiments
authors: Yeong-Cherng Liang, Andrew C. Doherty
comments: 13 pages, 1 table, 2 figures. Updated version as published in PRA
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 75, art. 042103 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608128
abstract: Bell inequality violation is one of the most widely known manifestations of entanglement in quantum mechanics; indicating that experiments on physically separated quantum mechanical systems cannot be given a local realistic description. However, despite the importance of Bell inequalities, it is not known in general how to determine whether a given entangled state will violate a Bell inequality. This is because one can choose to make many different measurements on a quantum system to test any given Bell inequality and the optimization over measurements is a high-dimensional variational problem. In order to better understand this problem we present algorithms that provide, for a given quantum state, both a lower bound and an upper bound on the maximal expectation value of a Bell operator. Both bounds apply techniques from convex optimization and the methodology for creating upper bounds allows them to be systematically improved. In many cases these bounds determine measurements that would demonstrate violation of the Bell inequality or provide a bound that rules out the possibility of a violation. Examples are given to illustrate how these algorithms can be used to conclude definitively if some quantum states violate a given Bell inequality.

id: quant-ph/0608129
title: Coherent Acceleration of Material Wavepackets
authors: Farhan Saif, Pierre Meystre
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, NASA "Quantum-to-Cosmos" conference proceedings to be published in IJMPD
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608129
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a material wavepacket bouncing off a modulated atomic mirror in the presence of a gravitational field. We find the occurrence of coherent accelerated dynamics for atoms. The acceleration takes place for certain initial phase space data and within specific windows of modulation strengths. The realization of the proposed acceleration scheme is within the range of present day experimental possibilities.

id: quant-ph/0608130
title: Wave functions of linear systems
authors: Tomasz Sowinski
comments: 
journal: Acta Phys. Polon. B 38, 2173 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608130
abstract: Complete analysis of quantum wave functions of linear systems in an arbitrary number of dimensions is given. It is shown how one can construct a complete set of stationary quantum states of an arbitrary linear system from purely classical arguments. This construction is possible because for linear systems classical dynamics carries the whole information about quantum dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0608131
title: New models of quantum games
authors: Paulo Benicio Melo de Sousa, Rubens Viana Ramos, Jose Tarcisio Costa filho
comments: 10 pages and 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608131
abstract: In this work we propose and develop modified quantum games (zero and non-zero sum) in which payoffs and strategies are entangled. For the games studied, Nash and Pareto equilibriums are always obtained indicating that there are some interesting cases where quantum games can be applied.

id: quant-ph/0608132
title: Computation with Unitaries and One Pure Qubit
authors: Dan Shepherd
comments: 16 pages, no figures, submitted to QIC. This version has an improved section on oracles, adds a note on entanglement, includes minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608132
abstract: We define a semantic complexity class based on the model of quantum computing with just one pure qubit (as introduced by Knill and Laflamme) and discuss its computational power in terms of the problem of estimating the trace of a large unitary matrix. We show that this problem is complete for the complexity class, and derive some further fundamental features of the class. We conclude with a discussion of some associated open conjectures and new oracle separations between classes.

id: quant-ph/0608133
title: High fidelity teleportation between light and atoms
authors: K. Hammerer, E.S. Polzik, J.I. Cirac
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: PRA 74, 064301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608133
abstract: We show how high fidelity quantum teleportation of light to atoms can be achieved in the same setup as was used in the recent experiment [J. Sherson et.al., quant-ph/0605095, accepted by Nature], where such an inter-species quantum state transfer was demonstrated for the first time. Our improved protocol takes advantage of the rich multimode entangled structure of the state of atoms and scattered light and requires simple post-processing of homodyne detection signals and squeezed light in order to achieve fidelities up to 90% (85%) for teleportation of coherent (qubit) states under realistic experimental conditions. The remaining limitation is due to atomic decoherence and light losses.

id: quant-ph/0608134
title: Generation and Suppression of Decoherence in Artificial Environment for Qubit System
authors: Yasushi Kondo, Mikio Nakahara, Shogo Tanimura, Sachiko Kitajima, Chikako Uchiyama, Fumiaki Shibata
comments: 25 pages, 7 figures; added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608134
abstract: It is known that a quantum system with finite degrees of freedom can simulate a composite of a system and an environment if the state of the hypothetical environment is randomized by external manipulation. We show theoretically that any phase decoherence phenomena of a single qubit can be simulated with a two-qubit system and demonstrate experimentally two examples: one is phase decoherence of a single qubit in a transmission line, and the other is that in a quantum memory. We perform NMR experiments employing a two-spin molecule and clearly measure decoherence for both cases. We also prove experimentally that the bang-bang control efficiently suppresses decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0608135
title: Decoherence problem in quantum state transfer via an engineered spin chain
authors: Lan Zhou, Jing Lu, Tao Shi, C. P. Sun
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608135
abstract: A perfect quantum state transfer(QST) has been shown in an engineered spin chain with "always-on interaction". Here, we consider a more realistic problem for such a protocol, the quantum decoherence induced by a spatially distributed environment, which is universally modeled as a bath of harmonic oscillators. By making use of the irreducible tensor method in angular momentum theory, we investigate the effect of decoherence on the efficiency of QST for both cases at zero and finite temperatures. We not only show the generic exponential decay of QST efficiency as the number of sites increase, but also find some counterintuitive effect, the QST can be enhanced as temperature increase.

id: quant-ph/0608136
title: Multimode uncertainty relations and separability of continuous variable states
authors: A. Serafini
comments: 4 pages, no figures; shorter version of a longer version (see quant-ph/0508231), published
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 110402 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608136
abstract: A multimode uncertainty relation (generalising the Robertson-Schroedinger relation) is derived as a necessary constraint on the second moments of n pairs of canonical operators. In turn, necessary conditions for the separability of multimode continuous variable states under (m+n)-mode bipartitions are derived from the uncertainty relation. These conditions are proven to be necessary and sufficient for (1+n)-mode Gaussian states and for (m+n)-mode bisymmetric Gaussian states.

id: quant-ph/0608137
title: Implementation of multipartite unitary operations with limited resources
authors: Dominic W. Berry
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032349 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608137
abstract: A general method for implementing weakly entangling multipartite unitary operations using a small amount of entanglement and classical communication is presented. For the simple Hamiltonian \sigma_z\otimes\sigma_z this method requires less entanglement than previously known methods. In addition, compression of multiple operations is applied to reduce the average communication required.

id: quant-ph/0608138
title: The certainty principle (review)
authors: D. A. Arbatsky
comments: One paper, in Russian and in English, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608138
abstract: The certainty principle (2005) allowed to conceptualize from the more fundamental grounds both the Heisenberg uncertainty principle (1927) and the Mandelshtam-Tamm relation (1945). In this review I give detailed explanation and discussion of the certainty principle, oriented to all physicists, both theorists and experimenters.

id: quant-ph/0608139
title: Entanglement versus energy in the entanglement transfer problem
authors: Daniel Cavalcanti, J. G. Oliveira Jr, J. G. Peixoto de Faria, Marcelo O. Terra Cunha, Marcelo Franca Santos
comments: 11 pages, 6 figs. v2: references added, text and figures improved
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042328 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608139
abstract: We study the relation between energy and entanglement in an entanglement transfer problem. We first analyze the general setup of two entangled qubits (a and b) exchanging this entanglement with two other independent qubits (A and B). Qubit a (b) interacts with qubit A (B) via a spin exchange-like unitary evolution. A physical realization of this scenario could be the problem of two-level atoms transferring entanglement to resonant cavities via independent Jaynes-Cummings interactions. We study the dynamics of entanglement and energy for the second pair of qubits (tracing out the originally entangled ones) and show that these quantities are closely related. For example, the allowed quantum states occupy a restricted area in a phase diagram entanglement vs. energy. Moreover the curve which bounds this area is exactly the one followed if both interactions are equal and the entire four qubit system is isolated. We also consider the case when the target pair of qubits is subjected to losses and can spontaneously decay.

id: quant-ph/0608140
title: 1951 Lectures on Advanced Quantum Mechanics Second Edition
authors: Freeman J. Dyson
comments: 149 page 10pt report class LateX document using many special formatting packages and including 10 EPS graphics files loaded with the graphicx package
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608140
abstract: The legendary 1951 Dyson Lectures on Advanced Quantum Mechanics are finally LaTeXed, with thorough annotations and an index as an added bonus. See the Typist's Afterward preceding the backmatter for an explanation of this new version, and for the historical context see the website: this http URL as well as the author's website at the Princeton Institute for Advanced Study: this http URL

id: quant-ph/0608141
title: Useful entanglement from the Pauli principle
authors: Daniel Cavalcanti, L. M. Moreira, Franklin Matinaga, Marcelo O. Terra Cunha, Marcelo Franca Santos
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. V2: accepted version - text improved, 4 pages, 2 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 113304 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608141
abstract: We address the question whether identical-particle entanglement is a useful resource for quantum information processing. We answer this question positively by reporting a scheme to create entanglement using semiconductor quantum wells. The Pauli exclusion principle forces quantum correlations between the spins of two independent fermions in the conduction band. Selective electron-hole recombination then transfers this entanglement to the polarization of emitted photons, which can subsequently be used for quantum information tasks.

id: quant-ph/0608142
title: The Learnability of Quantum States
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 30 pages; added discussion of adaptive measurements, moved proofs to appendix, and corrected various minor errors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608142
abstract: Traditional quantum state tomography requires a number of measurements that grows exponentially with the number of qubits n. But using ideas from computational learning theory, we show that "for most practical purposes" one can learn a state using a number of measurements that grows only linearly with n. Besides possible implications for experimental physics, our learning theorem has two applications to quantum computing: first, a new simulation of quantum one-way communication protocols, and second, the use of trusted classical advice to verify untrusted quantum advice.

id: quant-ph/0608143
title: Analyzing the effectiveness of the quantum repeater
authors: Kenichiro Furuta, Hirofumi Muratani, Taichi Isogai, Tomoko Yonemura
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608143
abstract: The communication distance of QKD is limited by exponential attenuation of photons propagating through optical fibers. However, it has been shown that introducing a quantum repeater can improve the order of the attenuation and is useful for extending the communication distance of QKD when the repeater noise is ignored. In this paper, we analyze the effectiveness of the quantum repeater when taking the repeater noise into consideration. We analyze the effectiveness also from the viewpoint of the security and show that QKD is secure even if a quantum repeater is used.

id: quant-ph/0608144
title: Efficient-phase-encoding protocols for continuous-variable quantum key distribution using coherent states and postselection
authors: Ryo Namiki, Takuya Hirano
comments: RevTeX4, 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 032302 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608144
abstract: We propose efficient-phase-encoding protocols for continuous-variable quantum key distribution using coherent states and postselection. By these phase encodings, the probability of basis mismatch is reduced and total efficiency is increased. We also propose mixed-state protocols by omitting a part of classical communication steps in the efficient-phase-encoding protocols. The omission implies a reduction of information to an eavesdropper and possibly enhances the security of the protocols. We investigate the security of the protocols against individual beam splitting attack.

id: quant-ph/0608145
title: Stabilizer state breeding
authors: Erik Hostens, Jeroen Dehaene, Bart De Moor
comments: RevTeX4, 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062318 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608145
abstract: We present a breeding protocol that distills pure copies of any stabilizer state from noisy copies and a pool of predistilled pure copies of the same state, by means of local Clifford operations, Pauli measurements and classical communication.

id: quant-ph/0608146
title: Strong Parallel Repetition Theorem for Quantum XOR Proof Systems
authors: Richard Cleve, William Slofstra, Falk Unger, Sarvagya Upadhyay
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608146
abstract: We consider a class of two-prover interactive proof systems where each prover returns a single bit to the verifier and the verifier's verdict is a function of the XOR of the two bits received. We show that, when the provers are allowed to coordinate their behavior using a shared entangled quantum state, a perfect parallel repetition theorem holds in the following sense. The prover's optimal success probability for simultaneously playing a collection of XOR proof systems is exactly the product of the individual optimal success probabilities. This property is remarkable in view of the fact that, in the classical case (where the provers can only utilize classical information), it does not hold. The theorem is proved by analyzing parities of XOR proof systems using semidefinite programming techniques, which we then relate to parallel repetitions of XOR games via Fourier analysis.

id: quant-ph/0608147
title: Numerical simulation of a Controlled-Controlled-Not (CCN) quantum gate in a chain of three interacting nuclear spins system
authors: Gustavo V. Lopez, Lorena Lara
comments: 9 pages, 5 fugures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608147
abstract: We present the study of a quantum Controlled-Controlled-Not gate, implemented in a chain of three nuclear spins weakly Ising interacting between all of them, that is, taking into account first and second neighbor spin interactions. This implementation is done using a single resonant $\pi$-pulse on the initial state of the system (digital and superposition). The fidelity parameter is used to determine the behavior of the CCN quantum gate as a function of the ratio of the second neighbor interaction coupling constant to the first neighbor interaction coupling constant ($J'/J$). We found that for $J'/J\ge 0.02$ we can have a well defined CCN quantum gate.

id: quant-ph/0608148
title: Chain of nuclear spins system quantum computer taking into account second neighbor Ising spins interaction and numerical simulation of Shor factorization of N=4
authors: Gustavo V. Lopez, Lorena Lara
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608148
abstract: For a one-dimensional chain of four nuclear spins (1/2) and taking into account first and second neighbor interactions among the spin system, we make the numerical simulation of Shor prime factorization algorithm of the integer number N=4 to study the influence of the second neighbor interaction on the performance of this algorithm. It is shown that the optimum Rabi's frequency to control the non-resonant effects is dominated by the second neighbor interaction coupling parameter ($J'$), and that a good Shor quantum factorization is achieved for a ratio of second to first coupling constant of $J'/J\ge 0.04$.

id: quant-ph/0608149
title: Quantization of a one-dimensional time-dependent periodic system with Hamiltonian and constants of motion approaches
authors: Gustavo Lopez
comments: 8 pages, non figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608149
abstract: For a particle moving in a one-dimensional space an under a periodic external force, its quantization is study using the Hamiltonian (generalized linear momentum quantization) and constant of motion (velocity quantization) approaches. it is shown a great difference on the quantization of both approaches and the ambiguities arisen by using the quantization on the constants of motion.

id: quant-ph/0608150
title: Projecting onto Qubit Irreps of Young Diagrams
authors: Stephen S Bullock
comments: 7+1 pages, two tables, one figure, one algorithm
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608150
abstract: Let K be the diagonal subgroup of U(2)^{(x)n}. We may view the one-qubit state-space H_1 as a standard representation of U(2) and the n-qubit state space H_n=(H_1)^{(x) n} as the n-fold tensor product of standard representations. Representation theory then decomposes H_n into irreducible subrepresentations of K parametrized by combinatorial objects known as Young diagrams. We argue that n-1 classically controlled measurement circuits, each a Fredkin-gate interferometer, may be used to form a projection operator onto a random Young diagram irrep within H_n. For H_2, the two irreps happen to be orthogonal and correspond to the symmetric and wedge product. The latter is spanned by ket{Psi^-}, and the standard two-qubit swap interferometer requiring a single Fredkin gate suffices in this case. In the n-qubit case, it is possible to extract many copies of ket{Psi^-}. Thus applying this process using nondestructive Fredkin interferometers allows for the creation of entangled bits (e-bits) using fully mixed states and von Neumann measurements.

id: quant-ph/0608151
title: Separability and Entanglement of Identical Bosonic Systems
authors: Xiao-Hong Wang, Shao-Ming Fei, Ke Wu
comments: 4 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 39, Gen. and Math. (2006)L555-L557
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608151
abstract: We investigate the separability of arbitrary $n$-dimensional multipartite identical bosonic systems. An explicit relation between the dimension and the separability is presented. In particular, for $n=3$, it is shown that the property of PPT (positive partial transpose) and the separability are equivalent for tripartite systems.

id: quant-ph/0608152
title: Effective error-suppression scheme for reversible quantum computer
authors: Zhe-Xuan Gong
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608152
abstract: We construct a new error-suppression scheme that makes use of the adjoint of reversible quantum algorithms. For decoherence induced errors such as depolarization, it is presented that provided the depolarization error probability is less than 1, our scheme can exponentially reduce the final output error rate to zero using a number of cycles, and the output state can be coherently sent to another stage of quantum computation process. Besides, experimental set-ups via optical approach have been proposed using Grover's search algorithm as an example. Some further discussion on the benefits and limitations of the scheme is given in the end.

id: quant-ph/0608153
title: Superbroadcasting and classical information
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, C. Macchiavello, P. Perinotti, F. Buscemi
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012315 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608153
abstract: We address the problem of broadcasting N copies of a generic qubit state to M>N copies by estimating its direction and preparing a suitable output state according to the outcome of the estimate. This semiclassical broadcasting protocol is more restrictive than a general one, since it requires an intermediate step where classical information is extracted and processed. However, we prove that a suboptimal superbroadcasting, namely broadcasting with simultaneous purification of the local output states with respect to the input ones, is possible. We show that in the asymptotic limit of $M \to \infty$ the purification rate converges to the optimal one, proving the conjecture that optimal broadcasting and state estimation are asymptotically equivalent. We also show that it is possible to achieve superbroadcasting with simultaneous inversion of the Bloch vector direction (universal NOT). We prove that in this case the semiclassical procedure of state estimation and preparation turns out to be optimal. We finally analyse semiclassical superbroadcasting in the phase-covariant case.

id: quant-ph/0608154
title: Convergence theorems for quantum annealing
authors: Satoshi Morita, Hidetoshi Nishimori
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 13903
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608154
abstract: We prove several theorems to give sufficient conditions for convergence of quantum annealing, which is a protocol to solve generic optimization problems by quantum dynamics. In particular the property of strong ergodicity is proved for the path-integral Monte Carlo implementation of quantum annealing for the transverse Ising model under a power decay of the transverse field. This result is to be compared with the much slower inverse-log decay of temperature in the conventional simulated annealing. Similar results are proved for the Green's function Monte Carlo approach. Optimization problems in continuous space of particle configurations are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0608155
title: Improving the efficiency of decoding quantum error correction code
authors: Kenichiro Furuta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608155
abstract: To improve the efficiency of the encoding and the decoding is the important problem in the quantum error correction. In a preceding work, a general algorithm for decoding the stabilizer code is shown. This paper will show an decoding which is more efficient for some codes. The proposed decoding as well as the conventional decoding consists of the eigenvalue output step and the entanglement dissolution step. The proposed decoding outputs a part of the eigenvalues into a part of the code qubits in contrast to the conventional method's outputting into the ancilla. Besides, the proposed decoding dissolves a part of the entanglement in the eigenvalue output step in contrast to the conventional method which does not dissolve in the eigenvalue output step. With these improvements, the number of gates was reduced for some codes.

id: quant-ph/0608156
title: Communication Complexity Protocol for Q-trits
authors: B. Tamir
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608156
abstract: Consider a function where its entries are distributed among many parties. Suppose each party is allowed to transmit only a limited amount of information to a net. One can use a classical protocol to guess the value of the global function. Is there a quantum protocol improving the results of all classical protocols? Brukner et. al. showed the deep connection between such problems and the theory of Bell's inequalities. Here we generalize the theory to trits. There the best classical protocol fails whereas the quantum protocol yields the correct answer.

id: quant-ph/0608157
title: Enhancing the Violation of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Local Realism by Quantum Hyper-entanglement
authors: Marco Barbieri, Francesco De Martini, Paolo Mataloni, Giuseppe Vallone, Ad¨¢n Cabello
comments: Minor errors corrected. To appear on Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 140407 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608157
abstract: Mermin's observation [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 65}, 1838 (1990)] that the magnitude of the violation of local realism, defined as the ratio between the quantum prediction and the classical bound, can grow exponentially with the size of the system is demonstrated using two-photon hyper-entangled states entangled in polarization and path degrees of freedom, and local measurements of polarization and path simultaneously.

id: quant-ph/0608158
title: How much entanglement can be generated between two atoms by detecting photons?
authors: L. Lamata, J.J. Garcia-Ripoll, J.I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, minor improvements, references added, accepted in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 010502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608158
abstract: It is possible to achieve an arbitrary amount of entanglement between two atoms using only spontaneously emitted photons, linear optics, single photon sources and projective measurements. This is in contrast to all current experimental proposals for entangling two atoms, which are fundamentally restricted to one entanglement bit or ebit.

id: quant-ph/0608159
title: Collisional decoherence during writing and reading quantum states
authors: Stephanie Manz, Thomas Fernholz, Joerg Schmiedmayer, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: four pages, three figures (minor changes, added references)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 040101(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608159
abstract: Collisions, even though they do not limit the lifetime of quantum information stored in ground state hyperfine coherences, may severely limit the fidelity for quantum memory when they happen during the write and read process. This imposes restrictions on the implementation of quantum processes in thermal vapor cells and their performance as a quantum memory. We study the effect of these collisions in our experiment.

id: quant-ph/0608160
title: Unconditional Bell-type state generation for spatially separate trapped ions
authors: F. L. Semi?o, R. J. Missori, K. Furuya
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, detailed comments on the practical implementation of the scheme is added to replaced version, minor typos fixed, added references with comments
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 40, S221-S228 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608160
abstract: We propose a scheme for generation of maximally entangled states involving internal electronic degrees of freedom of two distant trapped ions, each of them located in a cavity. This is achieved by using a single flying atom to distribute entanglement. For certain specific interaction times, the proposed scheme leads to the non-probabilistic generation of a perfect Bell-type state. At the end of the protocol, the flying atom completely disentangles from the rest of the system, leaving both ions in a Bell-type state. Moreover, the scheme is insensitive to the cavity field state and cavity losses. We also address the situation in which dephasing and dissipation must be taken into account for the flying atom on its way from one cavity to the other, and discuss the applicability of the resulting noisy channel for performing quantum teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0608161
title: Improved quantum algorithms for the ordered search problem via semidefinite programming
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Andrew J. Landahl, Pablo A. Parrilo
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032335 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608161
abstract: One of the most basic computational problems is the task of finding a desired item in an ordered list of N items. While the best classical algorithm for this problem uses log_2 N queries to the list, a quantum computer can solve the problem using a constant factor fewer queries. However, the precise value of this constant is unknown. By characterizing a class of quantum query algorithms for ordered search in terms of a semidefinite program, we find new quantum algorithms for small instances of the ordered search problem. Extending these algorithms to arbitrarily large instances using recursion, we show that there is an exact quantum ordered search algorithm using 4 log_{605} N \approx 0.433 log_2 N queries, which improves upon the previously best known exact algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0608162
title: Linear optical setups for active and passive quantum error correction in polarization encoded qubits
authors: Jose Claudio do Nascimento, Fabio Alencar Mendonca, Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608162
abstract: In this work, we present active and passive linear optical setups for error correction in quantum communication systems that employ polarization of single-photon and mesoscopic coherent states. Applications in quantum communication systems are described.

id: quant-ph/0608163
title: Transverse Entanglement Migration in Hilbert Space
authors: K.W. Chan, J.P. Torres, J.H. Eberly
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608163
abstract: We show that, although the amount of mutual entanglement of photons propagating in free space is fixed, the type of correlations between the photons that determine the entanglement can dramatically change during propagation. We show that this amounts to a migration of entanglement in Hilbert space, rather than real space. For the case of spontaneous parametric down conversion, the migration of entanglement in transverse coordinates takes place from modulus to phase of the bi-photon state and back again. We propose an experiment to observe this migration in Hilbert space and to determine the full entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0608164
title: Stochastic Resonance Phenomena in Quantum Many-Body Systems
authors: Susana Huelga, Martin Plenio
comments: Replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98,170601 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608164
abstract: We discuss stochastic resonance (SR) effects in driven coupled quantum systems. We construct dynamical and information theoretic measures of the system's response that exhibit a non-monotonic behaviour as a function of the noise strength. We analyze the relation between lack of monotonicity in the response and the presence of quantum correlations and identify parameter regimes where the breakdown of a linear response can be linked to the presence of entanglement. We also show that a chain of coupled spin systems can exhibit an array-enhanced response, where the sensitivity of a single resonator is enhanced as a result of nearest-neighbour coupling. These results enlarge the domain where SR effects exist and should be observable in arrays of superconducting qubits.

id: quant-ph/0608165
title: Two-party Models and the No-go Theorems
authors: Minh-Dung Dang
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures. Due to attacks received from reviewers, an important case-study on "coin-flipping-based protocols" is removed. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608165
abstract: In this paper, we reconsider the communication model used in the no-go theorems on the impossibility of quantum bit commitment and oblivious transfer. We state that a macroscopic classical channel may not be replaced with a quantum channel which is used in the reduced model proving the no-go theorems. We show that in some restricted cases, the reduced model is insecure while the original model with a classical channel is secure.

id: quant-ph/0608166
title: Bipartite Bell inequalities for hyperentangled states
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97 (2006) 140406
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608166
abstract: We show that bipartite Bell inequalities based on the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen criterion for elements of reality and derived from the properties of some hyperentangled states allow feasible experimental verifications of the fact that quantum nonlocality grows exponentially with the size of the subsystems, and Bell loophole-free tests with currently available photodetection efficiencies.

id: quant-ph/0608167
title: Natural Philosophy and Quantum Theory
authors: Thomas Marlow
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608167
abstract: We attempt to show how relationalism might help in understanding Bell's theorem. We also present an analogy with Darwinian evolution in order to pedagogically hint at how one might go about using a theory in which one does not even desire to explain correlations by invoking common causes.

id: quant-ph/0608168
title: Single-experiment-detectable multipartite entanglement witness for ensemble quantum computing
authors: Robabeh Rahimi, Akira SaiToh, Mikio Nakahara, Masahiro Kitagawa
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, minor changes have been made
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032317 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608168
abstract: In this paper we provide an operational method to detect multipartite entanglement in ensemble-based quantum computing. This method is based on the concept of entanglement witness. We decompose the entanglement witness for each class of multipartite entanglement into nonlocal operations in addition to local measurements. Individual single qubit measurements are performed simultaneously, hence complete detection of entanglement is performed in a single run experiment. This approach is particularly important for experiments where it is operationally difficult to prepare several copies of an unknown quantum state and in this sense the introduced scheme in this work is superior to the generally used entanglement witnesses that require a number of experiments and preparation of copies of quantum state.

id: quant-ph/0608169
title: The effect of anisotropy and external magnetic filed on the thermal entanglement in a two-spin-qutrit system
authors: S.Y. Mirafzali, M. Sarbishaei
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608169
abstract: We study the thermal entanglement in a two-spin-qutrit system with anisotropy in the exchange coupling between two spins. We use the realignment criterion to distinguish the entangled states, and the negativity for measuring the entanglement in this system. We see that the anisotropy can provide an additional parameter for enhancing the entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0608170
title: Quantum States of Light Produced by a High-Gain Optical Parametric Amplifier for Use in Quantum Lithography
authors: Girish S. Agarwal, Kam Wai Chan, Robert W. Boyd, Hugo Cable, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 24, 270 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608170
abstract: We present a theoretical analysis of the properties of an unseeded optical parametic amplifier (OPA) used as the source of entangled photons for applications in quantum lithography. We first study the dependence of the excitation rate of a two-photon absorber on the intensity of the light leaving the OPA. We find that the rate depends linearly on intensity only for output beams so weak that they contain fewer than one photon per mode. We also study the use of an N-photon absorber for arbitrary N as the recording medium to be used with such a light source. We find that the contrast of the interference pattern and the sharpness of the fringe maxima tend to increase with increasing values of N, but that the density of fringes and thus the limiting resolution does not increase with N. We conclude that the output of an unseeded OPA exciting an N-photon absorber provides an attractive system in which to perform quantum lithography.

id: quant-ph/0608171
title: Properties of nonfreeness: an entropy measure of electron correlation
authors: Alex D. Gottlieb, Norbert J. Mauser
comments: 20 pages. Submitted to Phys. Rev. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608171
abstract: "Nonfreeness" is the (negative of the) difference between the von Neumann entropies of a given many-fermion state and the free state that has the same 1-particle statistics. It also equals the relative entropy of the two states in question, i.e., it is the entropy of the given state relative to the corresponding free state. The nonfreeness of a pure state is the same as its "particle-hole symmetric correlation entropy", a variant of an established measure of electron correlation. But nonfreeness is also defined for mixed states, and this allows one to compare the nonfreeness of subsystems to the nonfreeness of the whole. Nonfreeness of a part does not exceed that in the whole; nonfreeness is additive over independent subsystems; and nonfreeness is superadditive over subsystems that are independent on the 1-particle level.

id: quant-ph/0608172
title: Population-only decay map for n-qubit n-partite inseparability detection
authors: Akira SaiToh, Robabeh Rahimi
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, RevTex4, v2 minor grammatical changes, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 064305 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608172
abstract: We introduce a new positive linear map for a single qubit. This map is a decay only in populations of a single-qubit density operator. It is shown that an n-fold product of this map may be used for a detection of n-partite inseparability of an n-qubit density operator (i.e., detection of impossibility of representing a density operator in the form of a convex combination of products of density operators of individual qubits). This product map is also investigated in relation to a variant of the entanglement detection method mentioned by Laskowski and Zukowski.

id: quant-ph/0608173
title: Mutually unbiased bases and discrete Wigner functions
authors: Gunnar Bjork, Jose L. Romero, Andrei B. Klimov, Luis L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 9 pages, 6 tables, 6 figures. Accepted for publication in J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, special issue on Optical Quantum Information Science
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 24, 371--378 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608173
abstract: Mutually unbiased bases and discrete Wigner functions are closely, but not uniquely related. Such a connection becomes more interesting when the Hilbert space has a dimension that is a power of a prime $N=d^n$, which describes a composite system of $n$ qudits. Hence, entanglement naturally enters the picture. Although our results are general, we concentrate on the simplest nontrivial example of dimension $N=8=2^3$. It is shown that the number of fundamentally different Wigner functions is severely limited if one simultaneously imposes translational covariance and that the generating operators consist of rotations around two orthogonal axes, acting on the individual qubits only.

id: quant-ph/0608174
title: Preventing Multipartite Disentanglement by Local Modulations
authors: Goren Gordon, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608174
abstract: An entangled multipartite system coupled to a zero-temperature bath undergoes rapid disentanglement in many realistic scenarios, due to local, symmetry-breaking, differences in the particle-bath couplings. We show that locally controlled perturbations, addressing each particle individually, can impose a symmetry, and thus allow the existence of decoherence-free multipartite entangled systems in zero-temperature environments.

id: quant-ph/0608175
title: Universal Dynamical Control of Local Decoherence for Multipartite and Multilevel Systems
authors: Goren Gordon, Gershon Kurizki, Abraham G. Kofman
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: Optics Communications 264, 398 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608175
abstract: A unified theory is given of dynamically modified decay and decoherence of field-driven multilevel multipartite entangled states that are weakly coupled to zero-temperature baths or undergo random phase fluctuations. The theory allows for arbitrary local differences in their coupling to the environment. Due to such differences, the optimal driving-field modulation to ensure maximal fidelity is found to substantially differ from conventional ``Bang-Bang'' or $\pi$-phase flips of the single-qubit evolution.

id: quant-ph/0608176
title: Transition of D- Level Quantum Systems Through Quantum Channels with Correlated Noise
authors: A. Fahmi, M. Golshani
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, PHYSICAL REVIEW A 75, 042301 (2007)
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 75, 042301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608176
abstract: Entanglement and entanglement-assisted are useful resources to enhance the mutual information of the Pauli channels, when the noise on consecutive uses of the channel has some partial correlations. In this Paper, we study quantum-communication channels in $d$-dimensional systems and derive the mutual information of the quantum channels for maximally entangled states and product states coding with correlated noise. Then, we compare fidelity between these states. Our results show that there exists a certain fidelity memory threshold which depends on the dimension of the Hilbert space $(d)$ and the properties of noisy channels. We calculate the classical capacity of a particular correlated noisy channel and show that in order to achieve Holevo limit, we must use $d$ particles with $d$ degrees of freedom. Our results show that entanglement is a useful means to enhance the mutual information. We choose a special non-maximally entangled state and show that in the quasi-classical depolarizing and quantum depolarizing channels, maximum classical capacity in the higher memory channels is given by the maximally entangled state. Hence, our results show that for high error channels in every degree of memory, maximally entangled states have better mutual information.

id: quant-ph/0608177
title: Fermionic coherent states for pseudo-Hermitian two-level systems
authors: O. Cherbal, M. Drir, M. Maamache, D.A. Trifonov
comments: 13 pages (Latex, article class), no figures; v2: some amendments in section 2, seven new refs added
journal: J. Phys. A 40 (2007) 1835-1844
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608177
abstract: We introduce creation and annihilation operators of pseudo-Hermitian fermions for two-level systems described by pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonian with real eigenvalues. This allows the generalization of the fermionic coherent states approach to such systems. Pseudo-fermionic coherent states are constructed as eigenstates of two pseudo-fermion annihilation operators. These coherent states form a bi-normal and bi-overcomplete system, and their evolution governed by the pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonian is temporally stable. In terms of the introduced pseudo-fermion operators the two-level system' Hamiltonian takes a factorized form similar to that of a harmonic oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0608178
title: Determination of quantum-noise parameters of realistic cavities
authors: A.A. Semenov, W. Vogel, M. Khanbekyan, D.-G. Welsch
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 013807 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608178
abstract: A procedure is developed which allows one to measure all the parameters occurring in a complete model [A.A. Semenov et al., Phys. Rev. A 74, 033803 (2006); quant-ph/0603043] of realistic leaky cavities with unwanted noise. The method is based on the reflection of properly chosen test pulses by the cavity.

id: quant-ph/0608179
title: Spontaneous absorption of an accelerated hydrogen atom near a conducting plane in vacuum
authors: Hongwei Yu, Zhiying Zhu
comments: 19 pages, no figures, Revtex4
journal: Phys.Rev. D74 (2006) 044032
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608179
abstract: We study, in the multipolar coupling scheme, a uniformly accelerated multilevel hydrogen atom in interaction with the quantum electromagnetic field near a conducting boundary and separately calculate the contributions of the vacuum fluctuation and radiation reaction to the rate of change of the mean atomic energy. It is found that the perfect balance between the contributions of vacuum fluctuations and radiation reaction that ensures the stability of ground-state atoms is disturbed, making spontaneous transition of ground-state atoms to excited states possible in vacuum with a conducting boundary. The boundary-induced contribution is effectively a nonthermal correction, which enhances or weakens the nonthermal effect already present in the unbounded case, thus possibly making the effect easier to observe. An interesting feature worth being noted is that the nonthermal corrections may vanish for atoms on some particular trajectories.

id: quant-ph/0608180
title: Exactly solvable associated Lame potentials and supersymmetric transformations
authors: David J. Fernandez C., Asish Ganguly
comments: Annals of Phys.(in press); Present e-mail of AG: gangulyasish@rediffmail.com
journal: AnnalsPhys.322:1143-1161,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608180
abstract: A systematic procedure to derive exact solutions of the associated Lame equation for an arbitrary value of the energy is presented. Supersymmetric transformations in which the seed solutions have factorization energies inside the gaps are used to generate new exactly solvable potentials; some of them exhibit an interesting property of periodicity defects.

id: quant-ph/0608181
title: Decoherence and Thermalization
authors: M. Merkli, I.M. Sigal, G.P. Berman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608181
abstract: We present a rigorous analysis of the phenomenon of decoherence for general N-level systems coupled to reservoirs of free massless bosonic fields. We apply our general results to the specific case of the qubit. Our approach does not involve master equation approximations and applies to a wide variety of systems which are not explicitly solvable.

id: quant-ph/0608182
title: Quantum phase gate and controlled entanglement with polar molecules
authors: Eric Charron, P¨¦rola Milman, Arne Keller, Osman Atabek
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A / Physical Review A (General Physics); Phys Rev A Gen Phys; Physical Review A (Atomic Molecular and Optical Physics) 75, 3 (26/03/2007) 033414
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608182
abstract: We propose an alternative scenario for the generation of entanglement between rotational quantum states of two polar molecules. This entanglement arises from dipole-dipole interaction, and is controlled by a sequence of laser pulses simultaneously exciting both molecules. We study the efficiency of the process, and discuss possible experimental implementations with cold molecules trapped in optical lattices or in solid matrices. Finally, various entanglement detection procedures are presented, and their suitability for these two physical situations is analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0608183
title: Deterministic unitary operations on time-bin qudits for quantum communication
authors: Felix Bussieres, Yasaman Soudagar, Guido Berlin, Suzanne Lacroix, Nicolas Godbout
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. One figure replaced
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608183
abstract: We show for the first time how deterministic unitary operations on time-bin qubits encoded in single photon pulses can be realized using fiber optics components that are available with current technology. We also generalize this result to operations on time-bin qudits, i.e. $d$-level systems, and show that this can be done efficiently using 2$\times$2 beamsplitters and phase modulators. Important benefits for experimental quantum communication are highlighted. This work shows how to bridge the gap between current proof-of-principle demonstrations and complete, deterministic experiments.

id: quant-ph/0608184
title: Quantification of Continuous Variable Entanglement with only Two Types of Simple Measurements
authors: Gustavo Rigolin, Marcos C. de Oliveira
comments: v1: 4 pages, 1 figure, RevTex4; v2: Title and abstract changed, new discussion paragraph added; v3: published version
journal: Annals of Physics 323, 2172 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608184
abstract: Here we propose an experimental set-up in which it is possible to measure the entanglement of a two-mode Gaussian state, be it pure or mixed, using only simple linear optical devices. After a proper unitary manipulation of the two-mode Gaussian state only number and purity measurements of just one of the modes suffice to give us a complete and exact knowledge of the state's entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0608185
title: Operational approach to the Uhlmann holonomy
authors: Johan Aberg, David Kult, Erik Sj?qvist, D.K.L. Oi
comments: Added material, references, and journal references
journal: Physical Review A 75, 032106 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608185
abstract: We suggest a physical interpretation of the Uhlmann amplitude of a density operator. Given this interpretation we propose an operational approach to obtain the Uhlmann condition for parallelity. This allows us to realize parallel transport along a sequence of density operators by an iterative preparation procedure. At the final step the resulting Uhlmann holonomy can be determined via interferometric measurements.

id: quant-ph/0608186
title: More on the Isomorphism $SU(2)\otimes SU(2)\cong SO(4)$
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Hiroshi Oike, Tatsuo Suzuki
comments: Latex ; 19 pages ; 5 figures ; minor changes. To appear in International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics (vol.4, no.3)
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys.4:471-485,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608186
abstract: In this paper we revisit the isomorphism $SU(2)\otimes SU(2)\cong SO(4)$ to apply to some subjects in Quantum Computation and Mathematical Physics. The unitary matrix $Q$ by Makhlin giving the isomorphism as an adjoint action is studied and generalized from a different point of view. Some problems are also presented. In particular, the homogeneous manifold $SU(2n)/SO(2n)$ which characterizes entanglements in the case of $n=2$ is studied, and a clear-cut calculation of the universal Yang-Mills action in (hep-th/0602204) is given for the abelian case.

id: quant-ph/0608187
title: Experimental Preparation of Quadripartite Cluster and GHZ Entangled States for Continuous Variables
authors: Xiaolong Su, Aihong Tan, Xiaojun Jia*, Jing Zhang, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 070502(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608187
abstract: The cluster states and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states are two different types of multipartite quantum entangled states. We present the first experimental results generating continuous variable quadripartite cluster and GHZ entangled states of electromagnetic fields. Utilizing four two-mode squeezed states of light and linearly optical transformations, the two types of entangled states for amplitude and phase quadratures of light are experimentally produced. The combinations of the measured quadrature variances prove the full inseparability of the generated four subsystems. The presented experimental schemes show that the multipartite entanglement of continuous variables can be deterministically generated with the relatively simple implementation.

id: quant-ph/0608188
title: Effect of exchange interaction on fidelity of quantum state transfer from a photon qubit to an electron-spin qubit
authors: Yoshiaki Rikitake, Hiroshi Imamura
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. B Rapid Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608188
abstract: We analyzed the fidelity of the quantum state transfer (QST) from a photon-polarization qubit to an electron-spin-polarization qubit in a semiconductor quantum dot, with special attention to the exchange interaction between the electron and the simultaneously created hole. In order to realize a high-fidelity QST we had to separate the electron and hole as soon as possible, since the electron-hole exchange interaction modifies the orientation of the electron spin. Thus, we propose a double-dot structure to separate the electron and hole quickly, and show that the fidelity of the QST can reach as high as 0.996 if the resonant tunneling condition is satisfied.

id: quant-ph/0608189
title: Squeezing in multi-mode nonlinear optical state truncation
authors: R.S. Said, M.R.B. Wahiddin, B.A. Umarov
comments: 7 pages, 5 eps figures. Revised manuscript. Accepted for publication in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 365 (2007) 380-385
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608189
abstract: In this paper, we show that multi-mode qubit states produced via nonlinear optical state truncation driven by classical external pumpings exhibit squeezing condition. We restrict our discussions to the two and three-mode cases.

id: quant-ph/0608190
title: Subjective probability and quantum certainty
authors: Carlton M. Caves, Christopher A. Fuchs, Ruediger Schack
comments: 20 pages RevTeX, 1 figure, extensive changes in response to referees' comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608190
abstract: In the Bayesian approach to quantum mechanics, probabilities--and thus quantum states--represent an agent's degrees of belief, rather than corresponding to objective properties of physical systems. In this paper we investigate the concept of certainty in quantum mechanics. Particularly, we show how the probability-1 predictions derived from pure quantum states highlight a fundamental difference between our Bayesian approach, on the one hand, and Copenhagen and similar interpretations on the other. We first review the main arguments for the general claim that probabilities always represent degrees of belief. We then argue that a quantum state prepared by some physical device always depends on an agent's prior beliefs, implying that the probability-1 predictions derived from that state also depend on the agent's prior beliefs. Quantum certainty is therefore always some agent's certainty. Conversely, if facts about an experimental setup could imply agent-independent certainty for a measurement outcome, as in many Copenhagen-like interpretations, that outcome would effectively correspond to a preexisting system property. The idea that measurement outcomes occurring with certainty correspond to preexisting system properties is, however, in conflict with locality. We emphasize this by giving a version of an argument of Stairs [A. Stairs, Phil. Sci. 50, 578 (1983)], which applies the Kochen-Specker theorem to an entangled bipartite system.

id: quant-ph/0608191
title: Simulation of an entangled state in a chain of three nuclear spins system
authors: Gustavo V. Lopez, Lorena Lara
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608191
abstract: We study the formation of an entangled state in a one-dimensional chain of three nuclear spins system which interact weakly through the Ising type of interaction and taking into account first and second neighbor interactions. We can get this entangled state using two pulses ($\pi/2$ and $\pi$ pulses), and we study the efficiency of getting this entangled state as a function of the ratio of the second neighbor interaction coupling constant to the first neighbor interaction coupling constant ($J'/J$). We found that for $J'/J\ge 0.04$, the entangled state is well defined.

id: quant-ph/0608192
title: Coherence and Entanglement in a Stern-Gerlach experiment
authors: Thiago R. de Oliveira, A. O. Caldeira
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608192
abstract: We give a simple example of the tight connection between entanglement and coherence for pure bipartite systems showing the double role played by entanglement; it allows for the creation of superpositions of macroscopic objects but at the same time makes subsystems lose their quantum mechanical coherence. For this we study the time evolution of the spin coherence in the Stern-Gerlach (SG) experiment. We also show that, contrary to the naive intuition, the spin coherence is lost before the two beams become separated in the spatial coordinates.

id: quant-ph/0608193
title: Two-photon interaction between trapped ions and cavity fields
authors: F.L. Semi?o, A. Vidiella-Barranco
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 41, 417 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608193
abstract: In this paper, we generalize the ordinary two-photon Jaynes-Cummings model (TPJCM) by considering the atom (or ion) to be trapped in a simple harmonic well. A typical setup would be an optical cavity containing a single ion in a Paul trap. Due to the inclusion of atomic vibrational motion, the atom-field coupling becomes highly nonlinear what brings out quite different behaviors for the system dynamics when compared to the ordinary TPJCM. In particular, we derive an effective two-photon Hamiltonian with dependence on the number operator of the ion's center-of-mass motion. This dependence occurs both in the cavity induced Stark-shifs and in the ion-field coupling, and its role in the dynamics is illustrated by showing the time evolution of the probability of occupation of the electronic levels for simple initial preparations of the state of the system.

id: quant-ph/0608194
title: Numerical simulation of Quantum Teleportation in a chain of three nuclear spins system taking into account second neighbor interaction
authors: Gustavo V. Lopez, Lorena Lara
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608194
abstract: For a one-dimensional chain of three nuclear spins (one half), we make the numerical simulation of quantum teleportation of a given state from one end of the chain to the other end, taking into account first and second neighbor interactions among the spins. It is shown that a well defined teleportation protocol is achieved for a ratio of the first to second neighbor interaction coupling constant of $J'/J\ge 0.04$. We also show that the optimum Rabi's frequency to control the non-resonant effects is dominated by the second neighbor interaction coupling parameter ($J'$).

id: quant-ph/0608195
title: Quantum key distribution based on private states: unconditional security over untrusted channels with zero quantum capacity
authors: Karol Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Debbie Leung, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: Final version for IEEE TIT
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory Vol 54 Issue 6 p2604-2620 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608195
abstract: We prove unconditional security for a quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol based on distilling pbits (twisted ebits) [quant-ph/0309110] from an arbitrary untrusted state that is claimed to contain distillable key. Our main result is that we can verify security using only public communication -- via parameter estimation of the given untrusted state. The technique applies even to bound entangled states, thus extending QKD to the regime where the available quantum channel has zero quantum capacity. We also show how to convert our purification-based QKD schemes to prepare-measure schemes.

id: quant-ph/0608196
title: Visualization of superposition of macroscopically distinct states
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae, Akira Shimizu
comments: 12pages, 21figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052111 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608196
abstract: We propose a method of visualizing superpositions of macroscopically distinct states in many-body pure states. We introduce a visualization function, which is a coarse-grained quasi joint probability density for two or more hermitian additive operators. If a state contains superpositions of macroscopically distinct states, one can visualize them by plotting the visualization function for appropriately taken operators. We also explain how to efficiently find appropriate operators for a given state. As examples, we visualize four states containing superpositions of macroscopically distinct states: the ground state of the XY model, that of the Heisenberg antiferromagnet, a state in Shor's factoring algorithm, and a state in Grover's quantum search algorithm. Although the visualization function can take negative values, it becomes non-negative (hence becomes a coarse-grained joint probability density) if the characteristic width of the coarse-graining function used in the visualization function is sufficiently large.

id: quant-ph/0608197
title: Matrix Product State Representations
authors: D. Perez-Garcia, F. Verstraete, M.M. Wolf, J.I. Cirac
comments: Minor changes. To appear in QIC
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 7, 401 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608197
abstract: This work gives a detailed investigation of matrix product state (MPS) representations for pure multipartite quantum states. We determine the freedom in representations with and without translation symmetry, derive respective canonical forms and provide efficient methods for obtaining them. Results on frustration free Hamiltonians and the generation of MPS are extended, and the use of the MPS-representation for classical simulations of quantum systems is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0608198
title: Quantum estimation and the quantum central limit theorem
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: The original Japanese version of this manuscript was published as an introductory article of quantum estimation in Bulletin of Mathematical Society of Japan, Sugaku, Vol. 55, No. 4, 368--391 (2003); Received September 2, 2002, Published October 24, 2003. It was translated to English by Michikazu Sato and Masahito Hayashi. The essential content of this manuscript is the same as that of the original version, while several descriptions and references are improved. The material in this paper was presented in English in part at Joint MaPhySto and QUANTOP Workshop on Quantum Measurements and Quantum Stochastics, Department of Mathematical Sciences, University of Aarhus, Denmark, 2003, Non-locality of Quantum Mechanics and Statistical Inference, Kyoto Sangyo Univ., Kyoto, 2003, and Special Week on Quantum Statistics, Isaac Newton Institute for Mathematical Sciences, Cambridge, UK, 2004
journal: American Mathematical Society Translations Series 2, Vol. 277, pp 95 - 123 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608198
abstract: This paper gives a survey about quantum estimation. We also describes the relation between the quantum central limit theorem and the asymptotic bound of mean square error in quantum state estimation.

id: quant-ph/0608199
title: Unifying classical and quantum key distillation
authors: Matthias Christandl, Artur Ekert, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim, Renato Renner
comments: full version
journal: Proceedings of the 4th Theory of Cryptography Conference, Lecture Notes in Computer Science vol. 4392, pp. 456-478, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608199
abstract: Assume that two distant parties, Alice and Bob, as well as an adversary, Eve, have access to (quantum) systems prepared jointly according to a tripartite state. In addition, Alice and Bob can use local operations and authenticated public classical communication. Their goal is to establish a key which is unknown to Eve. We initiate the study of this scenario as a unification of two standard scenarios: (i) key distillation (agreement) from classical correlations and (ii) key distillation from pure tripartite quantum states. Firstly, we obtain generalisations of fundamental results related to scenarios (i) and (ii), including upper bounds on the key rate. Moreover, based on an embedding of classical distributions into quantum states, we are able to find new connections between protocols and quantities in the standard scenarios (i) and (ii). Secondly, we study specific properties of key distillation protocols. In particular, we show that every protocol that makes use of pre-shared key can be transformed into an equally efficient protocol which needs no pre-shared key. This result is of practical significance as it applies to quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols, but it also implies that the key rate cannot be locked with information on Eve's side. Finally, we exhibit an arbitrarily large separation between the key rate in the standard setting where Eve is equipped with quantum memory and the key rate in a setting where Eve is only given classical memory. This shows that assumptions on the nature of Eve's memory are important in order to determine the correct security threshold in QKD.

id: quant-ph/0608200
title: Interference in discrete Wigner functions
authors: Cecilia Cormick, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062315 (2006) (9 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608200
abstract: We analyse some features of the class of discrete Wigner functions that was recently introduced by Gibbons et al. to represent quantum states of systems with power-of-prime dimensional Hilbert spaces [Phys. Rev. A 70, 062101 (2004)]. We consider "cat" states obtained as coherent superpositions of states with positive Wigner function; for such states we show that the oscillations of the discrete Wigner function typically spread over the entire discrete phase-space (including the regions where the two interfering states are localized). This is a generic property which is in sharp contrast with the usual attributes of Wigner functions that make them useful candidates to display the existence of quantum coherence through oscillations. However, it is possible to find subsets of cat states with a natural phase-space representation, in which the oscillatory regions remain localized. We show that this can be done for interesting families of stabilizer states used in quantum error-correcting codes, and illustrate this by analysing the phase-space representation of the five-qubit error-correcting code.

id: quant-ph/0608201
title: On some entropic entanglement parameter
authors: Barbara Synak-Radtke, Lukasz Pankowski, Michal Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608201
abstract: In this paper we present the quantity, which is an entanglement parameter. Its origin is very intriguing, because its construction is motivated by separability criteria based on uncertainty relation. We show that this quantity is asymptotically continuous. We also find the lower and upper bounds for it. Our entanglement parameter has the same feature as the coherent information: both can be negative. There are also some classes of states for which these quantities coincide with each other.

id: quant-ph/0608202
title: Entanglement and quantum interference
authors: Paul O'Hara
comments: 4 pages, 1 .eps file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608202
abstract: In the history of quantum mechanics, much has been written about the double-slit experiment, and much debate as to its interpretation has ensued. Indeed, to explain the interference patterns for sub-atomic particles, explanations have been given not only in terms of the principle of complementarity and wave-particle duality but also in terms of quantum consciousness and parallel universes. In this paper, the topic will be discussed from the perspective of spin-coupling in the hope of further clarification. We will also suggest that this explanation allows for a realist interpretation of the Afshar Experiment.

id: quant-ph/0608203
title: Geometric Phase and Quantum Phase Transition in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model
authors: H. T. Cui, K. Li, X. X. Yi
comments: 6 pages and to be published in Phys.Lett.A
journal: Physics Letters A 360 (2006) 243?C248
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608203
abstract: The relation between the geometric phase and quantum phase transition has been discussed in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model. Our calculation shows the ability of geometric phase of the ground state to mark quantum phase transition in this model. The possibility of the geometric phase or its derivatives as the universal order parameter of characterizing quantum phase transitions has been also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0608204
title: Relaxation- and Decoherence-free subspaces in networks of weakly and strongly coupled resonators
authors: M. A. de Ponte, S. S. Mizrahi, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608204
abstract: We consider a network of interacting resonators and analyze the physical ingredients that enable the emergence of relaxation-free and decoherence-free subspaces. We investigate two different situations: i) when the whole network interacts with a common reservoir and ii) when each resonator, strongly coupled to each other, interacts with its own reservoir. Our main result is that both subspaces are generated when all the resonators couple with the same group of reservoir modes, thus building up a correlation (among these modes), which has the potential to shield particular network states against relaxation and/or decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0608205
title: Measurement-based quantum computation with superconducting charge qubits
authors: Xiang-bin Wang, J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608205
abstract: We present a robust method, based only on measurements, to produce superconducting cluster states. The measurement of the current of a few parallel Josephson-junction qubits realizes a novel type of quantum-state selector. Using this selector, one can produce various quantum entangled states and also realize a controlled-NOT gate without requiring an exact control of the interqubit interactions. In particular, cluster states for quantum computation could be produced with only single-qubit measurements.

id: quant-ph/0608206
title: Computation in Finitary Stochastic and Quantum Processes
authors: Karoline Wiesner, James P. Crutchfield
comments: 25 pages, 16 figures, 1 table; this http URL; numerous corrections and updates
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608206
abstract: We introduce stochastic and quantum finite-state transducers as computation-theoretic models of classical stochastic and quantum finitary processes. Formal process languages, representing the distribution over a process's behaviors, are recognized and generated by suitable specializations. We characterize and compare deterministic and nondeterministic versions, summarizing their relative computational power in a hierarchy of finitary process languages. Quantum finite-state transducers and generators are a first step toward a computation-theoretic analysis of individual, repeatedly measured quantum dynamical systems. They are explored via several physical systems, including an iterated beam splitter, an atom in a magnetic field, and atoms in an ion trap--a special case of which implements the Deutsch quantum algorithm. We show that these systems' behaviors, and so their information processing capacity, depends sensitively on the measurement protocol.

id: quant-ph/0608207
title: Critical Property of Geometric Phase in the Dicke Model
authors: Gang Chen, Juqi Li, J.-Q. Liang
comments: 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608207
abstract: We obtain the ground-state energy level and associated geometric phase in the Dicke model analytically by means of the Holstein-Primakoff transformation and the boson expansion approach in the thermodynamic limit. The non-adiabatic geometric phase induced by the photon field is derived with the time-dependent unitary transformation. It is shown that the quantum phase transition characterized by the non-analyticity of the geometric phase is remarkably of the first-order. We also investigate the scaling behavior of the geometric phase at the critical point, which can be measured in a practical experiment to detect the quantum phase transition.

id: quant-ph/0608208
title: Generation of three-qubit entangled states using coupled multi-quantum dots
authors: Mahmoud Abdel-Aty, M. R. B. Wahiddin, A.-S. F. Obada
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608208
abstract: We discuss a mechanism for generating a maximum entangled state (GHZ) in a coupled quantum dots system, based on analytical techniques. The reliable generation of such states is crucial for implementing solid-state based quantum information schemes. The signature originates from a remarkably weak field pulse or a far off-resonance effects which could be implemented using technology that is currently being developed. The results are illustrated with an application to a specific wide-gap semiconductor quantum dots system, like Zinc Selenide (ZnSe) based quantum dots.

id: quant-ph/0608209
title: Quantum Entanglement of Electromagnetic Fields in Non-inertial Reference Frames
authors: Yi Ling, Song He, Weigang Qiu, Hongbao Zhang
comments: more explanatory material added in the introduction, version to appear in Journal of Physics A
journal: J.Phys.A40:9025-9032,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608209
abstract: Recently relativistic quantum information has received considerable attention due to its theoretical importance and practical application. Especially, quantum entanglement in non-inertial reference frames has been studied for scalar and Dirac fields. As a further step along this line, we here shall investigate quantum entanglement of electromagnetic fields in non-inertial reference frames. In particular, the entanglement of photon helicity entangled state is extensively analyzed. Interestingly, the resultant logarithmic negativity and mutual information remain the same as those for inertial reference frames, which is completely different from that previously obtained for the particle number entangled state.

id: quant-ph/0608210
title: Multi-dark-state resonances in cold multi-Zeeman-sublevel atoms
authors: Bo Wang, Yanxu Han, Jintao Xiao, Xudong Yang, Changde Xie, Hai Wang, Min Xiao
comments: 11pages, 4figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608210
abstract: We present our experimental and theoretical studies of multi-dark-state resonances (MDSRs) generated in a unique cold rubidium atomic system with only one coupling laser beam. Such MDSRs are caused by different transition strengths of the strong coupling beam connecting different Zeeman sublevels. Controlling the transparency windows in such electromagnetically induced transparency system can have potential applications in multi-wavelength optical communication and quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0608211
title: On the exactness of the Semi-Classical Approximation for Non-Relativistic One Dimensional Propagators
authors: Ibrahim Semiz, Koray Duztas
comments: 7 pages, latex, no figures, published in journal of physics A
journal: journal of physics A: Math. Gen. Vol:39 p.14681, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608211
abstract: For one dimensional non-relativistic quantum mechanical problems, we investigate the conditions for all the position dependence of the propagator to be in its phase, that is, the semi-classical approximation to be exact. For velocity independent potentials we find that: (i) the potential must be quadratic in space, but can have arbitrary time dependence. (ii) the phase may be made proportional to the classical action, and the magnitude (``fluctuation factor'') can also be found from the classical solution. (iii) for the driven harmonic oscillator the fluctuation factor is independent of the driving term.

id: quant-ph/0608212
title: Decoherence in a scalable adiabatic quantum computer
authors: S. Ashhab, J. R. Johansson, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages (two-column), 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052330 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608212
abstract: We consider the effects of decoherence on Landau-Zener crossings encountered in a large-scale adiabatic-quantum-computing setup. We analyze the dependence of the success probability, i.e. the probability for the system to end up in its new ground state, on the noise amplitude and correlation time. We determine the optimal sweep rate that is required to maximize the success probability. We then discuss the scaling of decoherence effects with increasing system size. We find that those effects can be important for large systems, even if they are small for each of the small building blocks.

id: quant-ph/0608213
title: Low Cost and Compact Quantum Cryptography
authors: J. L. Duligall, M. S. Godfrey, K. A. Harrison, W. J. Munro, J. G. Rarity
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures, to be published in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 8 (2006) 249
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608213
abstract: We present the design of a novel free-space quantum cryptography system, complete with purpose-built software, that can operate in daylight conditions. The transmitter and receiver modules are built using inexpensive off-the-shelf components. Both modules are compact allowing the generation of renewed shared secrets on demand over a short range of a few metres. An analysis of the software is shown as well as results of error rates and therefore shared secret yields at varying background light levels. As the system is designed to eventually work in short-range consumer applications, we also present a use scenario where the consumer can regularly 'top up' a store of secrets for use in a variety of one-time-pad and authentication protocols.

id: quant-ph/0608214
title: Quantum sensitivity limit of a Sagnac hybrid interferometer based on slow-light propagation in ultra-cold gases
authors: F. E. Zimmer, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608214
abstract: The light--matter-wave Sagnac interferometer based on ultra-slow light proposed recently in (Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 253201 (2004)) is analyzed in detail. In particular the effect of confining potentials is examined and it is shown that the ultra-slow light attains a rotational phase shift equivalent to that of a matter wave, if and only if the coherence transfer from light to atoms associated with slow light is associated with a momentum transfer and if an ultra-cold gas in a ring trap is used. The quantum sensitivity limit of the Sagnac interferometer is determined and the minimum detectable rotation rate calculated. It is shown that the slow-light interferometer allows for a significantly higher signal-to-noise ratio as possible in current matter-wave gyroscopes.

id: quant-ph/0608215
title: Experimental Proof of Quantum Nonlocality without Squeezing
authors: J. Niset, A. Acin, U. L. Andersen, N. J. Cerf, R. Garc¨ªa-Patr¨®n, M. Navascues, M. Sabuncu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 260404 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608215
abstract: It is shown that the ensemble $\{p (\alpha),|\alpha>|\alpha^*>\}$ where $p (\alpha)$ is a Gaussian distribution of finite variance and $| \alpha>$ is a coherent state can be better discriminated with an entangled measurement than with any local strategy supplemented by classical communication. Although this ensemble consists of products of quasi-classical states, it exhibits some quantum nonlocality. This remarkable effect is demonstrated experimentally by implementing the optimal local strategy together with a joint nonlocal strategy that yields a higher fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0608216
title: On two-dimensional Bessel functions
authors: H. J. Korsch, A. Klumpp, D. Witthaut
comments: 25 pages, 17 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39, 14947 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608216
abstract: The general properties of two-dimensional generalized Bessel functions are discussed. Various asymptotic approximations are derived and applied to analyze the basic structure of the two-dimensional Bessel functions as well as their nodal lines.

id: quant-ph/0608217
title: Quantum transport and localization in biased periodic structures under bi- and polychromatic driving
authors: A. Klumpp, D. Witthaut, H. J. Korsch
comments: 18 pages, 11 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, 2299 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608217
abstract: We consider the dynamics of a quantum particle in a one-dimensional periodic potential (lattice) under the action of a static and time-periodic field. The analysis is based on a nearest-neighbor tight-binding model which allows a convenient closed form description of the transport properties in terms of generalized Bessel functions. The case of bichromatic driving is analyzed in detail and the intricate transport and localization phenomena depending on the communicability of the two excitation frequencies and the Bloch frequency are discussed. The case of polychromatic driving is also discussed, in particular for flipped static fields, i.e. rectangular pulses, which can support an almost dispersionless transport with a velocity independent of the field amplitude.

id: quant-ph/0608218
title: Strength of interaction for information distribution
authors: Takayuki Miyadera, Hideki Imai
comments: 3 pages. Typos corrected. To appear in Phys.Rev.A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 064302 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608218
abstract: Let us consider two quantum systems: system A and system B. Suppose that a classical information is encoded to quantum states of the system A and we distribute this information to both systems by making them interact with each other. We show that it is impossible to achieve this goal perfectly if the strength of interaction between the quantum systems is smaller than a quantity that is determined by noncommutativity between a Hamiltonian of the system A and the states (density operators) used for the information encoding. It is a consequence of a generalized Winger-Araki-Yanase theorem which enables us to treat conserved quantities other than additive ones.

id: quant-ph/0608219
title: Theoretical Study of Fast Light with Short sech Pulses in Coherent Gain Media
authors: B.D. Clader, J.H. Eberly
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures; Replaced with revised version accepted by JOSA B
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 24, Issue 4, pp. 916-921 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608219
abstract: We investigate theoretically the phenomenon of so-called fast light in an unconventional regime, using pulses sufficiently short that relaxation effects in a gain medium can be ignored completely. We show that previously recognized gain instabilities, including superfluorescence, can be tolerated in achieving a pulse peak advance of one full peak width.

id: quant-ph/0608220
title: Quantum channels in random spin chains
authors: Jose A. Hoyos, Gustavo Rigolin
comments: v1: 4 pages, 2 eps figures; v2: discussion about the effect of temperature added, v3: 1 eps figure added, enlarged discussions, 6 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062324 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608220
abstract: We study the entanglement between pairs of qubits in a random antiferromagnetic spin-1/2 chain at zero temperature. We show that some very distant pairs of qubits are highly entangled, being almost pure Bell states. Furthermore, the probability to obtain such spin pairs is proportional to the chain disorder strenght and inversely proportional to the square of their separation.

id: quant-ph/0608221
title: Dirac Hamiltonian with superstrong Coulomb field
authors: B.L. Voronov, D.M. Gitman, I.V. Tyutin
comments: 44 pages, LaTex file, to be published in Teor.Mat.Fiz. (Theor.Math.Phys.)
journal: Theor.Math.Phys.150:34-72,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608221
abstract: We consider the quantum-mechanical problem of a relativistic Dirac particle moving in the Coulomb field of a point charge $Ze$. In the literature, it is often declared that a quantum-mechanical description of such a system does not exist for charge values exceeding the so-called critical charge with $% Z=\alpha ^{-1}=137$ based on the fact that the standard expression for the lower bound state energy yields complex values at overcritical charges. We show that from the mathematical standpoint, there is no problem in defining a self-adjoint Hamiltonian for any value of charge. What is more, the transition through the critical charge does not lead to any qualitative changes in the mathematical description of the system. A specific feature of overcritical charges is a non uniqueness of the self-adjoint Hamiltonian, but this non uniqueness is also characteristic for charge values less than the critical one (and larger than the subcritical charge with $Z=(\sqrt{3}% /2)\alpha ^{-1}=118$). We present the spectra and (generalized) eigenfunctions for all self-adjoint Hamiltonians. The methods used are the methods of the theory of self-adjoint extensions of symmetric operators and the Krein method of guiding functionals. The relation of the constructed one-particle quantum mechanics to the real physics of electrons in superstrong Coulomb fields where multiparticle effects may be of crucial importance is an open question.

id: quant-ph/0608222
title: Quantum dynamics of bosons in a double-well potential: Josephson oscillations, self-trapping and ultralong tunneling times
authors: A. N. Salgueiro, A. F. R. de Toledo Piza, G. B. Lemos, R. Drumond, M. C. Nemes, M. Weidemueller
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 44 3 (2007) 537-540
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608222
abstract: The dynamics of the population imbalance of bosons in a double-well potential is investigated from the point of view of many-body quantum mechanics in the framework of the two-mode model. For small initial population imbalances, coherent superpositions of almost equally spaced energy eigenstates lead to Josephson oscillations. The suppression of tunneling at population imbalance beyond a critical value is related to a high concentration of initial state population in the region of the energy spectrum with quasi-degenerate doublets resulting in imbalance oscillations with a very small amplitude. For unaccessible long times, however, the system recovers the regime of Josephson oscillations.

id: quant-ph/0608223
title: Quantum network communication -- the butterfly and beyond
authors: Debbie Leung, Jonathan Oppenheim, Andreas Winter
comments: 15 pages, 17 figures. Final version
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, 56 (2010) 3478-3490
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608223
abstract: We study the k-pair communication problem for quantum information in networks of quantum channels. We consider the asymptotic rates of high fidelity quantum communication between specific sender-receiver pairs. Four scenarios of classical communication assistance (none, forward, backward, and two-way) are considered. (i) We obtain outer and inner bounds of the achievable rate regions in the most general directed networks. (ii) For two particular networks (including the butterfly network) routing is proved optimal, and the free assisting classical communication can at best be used to modify the directions of quantum channels in the network. Consequently, the achievable rate regions are given by counting edge avoiding paths, and precise achievable rate regions in all four assisting scenarios can be obtained. (iii) Optimality of routing can also be proved in classes of networks. The first class consists of directed unassisted networks in which (1) the receivers are information sinks, (2) the maximum distance from senders to receivers is small, and (3) a certain type of 4-cycles are absent, but without further constraints (such as on the number of communicating and intermediate parties). The second class consists of arbitrary backward-assisted networks with 2 sender-receiver pairs. (iv) Beyond the k-pair communication problem, observations are made on quantum multicasting and a static version of network communication related to the entanglement of assistance.

id: quant-ph/0608224
title: Concurrence for multipartite states
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 5 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 15225-15229
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608224
abstract: We construct a generalized concurrence for general multipartite states based on local W-class and GHZ-class operators. We explicitly construct the corresponding concurrence for three-partite states. The construction of the concurrence is interesting since it is based on local operators.

id: quant-ph/0608225
title: Exact calculation of robustness of entanglement via convex semi-definite programming
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, M. Mirzaee, M.Rezaee
comments: 33 pages 3 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI) vol3, no 3 (2005) 511-533
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608225
abstract: In general the calculation of robustness of entanglement for the mixed entangled quantum states is rather difficult to handle analytically. Using the the convex semi-definite programming method, the robustness of entanglement of some mixed entangled quantum states such as: $2\otimes 2$ Bell decomposable (BD) states, a generic two qubit state in Wootters basis, iso-concurrence decomposable states, $2\otimes 3$ Bell decomposable states, $d\otimes d$ Werner and isotropic states, a one parameter $3\otimes 3$ state and finally multi partite isotropic state, is calculated exactly, where thus obtained results are in agreement with those of :$2\otimes 2$ density matrices, already calculated by one of the authors in \cite{Bell1,Rob3}. Also an analytic expression is given for separable states that wipe out all entanglement and it is further shown that they are on the boundary of separable states as pointed out in \cite{du}. {\bf Keywords: Robustness of entanglement, Semi-definite programming, Bell decomposable states, Werner and isotropic states.}

id: quant-ph/0608226
title: Evaluation of relative entropy of entanglement and derivation of optimal Lewenstein-Sanpera decomposition of Bell decomposable states via convex optimization
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, M.Mirzaee, M.Rezaee
comments: 19 pages 1 figure
journal: Physica A: Statistical and Theoretical Physics, Volume 349, Issues 3-4, 15 April 2005, Pages 459-470
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608226
abstract: We provide an analytical expression for optimal Lewenstein-Sanpera decomposition of Bell decomposable states by using semi-definite programming. Also using the Karush-Kuhn-Tucker optimization method, the minimum relative entropy of entanglement of Bell decomposable states has been evaluated and it is shown that the same separable Bell decomposable state lying at the boundary of convex set of separable Bell decomposable states, optimizes both Lewenstein-Sanpera decomposition and relative entropy of entanglement. {\bf Keywords: Minimum relative entropy of entanglement, Semi-definite programming, Convex optimization, Lewenstein-Sanpera decomposition, Bell decomposable states.} {\bf PACs Index: 03.65.Ud}

id: quant-ph/0608227
title: Complementary reductions for two qubits
authors: Denes Petz, Jonas Kahn
comments: 7 pages, key words: mutually unbiased bases, unbiased measurements, complementary subalgebras, Cartan decomposition, Pauli matrices
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48, 012107, 2007.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608227
abstract: In connection with optimal state determination for two qubits, the question was raised about the maximum number of pairwise complementary reductions. The main result of the paper tells that the maximum number is 4, that is, if A1, A2,... Ak are pairwise complementary (or quasi-orthogonal) subalgebras of the algebra of all 4x4$ matrices and they are isomorphic to the algebra of all 2x2 matrices, then k is at most 4. In the way to this result, contributions are made to the understanding of the structure of complementary reductions.

id: quant-ph/0608228
title: Radio-frequency dressed state potentials for neutral atoms
authors: S. Hofferberth, I. Lesanovsky, B. Fischer, J. Verdu, J. Schmiedmayer
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics, 2, 710 - 716 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608228
abstract: Potentials for atoms can be created by external fields acting on properties like magnetic moment, charge, polarizability, or by oscillating fields which couple internal states. The most prominent realization of the latter is the optical dipole potential formed by coupling ground and electronically excited states of an atom with light. Here we present an experimental investigation of the remarkable properties of potentials derived from radio-frequency (RF) coupling between electronic ground states. The coupling is magnetic and the vector character allows to design state dependent potential landscapes. On atom chips this enables robust coherent atom manipulation on much smaller spatial scales than possible with static fields alone. We find no additional heating or collisional loss up to densities approaching $10^{15}$ atoms / cm$^3$ compared to static magnetic traps. We demonstrate the creation of Bose-Einstein condensates in RF potentials and investigate the difference in the interference between two independently created and two coherently split condensates in identical traps. All together this makes RF dressing a powerful new tool for micro manipulation of atomic and molecular systems.

id: quant-ph/0608229
title: Remote preparation of an atomic quantum memory
authors: Wenjamin Rosenfeld, Stefan Berner, Juergen Volz, Markus Weber, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608229
abstract: Storage and distribution of quantum information are key elements of quantum information processing and quantum communication. Here, using atom-photon entanglement as the main physical resource, we experimentally demonstrate the preparation of a distant atomic quantum memory. Applying a quantum teleportation protocol on a locally prepared state of a photonic qubit, we realized this so-called remote state preparation on a single, optically trapped 87Rb atom. We evaluated the performance of this scheme by the full tomography of the prepared atomic state, reaching an average fidelity of 82%.

id: quant-ph/0608230
title: Increasing entanglement between Gaussian states by coherent photon subtraction
authors: Alexei Ourjoumtsev, Aurelien Dantan, Rosa Tualle-Brouri, Philippe Grangier
comments: 
journal: Physical review letters 98 (2007) 030502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608230
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate that the entanglement between Gaussian entangled states can be increased by non-Gaussian operations. Coherent subtraction of single photons from Gaussian quadrature-entangled light pulses, created by a non-degenerate parametric amplifier, produces delocalized states with negative Wigner functions and complex structures, more entangled than the initial states in terms of negativity. The experimental results are in very good agreement with the theoretical predictions.

id: quant-ph/0608231
title: Path Integral Approach for Quantum Motion on Spaces of Non-constant Curvature According to Koenigs
authors: Christian Grosche
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608231
abstract: In this contribution I discuss a path integral approach for the quantum motion on two-dimensional spaces according to Koenigs, for short ``Koenigs-Spaces''. Their construction is simple: One takes a Hamiltonian from two-dimensional flat space and divides it by a two-dimensional superintegrable potential. These superintegrable potentials are the isotropic singular oscillator, the Holt-potential, and the Coulomb potential. In all cases a non-trivial space of non-constant curvature is generated. We can study free motion and the motion with an additional superintegrable potential. For possible bound-state solutions we find in all three cases an equation of eighth order in the energy E. The special cases of the Darboux spaces are easily recovered by choosing the parameters accordingly.

id: quant-ph/0608232
title: Contract Signature Using Quantum Information
authors: Paulo Benicio Melo de Sousa, Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608232
abstract: This paper describes how to perform contract signature in a fair way using quantum information. The protocol proposed permits two partners, users of a communication network, to perform a contract signature based on the RSA security. The authentication of the signers is based on the use of a non-local XOR function of two classical bits.

id: quant-ph/0608233
title: Room-temperature manipulation and decoherence of a single spin in diamond
authors: R. Hanson, O. Gywat, D. D. Awschalom
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74, 161203(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608233
abstract: We report on room-temperature coherent manipulation of the spin of a single nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond and a study of its coherence as a function of magnetic field. We use magnetic resonance to induce Rabi nutations, and apply a Hahn spin echo to remove the effect of low-frequency dephasing. A sharp rise in the decoherence rate is observed at magnetic fields where the nitrogen-vacancy center spin couples resonantly to substitutional nitrogen spins via the magnetic dipolar coupling. Finally, we find evidence that away from these energy resonances spin flips of nitrogen electrons are the main source of decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0608234
title: Controlled polarization rotation of an optical field in multi-Zeeman-sublevel atoms
authors: Shujing Li, Bo Wang, Xudong Yang, Yanxu Han, Hai Wang, Min Xiao, K.C. Peng
comments: 28pages, 12figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608234
abstract: We investigate, both theoretically and experimentally, the phenomenon of polarization rotation of a weak, linearly-polarized optical (probe) field in an atomic system with multiple three-level electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) sub-systems. The polarization rotation angle can be controlled by a circularly-polarized coupling beam, which breaks the symmetry in number of EIT subsystems seen by the left- and right-circularly-polarized components of the weak probe beam. A large polarization rotation angle (up to 45 degrees) has been achieved with a coupling beam power of only 15 mW. Detailed theoretical analyses including different transition probabilities in different transitions and Doppler-broadening are presented and the results are in good agreements with the experimentally measured results.

id: quant-ph/0608235
title: Realization of positive-operator-valued measures by projective measurements without introducing ancillary dimensions
authors: Guoming Wang, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608235
abstract: We propose a scheme that can realize a class of positive-operator-valued measures (POVMs) by performing a sequence of projective measurements on the original system, in the sense that for an arbitrary input state the probability distribution of the measurement outcomes is faithfully reproduced. A necessary and sufficient condition for a POVM to be realizable in this way is also derived. In contrast to the canonical approach provided by Neumark's theorem, our method has the advantage of requiring no auxiliary system. Moreover, an arbitrary POVM can be realized by utilizing our protocol on an extended space which is formed by adding only a single extra dimension.

id: quant-ph/0608236
title: Robustness of multiparty nonlocality to local decoherence
authors: Sung Soon Jang, Yong Wook Cheong, Jaewan Kim, Hai-Woong Lee
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608236
abstract: We investigate the robustness of multiparty nonlocality under local decoherence, acting independently and equally on each subsystems. To be specific, we consider an N-qubit GHZ state under depolarization, dephasing, or dissipation channel, and tested the nonlocality by violation of Mermin-Klyshko inequality, which is one of Bell's inequalities for multi-qubit systems. The results show that the robustness of nonlocality increases with the number of qubits, and that the nonlocality of an N-qubit GHZ state with even N is extremely persistent against dephasing.

id: quant-ph/0608237
title: On geometric phases for quantum trajectories
authors: Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Submitted to the Proceedings of the 13th CEWQO 2006 in Vienna
journal: Acta Physica Hungarica B: Quantum Electronics 26, 195 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608237
abstract: A sequence of completely positive maps can be decomposed into quantum trajectories. The geometric phase or holonomy of such a trajectory is delineated. For nonpure initial states, it is shown that well-defined holonomies can be assigned by using Uhlmann's concept of parallel transport along the individual trajectories. We put forward an experimental realization of the geometric phase for a quantum trajectory in interferometry. We argue that the average over the phase factors for all quantum trajectories that build up a given open system evolution, fails to reflect the geometry of the open system evolution itself.

id: quant-ph/0608238
title: Extensible router for multi-user quantum key distribution network
authors: Tao Zhang, Zheng-Fu Han, Xiao-Fan Mo, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608238
abstract: A feasible quantum key distribution (QKD) network scheme has been proposed with the wavelength routing. An apparatus called "quantum router", which is made up of many wavelength division multiplexers, can route the quantum signals without destroying their quantum states. Combining with existing point-to-point QKD technology, we can setup a perfectly QKD star-network. A simple characteristic and feasibility of this scheme has also been obtained.

id: quant-ph/0608239
title: Massive Parallel Quantum Computer Simulator
authors: K. De Raedt, K. Michielsen, H. De Raedt, B. Trieu, G. Arnold, M. Richter, Th. Lippert, H. Watanabe, N. Ito
comments: To appear in Comp. Phys. Comm
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608239
abstract: We describe portable software to simulate universal quantum computers on massive parallel computers. We illustrate the use of the simulation software by running various quantum algorithms on different computer architectures, such as a IBM BlueGene/L, a IBM Regatta p690+, a Hitachi SR11000/J1, a Cray X1E, a SGI Altix 3700 and clusters of PCs running Windows XP. We study the performance of the software by simulating quantum computers containing up to 36 qubits, using up to 4096 processors and up to 1 TB of memory. Our results demonstrate that the simulator exhibits nearly ideal scaling as a function of the number of processors and suggest that the simulation software described in this paper may also serve as benchmark for testing high-end parallel computers.

id: quant-ph/0608240
title: A multi-party correlation measure based on cumulant
authors: D.L. Zhou, B. Zeng, Z. Xu, L. You
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608240
abstract: We propose a genuine multi-party correlation measure for a multi-party quantum system as the trace norm of the cumulant of the state. The legitimacy of our multi-party correlation measure is explicitly demonstrated by proving it satisfies the five basic conditions required for a correlation measure. As an application we construct an efficient algorithm for the calculation of our measures for all stabilizer states.

id: quant-ph/0608241
title: Quantum Computing with Global One-and Two-Qubit Gates
authors: Gabor Ivanyos, Attila B. Nagy, Lajos Ronyai
comments: Substantially revised version. 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608241
abstract: We present generalized and improved constructions for simulating quantum computers with a polynomial slowdown on lattices composed of qubits on which certain global versions of one- and two-qubit operations can be performed.

id: quant-ph/0608242
title: Creation of macroscopic superposition states from arrays of Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: J.A. Dunningham, K. Burnett, R. Roth, W.D. Phillips
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608242
abstract: We consider how macroscopic quantum superpositions may be created from arrays of Bose-Einstein condensates. We study a system of three condensates in Fock states, all with the same number of atoms and show that this has the form of a highly entangled superposition of different quasi-momenta. We then show how, by partially releasing these condensates and detecting an interference pattern where they overlap, it is possible to create a macroscopic superposition of different relative phases for the remaining portions of the condensates. We discuss methods for confirming these superpositions.

id: quant-ph/0608243
title: Relational physics with real rods and clocks and the measurement problem of quantum mechanics
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Jorge Pullin
comments: 19 pages, RevTex, no figures
journal: Found.Phys.37:1074-1092,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608243
abstract: The use of real clocks and measuring rods in quantum mechanics implies a natural loss of unitarity in the description of the theory. We briefly review this point and then discuss the implications it has for the measurement problem in quantum mechanics. The intrinsic loss of coherence allows to circumvent some of the usual objections to the measurement process as due to environmental decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0608244
title: Higher-Rank Numerical Ranges of Unitary and Normal Matrices
authors: Man-Duen Choi, John A. Holbrook, David W. Kribs, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures, preprint version
journal: Operators and Matrices 1, 409-426 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608244
abstract: We verify a conjecture on the structure of higher-rank numerical ranges for a wide class of unitary and normal matrices. Using analytic and geometric techniques, we show precisely how the higher-rank numerical ranges for a generic unitary matrix are given by complex polygons determined by the spectral structure of the matrix. We discuss applications of the results to quantum error correction, specifically to the problem of identification and construction of codes for binary unitary noise models.

id: quant-ph/0608245
title: Fubctional integral approach to quantum gauge theories on a noncommutative space-time
authors: Nahum Zobin
comments: 14
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608245
abstract: We propose a construction of actions of a quantum gauge field theory on a noncommutative space-time, based on a Fourier transform on the Doplicher-Fredenhagen-Roberts group. This approach leads to a functional integral representation of the action, which in turn leads to considering the space of probability measures on the classical space-time as a noncommutative version of the space-time. This approach allows a very natural treatment of gauge fields terms in the action.

id: quant-ph/0608246
title: Efficient error characterization in Quantum Information Processing
authors: Benjamin L¨¦vi, Cecilia C. L¨®pez, Joseph Emerson, D. G. Cory
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022314 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608246
abstract: We describe how to use the fidelity decay as a tool to characterize the errors affecting a quantum information processor through a noise generator $G_{\tau}$. For weak noise, the initial decay rate of the fidelity proves to be a simple way to measure the magnitude of the different terms in $G_{\tau}$. When the generator has only terms associated with few-body couplings, our proposal is scalable. We present the explicit protocol for estimating the magnitude of the noise generators when the noise consists of only one and two-body terms, and describe a method for measuring the parameters of more general noise models. The protocol focuses on obtaining the magnitude with which these terms affect the system during a time step of length $\tau$; measurement of this information has critical implications for assesing the scalability of fault-tolerant quantum computation in any physical setup.

id: quant-ph/0608247
title: Quantum many-body simulations using Gaussian phase-space representations
authors: P. D. Drummond, P. Deuar, J. F. Corney
comments: Short Review (10 pages); Corrected typo in eq (14); Added a few more references
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy 103, 7 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608247
abstract: Phase-space representations are of increasing importance as a viable and successful means to study exponentially complex quantum many-body systems from first principles. This review traces the background of these methods, starting from the early work of Wigner, Glauber and Sudarshan. We focus on modern phase-space approaches using non-classical phase-space representations. These lead to the Gaussian representation, which unifies bosonic and fermionic phase-space. Examples treated include quantum solitons in optical fibers, colliding Bose-Einstein condensates, and strongly correlated fermions on lattices.

id: quant-ph/0608248
title: Particle decay processes, the quantum Zeno effect and the continuity of time
authors: George Jaroszkiewicz, Jon Eakins
comments: Change of title and content to include quantum Zeno effect
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608248
abstract: Signal-state quantum mechanics is used to discuss quantum mechanical particle decay probabilities and the quantum Zeno effect. This approach avoids the assumption of continuous time, conserves total probability and requires neither non-Hermitian Hamiltonians nor the ad-hoc introduction of complex energies. The formalism is applied to single channel decays, the ammonium molecule, and neutral Kaon decay processes.

id: quant-ph/0608249
title: Entanglement and the Lower Bounds on the Speed of Quantum Evolution
authors: A. Borr¨¢s, M. Casas, A.R. Plastino, A. Plastino
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 74, 022326 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0608249
abstract: The concept of quantum speed limit-time (QSL) was initially introduced as a lower bound to the time interval that a given initial state $\psi_I$ may need so as to evolve into a state orthogonal to itself. Recently [V. Giovannetti, S. Lloyd, and L. Maccone, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 67}, 052109 (2003)] this bound has been generalized to the case where $\psi_I$ does not necessarily evolve into an orthogonal state, but into any other $\psi_F$. It was pointed out that, for certain classes of states, quantum entanglement enhances the evolution "speed" of composite quantum systems. In this work we provide an exhaustive and systematic QSL study for pure and mixed states belonging to the whole 15-dimensional space of two qubits, with $\psi_F$ a not necessarily orthogonal state to $\psi_I$. We display convincing evidence for a clear correlation between concurrence, on the one hand, and the speed of quantum evolution determined by the action of a rather general local Hamiltonian, on the other one.

