id: quant-ph/0609001
title: Shor's algorithm on a nearest-neighbor machine
authors: Samuel A. Kutin
comments: 11 pages, 1 color figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609001
abstract: We give a new ``nested adds'' circuit for implementing Shor's algorithm in linear width and quadratic depth on a nearest-neighbor machine. Our circuit combines Draper's transform adder with approximation ideas of Zalka. The transform adder requires small controlled rotations. We also give another version, with slightly larger depth, using only reversible classical gates. We do not know which version will ultimately be cheaper to implement.

id: quant-ph/0609002
title: A simple nearest-neighbor two-body Hamiltonian system for which the ground state is a universal resource for quantum computation
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Terry Rudolph
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; v2 has a simplified lattice, an extended analysis of errors, and some additional references; v3 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 74, 040302(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609002
abstract: We present a simple quantum many-body system - a two-dimensional lattice of qubits with a Hamiltonian composed of nearest-neighbor two-body interactions - such that the ground state is a universal resource for quantum computation using single-qubit measurements. This ground state approximates a cluster state that is encoded into a larger number of physical qubits. The Hamiltonian we use is motivated by the projected entangled pair states, which provide a transparent mechanism to produce such approximate encoded cluster states on square or other lattice structures (as well as a variety of other quantum states) as the ground state. We show that the error in this approximation takes the form of independent errors on bonds occurring with a fixed probability. The energy gap of such a system, which in part determines its usefulness for quantum computation, is shown to be independent of the size of the lattice. In addition, we show that the scaling of this energy gap in terms of the coupling constants of the Hamiltonian is directly determined by the lattice geometry. As a result, the approximate encoded cluster state obtained on a hexagonal lattice (a resource that is also universal for quantum computation) can be shown to have a larger energy gap than one on a square lattice with an equivalent Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0609003
title: Influence of classical resonances on chaotic tunnelling
authors: Amaury Mouchet, Christopher Eltschka, Peter Schlagheck
comments: 
journal: Physical Review E 74 (2006) 026211
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609003
abstract: Dynamical tunnelling between symmetry-related stable modes is studied in the periodically driven pendulum. We present strong evidence that the tunnelling process is governed by nonlinear resonances that manifest within the regular phase-space islands on which the stable modes are localized. By means of a quantitative numerical study of the corresponding Floquet problem, we identify the trace of such resonances not only in the level splittings between near-degenerate quantum states, where they lead to prominent plateau structures, but also in overlap matrix elements of the Floquet eigenstates, which reveal characteristic sequences of avoided crossings in the Floquet spectrum. The semiclassical theory of resonance-assisted tunnelling yields good overall agreement with the quantum-tunnelling rates, and indicates that partial barriers within the chaos might play a prominent role.

id: quant-ph/0609004
title: Spectral structure and decompositions of optical states, and their applications
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Wolfgang Mauerer, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 12 pages
journal: New J. Phys 9, 91 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609004
abstract: We discuss the spectral structure and decomposition of multi-photon states. Ordinarily `multi-photon states' and `Fock states' are regarded as synonymous. However, when the spectral degrees of freedom are included this is not the case, and the class of `multi-photon' states is much broader than the class of `Fock' states. We discuss the criteria for a state to be considered a Fock state. We then address the decomposition of general multi-photon states into bases of orthogonal eigenmodes, building on existing multi-mode theory, and introduce an occupation number representation that provides an elegant description of such states that in many situations simplifies calculations. Finally we apply this technique to several example situations, which are highly relevant for state of the art experiments. These include Hong-Ou-Mandel interference, spectral filtering, finite bandwidth photo-detection, homodyne detection and the conditional preparation of Schr\"odinger Kitten and Fock states. Our techniques allow for very simple descriptions of each of these examples.

id: quant-ph/0609005
title: Quantum state tomography of single photons in the spectral degree of freedom
authors: Peter P. Rohde
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609005
abstract: Quantum State Tomography (QST) of optical states is typically performed in the photon number degree of freedom, a procedure which is well understood and has been experimentally demonstrated. However, optical states have other degrees of freedom than just photon number, such as the spatial and temporal/spectral ones. Full characterization of photonic states requires state reconstruction in these additional degrees of freedom. In this paper we present a technique for performing QST of single photon states in the spectral degree of freedom. This is of importance, for example, in quantum information processing applications, which typically impose strict requirements on the purity and distinguishability of independently produced single photons. The described technique allows for full reconstruction of the spectral density matrix, allowing the purity and distinguishability of different sources to be readily calculated.

id: quant-ph/0609006
title: Two-Qubit Separability Probabilities and Beta Functions
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, paper is substantially rewritten and reorganized, with the quasi-Monte Carlo integration sample size being greatly increased
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032326 (March, 2007) (7 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609006
abstract: Due to recent important work of Zyczkowski and Sommers (quant-ph/0302197 and quant-ph/0304041), exact formulas are available (both in terms of the Hilbert-Schmidt and Bures metrics) for the (n^2-1)-dimensional and (n(n-1)/2-1)-dimensional volumes of the complex and real n x n density matrices. However, no comparable formulas are available for the volumes (and, hence, probabilities) of various separable subsets of them. We seek to clarify this situation for the Hilbert-Schmidt metric for the simplest possible case of n=4, that is, the two-qubit systems. Making use of the density matrix (rho) parameterization of Bloore (J. Phys. A 9, 2059 [1976]), we are able to reduce each of the real and complex volume problems to the calculation of a one-dimensional integral, the single relevant variable being a certain ratio of diagonal entries, nu = (rho_{11} rho_{44})/{rho_{22} rho_{33})$. The associated integrand in each case is the product of a known (highly oscillatory near nu=1) jacobian and a certain unknown univariate function, which our extensive numerical (quasi-Monte Carlo) computations indicate is very closely proportional to an (incomplete) beta function B_{nu}(a,b), with a=1/2, b=sqrt{3}in the real case, and a=2 sqrt{6}/5, b =3/sqrt{2} in the complex case. Assuming the full applicability of these specific incomplete beta functions, we undertake separable volume calculations.

id: quant-ph/0609007
title: Measuring the size of a Schroedinger cat state
authors: Florian Marquardt, Benjamin Abel, Jan von Delft
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012109 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609007
abstract: We propose a measure for the "size" of a Schroedinger cat state, i.e. a quantum superposition of two many-body states with (supposedly) macroscopically distinct properties, by counting how many single-particle operations are needed to map one state onto the other. This definition gives sensible results for simple, analytically tractable cases and is consistent with a previous definition restricted to Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-like states. We apply our measure to the experimentally relevant, nontrivial example of a superconducting three-junction flux qubit put into a superposition of left- and right-circulating supercurrent states and find this Schroedinger cat to be surprisingly small.

id: quant-ph/0609008
title: Precise Control of Molecular Dynamics with a Femtosecond Frequency Comb - A Weak Field Route to Strong Field Coherent Control
authors: Avi Pe'er, Evgeny A. Shapiro, Matthew C. Stowe, Moshe Shapiro, Jun Ye
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures, pacs corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 113004 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609008
abstract: We present a general and highly efficient scheme for performing narrow-band Raman transitions between molecular vibrational levels using a coherent train of weak pump-dump pairs of shaped ultrashort pulses. The use of weak pulses permits an analytic description within the framework of coherent control in the perturbative regime, while coherent accumulation of many pulse pairs enables near unity transfer efficiency with a high spectral selectivity, thus forming a powerful combination of pump-dump control schemes and the precision of the frequency comb. The concept is presented analytically and its feasibility and robustness are verified by simulations of dynamics in Rb$_2$. We consider application of this concept to the formation of stable, deeply bound, ultracold molecules.

id: quant-ph/0609009
title: Extended Coherence Time with Atom-Number Squeezed Sources
authors: Wei Li, Ari K. Tuchman, Hui-Chun Chien, Mark A. Kasevich
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609009
abstract: Coherence properties of Bose-Einstein condensates offer the potential for improved interferometric phase contrast. However, decoherence effects due to the mean-field interaction shorten the coherence time, thus limiting potential sensitivity. In this work, we demonstrate increased coherence times with number squeezed states in an optical lattice using the decay of Bloch oscillations to probe the coherence time. We extend coherence times by a factor of 2 over those expected with coherent state BEC interferometry. We observe quantitative agreement with theory both for the degree of initial number squeezing as well as for prolonged coherence times.

id: quant-ph/0609010
title: Evolution Of Entanglement In Groverian Search Algorithm: Two-Qutrit System
authors: Arti Chamoli, C. M. Bhandari
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609010
abstract: Entanglement plays a crucial role in quantum processes particularly those pertaining to quantum information and computation. An analytical expression for entanglement measure defined in terms of success rate of Grover's search algorithm has been obtained for a two-qutrit system and the calculated results agree well with the conventional entropy based measure. Qutrit system are of special interest because the Hilbert space dimensionality (for a given number of qudits-d-dimensional system)is optimal for d=3 and this may be of significance in the enhancement of computing power.

id: quant-ph/0609011
title: Decay of discrete state resonantly coupled to a continuum of finite width
authors: E. Kogan
comments: 5 pages, 6 eps figures, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609011
abstract: A simple quantum mechanical model consisting of a discrete level resonantly coupled to a continuum of finite width, where the coupling can be varied from perturbative to strong, is considered. The particle is initially localized at the discrete level, and the time dependence of the amplitude to find the particle at the discrete level is calculated without resorting to perturbation theory and using only elementary methods. The deviations from the exponential decay law, predicted by the Fermi's Golden Rule, are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0609012
title: Two-way and three-way negativities of three qubit entangled states
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: 07 pages, 04 figures, References added, text revised and figures revised
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012326 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609012
abstract: We propose to quantify three qubit entanglement using global negativity along with K-way negativities, where K=2 and 3. K-way partial transpose with respect to a subsystem is defined so as to shift the focus to K-way coherences of the composite system instead of K subsystems of the composite system. While genuine tripartite entanglement of three qubit composite system is generated by 3-way coherences, tripartite entanglement can be present due to 2-way coherences as well.

id: quant-ph/0609013
title: One-mode Bosonic Gaussian channels: a full weak-degradability classification
authors: F. Caruso, V. Giovannetti, A. S. Holevo
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 8, 310 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609013
abstract: A complete degradability analysis of one-mode Gaussian Bosonic channels is presented. We show that apart from the class of channels which are unitarily equivalent to the channels with additive classical noise, these maps can be characterized in terms of weak- and/or anti-degradability. Furthermore a new set of channels which have null quantum capacity is identified. This is done by exploiting the composition rules of one-mode Gaussian maps and the fact that anti-degradable channels can not be used to transfer quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0609014
title: The CNOT Quantum Logic Gate Using q-Deformed Oscillators
authors: Debashis Gangopadhyay
comments: 20 pages, latex, entire paper re-written with more clarity, no change in basic results, format for journal publication
journal: Int. Jour. of Quant. Inform. Vol. 6, No. 3 (2008) 471.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609014
abstract: It is shown that the two qubit CNOT (controlled NOT) gate can also be realised using q-deformed angular momentum states via the Jordan-Schwinger mechanism.Thus all the three gates necessary for universality i.e. Hadamard, Phase Shift and the two qubit CNOT gate are realisable with q-deformed oscillators.

id: quant-ph/0609015
title: Nature of the Angular Momentum of Light: Rotational Energy and Geometric Phase
authors: S. C. Tiwari
comments: Submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609015
abstract: The nature of intrinsic/extrinsic character of angular momentum is defined in terms of the kind of the associated rotational energy of the light. The salient features of the spin energy of light and photon are highlighted. Spin angular momentum is intrinsic while orbital angular momentum possesses quasi-intrinsicness only if the vortex-like singularities are present. The claimed spin to orbital angular momentum conversion is interpreted in terms of spin redirection geometric phase. It is pointed out that this interpretation validates our angular momentum holonomy conjecture.

id: quant-ph/0609016
title: Semiclassical Tunneling of Wavepackets with Real Trajectories
authors: L. Jaubert, M.A.M. de Aguiar
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures Revised text and figures
journal: Physica Scripta 75 (2007) 363
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609016
abstract: Semiclassical approximations for tunneling processes usually involve complex trajectories or complex times. In this paper we use a previously derived approximation involving only real trajectories propagating in real time to describe the scattering of a Gaussian wavepacket by a finite square potential barrier. We show that the approximation describes both tunneling and interferences very accurately in the limit of small Plank's constant. We use these results to estimate the tunneling time of the wavepacket and find that, for high energies, the barrier slows down the wavepacket but that it speeds it up at energies comparable to the barrier height.

id: quant-ph/0609017
title: Fractional supersymmetry and hierarchy of shape invariant potentials
authors: Maurice Robert Kibler, Mohammed Daoud
comments: 15 pages; version 2: introduction and conclusion enlarged, acknowledgment added, references added; version 3: one reference added
journal: J.Math.Phys.47:122108,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609017
abstract: Fractional supersymmetric quantum mechanics is developed from a generalized Weyl-Heisenberg algebra. The Hamiltonian and the supercharges of fractional supersymmetric dynamical systems are built in terms of the generators of this algebra. The Hamiltonian gives rise to a hierarchy of isospectral Hamiltonians. Special cases of the algebra lead to dynamical systems for which the isospectral supersymmetric partner Hamiltonians are connected by a (translational or cyclic) shape invariance condition.

id: quant-ph/0609018
title: Quantum Gaussian Channels with Additive Correlated Classical Noise
authors: Giovanna Ruggeri, Stefano Mancini
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 7(3), 265-272 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609018
abstract: We provide a model to study memory effects in quantum Gaussian channels with additive classical noise over an arbitrary number of uses. The correlation among different uses is introduced by contiguous two-mode interactions. Numerical results for few modes are presented. They confirm the possibility to enhance the classical information rate with the aid of entangled inputs, and show a likely asymptotic behavior that should lead to the full capacity of the channel.

id: quant-ph/0609019
title: Producing and Detecting Correlated atoms
authors: Christoph I. Westbrook, Martijn Schellekens, Aur¨¦lien Perrin, Valentina Krachmalnicoff, Jose Carlos Viana Gomes, Jean-Baptiste Trebbia, J¨¦r?me Est¨¨ve, Hong Chang, Isabelle Bouchoule, Denis Boiron, Alain Aspect, Tom Jeltes, John McNamara, Wim Hogervorst, Wim Vassen
comments: to appear in conference proceedings "Atomic Physics 20"
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings Vol. 869, Autriche (2006) 181-190
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609019
abstract: We discuss experiments to produce and detect atom correlations in a degenerate or nearly degenerate gas of neutral atoms. First we treat the atomic analog of the celebrated Hanbury Brown Twiss experiment, in which atom correlations result simply from interference effects without any atom interactions.We have performed this experiment for both bosons and fermions. Next we show how atom interactions produce correlated atoms using the atomic analog of spontaneous four-wavemixing. Finally, we briefly mention experiments on a one dimensional gas on an atom chip in which correlation effects due to both interference and interactions have been observed.

id: quant-ph/0609020
title: The Quantum Cocktail Party
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, R. Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, P. Perinotti, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 4 pages, 2figures, revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609020
abstract: We consider the problem of decorrelating states of coupled quantum systems. The decorrelation can be seen as separation of quantum signals, in analogy to the classical problem of signal-separation rising in the so-called cocktail-party context. The separation of signals cannot be achieved perfectly, and we analyse the optimal decorrelation map in terms of added noise in the local separated states. Analytical results can be obtained both in the case of two-level quantum systems and for Gaussian states of harmonic oscillators.

id: quant-ph/0609021
title: Quantum probabilities for time-extended measurements
authors: C. Anastopoulos, N. Savvidou
comments: 17 pages, latex
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48, 032106 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609021
abstract: We study the probability assignment for the outcomes of time-extended measurements. We construct the class-operator that incorporates the information about a generic time-smeared quantity. These class-operators are employed for the construction of Positive-Operator-Valued-Measures for the time-averaged quantities. The scheme highlights the distinction between velocity and momentum in quantum theory. Propositions about velocity and momentum are represented by different class-operators, hence they define different probability measures. We provide some examples, we study the classical limit and we construct probabilities for generalized time-extended phase space variables.

id: quant-ph/0609022
title: Information transfer rates in spin quantum channels
authors: Davide Rossini, Vittorio Giovannetti, Rosario Fazio
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 5, 439 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609022
abstract: We analyze the communication efficiency of quantum information transfer along unmodulated spin chains by computing the communication rates of various protocols. The effects of temporal correlations are discussed, showing that they can be exploited to boost the transmission efficiency.

id: quant-ph/0609023
title: Path integrals and boundary conditions
authors: M. Asorey, A. Ibort, G. Marmo
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure. Proceedings of the Meeting on Fundamental Physics 'A. Galindo', Eds. R.F. Alvarez-Estrada et al, Madrid (2004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609023
abstract: The path integral approach to quantum mechanics provides a method of quantization of dynamical systems directly from the Lagrange formalism. In field theory the method presents some advantages over Hamiltonian quantization. The Lagrange formalism preserves relativistic covariance which makes the Feynman method very convenient to achieve the renormalization of field theories both in perturbative and non-perturbative approaches. However, when the systems are confined in bounded domains we shall show that the path integral approach does not describe the most general type of boundary conditions. Highly non-local boundary conditions cannot be described by Feynman's approach. We analyse in this note the origin of this problem in quantum mechanics and its implications for field theory.

id: quant-ph/0609024
title: Concurrence via entanglement witnesses
authors: Florian Mintert
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609024
abstract: We derive an experimentally observable lower bound on concurrence of mixed quantum states in terms of an entanglement witness, relating measurements on single states with those on two copies.

id: quant-ph/0609025
title: Observation of twin beam correlations and quadrature entanglement by frequency doubling in a two-port resonator
authors: O.-K. Lim, B. Boland, M. Saffman
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 78, 40004 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609025
abstract: We demonstrate production of quantum correlated and entangled beams by second harmonic generation in a nonlinear resonator with two output ports. The output beams at wavelength 428.5 nm exhibit 0.9 dB of nonclassical intensity correlations and 0.3 dB of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0609026
title: Fidelity, entanglement, and information complementarity relation
authors: Jian-Ming Cai, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 363, 392 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609026
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of information in isolated multi-qubit systems. It is shown that information is in not only local form but also nonlocal form. We apply a measure of local information based on fidelity, and demonstrate that nonlocal information can be directly related to some appropriate well defined entanglement measures. Under general unitary transformations, local and nonlocal information will exhibit unambiguous complementary behavior with the total information conserved.

id: quant-ph/0609027
title: Information-Theoretic Measure of Genuine Multi-Qubit Entanglement
authors: Jian-Ming Cai, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Xing-Xiang Zhou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 042338 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609027
abstract: We consider pure quantum states of N qubits and study the genuine N-qubit entanglement that is shared among all the N qubits. We introduce an information-theoretic measure of genuine N-qubit entanglement based on bipartite partitions. When N is an even number, this measure is presented in a simple formula, which depends only on the purities of the partially reduced density matrices. It can be easily computed theoretically and measured experimentally. When N is an odd number, the measure can also be obtained in principle.

id: quant-ph/0609028
title: Secure Controlled Teleportation
authors: Dan Kenigsberg, Tal Mor
comments: 3 pages, presented as a poster in AQIS'06, where A. Winter suggested considerable improvements to the main result (these suggestions are not included in this version)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609028
abstract: Several protocols for controlled teleportation were suggested by Yang, Chu, and Han [PRA 70, 022329 (2004)]. In these protocols, Alice teleports qubits (in an unknown state) to Bob iff a controller allows it. We view this problem in the perspective of secure multi-party quantum computation. We show that the suggested entanglement-efficient protocols for $m$-qubit controlled teleportation are open to cheating; Alice and Bob may teleport $(m-1)$-qubits of quantum information, out of the controllers' control. We conjecture that the straightforward protocol for controlled teleportation, which requires each controller to hold $m$ entangled qubits, is optimal. We prove this conjecture for a limited, but interesting, subset of protocols.

id: quant-ph/0609029
title: Anzatz of quantum correlation and disentanglement problem
authors: N. K. Solovarov
comments: Lectures, 18th Summer School-Seminar on Recent Problems in Theoretical and Mathematical Physics VOLGA-2006, 22.08-03.09, 2006, Kazan, Russia
journal: in Recent Problems in Field Theory, ed. by A.V. Aminova, Kazan University Press, Kazan, 2007, pp. 212-229.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609029
abstract: Pedagogical introduction into the problem of the mathematical description of the quantum correlation (entanglement) of composite quantum systems is represented. The notion is substantiated about the fact that the conventional algorithm of the reduction of von Neumann in the description of the dynamics of the observed subsyatem is not universal and corresponds only to the case of maximum macroscopicity of the unobservable subsystem. Is clearly shown the sense of the algorithm of the correlated reduction proposed, which minimally changes the entropy of composite system.

id: quant-ph/0609030
title: Quantum Communication with Quantum Dot Spins
authors: Christoph Simon, Yann-Michel Niquet, Xavier Caillet, Joel Eymery, Jean-Philippe Poizat, Jean-Michel Gerard
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, new and improved version, explicit performance estimates
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 081302(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609030
abstract: Single electron spins in quantum dots are attractive for quantum communication because of their expected long coherence times. We propose a method to create entanglement between two remote spins based on the coincident detection of two photons emitted by the dots. Local nodes of several qubits can be realized using the dipole-dipole interaction between trions in neighboring dots and spectral addressing, allowing the realization of quantum repeater protocols. We have performed a detailed feasibility study of our proposal based on tight-binding calculations of quantum dot properties.

id: quant-ph/0609031
title: Transient localization in the kicked Rydberg atom
authors: E. Persson, S. F¨¹rthauer, S. Wimberger, J. Burgd?rfer
comments: 
journal: Phys Rev A 74 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609031
abstract: We investigate the long-time limit of quantum localization of the kicked Rydberg atom. The kicked Rydberg atom is shown to possess in addition to the quantum localization time $\tau_L$ a second cross-over time $t_D$ where quantum dynamics diverges from classical dynamics towards increased instability. The quantum localization is shown to vanish as either the strength of the kicks at fixed principal quantum number or the quantum number at fixed kick strength increases. The survival probability as a function of frequency in the transient localization regime $\tau_L<t<t_D$ is characterized by highly irregular, fractal-like fluctuations.

id: quant-ph/0609032
title: Faster than Hermitian Quantum Mechanics
authors: Carl M. Bender, Dorje C. Brody, Hugh F. Jones, Bernhard K. Meister
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.98:040403,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609032
abstract: Given an initial quantum state |psi_I> and a final quantum state |psi_F> in a Hilbert space, there exist Hamiltonians H under which |psi_I> evolves into |psi_F>. Consider the following quantum brachistochrone problem: Subject to the constraint that the difference between the largest and smallest eigenvalues of H is held fixed, which H achieves this transformation in the least time tau? For Hermitian Hamiltonians tau has a nonzero lower bound. However, among non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Hamiltonians satisfying the same energy constraint, tau can be made arbitrarily small without violating the time-energy uncertainty principle. This is because for such Hamiltonians the path from |psi_I> to |psi_F> can be made short. The mechanism described here is similar to that in general relativity in which the distance between two space-time points can be made small if they are connected by a wormhole. This result may have applications in quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0609033
title: Measuring photon anti-bunching from continuous variable sideband squeezing
authors: Nicolai B. Grosse, Thomas Symul, Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, Timothy C. Ralph, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 153603 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609033
abstract: We present a technique for measuring the second-order coherence function $g^{(2)}(\tau)$ of light using a Hanbury-Brown Twiss intensity interferometer modified for homodyne detection. The experiment was performed entirely in the continuous variable regime at the sideband frequency of a bright carrier field. We used the setup to characterize $g^{(2)}(\tau)$ for thermal and coherent states, and investigated its immunity to optical loss. We measured $g^{(2)}(\tau)$ of a displaced squeezed state, and found a best anti-bunching statistic of $g^{(2)}(0) = 0.11 \pm 0.18$.

id: quant-ph/0609034
title: An Entanglement-Based Protocol For Strong Coin Tossing With Bias 1/4
authors: Roger Colbeck
comments: 4 pages, no figures. Title changed, and paragraph "Additional Notes" added
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 362, Issues 5-6, 12 March 2007, Pages 390-392
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609034
abstract: In the literature, strong coin tossing protocols based on bit commitment have been proposed. Here we examine a protocol that instead tries to achieve the task by sharing entanglement securely. The protocol uses only qubits, and has bias 1/4. This is equal to the best known bias for bit commitment based schemes.

id: quant-ph/0609035
title: A random walk approach to quantum algorithms
authors: Viv Kendon
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, introductory level, to appear in 2006 Triennial Issue of Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A (2006) 364, 3407-3422
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609035
abstract: The development of quantum algorithms based on quantum versions of random walks is placed in the context of the emerging field of quantum computing. Constructing a suitable quantum version of a random walk is not trivial: pure quantum dynamics is deterministic, so randomness only enters during the measurement phase, i.e., when converting the quantum information into classical information. The outcome of a quantum random walk is very different from the corresponding classical random walk, due to interference between the different possible paths. The upshot is that quantum walkers find themselves further from their starting point on average than a classical walker, and this forms the basis of a quantum speed up that can be exploited to solve problems faster. Surprisingly, the effect of making the walk slightly less than perfectly quantum can optimize the properties of the quantum walk for algorithmic applications. Looking to the future, with even a small quantum computer available, development of quantum walk algorithms might proceed more rapidly than it has, especially for solving real problems.

id: quant-ph/0609036
title: Generic Quantum Ratchet Accelerator with Full Classical Chaos
authors: Jiangbin Gong, Paul Brumer
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 240602 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609036
abstract: A simple model of quantum ratchet transport that can generate unbounded linear acceleration of the quantum ratchet current is proposed, with the underlying classical dynamics fully chaotic. The results demonstrate that generic acceleration of quantum ratchet transport can occur with any type of classical phase space structure. The quantum ratchet transport with full classical chaos is also shown to be very robust to noise due to the large linear acceleration afforded by the quantum dynamics. One possible experiment allowing observation of these predictions is suggested.

id: quant-ph/0609037
title: Optimal Control for Generating Quantum Gates in Open Dissipative Systems
authors: T. Schulte-Herbrueggen, A. Spoerl, N. Khaneja, S.J. Glaser
comments: largely expanded version, superseedes v1: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 154013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609037
abstract: Optimal control methods for implementing quantum modules with least amount of relaxative loss are devised to give best approximations to unitary gates under relaxation. The potential gain by optimal control using relaxation parameters against time-optimal control is explored and exemplified in numerical and in algebraic terms: it is the method of choice to govern quantum systems within subspaces of weak relaxation whenever the drift Hamiltonian would otherwise drive the system through fast decaying modes. In a standard model system generalising decoherence-free subspaces to more realistic scenarios, openGRAPE-derived controls realise a CNOT with fidelities beyond 95% instead of at most 15% for a standard Trotter expansion. As additional benefit it requires control fields orders of magnitude lower than the bang-bang decouplings in the latter.

id: quant-ph/0609038
title: Quantum Optical Systems for the Implementation of Quantum Information Processing
authors: T. C. Ralph
comments: 
journal: Rep. Prog. Phys. 69, 853-898 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609038
abstract: We review the field of Quantum Optical Information from elementary considerations through to quantum computation schemes. We illustrate our discussion with descriptions of experimental demonstrations of key communication and processing tasks from the last decade and also look forward to the key results likely in the next decade. We examine both discrete (single photon) type processing as well as those which employ continuous variable manipulations. The mathematical formalism is kept to the minimum needed to understand the key theoretical and experimental results.

id: quant-ph/0609039
title: Coherent Spin Dynamics into Space Quantization
authors: Masato Morifuji
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609039
abstract: We propose a mechanism to describe how a physical quantity, which initially can take continuous values, is restricted within some discrete values after a measurement. As an example of the present theory, in which interplay between coherence of motion and fluctuation from disturbance plays an important role, we investigate motion of a spin state in a magnetic field. First, we point out that discrete eigenstates are formed from continuous states as a result of coherence of precession motion of a spin. Next, by assuming disturbance from environmental electromagnetic fields, we investigate temporal change of direction of a spin state by applying the first order perturbation theory and the Monte Carlo technique. Results of simulations show that the spins, whose directions are randomly distributed at the initial time, are reoriented toward only two directions due to fluctuation guided by coherence.

id: quant-ph/0609040
title: Quantum White Noise and the Master Equation for Gaussian Reference States
authors: J. Gough
comments: 8 pages, no pictures
journal: Russ. Journ. Math. Phys., 10, No.2, 142-148, 2003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609040
abstract: We modify the Araki-Woods double Fock space construction in order to describe general squeezed Gaussian states and use this to represent squeezed quantum stochastic noise processes. Associated master equations are derived.

id: quant-ph/0609041
title: Star products, duality and double Lie algebras
authors: Olga V. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko, Giuseppe Marmo, Patrizia Vitale
comments: 22 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Lett. A360 (2007) 522-532
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609041
abstract: Quantization of classical systems using the star-product of symbols of observables is discussed. In the star-product scheme an analysis of dual structures is performed and a physical interpretation is proposed. At the Lie algebra level duality is shown to be connected to double Lie algebras. The analysis is specified to quantum tomography. The classical tomographic Poisson bracket is found.

id: quant-ph/0609042
title: Wave Algorithms: Optimal Database Search and Catalysis
authors: Apoorva D. Patel
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, AIP proceedings style. Invited talk at the conference "Quantum Computing: BackAction 2006", IIT Kanpur, India, March 2006. (v2) Error in Eqs.(10,11) corrected by replacing \omega by \omega^2. No change in implementation and application
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings 864 (2006) 261-272
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609042
abstract: Grover's database search algorithm, although discovered in the context of quantum computation, can be implemented using any physical system that allows superposition of states. A physical realization of this algorithm is described using coupled simple harmonic oscillators, which can be exactly solved in both classical and quantum domains. Classical wave algorithms are far more stable against decoherence compared to their quantum counterparts. In addition to providing convenient demonstration models, they may have a role in practical situations, such as catalysis.

id: quant-ph/0609043
title: Quantum random number generator
authors: M. Stipcevic, B. Medved Rogina
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609043
abstract: We report upon a novel principle for realization of a fast nondeterministic random number generator whose randomness relies on intrinsic randomness of the quantum physical processes of photonic emission in semiconductors and subsequent detection by the photoelectric effect. Timing information of detected photons is used to generate binary random digits-bits. The bit extraction method based on restartable clock theoretically eliminates both bias and autocorrelation while reaching efficiency of almost 0.5 bits per random event. A prototype has been built and statistically tested.

id: quant-ph/0609044
title: Entanglement of Collectively Interacting Harmonic Chains
authors: R.G. Unanyan, M. Fleischhauer, D. Bruss
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev. A 75 040302 (R) 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609044
abstract: We study the ground-state entanglement of one-dimensional harmonic chains that are coupled to each other by a collective interaction as realized e.g. in an anisotropic ion crystal. Due to the collective type of coupling, where each chain interacts with every other one in the same way,the total system shows critical behavior in the direction orthogonal to the chains while the isolated harmonic chains can be gapped and non-critical. We derive lower and most importantly upper bounds for the entanglement,quantified by the von Neumann entropy, between a compact block of oscillators and its environment. For sufficiently large size of the subsystems the bounds coincide and show that the area law for entanglement is violated by a logarithmic correction.

id: quant-ph/0609045
title: On Entangled Multiparticle Systems in Bohmian Theory
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609045
abstract: Arguments are presented to show that the Bohmianian programme cannot be implemented for entangled multiparticle systems in general, analogous to the case of many-particle systems in classical mechanics. We give two examples.

id: quant-ph/0609046
title: Superbroadcasting of harmonic oscillators mixed states
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, revtex4, to appear in the Proceedings of ICQO2006, Minsk, May 2006
journal: Optics and Spectroscopy 103, 170 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609046
abstract: We consider the problem of broadcasting quantum information encoded in the displacement parameter for an harmonic oscillator, from N to M>N copies of a thermal state. We show the Weyl-Heisenberg covariant broadcasting map that optimally reduces the thermal photon number, and we prove that it minimizes the noise in conjugate quadratures at the output for general input states. We find that from two input copies broadcasting is feasible, with the possibility of simultaneous purification (superbroadcasting).

id: quant-ph/0609047
title: Robust quantum searching with spontaneously decaying qubits
authors: Robert J. C. Spreeuw, Tom W. Hijmans
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures v2: modified title, abstract, and introduction; some extra refs v3: considerable revision, extended data range to 36 qubits, added an appendix with the re-expressed master equation. Now 6 pages. v4: few final tweaks
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022306 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609047
abstract: We present a modification of the standard single-item quantum search procedure that acquires robustness from spontaneous decay of the qubits. This damps the usual oscillation of populations, driving the system to a steady state with a strongly enhanced population of the solution. Numerical evaluation of the steady state was performed for up to 36 qubits. The huge size of the state space in our analysis is dealt with by exploiting a symmetry in the master equation that reduces the scaling of computer resources from exponential to polynomial. Based on these results we estimate that an error-free solution can be retrieved from the steady state after O(log log N) repetitions, with near-unit probability. This brings the overall scaling to O(sqrt{N} log log N), only slightly worse than for the ideal quantum case.

id: quant-ph/0609048
title: Complementarity and Uncertainty in Mach-Zehnder Interferometry and beyond
authors: Paul Busch, Christopher R. Shilladay
comments: 
journal: Physics Reports 435 (2006) 1-31
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609048
abstract: A coherent account of the connections and contrasts between the principles of com- plementarity and uncertainty is developed starting from a survey of the various formalizations of these principles. The conceptual analysis is illustrated by means of a set of experimental schemes based on Mach-Zehnder interferometry. In particu- lar, path detection via entanglement with a probe system and (quantitative) quan- tum erasure are exhibited to constitute instances of joint unsharp measurements of complementary pairs of physical quantities, path and interference observables. The analysis uses the representation of observables as positive-operator-valued measures (POVMs). The reconciliation of complementary experimental options in the sense of simultaneous unsharp preparations and measurements is expressed in terms of uncertainty relations of different kinds. The feature of complementarity, manifest in the present examples in the mutual exclusivity of path detection and interference observation, is recovered as a limit case from the appropriate uncertainty relation. It is noted that the complementarity and uncertainty principles are neither completely logically independent nor logical consequences of one another. Since entanglement is an instance of the uncertainty of quantum properties (of compound systems), it is moot to play out uncertainty and entanglement against each other as possible mechanisms enforcing complementarity.

id: quant-ph/0609049
title: On the numerical characterization of atmospheric effects on an Earth-Space quantum communication channel
authors: N. Antonietti, M. Mondin, G. Brida, M. Genovese
comments: published version
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, 5 (2007) 241
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609049
abstract: Earth-Space quantum communication is the next challenge of telecommunications. As long as we want to know the outcome of a quantum communication by means of single photons, we have to face the interaction between a single photon and the atmosphere. In this brief article, we want to report some preliminary simulation results for realistic and generic atmospheric conditions.

id: quant-ph/0609050
title: NPT Bound Entanglement- The Problem Revisited
authors: Indrani Chattopadhyay, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 9 pagex, latex format, extended version, new materials added, comments and criticisms welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609050
abstract: Recently [quant-ph/0608250] again created a lot of interest to prove the existence of bound entangled states with negative partial transpose (NPT) in any $d \times d (d \geq 3)$ Hilbert space. However the proof in quant-ph/0608250 is not complete but it shows some interesting properties of the Schmidt rank two states. In this work we are trying to probe the problem in a different angle considering the work by D\"{u}r et.al [Phys. Rev. A, 61, 062313(2000)]. We have assumed that the Schmidt rank two states should satisfy some bounds. Under some assumptions with these bounds one could prove the existence of NPT bound entangled states. We particularly discuss the case of two copy undistillability of the conjectured family of NPT states. Obviously the class of NPT bound entangled states belong to the class of conjectured to be bound entangled states by Divincenzo et.al [Phys. Rev. A, 61, 062312(2000)] and by D\"{u}r et.al [Phys. Rev. A, 61, 062313(2000)]. However the problem of existence of NPT bound entangled states still remain open.

id: quant-ph/0609051
title: Computational Difficulty of Global Variations in the Density Matrix Renormalization Group
authors: J. Eisert
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 260501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609051
abstract: The density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) approach is arguably the most successful method to numerically find ground states of quantum spin chains. It amounts to iteratively locally optimizing matrix-product states, aiming at better and better approximating the true ground state. To date, both a proof of convergence to the globally best approximation and an assessment of its complexity are lacking. Here we establish a result on the computational complexity of an approximation with matrix-product states: The surprising result is that when one globally optimizes over several sites of local Hamiltonians, avoiding local optima, one encounters in the worst case a computationally difficult NP-hard problem (hard even in approximation). The proof exploits a novel way of relating it to binary quadratic programming. We discuss intriguing ramifications on the difficulty of describing quantum many-body systems.

id: quant-ph/0609052
title: Efficient algorithm for multi-qudit twirling for ensemble quantum computation
authors: Geza Toth, Juan Jose Garcia-Ripoll
comments: 11 pages including 6 figures, revtex4; v2: presentation improved, sections VI and VII added; v3: small changes before publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042311 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609052
abstract: We present an efficient algorithm for twirling a multi-qudit quantum state. The algorithm can be used for approximating the twirling operation in an ensemble of physical systems in which the systems cannot be individually accessed. It can also be used for computing the twirled density matrix on a classical computer. The method is based on a simple non-unitary operation involving a random unitary. When applying this basic building block iteratively, the mean squared error of the approximation decays exponentially. In contrast, when averaging over random unitary matrices the error decreases only algebraically. We present evidence that the unitaries in our algorithm can come from a very imperfect random source or can even be chosen deterministically from a set of cyclically alternating matrices. Based on these ideas we present a quantum circuit realizing twirling efficiently.

id: quant-ph/0609053
title: Generation and transfer of single photons on a photonic crystal chip
authors: Dirk Englund, Andrei Faraon, Bingyang Zhang, Yoshihisa Yamamoto, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609053
abstract: We present a basic building block of a quantum network consisting of a quantum dot coupled to a source cavity, which in turn is coupled to a target cavity via a waveguide. The single photon emission from the high-Q/V source cavity is characterized by a twelve-fold spontaneous emission (SE) rate enhancement that results in a SE coupling efficiency near 0.98 into the source cavity mode. Single photons are efficiently transferred into the target cavity through the waveguide, with a source/target field intensity ratio of 0.12 (up to 0.49 observed in other structures without coupled quantum dots). This system shows great promise as a building block of future on-chip quantum information processing systems.

id: quant-ph/0609054
title: How to Measure the Quantum State of Collective Atomic Spin Excitation
authors: Koji Usami, Jun-ichi Takahashi, Mikio Kozuma
comments: 6 pages, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 043815 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609054
abstract: The spin state of an atomic ensemble can be viewed as two bosonic modes, i.e., a quantum signal mode and a $c$-numbered ``local oscillator'' mode when large numbers of spin-1/2 atoms are spin-polarized along a certain axis and collectively manipulated within the vicinity of the axis. We present a concrete procedure which determines the spin-excitation-number distribution, i.e., the diagonal elements of the density matrix in the Dicke basis for the collective spin state. By seeing the collective spin state as a statistical mixture of the inherently-entangled Dicke states, the physical picture of its multi-particle entanglement is made clear.

id: quant-ph/0609055
title: Characterizing multiparticle entanglement in symmetric N-qubit states via negativity of covariance matrices
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, R. Prabhu, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 4 pages, no figures, RevTeX, Improved presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 060501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609055
abstract: We show that higher order inter-group covariances involving even number of qubits are necessarily positive semidefinite for N qubit separable states, which are completely symmetric under permutations of the qubits. This identification leads to a family of sufficient conditions of inseparability based on the negativity of 2kth order inter-group covariance matrices of symmetric N-qubit systems. These conditions have a simple structure and detect entanglement in all even partitions of the symmetric multiqubit system. The observables involved are feasible experimental quantities and do not demand full state determination through quantum state tomography.

id: quant-ph/0609056
title: Fuzzy Space-Time and Phase Space Structure as approach to Nonrelativistic Quantization
authors: S.Mayburov
comments: Latex, 15 pages, Talk given on 'Foundations of Physics and Computations' Conference, Udine, 2004)
journal: Proc.Steklov Inst.Math. 245 (2004) 154
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609056
abstract: Quantum Space-Time and Phase Space with fuzzy geometric structure are studied as possible formalism for quantization of massive particles and fields. In this approach the state of nonrelativistic particle m described by the fuzzy point of fuzzy (weakly) ordered Manifold X. Due to m partial ordering in X m coordinate x principal uncertainty is generic in this ansatz. It's shown that in 1+1 dimension such Fuzzy Mechanics (FM) is equivalent to Path Integral formalism of Quantum Mechanics (QM).

id: quant-ph/0609057
title: Investigation of a quantum mechanical detector model for moving, spread-out particles
authors: Gerhard C. Hegerfeldt, Jens Timo Neumann, Lawrence S. Schulman
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure; minor changes, references corrected; accepted for publication in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 14447-14463
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609057
abstract: We investigate a fully quantum mechanical spin model for the detection of a moving particle. This model, developed in earlier work, is based on a collection of spins at fixed locations and in a metastable state, with the particle locally enhancing the coupling of the spins to an environment of bosons. Appearance of bosons from particular spins signals the presence of the particle at the spin location, and the first boson indicates its arrival. The original model used discrete boson modes. Here we treat the continuum limit, under the assumption of the Markov property, and calculate the arrival-time distribution for a particle to reach a specific region.

id: quant-ph/0609058
title: Path Integral Approach for Superintegrable Potentials on Spaces of Non-constant Curvature: II. Darboux Spaces DIII and DIV
authors: Christian Grosche, George Pogosyan, Alexei Sissakian
comments: 
journal: Phys.Part.Nucl.38:525-563,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609058
abstract: This is the second paper on the path integral approach of superintegrable systems on Darboux spaces, spaces of non-constant curvature. We analyze in the spaces $\DIII$ and $\DIV$ five respectively four superintegrable potentials, which were first given by Kalnins et al. We are able to evaluate the path integral in most of the separating coordinate systems, leading to expressions for the Green functions, the discrete and continuous wave-functions, and the discrete energy-spectra. In some cases, however, the discrete spectrum cannot be stated explicitly, because it is determined by a higher order polynomial equation. We show that also the free motion in Darboux space of type III can contain bound states, provided the boundary conditions are appropriate. We state the energy spectrum and the wave-functions, respectively.

id: quant-ph/0609059
title: Shannon entropies of atomic structure factors, off-diagonal order and electron correlation
authors: Robin P. Sagar, Nicolais L. Guevara
comments: 
journal: Mol. Phys. 105 (2007) 1359-1368
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609059
abstract: Shannon entropies of one- and two-electron atomic structure factors in the position and momentum representations are used to examine the behavior of the off-diagonal elements of density matrices with respect to the uncertainty principle and to analyze the effects of electron correlation on off-diagonal order. We show that electron correlation induces off-diagonal order in position space which is characterized by larger entropic values. Electron correlation in momentum space is characterized by smaller entropic values as information is forced into regions closer to the diagonal. Related off-diagonal correlation functions are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0609060
title: On infinite matrices, Schur products, and operator measures
authors: J. Kiukas, P. Lahti, J.-P. Pellonp??
comments: 16 pages, no figures, to be published in Reports of Mathematical Physics; corrected typos
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 58 (2006) 375-393
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609060
abstract: Measures with values in the set of sesquilinear forms on a subspace of a Hilbert space are of interest in quantum mechanics, since they can be interpreted as observables with only a restricted set of possible measurement preparations. In this paper, we consider the question under which conditions such a measure extends to an operator valued measure, in the concrete setting where the measure is defined on the Borel sets of the interval $[0,2\pi)$ and is covariant with respect to shifts. In this case, the measure is characterized with a single infinite matrix, and it turns out that a basic sufficient condition for the extensibility is that the matrix be a Schur multiplier. Accordingly, we also study the connection between the extensibility problem and the theory of Schur multipliers. In particular, we define some new norms for Schur multipliers.

id: quant-ph/0609061
title: Hadamard NMR spectroscopy for two-dimensional quantum information processing and parallel search algorithms
authors: T. Gopinath, Anil Kumar
comments: 28 pages, 10 figures. Journal of Magnetic Resonance (In Press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609061
abstract: Hadamard spectroscopy has earlier been used to speed-up multi-dimensional NMR experiments. In this work we speed-up the two-dimensional quantum computing scheme, by using Hadamard spectroscopy in the indirect dimension, resulting in a scheme which is faster and requires the Fourier transformation only in the direct dimension. Two and three qubit quantum gates are implemented with an extra observer qubit. We also use one-dimensional Hadamard spectroscopy for binary information storage by spatial encoding and implementation of a parallel search algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0609062
title: Hidden variables or hidden theories?
authors: A. Feoli
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609062
abstract: We show that a modified Relativity Principle could explain in a "classical" way the strange correlations of entangled photons. We propose a gedanken experiment with balls and boxes that predicts the same distribution of probability of the Quantum Mechanics in the case of the EPR experiment with a pair of entangled photons meeting a pair of polarizers. In the light of this gedanken experiment, we find an alternative description of the real EPR experiment postulating the existence of two observers (one for each polarizer) embedded in two locally anisotropic spacetimes. In our model there is no need to invoke quantum non separability or instantaneous action at distance.

id: quant-ph/0609063
title: Studies on Entanglement in Nuclear and Electron Spin Systems for Quantum Computing
authors: Robabeh Rahimi
comments: 158 pages, slightly modified version of the Dissertation submitted for Doctor of Philosophy at Osaka University, Japan, March 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609063
abstract: In this work, we have been working on the concept of quantum entanglement. At first, we studied the theory of entanglement in its characterization and measurement, introducing a new scheme for detection of entanglement. The new approach links molecular-spin entities involving nuclear spins to quantum computing as more appropriate physical systems of interest. Then, we continued with the realization of entanglement in experiments. NMR has been the first choice due to its well approved advantages for quantum computing. NMR, however, has not been an appropriate system for demonstrating entangled states. Through a mathematical proof, NMR with low spin polarization has been invalidated for true implementations of non-local quantum algorithms, particularly supserdense coding. The point is that high spin polarization is inevitably required to acquire entanglement while in the current NMR it has been a formidable task to get highly polarized nuclear spins. In order to acquire high spin polarization, introducing electron spins can be much effective because of its three-order-of-magnitude larger gyromagnetic ratio compared to nuclear spins. Electron Nuclear DOuble Resonance (ENDOR) is spin manipulation technology that enables us to deal with both electron and nuclear spins. Thus, in this context, it can be more appropriate device for quantum computing. We emphasize that (pseudo)entanglement and interconversion between the entangled states have been realized with ENDOR on extremely stable organic molecular-spin entities. The required experimental conditions to obtain true quantum entanglement are also discussed. The appropriate entanglement witness for the corresponding ensemble quantum computing is introduced and examined.

id: quant-ph/0609064
title: Groverian entanglement measure and evolution of entanglement in search algorithm for n(=3 and 5)-qubit systems with real coefficients
authors: Arti Chamoli, C. M. Bhandari
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609064
abstract: Evolution of entanglement with the proceeding of quantum algorithms affects the outcome of the algorithm. Particularly, the performance of Grover's search algorithm gets worsened if the initial state of the algorithm is an entangled one. The success probability of search can be seen as an operational measure of entanglement. This paper demonstrates an entanglement measure based on the performance of Grover's search algorithm for three and five qubit systems. We also show that although the overall pattern shows growth of entanglement, its rise to a maximum and then consequent decay, the presence of local fluctuation within each iterative step is likely.

id: quant-ph/0609065
title: Hybrid Parallel Quantum Key Distribution Protocol
authors: Fabio Alencar Mendonca, Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609065
abstract: The practical realizations of BB84 quantum key distribution protocol using single-photon or weak coherent states have normally presented low efficiency, in the meaning that most bits sent by Alice are not useful for the final key. In this work, we show an optical setup to improve the transmission rate of useful bits putting together two ideas, parallel quantum key distribution and physical encryption using mesoscopic coherent states. The final result is a four time faster quantum key distribution setup.

id: quant-ph/0609066
title: Renormalization of expansions for Regge trajectories of the Schr?dinger equation
authors: D. A. Kulikov, R. S. Tutik
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Dniepropetrovsk National University Scientifical Herald. Series Physics and Radiophysics, Vol.12, pp. 28-32 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609066
abstract: A recursion technique for the renormalization of semiclassical expansions for the Regge trajectories of bound states of the Schr\"odinger equation is developed. As an application of the proposed technique, the two-parameter renormalization scheme of the Regge trajectories for the bound states in the Martin potential is considered.

id: quant-ph/0609067
title: Simple proof of equivalence between adiabatic quantum computation and the circuit model
authors: Ari Mizel, Daniel A. Lidar, Morgan Mitchell
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. v2: improved gap estimates and added some more details
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 070502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609067
abstract: We prove the equivalence between adiabatic quantum computation and quantum computation in the circuit model. An explicit adiabatic computation procedure is given that generates a ground state from which the answer can be extracted. The amount of time needed is evaluated by computing the gap. We show that the procedure is computationally efficient.

id: quant-ph/0609068
title: Generalized Coherent States as Preferred States of Open Quantum Systems
authors: Sergio Boixo, Lorenza Viola, Gerardo Ortiz
comments: 5 pages, no figures; Significantly improved presentation, new derivation of invariant uncertainty measure via quantum Fisher information added.
journal: EPL, 79 (2007) 40003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609068
abstract: We investigate the connection between quasi-classical (pointer) states and generalized coherent states (GCSs) within an algebraic approach to Markovian quantum systems (including bosons, spins, and fermions). We establish conditions for the GCS set to become most robust by relating the rate of purity loss to an invariant measure of uncertainty derived from quantum Fisher information. We find that, for damped bosonic modes, the stability of canonical coherent states is confirmed in a variety of scenarios, while for systems described by (compact) Lie algebras stringent symmetry constraints must be obeyed for the GCS set to be preferred. The relationship between GCSs, minimum-uncertainty states, and decoherence-free subspaces is also elucidated.

id: quant-ph/0609069
title: New Model of One-dimensional Completed Scattering and the Problem of Quantum Nonlocality
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: 5 pages; no figures; submitted to Proceedings of Foundations of Probability and Physics -4, 2006, Vaxjo, Sweden
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609069
abstract: The origin of nonlocality in quantum mechanics (QM) is analyzed from the viewpoint of our new model of a one-dimensional (1D) completed scattering. Our study of quantum nonlocality complements those carried out by Volovich and Khrennikov. They pointed to an unphysical character of nonlocality in Bell's theorem whose context does not contain the very structure of the space-time. However, there is another reason leading to nonlocality in QM. The existing model of a 1D completed scattering evidences that QM, as it stands, even with a proper space-time context, contradicts special relativity. By our model this scattering process represents an entanglement of two coherently evolved alternative sub-processes, transmission and reflection; whose characteristics are measured well after the scattering event. Quantum nonlocality appears in this problem due to the inconsistency of the superposition principle with the corpuscular properties of a particle. It can take part only in one of the sub-processes. However the superposition principle allows introducing observables common for them. In the fresh wording, this principle must forbid introducing observables for entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0609070
title: Qudit surface codes and gauge theory with finite cyclic groups
authors: Stephen S. Bullock, Gavin K. Brennen
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures
journal: J.Phys.A40:3481-3505,2007; J.Phys.A40:3481-3506,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609070
abstract: Surface codes describe quantum memory stored as a global property of interacting spins on a surface. The state space is fixed by a complete set of quasi-local stabilizer operators and the code dimension depends on the first homology group of the surface complex. These code states can be actively stabilized by measurements or, alternatively, can be prepared by cooling to the ground subspace of a quasi-local spin Hamiltonian. In the case of spin-1/2 (qubit) lattices, such ground states have been proposed as topologically protected memory for qubits. We extend these constructions to lattices or more generally cell complexes with qudits, either of prime level or of level $d^\ell$ for $d$ prime and $\ell \geq 0$, and therefore under tensor decomposition, to arbitrary finite levels. The Hamiltonian describes an exact $\mathbb{Z}_d\cong\mathbb{Z}/d\mathbb{Z}$ gauge theory whose excitations correspond to abelian anyons. We provide protocols for qudit storage and retrieval and propose an interferometric verification of topological order by measuring quasi-particle statistics.

id: quant-ph/0609071
title: Optical state engineering, quantum communication, and robustness of entanglement promiscuity in three-mode Gaussian states
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Alessio Serafini, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 33 pages, 10 figures (some low-res due to size constraints), IOP style; (v2) improved and reorganized, accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 60 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609071
abstract: We present a novel, detailed study on the usefulness of three-mode Gaussian states states for realistic processing of continuous-variable quantum information, with a particular emphasis on the possibilities opened up by their genuine tripartite entanglement. We describe practical schemes to engineer several classes of pure and mixed three-mode states that stand out for their informational and/or entanglement properties. In particular, we introduce a simple procedure -- based on passive optical elements -- to produce pure three-mode Gaussian states with {\em arbitrary} entanglement structure (upon availability of an initial two-mode squeezed state). We analyze in depth the properties of distributed entanglement and the origin of its sharing structure, showing that the promiscuity of entanglement sharing is a feature peculiar to symmetric Gaussian states that survives even in the presence of significant degrees of mixedness and decoherence. Next, we discuss the suitability of the considered tripartite entangled states to the implementation of quantum information and communication protocols with continuous variables. This will lead to a feasible experimental proposal to test the promiscuous sharing of continuous-variable tripartite entanglement, in terms of the optimal fidelity of teleportation networks with Gaussian resources. We finally focus on the application of three-mode states to symmetric and asymmetric telecloning, and single out the structural properties of the optimal Gaussian resources for the latter protocol in different settings. Our analysis aims to lay the basis for a practical quantum communication with continuous variables beyond the bipartite scenario.

id: quant-ph/0609072
title: Deformed Geometric Algebra and Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Peter Henselder
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609072
abstract: Deforming the algebraic structure of geometric algebra on the phase space with a Moyal product leads naturally to supersymmetric quantum mechanics in the star product formalism.

id: quant-ph/0609073
title: On bipartite pure-state entanglement structure in terms of disentanglement
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 41 page, 2 diagrams
journal: J. Math. Phys. 47, 122103 (2006); Virtual Journal of Quantum Information 6(12), 2006 - Information Theory section
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609073
abstract: Schroedinger's disentanglement [E. Schroedinger, Proc. Cambridge Phil. Soc. 31, 555 (1935)], i. e., remote state decomposition, as a physical way to study entanglement, is carried one step further with respect to previous work in investigating the qualitative side of entanglement in any bipartite state vector. Remote measurement (or, equivalently, remote orthogonal state decomposition) from previous work is generalized to remote linearly-independent complete state decomposition both in the non-selective and the selective versions. The results are displayed in terms of commutative square diagrams, which show the power and beauty of the physical meaning of the (antiunitary) correlation operator inherent in the given bipartite state vector. This operator, together with the subsystem states (reduced density operators), constitutes the so-called correlated subsystem picture. It is the central part of the antilinear representation of a bipartite state vector, and it is a kind of core of its entanglement structure. The generalization of previously elaborated disentanglement expounded in this article is a synthesis of the antilinear representation of bipartite state vectors, which is reviewed, and the relevant results of Cassinelli et al. [J. Math. Analys. and Appl., 210, 472 (1997)] in mathematical analysis, which are summed up. Linearly-independent bases (finite or infinite) are shown to be almost as useful in some quantum mechanical studies as orthonormal ones. Finally, it is shown that linearly-independent remote pure-state preparation carries the highest probability of occurrence. This singles out linearly-independent remote influence from all possible ones.

id: quant-ph/0609074
title: The Generation and Exchange of Entanglement via Zeeman Effect
authors: Jian-da Wu, Jian-lan Chen, Yong-de Zhang
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609074
abstract: In this paper we show a new way to generate entanglement via two identical three-level atoms splitting in the magnetic field interacting with the cavity field. By the system we investigate, We can acquire the EPR state, multi-dimensional entangled states etc. which are more stable than usual realization by high-energy-level Rydberg atoms and we can realize the local exchange operator too. We also achieve the goal of maintaining long- time entanglement between atoms. At last, by using the procedure of local exchange, we put forward an experimental scheme for quantum feedback.

id: quant-ph/0609075
title: Quantum dynamics of electronic excitations in biomolecular chromophores: role of the protein environment and solvent
authors: Joel Gilmore, Ross H. McKenzie
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609075
abstract: We consider continuum dielectric models as minimal models to understand the effect of a surrounding globular protein and solvent on the quantum dynamics of electronic excitations in a biological chromophore. We derive expressions for the frequency dependent spectral density which describes the coupling of the electronic levels in the chromophore to its environment. The magnitude and frequency dependence of the spectral density determines whether or not the quantum dynamics is coherent or incoherent, and thus whether on not one can observe quantum interference effects such as Rabi oscillations. We find the contributions to the spectral density from each component of the chromophore environment: the bulk solvent, protein, and water bound to the protein. The relative importance of each component to the quantum dynamics of the chromophore is determined by the dynamics' time scale. Our results provide a natural explanation and model for the different time scales observed in the spectral density extracted from the solvation dynamics probed by ultra-fast laser spectroscopy techniques such as the dynamic Stokes shift and three pulse photon echo spectroscopy. Our results are used to define under what conditions the dynamics of the excited chromophore is dominated by the surrounding protein and when it is dominated by dielectric fluctuations in the solvent. We show that even when the chromophore is shielded from the solvent by the protein ultra-fast solvation can be dominated by the solvent. We suggest that the ultra-fast solvation recently seen in some biological chromophores should not necessarily be assigned to ultra-fast protein dynamics. Spectral densities estimated from our continuum models and extracted from experiment suggest that most quantum dynamics of electronic excitations is incoherent.

id: quant-ph/0609076
title: Maximum observable correlation for a bipartite quantum system
authors: Michael J.W. Hall, Erika Andersson, Thomas Brougham
comments: Revtex, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74 (2006) 062308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609076
abstract: The maximum observable correlation between the two components of a bipartite quantum system is a property of the joint density operator, and is achieved by making particular measurements on the respective components. For pure states it corresponds to making measurements diagonal in a corresponding Schmidt basis. More generally, it is shown that the maximum correlation may be characterised in terms of a `correlation basis' for the joint density operator, which defines the corresponding (nondegenerate) optimal measurements. The maximum coincidence rate for spin measurements on two-qubit systems is determined to be (1+s)/2, where s is the spectral norm of the spin correlation matrix, and upper bounds are obtained for n-valued measurements on general bipartite systems. It is shown that the maximum coincidence rate is never greater than the computable cross norm measure of entanglement, and a much tighter upper bound is conjectured. Connections with optimal state discrimination and entanglement bounds are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0609077
title: An investigation into why macroscopic systems behave classically
authors: David W. Hallwood, Keith Burnett, Jacob Dunningham
comments: 23 preprint pages, 12 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 54, 2129 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609077
abstract: We study why it is quite so hard to make a superposition of superfluid flows in a Bose-Einstein condensate. To do this we initially investigate the quantum states of $N$ atoms trapped in a 1D ring with a barrier at one position and a phase applied around it. We show how macroscopic superpositions can in principle be produced and investigate factors which affect the superposition. We then use the Bose-Hubbard model to study an array of Bose-Einstein condensates trapped in optical potentials and coupled to one another to form a ring. We derive analytic expressions for the quality of the superposition for this system, which agrees well with direct diagonalisation of the Hamiltonian for relatively small numbers of atoms. We show that for macroscopic superpositions to be realised there are essentially three straightforward requirements, other than an absence of decoherence, which become harder to achieve as the system size increases. Firstly, the energies of the two distinct superfluid states must be sufficiently close. Secondly, coupling between the two states must be sufficiently strong, and thirdly, other states must be well separated from those participating in the superposition.

id: quant-ph/0609078
title: Configuration-Space Location of the Entanglement between Two Subsystems
authors: H.-C. Lin, A.J. Fisher
comments: RevTex, 12 pages, 9 figures (28 files). Modifications in response to journal referees
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032330 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609078
abstract: In this paper we address the question: where in configuration space is the entanglement between two particles located? We present a thought-experiment, equally applicable to discrete or continuous-variable systems, in which one or both parties makes a preliminary measurement of the state with only enough resolution to determine whether or not the particle resides in a chosen region, before attempting to make use of the entanglement. We argue that this provides an operational answer to the question of how much entanglement was originally located within the chosen region. We illustrate the approach in a spin system, and also in a pair of coupled harmonic oscillators. Our approach is particularly simple to implement for pure states, since in this case the sub-ensemble in which the system is definitely located in the restricted region after the measurement is also pure, and hence its entanglement can be simply characterised by the entropy of the reduced density operators. For our spin example we present results showing how the entanglement varies as a function of the parameters of the initial state; for the continuous case, we find also how it depends on the location and size of the chosen regions. Hence we show that the distribution of entanglement is very different from the distribution of the classical correlations.

id: quant-ph/0609079
title: Classical world arising out of quantum physics under the restriction of coarse-grained measurements
authors: Johannes Kofler, Caslav Brukner
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, second revised and published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 180403 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609079
abstract: Conceptually different from the decoherence program, we present a novel theoretical approach to macroscopic realism and classical physics within quantum theory. It focuses on the limits of observability of quantum effects of macroscopic objects, i.e., on the required precision of our measurement apparatuses such that quantum phenomena can still be observed. First, we demonstrate that for unrestricted measurement accuracy no classical description is possible for arbitrarily large systems. Then we show for a certain time evolution that under coarse-grained measurements not only macrorealism but even the classical Newtonian laws emerge out of the Schroedinger equation and the projection postulate.

id: quant-ph/0609080
title: Complete and Deterministic discrimination of polarization Bell state assisted by momentum entanglement
authors: M. Barbieri, G. Vallone, P. Mataloni, F. De Martini
comments: 4 pages, v2, comments added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042317 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609080
abstract: A complete and deterministic Bell state measurement was realized by a simple linear optics experimental scheme which adopts 2-photon polarization-momentum hyperentanglement. The scheme, which is based on the discrimination among the single photon Bell states of the hyperentangled state, requires the adoption of standard single photon detectors. The four polarization Bell states have been measured with average fidelity $F=0.889\pm0.010$ by using the linear momentum degree of freedom as the ancilla. The feasibility of the scheme has been characterized as a function of the purity of momentum entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0609081
title: Secure and efficient decoy-state quantum key distribution with inexact pulse intensities
authors: X. B. Wang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052301(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609081
abstract: We present a general theorem for the efficient verification of the lower bound of single-photon transmittance. We show how to do decoy-state quantum key distribution efficiently with large random errors in the intensity control. In our protocol, the linear terms of fluctuation disappear and only the quadratic terms take effect. We then show the unconditional security of decoy-state method with whatever error pattern in intensities of decoy pulses and signal pulses provided that the intensity of each decoy pulse is less than $\mu$ and the intensity of each signal pulse is larger than $\mu'$.

id: quant-ph/0609082
title: Magnetic relaxation of superconducting quantum dot: two-dimensional false vacuum decay
authors: D. R. Gulevich, F. V. Kusmartsev
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 23, 4422 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609082
abstract: Quantum tunneling of vortices has been found to be an important novel phenomena for description of low temperature creep in high temperature superconductors (HTSCs). We speculate that quantum tunneling may be also exhibited in mesoscopic superconductors due to vortices trapped by the Bean-Livingston barrier. The London approximation and method of images is used to estimate the shape of the potential well in superconducting HTSC quantum dot. To calculate the escape rate we use the instanton technique. We model the vortex by a quantum particle tunneling from a two-dimensional ground state under magnetic field applied in the transverse direction. The resulting decay rates obtained by the instanton approach and conventional WKB are compared revealing complete coincidence with each other.

id: quant-ph/0609083
title: Foundations for Cooperating with Control Noise in the Manipulation of Quantum Dynamics
authors: Feng Shuang, Herschel Rabitz, Mark Dykman
comments: submitted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609083
abstract: This paper develops the theoretical foundations for the ability of a control field to cooperate with noise in the manipulation of quantum dynamics. The noise enters as run-to-run variations in the control amplitudes, phases and frequencies with the observation being an ensemble average over many runs as is commonly done in the laboratory. Weak field perturbation theory is developed to show that noise in the amplitude and frequency components of the control field can enhance the process of population transfer in a multilevel ladder system. The analytical results in this paper support the point that under suitable conditions an optimal field can cooperate with noise to improve the control outcome.

id: quant-ph/0609084
title: Observation-assisted optimal control of quantum dynamics
authors: Feng Shuang, Alexander Pechen, Tak-San Ho, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 126, 134303 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609084
abstract: This paper explores the utility of instantaneous and continuous observations in the optimal control of quantum dynamics. Simulations of the processes are performed on several multilevel quantum systems with the goal of population transfer. Optimal control fields are shown to be capable of cooperating or fighting with observations to achieve a good yield, and the nature of the observations may be optimized to more effectively control the quantum dynamics. Quantum observations also can break dynamical symmetries to increase the controllability of a quantum system. The quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects induced by observations are the key operating principles in these processes. The results indicate that quantum observations can be effective tools in the control of quantum dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0609085
title: Developing the Deutsch-Hayden approach to quantum mechanics
authors: Clare Hewitt-Horsman, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 14 pages. Added section on entanglement swapping
journal: New Journal of Physics 9 No. 5 135 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609085
abstract: The formalism of Deutsch and Hayden is a useful tool for describing quantum mechanics explicitly as local and unitary, and therefore quantum information theory as concerning a "flow" of information between systems. In this paper we show that these physical descriptions of flow are unique, and develop the approach further to include the measurement interaction and mixed states. We then give an analysis of entanglement swapping in this approach, showing that it does not in fact contain non-local effects or some form of superluminal signalling.

id: quant-ph/0609086
title: Photon wave function and position eigenvectors
authors: Margaret Hawton
comments: email: margaret.hawton@lakeheadu.ca, All comments welcomed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609086
abstract: One and two photon wave functions are obtained by projection onto a basis of simultaneous eigenvectors of the position and number operators.

id: quant-ph/0609087
title: An Important Properties of Entanglement: Pairwise Entanglement can Only be Transferred by Entangled Pair
authors: Xiao-Qiang Xi, W. M. Liu
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609087
abstract: Basing on the calculation of all the pairwise entanglement in the $n$ ($n \leq 6$)-qubit Heisenberg XX open chain with system impurity, we find an important result: pairwise entanglement can only be transferred through entangled pair. The non-nearest pairwise entanglement will has the possibility to exist as long as there has even number qubit in their middle. This point means that we can get longer distance entanglement in solid system.

id: quant-ph/0609088
title: Quantum Walks in an array of Quantum Dots
authors: K. Manouchehri, J. B. Wang
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures, to appear in J. Phys. A; changed title and content, the new scheme is more scalable and experimentally viable
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609088
abstract: Quantum random walks are shown to have non-intuitive dynamics, which makes them an attractive area of study for devising quantum algorithms for well-known classical problems as well as those arising in the field of quantum computing. In this work we propose a novel scheme for the physical implementation of a discrete-time quantum random walk using laser excitations of the electronic states of an array of quantum dots. These dots represent the discrete nodes of the walk, while transitions between the energy levels inside each dot correspond to the required coin operation and stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) processes are employed to induce the steps of the walk. The quantum dot design is tailored in such a way as to enable selective coupling of the energy levels. Our simulation results show a close agreement with the ideal quantum walk distribution as well as modest robustness towards noise disturbance.

id: quant-ph/0609089
title: Exact solutions of Schrodinger equation for PT-/non-PT-symmetric and non-Hermitian Exponential Type Potentials with the position-dependent effective mass
authors: Ozlem Yesiltas, Ramazan Sever
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609089
abstract: Exact solutions of Schrodinger equation for PT-/non-PT-symmetric and non-Hermitian Morse and Poschl-Teller potentials are obtained with the position-dependent effective mass by applying a point canonical transformation method. Three kinds of mass distributions are used in order to construct exactly solvable target potentials and obtain energy spectrum and corresponding wave functions.

id: quant-ph/0609090
title: Zero-Error Attacks and Detection Statistics in the Coherent One-Way Protocol for Quantum Cryptography
authors: Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Gisin, Norbert Lutkenhaus, Valerio Scarani
comments: 
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. 7, 639 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609090
abstract: This is a study of the security of the Coherent One-Way (COW) protocol for quantum cryptography, proposed recently as a simple and fast experimental scheme. In the zero-error regime, the eavesdropper Eve can only take advantage of the losses in the transmission. We consider new attacks, based on unambiguous state discrimination, which perform better than the basic beam-splitting attack, but which can be detected by a careful analysis of the detection statistics. These results stress the importance of testing several statistical parameters in order to achieve higher rates of secret bits.

id: quant-ph/0609091
title: Partial transposition on bi-partite system
authors: Y.-J. Han, X. J. Ren, Y. C. Wu, G.-C. Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609091
abstract: Many of the properties of the partial transposition are not clear so far. Here the number of the negative eigenvalues of K(T)(the partial transposition of K) is considered carefully when K is a two-partite state. There are strong evidences to show that the number of negative eigenvalues of K(T) is N(N-1)/2 at most when K is a state in Hilbert space N*N. For the special case, 2*2 system(two qubits), we use this result to give a partial proof of the conjecture sqrt(K(T))(T)>=0. We find that this conjecture is strongly connected with the entanglement of the state corresponding to the negative eigenvalue of K(T) or the negative entropy of K.

id: quant-ph/0609092
title: Wave-particle duality and `bipartite' wave functions for a single particle
authors: Zeqian Chen
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609092
abstract: It is shown that `bipartite' wave functions can present a mathematical formalism of quantum theory for a single particle, in which the associated Schr\"{o}dinger's wave functions correspond to those `bipartite' wave functions of product forms. This extension of Schr\"{o}dinger's form establishes a mathematical expression of wave-particle duality and that von Neumann's entropy is a quantitative measure of complementarity between wave-like and particle-like behaviors. In particular, this formalism suggests that collapses of Schr\"{o}dinger's wave functions can be regarded as the simultaneous transition of the particle from many levels to one. Our results shed considerable light on the basis of quantum mechanics, including quantum measurement.

id: quant-ph/0609093
title: Entanglement and Disentanglement, Probabilistic Interpretation of Statevectors, and Transformation between Intrinsic Frames of Reference
authors: Wen-ge Wang
comments: 4 pages. All types of comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609093
abstract: We study a quantum theory based on two assumptions: In the intrinsic frame of reference of an isolated, macroscopic system, (i) the system has no global motion and is not entangled with any other system, (ii) time evolution of statevectors of systems outside the system satisfy Schr\"{o}dinger equation. A process of collision-type interaction between a microscopic system and a macroscopic system is studied in an auxiliary frame of reference. In transforming the statevector of the two systems obtained in the auxiliary frame of reference to the intrinsic frame of reference of the macroscopic system, the above first assumption requires a discontinuous change of the statevector. A probabilistic interpretation is given to the statevector for the discontinuous change. For the microscopic system, the density matrix given in the theory here is equal to the reduced density matrix given in the usual quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0609094
title: Sequential attacks against differential-phase-shift quantum key distribution with weak coherent states
authors: Marcos Curty, Lucy Liuxuan Zhang, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures
journal: QIC Vol 7,p. 665-688 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609094
abstract: We investigate limitations imposed by sequential attacks on the performance of differential-phase-shift quantum key distribution protocols that use pulsed coherent light. In particular, we analyze two sequential attacks based on unambiguous state discrimination and minimum error discrimination, respectively, of the signal states emitted by the source. Sequential attacks represent a special type of intercept-resend attacks and, therefore, they do not allow the distribution of a secret key.

id: quant-ph/0609095
title: Optical signatures of quantum phase transitions in a light-matter system
authors: Timothy C. Jarrett, Alexandra Olaya-Castro, Neil F. Johnson
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609095
abstract: Information about quantum phase transitions in conventional condensed matter systems, must be sought by probing the matter system itself. By contrast, we show that mixed matter-light systems offer a distinct advantage in that the photon field carries clear signatures of the associated quantum critical phenomena. Having derived an accurate, size-consistent Hamiltonian for the photonic field in the well-known Dicke model, we predict striking behavior of the optical squeezing and photon statistics near the phase transition. The corresponding dynamics resemble those of a degenerate parametric amplifier. Our findings boost the motivation for exploring exotic quantum phase transition phenomena in atom-cavity, nanostructure-cavity, and nanostructure-photonic-band-gap systems.

id: quant-ph/0609096
title: Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with real eigenvalues coupled to electric fields: from the time-independent to the time dependent quantum mechanical formulation
authors: Carla Figueira de Morisson Faria, Andreas Fring
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Laser Physics, minor typos corrected
journal: Laser Physics 17 (2007) 424-437
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609096
abstract: We provide a reviewlike introduction into the quantum mechanical formalism related to non-Hermitian Hamiltonian systems with real eigenvalues. Starting with the time-independent framework we explain how to determine an appropriate domain of a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian and pay particular attention to the role played by PT-symmetry and pseudo-Hermiticity. We discuss the time-evolution of such systems having in particular the question in mind of how to couple consistently an electric field to pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians. We illustrate the general formalism with three explicit examples: i) the generalized Swanson Hamiltonians, which constitute non-Hermitian extensions of anharmonic oscillators, ii) the spiked harmonic oscillator, which exhibits explicit supersymmetry and iii) the -x^4-potential, which serves as a toy model for the quantum field theoretical phi^4-theory.

id: quant-ph/0609097
title: Teaching the Environment to Control Quantum Systems
authors: Alexander Pechen, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 062102 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609097
abstract: A non-equilibrium, generally time-dependent, environment whose form is deduced by optimal learning control is shown to provide a means for incoherent manipulation of quantum systems. Incoherent control by the environment (ICE) can serve to steer a system from an initial state to a target state, either mixed or in some cases pure, by exploiting dissipative dynamics. Implementing ICE with either incoherent radiation or a gas as the control is explicitly considered, and the environmental control is characterized by its distribution function. Simulated learning control experiments are performed with simple illustrations to find the shape of the optimal non-equilibrium distribution function that best affects the posed dynamical objectives.

id: quant-ph/0609098
title: Ellipses of Constant Entropy in the XY Spin Chain
authors: F. Franchini, A. R. Its, B.-Q. Jin, V. E. Korepin
comments: Revised Version, 20 pages, 8 figures, 1 table
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 8467-8478
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609098
abstract: Entanglement in the ground state of the XY model on the infinite chain can be measured by the von Neumann entropy of a block of neighboring spins. We study a double scaling limit: the size of the block is much larger then 1 but much smaller then the length of the whole chain. The entropy of the block has an asymptotic limit. We study this limiting entropy as a function of the anisotropy and of the magnetic field. We identify its minima at product states and its divergencies at the quantum phase transitions. We find that the curves of constant entropy are ellipses and hyperbolas and that they all meet at one point (essential critical point). Depending on the approach to the essential critical point the entropy can take any value between 0 and infinity. In the vicinity of this point small changes in the parameters cause large change of the entropy.

id: quant-ph/0609099
title: Joint reality and Bell inequalities for consecutive measurements
authors: Ramon Lapiedra
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Europhysical Letters, 75 (2), 202 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609099
abstract: Some new Bell inequalities for consecutive measurements are deduced under joint realism assumption, using some perfect correlation property. No locality condition is needed. When the measured system is a macroscopic system, joint realism assumption substitutes the non-invasive hypothesis advantageously, provided that the system satisfies the perfect correlation property. The new inequalities are violated quantically. This violation can be expected to be more severe than in the case of precedent temporal Bell inequalities. Some microscopic and mesoscopic situations, in which the new inequalities could be tested, are roughly considered.

id: quant-ph/0609100
title: Entanglement, EPR correlations and mesoscopic quantum superposition by the high-gain quantum injected parametric amplification
authors: Marco Caminati, Francesco De Martini, Riccardo Perris, Fabio Sciarrino, Veronica Secondi
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062304 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609100
abstract: We investigate the multiparticle quantum superposition and the persistence of multipartite entanglement of the quantum superposition generated by the quantum injected high-gain optical parametric amplification of a single photon. The physical configuration based on the optimal universal quantum cloning has been adopted to investigate how the entanglement and the quantum coherence of the system persists for large values of the nonlinear parametric gain g.

id: quant-ph/0609101
title: Anyonic Braiding in Optical Lattices
authors: Chuanwei Zhang, V.W. Scarola, Sumanta Tewari, S. Das Sarma
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 104, 18415 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609101
abstract: Topological quantum states of matter, both Abelian and non-Abelian, are characterized by excitations whose wavefunctions undergo non-trivial statistical transformations as one excitation is moved (braided) around another. Topological quantum computation proposes to use the topological protection and the braiding statistics of a non-Abelian topological state to perform quantum computation. The enormous technological prospect of topological quantum computation provides new motivation for experimentally observing a topological state. Here we explicitly work out a realistic experimental scheme to create and braid the Abelian topological excitations in the Kitaev model built on a tunable robust system, a cold atom optical lattice. We also demonstrate how to detect the key feature of these excitations, their braiding statistics. Observation of this statistics would directly establish the existence of anyons, quantum particles which are neither fermions nor bosons. In addition to establishing topological matter, the experimental scheme we develop here can also be adapted to a non-Abelian topological state, supported by the same Kitaev model but in a different parameter regime, to eventually build topologically protected quantum gates.

id: quant-ph/0609102
title: Entanglement and local information access for graph states
authors: Damian Markham, Akimasa Miyake, Shashank Virmani
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, to appear in the special issue of New J. Phys. on measurement-based quantum information processing
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 194 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609102
abstract: We exactly evaluate a number of multipartite entanglement measures for a class of graph states, including d-dimensional cluster states (d = 1,2,3), the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states, and some related mixed states. The entanglement measures that we consider are continuous, `distance from separable states' measures, including the relative entropy, the so-called geometric measure, and robustness of entanglement. We also show that for our class of graph states these entanglement values give an operational interpretation as the maximal number of graph states distinguishable by local operations and classical communication (LOCC), as well as supplying a tight bound on the fixed letter classical capacity under LOCC decoding.

id: quant-ph/0609103
title: Opacity of electromagnetically induced transparency for quantum fluctuations
authors: P. Barberis-Blostein, M. Bienert
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 033602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609103
abstract: We analyze the propagation of a pair of quantized fields inside a medium of three-level atoms in $\Lambda$ configuration. We calculate the stationary quadrature noise spectrum of the field after propagating through the medium, in the case where the probe field is in a squeezed state and the atoms show electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). We find an oscillatory transfer of the initial quantum properties between the probe and pump fields which is most strongly pronounced when both fields have comparable Rabi frequencies. This implies that the quantum state measured after propagation can be completely different from the initial state, even though the mean values of the field are unaltered.

id: quant-ph/0609104
title: Influence of qubit displacements on quantum logic operations in a silicon-based quantum computer with constant interaction
authors: D. I. Kamenev, G. P. Berman, V. I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609104
abstract: The errors caused by qubit displacements from their prescribed locations in an ensemble of spin chains are estimated analytically and calculated numerically for a quantum computer based on phosphorus donors in silicon. We show that it is possible to polarize (initialize) the nuclear spins even with displaced qubits by using Controlled NOT gates between the electron and nuclear spins of the same phosphorus atom. However, a Controlled NOT gate between the displaced electron spins is implemented with large error because of the exponential dependence of exchange interaction constant on the distance between the qubits. If quantum computation is implemented on an ensemble of many spin chains, the errors can be small if the number of chains with displaced qubits is small.

id: quant-ph/0609105
title: Implementation of optimal phase-covariant cloning machines
authors: Fabio Sciarrino, Francesco De Martini
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012330 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609105
abstract: The optimal phase covariant cloning machine (PQCM) broadcasts the information associated to an input qubit into a multi-qubit systems, exploiting a partial a-priori knowledge of the input state. This additional a priori information leads to a higher fidelity than for the universal cloning. The present article first analyzes different experimental schemes to implement the 1->3 PQCM. The method is then generalized to any 1->M machine for odd value of M by a theoretical approach based on the general angular momentum formalism. Finally different experimental schemes based either on linear or non-linear methods and valid for single photon polarization encoded qubits are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0609106
title: Quantum games via search algorithms
authors: Alejandro Romanelli
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physica A 379, 545 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609106
abstract: We build new quantum games, similar to the spin flip game, where as a novelty the players perform measurements on a quantum system associated to a continuous time search algorithm. The measurements collapse the wave function into one of the two possible states. These games are characterized by a continuous space of strategies and the selection of a particular strategy is determined by the moments when the players measure.

id: quant-ph/0609107
title: The Pauli equation in scale relativity
authors: Marie-Noelle Celerier, Laurent Nottale
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in J. Phys. A: Math. & Gen
journal: J.Phys.A39:12565-12585,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609107
abstract: In standard quantum mechanics, it is not possible to directly extend the Schrodinger equation to spinors, so the Pauli equation must be derived from the Dirac equation by taking its non-relativistic limit. Hence, it predicts the existence of an intrinsic magnetic moment for the electron and gives its correct value. In the scale relativity framework, the Schrodinger, Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations have been derived from first principles as geodesics equations of a non-differentiable and continuous spacetime. Since such a generalized geometry implies the occurence of new discrete symmetry breakings, this has led us to write Dirac bi-spinors in the form of bi-quaternions (complex quaternions). In the present work, we show that, in scale relativity also, the correct Pauli equation can only be obtained from a non-relativistic limit of the relativistic geodesics equation (which, after integration, becomes the Dirac equation) and not from the non-relativistic formalism (that involves symmetry breakings in a fractal 3-space). The same degeneracy procedure, when it is applied to the bi-quaternionic 4-velocity used to derive the Dirac equation, naturally yields a Pauli-type quaternionic 3-velocity. It therefore corroborates the relevance of the scale relativity approach for the building from first principles of the quantum postulates and of the quantum tools. This also reinforces the relativistic and fundamentally quantum nature of spin, which we attribute in scale relativity to the non-differentiability of the quantum spacetime geometry (and not only of the quantum space). We conclude by performing numerical simulations of spinor geodesics, that allow one to gain a physical geometric picture of the nature of spin.

id: quant-ph/0609108
title: Foundation q-rules
authors: Richard A. Mould
comments: 22 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609108
abstract: The q-rules are three auxiliary rules that guide the application of Schrodinger's equation. They are a set of instructions that describe how stochastic choices cause the wave to collapse and "start over" with new boundary conditions.

id: quant-ph/0609109
title: Could quantum mechanics be an approximation to another theory?
authors: Lee Smolin
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609109
abstract: We consider the hypothesis that quantum mechanics is an approximation to another, cosmological theory, accurate only for the description of subsystems of the universe. Quantum theory is then to be derived from the cosmological theory by averaging over variables which are not internal to the subsystem, which may be considered non-local hidden variables. We find conditions for arriving at quantum mechanics through such a procedure. The key lesson is that the effect of the coupling to the external degrees of freedom introduces noise into the evolution of the system degrees of freedom, while preserving a notion of averaged conserved energy and time reversal invariance. These conditions imply that the effective description of the subsystem is Nelson's stochastic formulation of quantum theory. We show that Nelson's formulation is not, by itself, a classical stochastic theory as the conserved averaged energy is not a linear function of the probability density. We also investigate an argument of Wallstrom posed against the equivalence of Nelson's stochastic mechanics and quantum mechanics and show that, at least for a simple case, it is in error.

id: quant-ph/0609110
title: Weak Fourier-Schur sampling, the hidden subgroup problem, and the quantum collision problem
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Aram W. Harrow, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 21 pages
journal: Proc. 24th Symposium on Theoretical Aspects of Computer Science (STACS 2007), Lecture Notes in Computer Science 4393, pp. 598-609
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609110
abstract: Schur duality decomposes many copies of a quantum state into subspaces labeled by partitions, a decomposition with applications throughout quantum information theory. Here we consider applying Schur duality to the problem of distinguishing coset states in the standard approach to the hidden subgroup problem. We observe that simply measuring the partition (a procedure we call weak Schur sampling) provides very little information about the hidden subgroup. Furthermore, we show that under quite general assumptions, even a combination of weak Fourier sampling and weak Schur sampling fails to identify the hidden subgroup. We also prove tight bounds on how many coset states are required to solve the hidden subgroup problem by weak Schur sampling, and we relate this question to a quantum version of the collision problem.

id: quant-ph/0609111
title: Quantum logic via the exchange blockade in ultracold collisions
authors: David Hayes, Paul Julienne, Ivan Deutsch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609111
abstract: A nuclear spin can act as a quantum switch that turns on or off ultracold collisions between atoms even when there is neither interaction between nuclear spins nor between the nuclear and electron spins. This "exchange blockade" is a new mechanism for implementing quantum logic gates that arises from the symmetry of composite identical particles, rather than direct coupling between qubits. We study the implementation of the entangling $\sqrt{\text{SWAP}}$ gate based on this mechanism for a model system of two atoms with ground electron configuration $^1S_0$, spin 1/2 nuclei, trapped in optical tweezers. We evaluate a proof-of-principle protocol based on adiabatic evolution of a one dimensional double Gaussian well, calculating fidelities of operation as a function of interaction strength, gate time, and temperature.

id: quant-ph/0609112
title: Stability of quantum motion in regular systems: a uniform semiclassical approach
authors: Wen-ge Wang, G.Casati, Baowen Li
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 75, 016201 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609112
abstract: We study the stability of quantum motion of classically regular systems in presence of small perturbations. Onthe base of a uniform semiclassical theory we derive the fidelity decay which displays a quite complexbehaviour, from Gaussian to power law decay $t^{-\alpha}$ with $1 \le \alpha \le 2$. Semiclassical estimates are given for the time scales separating the different decaying regions and numerical results are presented which confirm our theoretical predictions.

id: quant-ph/0609113
title: Discrete time quantum walk model for single and entangled particles to retain entanglement in coin space
authors: C.M. Chandrashekar
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609113
abstract: In most widely discussed discrete time quantum walk model, after every unitary shift operator, the particle evolves into the superposition of position space and settles down in one of its basis states, loosing entanglement in the coin space in the new position. The Hadamard operation is applied to let the particle to evolve into the superposition in the coin space and the walk is iterated. We present a model with a additional degree of freedom for the unitary shift operator $U^{\prime}$. The unitary operator with additional degree of freedom will evolve the quantum particle into superposition of position space retaining the entanglement in coin space. This eliminates the need for quantum coin toss (Hadamard operation) after every unitary displacement operation as used in most widely studied version of the discrete time quantum walk model. This construction is easily extended to a multiple particle quantum walk and in this article we extend it for a pair of particles in pure state entangled in coin degree of freedom by simultaneously subjecting it to a pair of unitary displacement operators which were constructed for single particle. We point out that unlike for single particle quantum walk, upon measurement of its position after $N$ steps, the entangled particles are found together with 1/2 probability and at different positions with 1/2 probability. This can act as an advantage in applications of the quantum walk. A special case is also treated using a complex physical system such as, inter species two-particle entangled Bose-Einstein condensate, as an example.

id: quant-ph/0609114
title: Photoionization Broadening of the 1S-2S Transition in a Beam of Atomic Hydrogen
authors: N. Kolachevsky, M. Haas, U.D. Jentschura, M. Herrmann, P. Fendel, M. Fischer, R. Holzwarth, Th. Udem, C.H. Keitel, T.W. Haensch
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052504 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609114
abstract: We consider the excitation dynamics of the two-photon \sts transition in a beam of atomic hydrogen by 243 nm laser radiation. Specifically, we study the impact of ionization damping on the transition line shape, caused by the possibility of ionization of the 2S level by the same laser field. Using a Monte-Carlo simulation, we calculate the line shape of the \sts transition for the experimental geometry used in the two latest absolute frequency measurements (M. Niering {\it et al.}, PRL 84, 5496 (2000) and M. Fischer {\it et al.}, PRL 92, 230802 (2004)). The calculated line shift and line width are in excellent agreement with the experimentally observed values. From this comparison we can verify the values of the dynamic Stark shift coefficient for the \sts transition for the first time on a level of 15%. We show that the ionization modifies the velocity distribution of the metastable atoms, the line shape of the \sts transition, and has an influence on the derivation of its absolute frequency.

id: quant-ph/0609115
title: Shape invariance approach to exact solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation
authors: T.Jana, P.Roy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609115
abstract: Using the shape invariance property we obtain exact solutions of the (1+1)dimensional Klein-Gordon equation for certain types of scalar and vector potentials. We also discuss the possibility of obtaining real energy spectrum with non-Hermitian interaction within this framework.

id: quant-ph/0609116
title: Generation of continuous-wave broadband Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen beams using periodically-poled lithium niobate waveguides
authors: Ken-ichiroh Yoshino, Takao Aoki, Akira Furusawa
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 90, 041111 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609116
abstract: Continuous-wave light beams with broadband Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlation (Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen beams) are created with two independent squeezed vacua generated by two periodically-poled lithium niobate waveguides and a half beam splitter.

id: quant-ph/0609117
title: Quantum Pattern Retrieval by Qubit Networks with Hebb Interactions
authors: M.Cristina Diamantini, Carlo A. Trugenberger
comments: To appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609117
abstract: Qubit networks with long-range interactions inspired by the Hebb rule can be used as quantum associative memories. Starting from a uniform superposition, the unitary evolution generated by these interactions drives the network through a quantum phase transition at a critical computation time, after which ferromagnetic order guarantees that a measurement retrieves the stored memory. The maximum memory capacity p of these qubit networks is reached at a memory density p/n=1.

id: quant-ph/0609118
title: Entangling spins by measuring charge: a parity-gate toolbox
authors: Radu Ionicioiu
comments: updated to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032339 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609118
abstract: The parity gate emerged recently as a promising resource for performing universal quantum computation with fermions using only linear interactions. Here we analyse the parity gate (P-gate) from a theoretical point of view in the context of quantum networks. We present several schemes for entanglement generation with P-gates and show that native networks simplify considerably the resources required for producing multi-qubit entanglement, like n-GHZ states. Other applications include a Bell-state analyser and teleportation. We also show that cluster state fusion can be performed deterministically with parity measurements. We then extend this analysis to hybrid quantum networks containing spin and mode qubits. Starting from an easy-to-prepare resource (spin-mode entanglement of single electrons) we show how to produce a spin n-GHZ state with linear elements (beam-splitters and local spin-flips) and charge-parity detectors; this state can be used as a resource in a spin quantum computer or as a precursor for constructing cluster states. Finally, we construct a novel spin CZ-gate by using the mode degrees of freedom as ancillae.

id: quant-ph/0609119
title: Ultracold Bosons in a Tilted Multi-level Double-Well Potential
authors: D. R. Dounas-Frazer, A. M. Hermundstad, L. D. Carr
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 200402 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609119
abstract: The N -body problem in a double well requires new features for quantum information processing, macroscopic quantum superposition, and other fundamental studies of quantum many body physics in ultracold atoms. One needs (a) tilt, and (b) to go beyond the single-particle ground state in each well, i.e., to two or more energy levels. For (a), we show that a small potential difference between the wells, or tilt, causes the decoherence of Schrodinger cat states. However, these states reappear when the tilt can be compensated by atom-atom interactions; these tilted cat states constitute partial cats that are protected from decoherence by the many body wavefunction. For (b), we provide explicit criteria for when two energy levels are needed to describe the state space. For typical experimental parameters, two levels are indeed required for creation of cat states.

id: quant-ph/0609120
title: Spontaneous emission into a planar optical waveguide mode by an atom outside the waveguide
authors: Andrei Modoran, Gregory Lafyatis
comments: 13 pages 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609120
abstract: An electronically excited atom or molecule located outside but near a planar optical waveguide can decay by spontaneous emission of a photon into a guided mode of the waveguide. We outline a QED theory for calculating the probability for this process and describe general physical insights from that theory. A couple of representative examples are discussed in detail.

id: quant-ph/0609121
title: Cooperative behavior of qutrits with dipole-dipole interactions
authors: A. Mandilara, V. M. Akulin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609121
abstract: We have identified a class of many body problems with analytic solution beyond the mean-field approximation. This is the case where each body can be considered as an element of an assembly of interacting particles that are translationally frozen multi-level quantum systems and that do not change significantly their initial quantum states during the evolution. In contrast, the entangled collective state of the assembly experiences an appreciable change. We apply this approach to interacting three-level systems.

id: quant-ph/0609122
title: False qubits II. Entanglement of Josephson junctions
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609122
abstract: The recent experimental evidence for entangled states of two Josephson junction qubits is briefly discussed. It is argued that the interpretation of the experimental data strongly depends on the assumed theoretical model. Namely, the qubit states are supposed to be the lowest lying eigenstates of a certain effective Hamiltonian and hence automatically orthogonal, while the simple analysis within a more fundamental many-particle model shows that those states should strongly overlap. This makes the standard interpretation of the measurement procedure questionable.

id: quant-ph/0609123
title: Efficient one-step generation of large cluster states with solid-state circuits
authors: J. Q. You, Xiang-bin Wang, Tetsufumi Tanamoto, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052319 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609123
abstract: Highly entangled states called cluster states are a universal resource for measurement-based quantum computing (QC). Here we propose an efficient method for producing large cluster states using superconducting quantum circuits. We show that a large cluster state can be efficiently generated in just one step by turning on the inter-qubit coupling for a short time. Because the inter-qubit coupling is only switched on during the time interval for generating the cluster state, our approach is also convenient for preparing the initial state for each qubit and for implementing one-way QC via single-qubit measurements. Moreover, the cluster state is robust against parameter variations.

id: quant-ph/0609124
title: Quantum mechanics for military officers
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: Plenary talk at International Conference "Foundations of Probability and Physics-4", Vaxjo, June-2006, and at the Congress of "Quantum Structures Association", Malta, July-2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609124
abstract: We present a trivial probabilistic illustration for representation of quantum mechanics as an algorithm for approximative calculation of averages.

id: quant-ph/0609125
title: N-representability is QMA-complete
authors: Y.-K. Liu, M. Christandl, F. Verstraete
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 110503 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609125
abstract: We study the computational complexity of the N-representability problem in quantum chemistry. We show that this problem is QMA-complete, which is the quantum generalization of NP-complete. Our proof uses a simple mapping from spin systems to fermionic systems, as well as a convex optimization technique that reduces the problem of finding ground states to N-representability.

id: quant-ph/0609126
title: SU(2) Relativity and the EPR Paradox
authors: Paul O'Hara
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609126
abstract: In the normal presentation of the EPR problem a comparison is made between the (weak) Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics which seems to suggest that at times action at a distance may take place, and the hidden parameter interpretation which must satisfy Bell's inequality, in contradiction to the predictions of quantum mechanics. In this paper, we consider a relativistic approach to the paradox. However, the frame of reference under consideration is not the usual Lorenz frame but rather the spin frame of reference which is invariant with respect to the SU(2) group.

id: quant-ph/0609127
title: Can you do quantum mechanics without Einstein?
authors: Y. S. Kim, Marilyn E. Noz
comments: Latex 11 pages, 7 figures; invited paper presented at the International Conference on Foundations of Probability and Physics (Vaxjo, Sweden, June 2006); to be published in the proceedings (AIP Conference Proceedings Series); Minor corrections
journal: AIPConf.Proc.889:152-161,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609127
abstract: The present form of quantum mechanics is based on the Copenhagen school of interpretation. Einstein did not belong to the Copenhagen school, because he did not believe in probabilistic interpretation of fundamental physical laws. This is the reason why we are still debating whether there is a more deterministic theory. One cause of this separation between Einstein and the Copenhagen school could have been that the Copenhagen physicists thoroughly ignored Einstein's main concern: the principle of relativity. Paul A. M. Dirac was the first one to realize this problem. Indeed, from 1927 to 1963, Paul A. M. Dirac published at least four papers to study the problem of making the uncertainty relation consistent with Einstein's Lorentz covariance. It is interesting to combine those papers by Dirac to make the uncertainty relation consistent with relativity. It is shown that the mathematics of two coupled oscillators enables us to carry out this job. We are then led to the question of whether the concept of localized probability distribution is consistent with Lorentz covariance.

id: quant-ph/0609128
title: Distributions of continuous-time quantum walks
authors: Arvid J. Bessen
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609128
abstract: We study the distributions of the continuous-time quantum walk on a one-dimensional lattice. In particular we will consider walks on unbounded lattices, walks with one and two boundaries and Dirichlet boundary conditions, and walks with periodic boundary conditions. We will prove that all continuous-time quantum walks can be written as a series of Bessel functions of the first kind and show how to approximate these series.

id: quant-ph/0609129
title: Experimental Quantum Teleportation of a Two-Qubit Composite System
authors: Qiang Zhang, Alexander Goebel, Claudia Wagenknecht, Yu-Ao Chen, Bo Zhao, Tao Yang, Alois Mair, Joerg Schmiedmayer, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 16pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 2, 678 - 682 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609129
abstract: Quantum teleportation, a way to transfer the state of a quantum system from one location to another, is central to quantum communication and plays an important role in a number of quantum computation protocols. Previous experimental demonstrations have been implemented with photonic or ionic qubits. Very recently long-distance teleportation and open-destination teleportation have also been realized. Until now, previous experiments have only been able to teleport single qubits. However, since teleportation of single qubits is insufficient for a large-scale realization of quantum communication and computation2-5, teleportation of a composite system containing two or more qubits has been seen as a long-standing goal in quantum information science. Here, we present the experimental realization of quantum teleportation of a two-qubit composite system. In the experiment, we develop and exploit a six-photon interferometer to teleport an arbitrary polarization state of two photons. The observed teleportation fidelities for different initial states are all well beyond the state estimation limit of 0.40 for a two-qubit system. Not only does our six-photon interferometer provide an important step towards teleportation of a complex system, it will also enable future experimental investigations on a number of fundamental quantum communication and computation protocols such as multi-stage realization of quantum-relay, fault-tolerant quantum computation, universal quantum error-correction and one-way quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0609130
title: Experimental entanglement of six photons in graph states
authors: Chao-Yang Lu, Xiao-Qi Zhou, Otfried G¨¹hne, Wei-Bo Gao, Jin Zhang, Zhen-Sheng Yuan, Alexander Goebel, Tao Yang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 3, 91-95 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609130
abstract: Graph states are special kinds of multipartite entangled states that correspond to mathematical graphs where the vertices take the role of quantum spin systems and the edges represent interactions. They not only provide an efficient model to study multiparticle entanglement, but also find wide applications in quantum error correction, multi-party quantum communication and most prominently, serve as the central resource in one-way quantum computation. Here we report the creation of two special instances of graph states, the six-photon Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states -- the largest photonic Schr\"{o}dinger cat, and the six-photon cluster states-- a state-of-the-art one-way quantum computer. Flexibly, slight modifications of our method allow creation of many other graph states. Thus we have demonstrated the ability of entangling six photons and engineering multiqubit graph states, and created a test-bed for investigations of one-way quantum computation and studies of multiparticle entanglement as well as foundational issues such as nonlocality and decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0609131
title: Observing quantum non-locality in the entanglement between modes of massive particles
authors: S. Ashhab, Koji Maruyama, Franco Nori
comments: 8 pages (two-column), 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022108 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609131
abstract: We consider the question of whether it is possible to use the entanglement between spatially separated modes of massive particles to observe nonlocal quantum correlations. Mode entanglement can be obtained using a single particle, indicating that it requires careful consideration before concluding whether experimental observation, e.g. violation of Bell inequalities, is possible or not. In the simplest setups analogous to optics experiments, that observation is prohibited by fundamental conservation laws. However, we show that using auxiliary particles, mode entanglement can be converted into forms that allow the observation of quantum non-locality. The probability of successful conversion depends on the nature and number of auxiliary particles used. In particular, we find that an auxiliary Bose-Einstein condensate allows the conversion arbitrarily many times with a small error that depends only on the initial state of the condensate.

id: quant-ph/0609132
title: Classical billiards and double-slit quantum interference
authors: G. Fonte, B. Zerbo
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609132
abstract: We carry out a numerical simulation about the occurrence of interference fringes in experiments where an initial Gaussian wave packet evolves inside a billiard domain with two slits on the boundary. Our simulation extends a previous work by Casati and Prosen and it is aimed to test their surprising conclusion that the fringes disappear in the experiments with fully chaotic billiards. According to the results found, we are led to reassess this remarkable effect of classical dynamics on quantum interference. Actually, we highlight another factor which acts on interference: a symmetry condition (SC) concerning the experimental set-up. This condition seems even to play a role more important than classical chaos. Indeed, when the SC is verified, classical chaos has no effect, whereas when the SC is violated classical chaos turns out to be an additional factor that causes dephasing at the slits. We explain the respective roles of these two factors, by specifying the physical mechanism through which they influence the interference patterns. This mechanism depends both on the position and direction of the initial wave packet and on certain its recurrences which occur especially in the regular billiards.

id: quant-ph/0609133
title: Spontaneous emergence of angular momentum Josephson oscillations in coupled annular Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Igor Lesanovsky, Wolf von Klitzing
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98-5, 050401 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609133
abstract: We investigate the nonlinear dynamics of two coupled annular Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs). For certain values of the coupling strength the nonrotating ground state is unstable with respect to fluctuations in the higher angular momentum modes. The two branched Bogoliubov spectrum exhibits distinct regions of instability enabling one to selectively occupy certain angular momentum modes. For sufficiently long evolution times angular momentum Josephson oscillations spontaneously appear, breaking the initial chiral symmetry of the BECs.

id: quant-ph/0609134
title: Fast Quantum State Control of a Single Trapped Neutral Atom
authors: Matthew P. A. Jones, Jerome Beugnon, Alpha Ga?tan, Junxiang Zhang, Gaetan Messin, Antoine Browaeys, Philippe Grangier
comments: 
journal: Physical review A 75 (11/04/2007) 040301(R)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609134
abstract: We demonstrate the initialisation, read-out and high-speed manipulation of a qubit stored in a single 87 Rb atom trapped in a submicron-size optical tweezer. Single qubit rotations are performed on a sub-100 ns time scale using two-photon Raman transitions. Using the ``spin-echo'' technique, we measure an irreversible dephasing time of 34 ms. The read-out of the single atom qubit is at the quantum projection noise limit when averaging up to 1000 individual events.

id: quant-ph/0609135
title: Non-local generation of entanglement of photons which do not meet each other
authors: Juergen Roesch, Xian-Min Jing, Juan Yin, Tao Yang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 16 pages, 1 table, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609135
abstract: We report for the first time in an ancilla-free process a non-local entanglement between two single photons which do not meet. For our experiment we derive a simple and efficient method to entangle two single photons using post-selection technology. The photons are guided into an interferometer setup without the need for ancilla photons for projection into the Bell-states. After passing the output ports, the photons are analyzed using a bell state analyzer on each side. The experimental data clearly shows a non-local interaction between these photons, surpassing the limit set by the CHSH-inequality with an S-value of 2.54 and 24 standard deviations.

id: quant-ph/0609136
title: Optimal discrimination of mixed states: the quantum Chernoff bound
authors: J. Calsamiglia, Ll. Masanes, R. Munoz-Tapia, A. Acin, E. Bagan
comments: Withdrawn due to flaw in proof of Theorem 1. Superseded by pre-print quant-ph/0610027
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609136
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors, due to a flaw in the proof of Theorem 1. This preprint is superseded by quant-ph/0610027, where a correct proof can be found. Thanks to Rainer Siegmund-Schultze for spotting the error.

id: quant-ph/0609137
title: Simple protocol for secure decoy-state quantum key distribution with a loosely controlled source
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett., 90, 031110(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609137
abstract: The method of decoy-state quantum key distribution (QKD) requests different intensities of light pulses. Existing theory has assumed exact control of intensities. Here we propose a simple protocol which is secure and efficient even there are errors in intensity control. In our protocol, decoy pulses and signal pulses are generated from the same father pulses with a two-value attenuation. Given the upper bound of fluctuation of the father pulses, our protocol is secure provided that the two-value attenuation is done exactly. We propose to use unbalanced beam-splitters for a stable attenuation. Given that the intensity error is bounded by $\pm5%$, with the same key rate, our method can achieve a secure distance only 1 km shorter than that of an ideal protocol with exactly controlled source.

id: quant-ph/0609138
title: On the Impossibility of a Quantum Sieve Algorithm for Graph Isomorphism
authors: Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609138
abstract: It is known that any quantum algorithm for Graph Isomorphism that works within the framework of the hidden subgroup problem (HSP) must perform highly entangled measurements across Omega(n log n) coset states. One of the only known models for how such a measurement could be carried out efficiently is Kuperberg's algorithm for the HSP in the dihedral group, in which quantum states are adaptively combined and measured according to the decomposition of tensor products into irreducible representations. This ``quantum sieve'' starts with coset states, and works its way down towards representations whose probabilities differ depending on, for example, whether the hidden subgroup is trivial or nontrivial. In this paper we give strong evidence that no such approach can succeed for Graph Isomorphism. Specifically, we consider the natural reduction of Graph Isomorphism to the HSP over the the wreath product S_n \wr Z_2. We show, modulo a group-theoretic conjecture regarding the asymptotic characters of the symmetric group, that no matter what rule we use to adaptively combine quantum states, there is a constant b > 0 such that no algorithm in this family can solve Graph Isomorphism in e^{b sqrt{n}} time. In particular, such algorithms are essentially no better than the best known classical algorithms, whose running time is e^{O(sqrt{n \log n})}.

id: quant-ph/0609139
title: Gravitationally Induced Decoherence of Optical Entanglement
authors: T. C. Ralph, G. J. Milburn, T. Downes
comments: Error corrected and figure 2 replaced
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609139
abstract: We propose an experiment in which an entangled pair of optical pulses are propagated through non-uniform gravitational fields. A field operator calculation of this situation predicts decoherence of the optical entanglement under experimentally realistic conditions.

id: quant-ph/0609140
title: Pairwise Entanglement and Local Polarization of Heisenberg Model
authors: Xiao-Qiang Xi, R. H. Yue, W. M. Liu
comments: 1 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609140
abstract: The pairwise entanglement and local polarization of the ground state are discussed by studying the Heisenberg XX model in finite qubit case. The results show that: the ground state is composed by the micro state with the minimal total spin 0 (for even qubit) or 1/2 (for odd qubit), local polarization (LP) has intimate relation with the probability of the micro state in the ground state, the stronger the LP the smaller the probability, the same LP corresponding to the same probability; the pairwise entanglement of the ground state is the biggest in all the eigenvectors. We find when the qubit is small, the degenerate of state will decrease the pairwise entanglement, there has great different between the odd and the even qubit chain; when the qubit number is big, the effect of qubit number to the pairwise entanglement will disappear, the limited value will be round about 0.3424.

id: quant-ph/0609141
title: Resonant purification of mixed states for closed and open quantum systems
authors: Raffaele Romano
comments: 4 pages, LaTex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 024301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609141
abstract: Pure states are fundamental for the implementation of quantum technologies, and several methods for the purification of the state of a quantum system S have been developed in the past years. In this letter we present a new approach, based on the interaction of S with an auxiliary system P, having a wide range of applicability. Considering two-level systems S and P and assuming a particular interaction between them, we prove that complete purifications can be obtained under suitable conditions on the parameters characterizing P. Using analytical and numerical tools, we show that the purification process exhibits a resonant behavior in both the cases of system isolated from the external environment or not.

id: quant-ph/0609142
title: The Geometry of Stochastic Reduction of an Entangled System
authors: Ari Belenkiy, Steve Shnider, Lawrence Horwitz
comments: 10 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609142
abstract: We show that the method of stochastic reduction of linear superpositions can be applied to the process of disentanglement for the spin-0 state of two spin-1/2 particles. We describe the geometry of this process in the framework of the complex projective space

id: quant-ph/0609143
title: Will spin-relaxation times in molecular magnets permit quantum information processing?
authors: Arzhang Ardavan, Olivier Rival, John J.L. Morton, Stephen J. Blundell, Alexei M. Tyryshkin, Grigore A. Timco, Richard E.P. Winnpenny
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, in press at Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609143
abstract: Using X-band pulsed electron spin resonance, we report the intrinsic spin-lattice ($T_1$) and phase coherence ($T_2$) relaxation times in molecular nanomagnets for the first time. In Cr$_7M$ heterometallic wheels, with $M$ = Ni and Mn, phase coherence relaxation is dominated by the coupling of the electron spin to protons within the molecule. In deuterated samples $T_2$ reaches 3 $\mu$s at low temperatures, which is several orders of magnitude longer than the duration of spin manipulations, satisfying a prerequisite for the deployment of molecular nanomagnets in quantum information applications.

id: quant-ph/0609144
title: Quantum master equations from classical Lagrangians with two stochastic forces
authors: A. V. Dodonov, S. S. Mizrahi, V. V. Dodonov
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: Physical Review E 75, 011132 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609144
abstract: We show how a large family of master equations, describing quantum Brownian motion of a harmonic oscillator with translationally invariant damping, can be derived within a phenomenological approach, based on the assumption that an environment can be simulated by two classical stochastic forces. This family is determined by three time-dependent correlation functions (besides the frequency and damping coefficients), and it includes as special cases the known master equations, whose dissipative part is bilinear with respect to the operators of coordinate and momentum.

id: quant-ph/0609145
title: Experiment and theory in the Casimir effect
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 11 pages, 14 figures
journal: Contemp.Phys. 47 (2006) 131-144
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609145
abstract: Casimir effect is the attractive force which acts between two plane parallel, closely spaced, uncharged, metallic plates in vacuum. This phenomenon was predicted theoretically in 1948 and reliably investigated experimentally only in recent years. In fact, the Casimir force is similar to the familiar van der Waals force in the case of relatively large separations when the relativistic effects come into play. We review the most important experiments on measuring the Casimir force by means of torsion pendulum, atomic force microscope and micromechanical torsional oscillator. Special attention is paid to the puzzle of the thermal Casimir force, i.e., to the apparent violation of the third law of thermodynamics when the Lifshitz theory of dispersion forces is applied to real metals. Thereafter we discuss the role of the Casimir force in nanosystems including the stiction phenomenon, actuators, and interaction of hydrogen atoms with carbon nanotubes. The applications of the Casimir effect for constraining predictions of extra-dimensional unification schemes and other physics beyond the standard model are also considered.

id: quant-ph/0609146
title: Fourier Analysis of Ghost Imaging
authors: Honglin Liu, Jing Cheng, Yanfeng Bai, Shensheng Han
comments: 5 pages,4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609146
abstract: Fourier analysis of ghost imaging (FAGI) is proposed in this paper to analyze the properties of ghost imaging with thermal light sources. This new theory is compatible with the general correlation theory of intensity fluctuation and could explain some amazed phenomena. Furthermore we design a series of experiments to verify the new theory and investigate the inherent properties of ghost imaging.

id: quant-ph/0609147
title: Compositeness effects, Pauli's principle and entanglement
authors: Pedro Sancho
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A 39 (2006) 12525-12537
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609147
abstract: We analyse some compositeness effects and their relation with entanglement. We show that the purity of a composite system increases, in the sense of the expectation values of the deviation operators, with large values of the entanglement between the components of the system. We also study the validity of Pauli's principle in composite systems. It is valid within the limits of application of the approach presented here. We also present an example of two identical fermions, one of them entangled with a distinguishable particle, where the exclusion principle cannot be applied. This result can be important in the description of open systems.

id: quant-ph/0609148
title: A new perturbation technique for eigenenergies of the screened coulomb potential
authors: I.V. Dobrovolska, R. S. Tutik
comments: 
journal: Proc. 10th Int. Conf. on Mathematical Methods in Electromagnetic Theory, Dniepropetrovsk, Ukraine, Sept. 14-17, 2004, pp. 341-343
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609148
abstract: The explicit semiclassical treatment of the logarithmic perturbation theory for the bound-state problem of the radial Shrodinger equation with the screened Coulomb potential is developed. Based upon h-expansions and new quantization conditions a novel procedure for deriving perturbation expansions is offered. Avoiding disadvantages of the standard approach, new handy recursion formulae with the same simple form both for ground and excited states have been obtained.

id: quant-ph/0609149
title: Novel schemes for measurement-based quantum computation
authors: D. Gross, J. Eisert
comments: 5 pages RevTeX, 1 figure, many diagrams. Title changed, presentation improved, material added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 220503 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609149
abstract: We establish a framework which allows one to construct novel schemes for measurement-based quantum computation. The technique further develops tools from many-body physics - based on finitely correlated or projected entangled pair states - to go beyond the cluster-state based one-way computer. We identify resource states that are radically different from the cluster state, in that they exhibit non-vanishing correlation functions, can partly be prepared using gates with non-maximal entangling power, or have very different local entanglement properties. In the computational models, the randomness is compensated in a different manner. It is shown that there exist resource states which are locally arbitrarily close to a pure state. Finally, we comment on the possibility of tailoring computational models to specific physical systems as, e.g. cold atoms in optical lattices.

id: quant-ph/0609150
title: Influence of a tight isotropic harmonic trap on photoassociation in ultracold homonuclear alkali gases
authors: Sergey Grishkevich, Alejandro Saenz
comments: 19 pages, 17 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609150
abstract: The influence of a tight isotropic harmonic trap on photoassociation of two ultracold alkali atoms forming a homonuclear diatomic is investigated using realistic atomic interaction potentials. Confinement of the initial atom pair due to the trap leads to a uniform strong enhancement of the photoassociation rate to most, but also to a strongly suppressed rate for some final states. Thus tighter traps do not necessarily enhance the photoassociation rate. A further massive enhancement of the rate is found for strong interatomic interaction potentials. The details of this interaction play a minor role, except for large repulsive interactions for which a sharp window occurs in the photoassociation spectrum as is known from the trap-free case. A comparison with simplified models describing the atomic interaction like the pseudopotential approximation shows that they often provide reasonable estimates for the trap-induced enhancement of the photoassociation rate even if the predicted rates can be completely erroneous.

id: quant-ph/0609151
title: Fault-tolerant quantum repeater with atomic ensembles and linear optics
authors: Zeng-Bing Chen, Bo Zhao, Yu-Ao Chen, Joerg Schmiedmayer, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: Comments are welcome, to appear in Phys. Rev. A, accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022329 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609151
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of a new robust quantum repeater architecture building on the original DLCZ protocol [L.M. Duan \textit{et al.}, Nature (London) \textbf{414}, 413 (2001)]. The new architecture is based on two-photon Hong-Ou-Mandel-type interference which relaxes the long-distance interferometric stability requirements by about 7 orders of magnitude, from sub-wavelength for the single photon interference required by DLCZ to the coherence length of the photons, thereby removing the weakest point in the DLCZ schema. Our proposal provides an exciting possibility for robust and realistic long-distance quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0609152
title: Negative Polarization through Photon to Electron Spin Polarization Transfer in GaAs Quantum Wells
authors: H. Kosaka, Y. Rikitake, H. Imamura, Y. Mitsumori, K. Edamatsu
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609152
abstract: We demonstrate negative polarization created by light-hole exciton excitation in g-factor engineered GaAs quantum wells measured by time-resolved Kerr rotation and polarization-resolved photoluminescence. This negative polarization is a result of polarization transfer from a photon to an electron spin mediated by a light hole. This demonstration is an important step towards achieving quantum media conversion from a photonic qubit to an electron spin qubit required for building a quantum repeater.

id: quant-ph/0609153
title: Controllable generation of highly nonclassical states from nearly pure squeezed vacua
authors: K. Wakui, H. Takahashi, A. Furusawa, M. Sasaki
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 15 Issue 6, pp. 3568-3574 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609153
abstract: We present controllable generation of various kinds of highly nonclassical states of light, including the single photon state and superposition states of mesoscopically distinct components. The high nonclassicality of the generated states is measured by the negativity of the Wigner function, which is largest ever observed to our knowledge. Our scheme is based on photon subtraction from a nearly pure squeezed vacuum, generated from an optical parametric oscillator with a periodically-poled KTiOPO$_4$ crystal as a nonlinear medium. This is an important step to realize basic elements of universal quantum gates, and to serve as a highly nonclassical input probe for spectroscopy and the study of quantum memory.

id: quant-ph/0609154
title: Robust creation of entanglement between remote memory qubits
authors: Bo Zhao, Zeng-Bing Chen, Yu-Ao Chen, Joerg Schmiedmayer, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: Comments are welcome, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett., accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 240502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609154
abstract: In this Letter we propose a robust quantum repeater architecture building on the original DLCZ protocol [L.M. Duan \textit{et al.}, Nature \textbf{414}, 413 (2001)]. The architecture is based on two-photon Hong-Ou-Mandel-type interference which relaxes the long distance stability requirements by about 7 orders of magnitude, from sub wavelength for the single photon interference required by DLCZ to the coherence length of the photons. Our proposal provides an exciting possibility for robust and realistic long distance quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0609155
title: Optical gratings induced by field-free alignment of molecules
authors: Arnaud Rouzee, Vincent Renard, Stephane Guerin, Olivier Faucher, Bruno Lavorel
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609155
abstract: We analyze the alignment of molecules generated by a pair of crossed ultra-short pump pulses of different polarizations by a technique based on the induced time-dependent gratings. Parallel polarizations yield an intensity grating, while perpendicular polarizations induce a polarization grating. We show that both configurations can be interpreted at moderate intensity as an alignment induced by a single polarized pump pulse. The advantage of the perpendicular polarizations is to give a signal of alignment that is free from the plasma contribution. Experiments on femtosecond transient gratings with aligned molecules were performed in CO2 at room temperature in a static cell and at 30 K in a molecular expansion jet.

id: quant-ph/0609156
title: A photon-like wavepacket with quantised properties based on classical Maxwell's equations
authors: John E. Carroll
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609156
abstract: A photon-like wavepacket based on novel solutions of Maxwell's equations is proposed. It is believed to be the first 'classical' model that contains so many of the accepted quantum features. In this new work, novel solutions to Maxwell's classical equations in dispersive guides are considered where local helical twists with an arbitrary angular frequency W modulate a classical mode (angular frequency w, group velocity vg). The modal field patterns are unchanged, apart from the twist, provided that the helical velocity vh equals vg. Pairs of resonating retarded and advanced waves with modal and helical frequencies (w,W) and (w,-W)respectively, trap one temporal period of the underlying classical mode forming a photon-like packet provided W = (M+1/2)w: 'Schrodinger' frequencies. This theory supports experimental evidence that the photon velocity does not change with M in dispersive systems. Promotion and demotion increase or decrease the helical frequencies in units of w. An energy of interaction between retarded and advanced waves in the wave-packet is also proportional to these helical frequencies W = (M+1/2)w similar to Planck's law. Group velocity and polarisation are unaffected by the value of M. Advanced waves enable phase and polarisation to be predicted along all future paths and may help to explain the outcomes of experiments on delayed-choice interference and entanglement, without causality being violated.

id: quant-ph/0609157
title: Information-theoretic significance of the Wigner distribution
authors: B. Roy Frieden, Bernard H. Soffer
comments: pdf version has 16 pages. No figures. Accepted for publ. in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609157
abstract: A coarse grained Wigner distribution p_{W}(x,u) obeying positivity derives out of information-theoretic considerations. Let p(x,u) be the unknown joint PDF (probability density function) on position- and momentum fluctuations x,u for a pure state particle. Suppose that the phase part Psi(x,z) of its Fourier transform F.T.[p(x,u)]=|Z(x,z)|exp[iPsi(x,z)] is constructed as a hologram. (Such a hologram is often used in heterodyne interferometry.) Consider a particle randomly illuminating this phase hologram. Let its two position coordinates be measured. Require that the measurements contain an extreme amount of Fisher information about true position, through variation of the phase function Psi(x,z). The extremum solution gives an output PDF p(x,u) that is the convolution of the Wigner p_{W}(x,u) with an instrument function defining uncertainty in either position x or momentum u. The convolution arises naturally out of the approach, and is one-dimensional, in comparison with the two-dimensional convolutions usually proposed for coarse graining purposes. The output obeys positivity, as required of a PDF, if the one-dimensional instrument function is sufficiently wide. The result holds for a large class of systems: those whose amplitudes a(x) are the same at their boundaries (Examples: states a(x) with positive parity; with periodic boundary conditions; free particle trapped in a box).

id: quant-ph/0609158
title: Decay Processes in the Presence of Thin Superconducting Films
authors: Per K. Rekdal, Bo-Sture K. Skagerstam
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609158
abstract: In a recent paper [Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 070401 (2006)] the transition rate of magnetic spin-flip of a neutral two-level atom trapped in the vicinity of a thick superconducting body was studied. In the present paper we will extend these considerations to a situation with an atom at various distances from a dielectric film. Rates for the corresponding electric dipole-flip transition will also be considered. The rates for these atomic flip transitions can be reduced or enhanced, and in some situations they can even be completely suppressed. For a superconducting film or a thin film of a perfect conducting material various analytical expressions are derived that reveals the dependence of the physical parameters at hand.

id: quant-ph/0609159
title: Does the Third Law of Thermodynamics hold in the Quantum Regime?
authors: R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: J.Stat.Phys. 124, 15 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609159
abstract: The first in a long series of papers by John T. Lewis, G. W. Ford and the present author, considered the problem of the most general coupling of a quantum particle to a linear passive heat bath, in the course of which they derived an exact formula for the free energy of an oscillator coupled to a heat bath in thermal equilibrium at temperature T. This formula, and its later extension to three dimensions to incorporate a magnetic field, has proved to be invaluable in analyzing problems in quantum thermodynamics. Here, we address the question raised in our title viz. Nernst's third law of thermodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0609160
title: Optimal quantum circuits for general phase estimation
authors: W. van Dam, G. M. D'Ariano, A. Ekert, C. Macchiavello, M. Mosca
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609160
abstract: We address the problem of estimating the phase phi given N copies of the phase rotation gate u(phi). We consider, for the first time, the optimization of the general case where the circuit consists of an arbitrary input state, followed by any arrangement of the N phase rotations interspersed with arbitrary quantum operations, and ending with a POVM. Using the polynomial method, we show that, in all cases where the measure of quality of the estimate phi' for phi depends only on the difference phi'-phi, the optimal scheme has a very simple fixed form. This implies that an optimal general phase estimation procedure can be found by just optimizing the amplitudes of the initial state.

id: quant-ph/0609161
title: Quantum-classical transition in Scale Relativity
authors: Marie-No?lle C¨¦l¨¦rier, Laurent Nottale
comments: 28 pages, no figure
journal: J.Phys.A37:931-955,2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609161
abstract: The theory of scale relativity provides a new insight into the origin of fundamental laws in physics. Its application to microphysics allows us to recover quantum mechanics as mechanics on a non-differentiable (fractal) spacetime. The Schrodinger and Klein-Gordon equations are demonstrated as geodesic equations in this framework. A development of the intrinsic properties of this theory, using the mathematical tool of Hamilton's bi-quaternions, leads us to a derivation of the Dirac equation within the scale-relativity paradigm. The complex form of the wavefunction in the Schrodinger and Klein-Gordon equations follows from the non-differentiability of the geometry, since it involves a breaking of the invariance under the reflection symmetry on the (proper) time differential element (ds <-> - ds). This mechanism is generalized for obtaining the bi-quaternionic nature of the Dirac spinor by adding a further symmetry breaking due to non-differentiability, namely the differential coordinate reflection symmetry (dx^mu <-> - dx^mu) and by requiring invariance under parity and time inversion. The Pauli equation is recovered as a non-relativistic-motion approximation of the Dirac equation.

id: quant-ph/0609162
title: A Quantum Broadcasting Problem in Classical Low Power Signal Processing
authors: Dominik Janzing, Bastian Steudel
comments: 28 pages, latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609162
abstract: We pose a problem called ``broadcasting Holevo-information'': given an unknown state taken from an ensemble, the task is to generate a bipartite state transfering as much Holevo-information to each copy as possible. We argue that upper bounds on the average information over both copies imply lower bounds on the quantum capacity required to send the ensemble without information loss. This is because a channel with zero quantum capacity has a unitary extension transfering at least as much information to its environment as it transfers to the output. For an ensemble being the time orbit of a pure state under a Hamiltonian evolution, we derive such a bound on the required quantum capacity in terms of properties of the input and output energy distribution. Moreover, we discuss relations between the broadcasting problem and entropy power inequalities. The broadcasting problem arises when a signal should be transmitted by a time-invariant device such that the outgoing signal has the same timing information as the incoming signal had. Based on previous results we argue that this establishes a link between quantum information theory and the theory of low power computing because the loss of timing information implies loss of free energy.

id: quant-ph/0609163
title: Quantum mechanics: Myths and facts
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 51 pages, pedagogic review, revised, new references, to appear in Found. Phys
journal: Found.Phys.37:1563-1611,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609163
abstract: A common understanding of quantum mechanics (QM) among students and practical users is often plagued by a number of "myths", that is, widely accepted claims on which there is not really a general consensus among experts in foundations of QM. These myths include wave-particle duality, time-energy uncertainty relation, fundamental randomness, the absence of measurement-independent reality, locality of QM, nonlocality of QM, the existence of well-defined relativistic QM, the claims that quantum field theory (QFT) solves the problems of relativistic QM or that QFT is a theory of particles, as well as myths on black-hole entropy. The fact is that the existence of various theoretical and interpretational ambiguities underlying these myths does not yet allow us to accept them as proven facts. I review the main arguments and counterarguments lying behind these myths and conclude that QM is still a not-yet-completely-understood theory open to further fundamental research.

id: quant-ph/0609164
title: Quantum Key Distribution with Screening and Analyzing
authors: Won-Ho Kye
comments: 3 pages,1 figure. Typos are fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609164
abstract: We propose a quantum key distribution scheme by using screening angles and analyzing detectors which enable to notice the presence of Eve who eavesdrops the quantum channel, as the revised protocol of the recent quantum key distribution [Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 040501 (2005)]. We discuss the security of the proposed quantum key distribution against various attacks including impersonation attack and Trojan Horse attack.

id: quant-ph/0609165
title: Single-bit Feedback and Quantum Dynamical Decoupling
authors: Francesco Ticozzi, Lorenza Viola
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 74, 052328, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609165
abstract: Synthesizing an effective identity evolution in a target system subjected to unwanted unitary or non-unitary dynamics is a fundamental task for both quantum control and quantum information processing applications. Here, we investigate how single-bit, discrete-time feedback capabilities may be exploited to enact or to enhance quantum procedures for effectively suppressing unwanted dynamics in a finite-dimensional open quantum system. An explicit characterization of the joint unitary propagators correctable by a single-bit feedback strategy for arbitrary evolution time is obtained. For a two-dimensional target system, we show how by appropriately combining quantum feedback with dynamical decoupling methods, concatenated feedback-decoupling schemes may be built, which can operate under relaxed control assumptions and can outperform purely closed-loop and open-loop protocols.

id: quant-ph/0609166
title: No nonlocal box with uniform outputs is universal
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis, Nicolas Gisin, Andr¨¦ Allan M¨¦thot
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609166
abstract: We show that standard nonlocal boxes, also known as Popescu-Rohrlich machines, are not sufficient to simulate any nonlocal correlations that do not allow signalling. This was known in the multipartite scenario, but we extend the result to the bipartite case. We then generalize this result further by showing that no finite set containing any finite-output-alphabet nonlocal boxes with uniform outputs can be a universal set for nonlocality.

id: quant-ph/0609167
title: ¦Å-convertibility of entangled states and extension of Schmidt rank in infinite-dimensional systems
authors: Masaki Owari, Samuel L. Braunstein, Kae Nemoto, Mio Murao
comments: 23page, the third version. small typos changed
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 8, No.1&2 (2008) 0030-0052
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609167
abstract: By introducing the concept of $\epsilon$-convertibility, we extend Nielsen's and Vidal's theorems to the entanglement transformation of infinite-dimensional systems. Using an infinite-dimensional version of Vidal's theorem we derive a new stochastic-LOCC (SLOCC) monotone which can be considered as an extension of the Schmidt rank. We show that states with polynomially-damped Schmidt coefficients belong to a higher rank of entanglement class in terms of SLOCC convertibility. For the case of Hilbert spaces of countable, but infinite dimensionality, we show that there are actually an uncountable number of classes of pure non-interconvertible bipartite entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0609168
title: Quantum search with variable times
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609168
abstract: Since Grover's seminal work, quantum search has been studied in great detail. In the usual search problem, we have a collection of n items and we would like to find a marked item. We consider a new variant of this problem in which evaluating the i-th item may take a different number of time steps for different i. Let t_i be the number of time steps required to evaluate the i-th item. If the numbers t_i are known in advance, we give an algorithm that solves the problem in O(\sqrt{t_1^2+t_2^2+...+t_n^2}) steps. This is optimal, as we also show a matching lower bound. The case, when t_i are not known in advance, can be solved with a polylogarithmic overhead. We also give an application of our new search algorithm to computing read-once functions.

id: quant-ph/0609169
title: Design of Plasmon Cavities for Solid-State Cavity QED Applications
authors: Yiyang Gong, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: added physical temperature dependence, added reference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609169
abstract: Research on photonic cavities with low mode volume and high quality factor garners much attention because of applications ranging from optoelectronics to cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED). We propose a cavity based on surface plasmon modes confined by metallic distributed Bragg reflectors. We analyze the structure with Finite Difference Time Domain simulations and obtain modes with quality factor 1000 (including losses from metals), reduced mode volume relative to photonic crystal cavities, Purcell enhancements of hundreds, and even the capability of enabling cavity QED strong coupling.

id: quant-ph/0609170
title: Optimal Gaussian $N$-to-$M$ cloning with linear optics and Gaussian cloning of known-phase coherent states
authors: Ryo Namiki, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609170
abstract: We show how to implement the optimal Gaussian $N$-to-$M$ cloning with linear optics and homodyne detection. We also show that the Gaussian $N$-to-$M$ cloning of known-phase coherent states can be performed with the fidelity $\sqrt \frac{2 M N}{2M N+M -N}$ by linear optics and homodyne detection, and with $\frac{2}{\sqrt{1+\frac{1}{N}}+\sqrt {1-\frac{1}{M}}}$ by utilizing quadrature squeezing. From the classical limit of the cloning (1-to-$\infty$ cloning), a necessary condition of continuous variable quantum key distribution using known-phase coherent states is provided.

id: quant-ph/0609171
title: Effects of ground state hyperfine shifts in quantum computing with optically hole burnt materials
authors: Karl Tordrup, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 7 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609171
abstract: We present an investigation of the effects of constant but random shifts of the ground hyperfine qubit states in the setting of quantum computing with ion doped crystals. Complex hyperbolic secant pulses can be used to transfer ions reliably to electronically excited states, and a perturbative approach is used to analyse the effect of ground state hyperfine shifts. This analysis shows that the errors due to the hyperfine shift are dynamically supressed during gate operation, a fact we attribute to the AC Stark shift. Furthermore we present an implementation of a controlled phase gate which is resilient to the effects of the hyperfine shift. Decoherence and decay effects are included in simulations in order to show that a demonstration of quantum gates is feasible over the relevant range of system parameters.

id: quant-ph/0609172
title: Are Bohmian trajectories real? On the dynamical mismatch between de Broglie-Bohm and classical dynamics in semiclassical systems
authors: A. Matzkin, V. Nurock
comments: Figures downgraded to low resolution. V2:Minor changes
journal: Studies in Hist. and Philosophy of Science B, 39, 17, 2008. [Published version is slightly different and carries the title "Classical and Bohmian trajectories in semiclassical systems: Mismatch in dynamics, mismatch in reality?" ]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609172
abstract: The de Broglie-Bohm interpretation of quantum mechanics aims to give a realist description of quantum phenomena in terms of the motion of point-like particles following well-defined trajectories. This work is concerned by the de Broglie-Bohm account of the properties of semiclassical systems. Semiclassical systems are quantum systems that display the manifestation of classical trajectories: the wavefunction and the observable properties of such systems depend on the trajectories of the classical counterpart of the quantum system. For example the quantum properties have a regular or disordered aspect depending on whether the underlying classical system has regular or chaotic dynamics. In contrast, Bohmian trajectories in semiclassical systems have little in common with the trajectories of the classical counterpart, creating a dynamical mismatch relative to the quantum-classical correspondence visible in these systems. Our aim is to describe this mismatch (explicit illustrations are given), explain its origin, and examine some of the consequences on the status of Bohmian trajectories in semiclassical systems. We argue in particular that semiclassical systems put stronger constraints on the empirical acceptability and plausibility of Bohmian trajectories because the usual arguments given to dismiss the mismatch between the classical and the de Broglie-Bohm motions are weakened by the occurrence of classical trajectories in the quantum wavefunction of such systems.

id: quant-ph/0609173
title: Photon Echo Quantum Memory for Arbitrary Non-Stationary Light Fields
authors: S.A.Moiseev, C.Simon, N.Gisin
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609173
abstract: We develop the theory of an optical quantum memory protocol based on the three pulse photon echo (PE) in an optically dense medium with controlled reversible inhomogeneous broadening (CRIB). The wave-function of the retrieved photon echo field is derived explicitly as a function of an arbitrary input Data light field. The storage and retrieval of time-bin qubit states based on the described quantum memory is discussed, and it is shown that the memory allows to measure the path length difference in an imbalanced interferometer using short light pulses.

id: quant-ph/0609174
title: NMR experiment factors numbers with Gauss sums
authors: Michael Mehring, Klaus Mueller, Ilya Sh. Averbukh, Wolfgang Merkel, Wolfgang Schleich
comments: 4 pages 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609174
abstract: We factor the number 157573 using an NMR implementation of Gauss sums.

id: quant-ph/0609175
title: Raw-data attacks in quantum cryptography with partial tomography
authors: Syed M. Assad, Jun Suzuki, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 4 (2006) 1003-1012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609175
abstract: We consider a variant of the BB84 protocol for quantum cryptography, the prototype of tomographically incomplete protocols, where the key is generated by one-way communication rather than the usual two-way communication. Our analysis, backed by numerical evidence, establishes thresholds for eavesdropping attacks on the raw data and on the generated key at quantum bit error rates of 10% and 6.15%, respectively. Both thresholds are lower than the threshold for unconditional security in the standard BB84 protocol.

id: quant-ph/0609176
title: An Algorithm to Speed Up Quantum Search
authors: Giuseppe Martinelli, Massimo Panella
comments: Paper withdraw
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609176
abstract: The paper has been withdrawn because the research work is still in progress.

id: quant-ph/0609177
title: Zero energy resonance and the logarithmically slow decay of unstable multilevel systems
authors: Manabu Miyamoto
comments: 31 pages, no figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 47, 082103 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609177
abstract: The long time behavior of the reduced time evolution operator for unstable multilevel systems is studied based on the N-level Friedrichs model in the presence of a zero energy resonance.The latter means the divergence of the resolvent at zero energy. Resorting to the technique developed by Jensen and Kato [Duke Math. J. 46, 583 (1979)], the zero energy resonance of this model is characterized by the zero energy eigenstate that does not belong to the Hilbert space. It is then shown that for some kinds of the rational form factors the logarithmically slow decay of the reduced time evolution operator can be realized.

id: quant-ph/0609178
title: Coexistence of unlimited bipartite and genuine multipartite entanglement: Promiscuous quantum correlations arising from discrete to continuous variable systems
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Marie Ericsson, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures. Extended version. Added discussion about entanglement sharing and its promiscuous structure in qudits and non-Gaussian states
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022315 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609178
abstract: Quantum mechanics imposes 'monogamy' constraints on the sharing of entanglement. We show that, despite these limitations, entanglement can be fully 'promiscuous', i.e. simultaneously present in unlimited two-body and many-body forms in states living in an infinite-dimensional Hilbert space. Monogamy just bounds the divergence rate of the various entanglement contributions. This is demonstrated in simple families of N-mode (N >= 4) Gaussian states of light fields or atomic ensembles, which therefore enable infinitely more freedom in the distribution of information, as opposed to systems of individual qubits. Such a finding is of importance for the quantification, understanding and potential exploitation of shared quantum correlations in continuous variable systems. We discuss how promiscuity gradually arises when considering simple families of discrete variable states, with increasing Hilbert space dimension towards the continuous variable limit. Such models are somehow analogous to Gaussian states with asymptotically diverging, but finite squeezing. In this respect, we find that non-Gaussian states (which in general are more entangled than Gaussian states), exhibit also the interesting feature that their entanglement is more shareable: in the non-Gaussian multipartite arena, unlimited promiscuity can be already achieved among three entangled parties, while this is impossible for Gaussian, even infinitely squeezed states.

id: quant-ph/0609179
title: Generalized Limits for Single-Parameter Quantum Estimation
authors: Sergio Boixo, Steven T. Flammia, Carlton M. Caves, JM Geremia
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. v2 typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 090401 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609179
abstract: We develop generalized bounds for quantum single-parameter estimation problems for which the coupling to the parameter is described by intrinsic multi-system interactions. For a Hamiltonian with $k$-system parameter-sensitive terms, the quantum limit scales as $1/N^k$ where $N$ is the number of systems. These quantum limits remain valid when the Hamiltonian is augmented by any parameter independent interaction among the systems and when adaptive measurements via parameter-independent coupling to ancillas are allowed.

id: quant-ph/0609180
title: Efficient quantum key distribution with practical sources and detectors
authors: Masato Koashi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609180
abstract: We consider the security of a system of quantum key distribution (QKD) using only practical devices. Currently, attenuated laser pulses are widely used and considered to be the most practical light source. For the receiver of photons, threshold (or on/off) photon detectors are almost the only choice. Combining the decoy-state idea and the security argument based on the uncertainty principle, we show that a QKD system composed of such practical devices can achieve the unconditional security without any significant penalty in the key rate and the distance limitation.

id: quant-ph/0609181
title: Rings with effects
authors: D. J. Foulis
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609181
abstract: A ring with effects (e-ring) is a generalization of the ring of bounded linear operators on a Hilbert space and the subsystem of effect operators (positive Hermitian operators dominated by the identity operator). The POV-measures representing (perhaps fuzzy) quantum mechanical observables take on their valued in the system of Hilbert-space effect operators. We study and give several examples of e-rings, including von Neumann algebras and rings of bounded measurable functions.

id: quant-ph/0609182
title: Optimal Broadcasting of Mixed States
authors: Gui-Fang Dang, Heng Fan
comments: 10 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022323 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609182
abstract: The N to M (M>N) universal quantum broadcasting of mixed states are proposed for qubits system. The broadcasting of mixed states is universal and optimal in the sense that the shrinking factor is independent of input state and achieves the upper bound. The quantum broadcasting of mixed qubits is a generalization of the universal quantum cloning machine for identical pure input states. A new pure state decompositions of the identical mixed qubits are obtained.

id: quant-ph/0609183
title: Quantum cloning in coupled states of optical field and atomic ensemble by quasi-condensation of polaritons
authors: A. P. Alodjants, S. M. Arakelian, S. N. Bagayev, I. A. Chekhonin, V. S. Egorov
comments: 11 pages, 1 postscript figure, uses iopart.cls
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research, Volume 27, Number 5 (2006) pp.482-491
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609183
abstract: We consider a new approach for storing quantum information by macroscopic atomic excitations of two level atomic system. We offer the original scheme of quantum cloning of optical field into the cavity polaritons containing the phase insensitive parametrical amplifier and atomic cell placed in the cavity. The high temperature quasi-condensation (and/or condensation) phenomenon for polaritons arising in the cavity under the certain conditions is proposed for the first time.

id: quant-ph/0609184
title: Quantum Theory at the Crossroads: Reconsidering the 1927 Solvay Conference
authors: Guido Bacciagaluppi, Antony Valentini
comments: 553 pages, 33 figures. Draft of a book (as of Sept. 2006, same as v1). Published in Oct. 2009, with corrections and an appendix, by Cambridge University Press (available at this http URL)
journal: G. Bacciagaluppi and A. Valentini, Quantum Theory at the Crossroads: Reconsidering the 1927 Solvay Conference (Cambridge University Press, 2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609184
abstract: We reconsider the crucial 1927 Solvay conference in the context of current research in the foundations of quantum theory. Contrary to folklore, the interpretation question was not settled at this conference and no consensus was reached; instead, a range of sharply conflicting views were presented and extensively discussed. Today, there is no longer an established or dominant interpretation of quantum theory, so it is important to re-evaluate the historical sources and keep the interpretation debate open. In this spirit, we provide a complete English translation of the original proceedings (lectures and discussions), and give background essays on the three main interpretations presented: de Broglie's pilot-wave theory, Born and Heisenberg's quantum mechanics, and Schroedinger's wave mechanics. We provide an extensive analysis of the lectures and discussions that took place, in the light of current debates about the meaning of quantum theory. The proceedings contain much unexpected material, including extensive discussions of de Broglie's pilot-wave theory (which de Broglie presented for a many-body system), and a "quantum mechanics" apparently lacking in wave function collapse or fundamental time evolution. We hope that the book will contribute to the ongoing revival of research in quantum foundations, as well as stimulate a reconsideration of the historical development of quantum physics. A more detailed description of the book may be found in the Preface. (Copyright by Cambridge University Press (ISBN: 9780521814218).)

id: quant-ph/0609185
title: Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle
authors: P. Busch, T. Heinonen, P. Lahti
comments: published version
journal: Physics Reports 452 (2007) 155-176
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609185
abstract: Heisenberg's uncertainty principle is usually taken to express a limitation of operational possibilities imposed by quantum mechanics. Here we demonstrate that the full content of this principle also includes its positive role as a condition ensuring that mutually exclusive experimental options can be reconciled if an appropriate trade-off is accepted. The uncertainty principle is shown to appear in three manifestations, in the form of uncertainty relations: for the widths of the position and momentum distributions in any quantum state; for the inaccuracies of any joint measurement of these quantities; and for the inaccuracy of a measurement of one of the quantities and the ensuing disturbance in the distribution of the other quantity. Whilst conceptually distinct, these three kinds of uncertainty relations are shown to be closely related formally. Finally, we survey models and experimental implementations of joint measurements of position and momentum and comment briefly on the status of experimental tests of the uncertainty principle.

id: quant-ph/0609186
title: Fully multi-qubit entangled states
authors: Jian-Ming Cai, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure. Extra conditions for theorem 2 and corollary 1 are added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609186
abstract: We investigate the properties of different levels of entanglement in graph states which correspond to connected graphs. Combining the operational definition of graph states and the postulates of entanglement measures, we prove that in connected graph states of N>3 qubits there is no genuine three-qubit entanglement. For certain classes of graph states, all genuine k-qubit entanglement, 2\leq k\leq N-1, among every k qubits vanishes. These results about connected graph states naturally lead to the definition of fully multi-qubit entangled states. We also find that the connected graph states of four qubits is one but not the only one class of fully four-qubit entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0609187
title: Quantum theory of electronic double-slit diffraction
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Bai-Jun Zhang, Xiao-Jing Liu, Li Wang, Bing Liu, Xi-Hui Fan, Yi-Qing Guo
comments: 9pages, 14figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609187
abstract: The phenomena of electron, neutron, atomic and molecular diffraction have been studied by many experiments, and these experiments are explained by some theoretical works. In this paper, we study electronic double-slit diffraction with quantum mechanical approach. We can obtain the results: (1) When the slit width $a$ is in the range of $3\lambda\sim 50\lambda$ we can obtain the obvious diffraction patterns. (2) when the ratio of $\frac{d+a}{a}=n (n=1, 2, 3,\cdot\cdot\cdot)$, order $2n, 3n, 4n,\cdot\cdot\cdot$ are missing in diffraction pattern. (3)When the ratio of $\frac{d+a}{a}\neq n (n=1, 2, 3,\cdot\cdot\cdot)$, there isn't missing order in diffraction pattern. (4) We also find a new quantum mechanics effect that the slit thickness $c$ has a large affect to the electronic diffraction patterns. We think all the predictions in our work can be tested by the electronic double-slit diffraction experiment.

id: quant-ph/0609188
title: Quantum limits in image processing
authors: Vincent Delaubert, Nicolas Treps, Claude Fabre, Hans A. Bachor, Philippe R¨¦fr¨¦gier
comments: 4 pages, two figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609188
abstract: We determine the bound to the maximum achievable sensitivity in the estimation of a scalar parameter from the information contained in an optical image in the presence of quantum noise. This limit, based on the Cramer-Rao bound, is valid for any image processing protocol. It is calculated both in the case of a shot noise limited image and of a non-classical illumination. We also give practical experimental implementations allowing us to reach this absolute limit.

id: quant-ph/0609189
title: Quantum storage and cloning of light states in EIT-like medium
authors: A. P. Alodjants, S. M. Arakelian
comments: 13 pages, 4 postscript figures, uses ws-ijmpb.cls
journal: Int. J. of Modern Physics B, 20 (2006) 1593-1605
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609189
abstract: In the paper we consider a new approach for storage and cloning of quantum information by three level atomic (molecular) systems in the presence of the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) effect. For that, the various schemes of transformation into the bright and dark polaritons for quantum states of optical field in the medium are proposed. Physical conditions of realization of quantum nondemolition (QND) storage of quantum optical state are formulated for the first time. We have shown that the best storage and cloning of can be achieved with the atomic ensemble in the Bose-Einstein condensation state. We discuss stimulated Raman two-color photoassociation for experimental realization of the schemes under consideration.

id: quant-ph/0609190
title: Quasiclassical Coarse Graining and Thermodynamic Entropy
authors: Murray Gell-Mann, James Hartle
comments: 17 pages, 0 figures, revtex4, Dedicated to Rafael Sorkin on his 60th birthday, minor corrections
journal: Phys.Rev.A76:022104,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609190
abstract: Our everyday descriptions of the universe are highly coarse-grained, following only a tiny fraction of the variables necessary for a perfectly fine-grained description. Coarse graining in classical physics is made natural by our limited powers of observation and computation. But in the modern quantum mechanics of closed systems, some measure of coarse graining is inescapable because there are no non-trivial, probabilistic, fine-grained descriptions. This essay explores the consequences of that fact. Quantum theory allows for various coarse-grained descriptions some of which are mutually incompatible. For most purposes, however, we are interested in the small subset of ``quasiclassical descriptions'' defined by ranges of values of averages over small volumes of densities of conserved quantities such as energy and momentum and approximately conserved quantities such as baryon number. The near-conservation of these quasiclassical quantities results in approximate decoherence, predictability, and local equilibrium, leading to closed sets of equations of motion. In any description, information is sacrificed through the coarse graining that yields decoherence and gives rise to probabilities for histories. In quasiclassical descriptions, further information is sacrificed in exhibiting the emergent regularities summarized by classical equations of motion. An appropriate entropy measures the loss of information. For a ``quasiclassical realm'' this is connected with the usual thermodynamic entropy as obtained from statistical mechanics. It was low for the initial state of our universe and has been increasing since.

id: quant-ph/0609191
title: Conditional control of the quantum states of remote atomic memories for quantum networking
authors: D. Felinto, C. W. Chou, J. Laurat, E. W. Schomburg, H. de Riedmatten, H. J. Kimble
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures; Minor corrections. References updated. Published at Nature Physics 2, Advanced Online Publication of 10/29 (2006)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609191
abstract: Quantum networks hold the promise for revolutionary advances in information processing with quantum resources distributed over remote locations via quantum-repeater architectures. Quantum networks are composed of nodes for storing and processing quantum states, and of channels for transmitting states between them. The scalability of such networks relies critically on the ability to perform conditional operations on states stored in separated quantum memories. Here we report the first implementation of such conditional control of two atomic memories, located in distinct apparatuses, which results in a 28-fold increase of the probability of simultaneously obtaining a pair of single photons, relative to the case without conditional control. As a first application, we demonstrate a high degree of indistinguishability for remotely generated single photons by the observation of destructive interference of their wavepackets. Our results demonstrate experimentally a basic principle for enabling scalable quantum networks, with applications as well to linear optics quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0609192
title: Mayet-Godowski Hilbert Lattice Equations
authors: Norman D. Megill, Mladen Pavicic
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609192
abstract: Several new results in the field of Hilbert lattice equations based on states defined on the lattice as well as novel techniques used to arrive at these results are presented. An open problem of Mayet concerning Hilbert lattice equations based on Hilbert-space-valued states is answered.

id: quant-ph/0609193
title: Photon Antibunching from a Single Quantum Dot-Microcavity System in the Strong Coupling Regime
authors: David Press, Stephan Goetzinger, Stephan Reitzenstein, Carolin Hofmann, Andreas Loeffler, Martin Kamp, Alfred Forchel, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages, 4 eps figures. New data added: measurement of anti-correlation between exciton and cavity emission modes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609193
abstract: We observe antibunching in the photons emitted from a strongly-coupled single quantum dot and pillar microcavity in resonance. When the quantum dot was spectrally detuned from the cavity mode, the cavity emission remained antibunched, and also anticorrelated from the quantum dot emission. Resonant pumping of the selected quantum dot via an excited state enabled these observations by eliminating the background emitters that are usually coupled to the cavity. This device demonstrates an on-demand single photon source operating in the strong coupling regime, with a Purcell factor of 61 and quantum effciency of 97%

id: quant-ph/0609194
title: Demonstration of the difference Casimir force for samples with different charge carrier densities
authors: F. Chen, G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., v.97, N 17, p.170402-1-4 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609194
abstract: A measurement of the Casimir force between a gold coated sphere and two Si plates of different carrier densities is performed using a high vacuum based atomic force microscope. The results are compared with the Lifshitz theory and good agreement is found. Our experiment demonstrates that by changing the carrier density of the semiconductor plate by several orders of magnitude it is possible to modify the Casimir interaction. This result may find applications in nanotechnology.

id: quant-ph/0609195
title: Passive decoy state quantum key distribution: Closing the gap to perfect sources
authors: Wolfgang Mauerer, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. State preparation corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 050305(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609195
abstract: We propose a quantum key distribution scheme which closely matches the performance of a perfect single photon source. It nearly attains the physical upper bound in terms of key generation rate and maximally achievable distance. Our scheme relies on a practical setup based on a parametric downconversion source and present-day, non-ideal photon-number detection. Arbitrary experimental imperfections which lead to bit errors are included. We select decoy states by classical post-processing. This allows to improve the effective signal statistics and achievable distance.

id: quant-ph/0609196
title: Asymptotic correctability of Bell-diagonal qudit states and lower bounds on tolerable error probabilities in quantum cryptography
authors: Kedar S. Ranade, Gernot Alber
comments: submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007), 139 - 153
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609196
abstract: The concept of asymptotic correctability of Bell-diagonal quantum states is generalised to elementary quantum systems of higher dimensions. Based on these results basic properties of quantum state purification protocols are investigated which are capable of purifying tensor products of Bell-diagonal states and which are based on $B$-steps of the Gottesman-Lo-type with the subsequent application of a Calderbank-Shor-Steane quantum code. Consequences for maximum tolerable error rates of quantum cryptographic protocols are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0609197
title: Optomechanical entanglement between a movable mirror and a cavity field
authors: D. Vitali, S. Gigan, A. Ferreira, H. R. Boehm, P. Tombesi, A. Guerreiro, V. Vedral, A. Zeilinger, M. Aspelmeyer
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 030405 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609197
abstract: We show how stationary entanglement between an optical cavity field mode and a macroscopic vibrating mirror can be generated by means of radiation pressure. We also show how the generated optomechanical entanglement can be quantified and we suggest an experimental readout-scheme to fully characterize the entangled state. Surprisingly, such optomechanical entanglement is shown to persist for environment temperatures above 20K using state-of-the-art experimental parameters.

id: quant-ph/0609198
title: Energy momentum flows for the massive vector field
authors: George Horton, Chris Dewdney
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609198
abstract: We present a causal trajectory interpretation for the massive vector field, based on the flows of rest energy and a conserved density defined using the time-like eigenvectors and eigenvalues of the stress-energy-momentum tensor. This work extends our previous work which used a similar procedure for the scalar field. The massive, spin-one, complex vector field is discussed in detail and solutions are classified using the Pauli-Lubanski spin vector. The flows of energy-momentum are illustrated in a simple example of standing waves in a plane.

id: quant-ph/0609199
title: Switching off the reservoir through nonstationary quantum systems
authors: L. C. C¨¦leri, M. A. de Ponte, C. J. Villas-Boas, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609199
abstract: In this paper we demonstrate that the inevitable action of the environment can be substantially weakened when considering appropriate nonstationary quantum systems. Beyond protecting quantum states against decoherence, an oscillating frequency can be engineered to make the system-reservoir coupling almost negligible. Therefore, differently from previously-reported protecting schemes, our technique does not require a previous knowledge of the state to be protected. We show, in the domain of cavity quantum electrodynamics, how to engineer such a nonstationary cavity mode through its dispersive interaction with a driven two-level atom.

id: quant-ph/0609200
title: Engineering phonon-photon interactions with a driven trapped ion in a cavity
authors: R. L. Rodrigues, M. H. Y. Moussa, C. J. Villas-Boas
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures. To appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609200
abstract: We show how to generate quadratic and bi-quadratic phonon-photon interactions through a driven three-level ion inside a cavity. With such a system it is possible to squeeze the cavity-field state, the ion motional state or even the entangled phonon-photon state. We present a detailed analysis of the cavity-field squeezing process, distinguishing three different regimes of this amplification mechanism: the subcritical, critical, and supercritical regimes, which depend, apart from the coupling parameters, on the excitation of the vibrational state. As an application of the engineered Hamiltonians, we show how to implement a Fock-state filter for the vibrational mode. New aspects of the technique of adiabatic elimination emerge in this analysis.

id: quant-ph/0609201
title: Fidelity of an optical memory based on stimulated photon echoes
authors: M. U. Staudt, S. R. Hastings-Simon, M. Nilsson, M. Afzelius, V. Scarani, R. Ricken, H. Suche, W. Sohler, W. Tittel, N. Gisin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609201
abstract: We investigated the preservation of information encoded into the relative phase and amplitudes of optical pulses during storage and retrieval in an optical memory based on stimulated photon echo. By interfering photon echoes produced in a Ti-indiffused single-mode Er-doped LiNbO$_{3}$ waveguiding structure at telecom wavelength, we found that decoherence in the atomic medium translates only as losses (and not as degradation) of information, as long as the data pulse series is short compared to the atomic decoherence time. The experimentally measured value of the visibility for interfering echoes is close to 100 %. In addition to the expected three-pulse photon-echo interferences we also observed interference due to a four-pulse photon echo. Our findings are of particular interest for future long-distance quantum communication protocols, which rely on the reversible transfer of quantum states between light and atoms with high fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0609202
title: Loschmidt echo in the Bose-Hubbard model: turning back time in an optical lattice
authors: Fernando M. Cucchietti
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 27, A30-A35 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609202
abstract: I show how to perform a Loschmidt echo (time reversal) in the Bose-Hubbard model implemented with cold bosonic atoms in an optical lattice. The echo is obtained by applying a linear phase imprint on the lattice and a change in magnetic field to tune the boson-boson scattering length through a Feshbach resonance. I discuss how the echo can measure the fidelity of the quantum simulation, the intensity of an external potential (e.g. gravity), or the critical point of the superfluid-insulator quantum phase transition.

id: quant-ph/0609203
title: Keeping a Quantum Bit Alive by Optimized $¦Ð$-Pulse Sequences
authors: G?tz S. Uhrig
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; revised version with additional references for better context, more stringent discussion
journal: PRL 98, 100504 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609203
abstract: A general strategy to maintain the coherence of a quantum bit is proposed. The analytical result is derived rigorously including all memory and back-action effects. It is based on an optimized $\pi$-pulse sequence for dynamic decoupling extending the Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill (CPMG) cycle. The optimized sequence is very efficient, in particular for strong couplings to the environment.

id: quant-ph/0609204
title: Quantum speedup of classical mixing processes
authors: Peter C. Richter
comments: 13 pages; v2 revised several parts
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042306 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609204
abstract: Most approximation algorithms for #P-complete problems (e.g., evaluating the permanent of a matrix or the volume of a polytope) work by reduction to the problem of approximate sampling from a distribution $\pi$ over a large set $\S$. This problem is solved using the {\em Markov chain Monte Carlo} method: a sparse, reversible Markov chain $P$ on $\S$ with stationary distribution $\pi$ is run to near equilibrium. The running time of this random walk algorithm, the so-called {\em mixing time} of $P$, is $O(\delta^{-1} \log 1/\pi_*)$ as shown by Aldous, where $\delta$ is the spectral gap of $P$ and $\pi_*$ is the minimum value of $\pi$. A natural question is whether a speedup of this classical method to $O(\sqrt{\delta^{-1}} \log 1/\pi_*)$, the diameter of the graph underlying $P$, is possible using {\em quantum walks}. We provide evidence for this possibility using quantum walks that {\em decohere} under repeated randomized measurements. We show: (a) decoherent quantum walks always mix, just like their classical counterparts, (b) the mixing time is a robust quantity, essentially invariant under any smooth form of decoherence, and (c) the mixing time of the decoherent quantum walk on a periodic lattice $\Z_n^d$ is $O(n d \log d)$, which is indeed $O(\sqrt{\delta^{-1}} \log 1/\pi_*)$ and is asymptotically no worse than the diameter of $\Z_n^d$ (the obvious lower bound) up to at most a logarithmic factor.

id: quant-ph/0609205
title: Group Theoretical Formulation of Quantum Partial Search Algorithm
authors: Vladimir E. Korepin, Brenno C. Vallilo
comments: 12 pages
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. Vol. 116, No. 5 (2006), p. 783
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609205
abstract: Searching and sorting used as a subroutine in many important algorithms. Quantum algorithm can find a target item in a database faster than any classical algorithm. One can trade accuracy for speed and find a part of the database (a block) containing the target item even faster, this is partial search. An example is the following: exact address of the target item is given by a sequence of many bits, but we need to know only some of them. More generally partial search considers the following problem: a database is separated into several blocks. We want to find a block with the target item, not the target item itself. In this paper we reformulate quantum partial search algorithm in terms of group theory.

id: quant-ph/0609206
title: Light propagation through closed-loop atomic media beyond the multiphoton resonance condition
authors: Mohammad Mahmoudi, Joerg Evers
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 74, 063827 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609206
abstract: The light propagation of a probe field pulse in a four-level double-lambda type system driven by laser fields that form a closed interaction loop is studied. Due to the finite frequency width of the probe pulse, a time-independent analysis relying on the multiphoton resonance assumption is insufficient. Thus we apply a Floquet decomposition of the equations of motion to solve the time-dependent problem beyond the multiphoton resonance condition. We find that the various Floquet components can be interpreted in terms of different scattering processes, and that the medium response oscillating in phase with the probe field in general is not phase-dependent. The phase dependence arises from a scattering of the coupling fields into the probe field mode at a frequency which in general differs from the probe field frequency. We thus conclude that in particular for short pulses with a large frequency width, inducing a closed loop interaction contour may not be advantageous, since otherwise the phase-dependent medium response may lead to a distortion of the pulse shape. Finally, using our time-dependent analysis, we demonstrate that both the closed-loop and the non-closed loop configuration allow for sub- and superluminal light propagation with small absorption or even gain. Further, we identify one of the coupling field Rabi frequencies as a control parameter that allows to conveniently switch between sub- and superluminal light propagation.

id: quant-ph/0609207
title: One-party Quantum Error Correcting Codes for Unbalanced Errors: Principles and Application to Quantum Dense Coding and Quantum Secure Direct Communications
authors: Kai Wen, Gui Lu Long
comments: 15 pages and 2 figures and 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609207
abstract: In this article, we present the unbalanced quantum error correcting codes(one-party-QECC), a novel idea for correcting unbalanced quantum errors. In some quantum communication tasks using entangled pairs, the error distributions between two parts of the pairs are unbalanced, and. one party holds the whole entangled pairs at the final stage, and he or she is able to perform joint measurements on the pairs. In this situation the proposed one-party-QECC can improve error correction by allowing a higher tolerated error rate. We have established the general correspondence between linear classical codes and the one-party-QECC, and we have given the general definition for this type quantum error correcting codes.It has been shown that the one-party-QECC can correct errors as long as the error threshold is not larger than 0.5. The one-party-QECC works even for fidelity less than 0.5 as long as it is larger than 0.25. We give several concrete examples of the one-party-QECC. We provide the applications of one-party-QECC in quantum dense coding so that it can function in noisy channels. As a result, a large number of quantum secure direct communication protocols based on dense coding is also able to be protected by this new type of one-party-QECC.

id: quant-ph/0609208
title: Continuous transfer and laser guiding between two cold atom traps
authors: Emiliya Dimova, Olivier Morizot, Guillaume Stern, Carlos L. Garrido Alzar, Andrea Fioretti, Vincent Lorent, Daniel Comparat, H{¨¦}l{¨¨}ne Perrin, Pierre Pillet
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: European physical Journal D 42 (2007) 299-308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609208
abstract: We have demonstrated and modeled a simple and efficient method to transfer atoms from a first Magneto-Optical Trap (MOT) to a second one. Two independent setups, with cesium and rubidium atoms respectively, have shown that a high power and slightly diverging laser beam optimizes the transfer between the two traps when its frequency is red-detuned from the atomic transition. This pushing laser extracts a continuous beam of slow and cold atoms out of the first MOT and also provides a guiding to the second one through the dipolar force. In order to optimize the transfer efficiency, the dependence of the atomic flux on the pushing laser parameters (power, detuning, divergence and waist) is investigated. The atomic flux is found to be proportional to the first MOT loading rate. Experimentally, the transfer efficiency reaches 70%, corresponding to a transfer rate up to 2.7x10^8 atoms/s with a final velocity of 5.5 m/s. We present a simple analysis of the atomic motion inside the pushing-guiding laser, in good agreement with the experimental data.

id: quant-ph/0609209
title: Contexts in quantum, classical and partition logic
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: Invited contribution to Handbook of Quantum Logic, edited by Kurt Engesser et al
journal: Handbook of Quantum Logic and Quantum Structures, ed. by Kurt Engesser, Dov M. Gabbay and Daniel Lehmann (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2008), pp. 551-586
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609209
abstract: Contexts are maximal collections of co-measurable observables "bundled together" to form a "quasi-classical mini-universe." Different notions of contexts are discussed for classical, quantum and generalized urn-automaton systems.

id: quant-ph/0609210
title: Creating and probing macroscoping entanglement with light
authors: M. Paternostro, D. Vitali, S. Gigan, M. S. Kim, C. Brukner, J. Eisert, M. Aspelmeyer
comments: 4 pages, 5 figure, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 250401 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609210
abstract: We describe a scheme showing signatures of macroscopic optomechanical entanglement generated by radiation pressure in a cavity system with a massive movable mirror. The system we consider reveals genuine multipartite entanglement. We highlight the way the entanglement involving the inaccessible massive object is unravelled, in our scheme, by means of field-field quantum correlations.

id: quant-ph/0609211
title: How to Introduce Time Operator
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong
comments: 17 pages, accepted to be published in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics (New York) 322, 2304-2314 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609211
abstract: Time operator can be introduced by three different approaches: by pertaining it to dynamical variables; by quantizing the classical expression of time; taken as the restriction of energy shift generator to the Hilbert space of a physical system.

id: quant-ph/0609212
title: Long-range entanglement in the Dirac vacuum
authors: J. Silman, B. Reznik
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052307 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609212
abstract: Recently, there have been a number of works investigating the entanglement properties of distinct noncomplementary parts of discrete and continuous Bosonic systems in ground and thermal states. The Fermionic case, however, has yet to be expressly addressed. In this paper we investigate the entanglement between a pair of far-apart regions of the 3+1 dimensional massless Dirac vacuum via a previously introduced distillation protocol [B. Reznik et al., Phys. Rev. A 71, 042104 (2005)]. We show that entanglement persists over arbitrary distances, and that as a function of L/R, where L is the distance between the regions and R is their typical scale, it decays no faster than exp(-(L/R)^2). We discuss the similarities and differences with analogous results obtained for the massless Klein-Gordon vacuum.

id: quant-ph/0609213
title: Wigner functions, contact interactions, and matching
authors: Mark A. Walton
comments: 20 pages, no figures
journal: Ann. Phys.322:2233-2248, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609213
abstract: Quantum mechanics in phase space (or deformation quantization) appears to fail as an autonomous quantum method when infinite potential walls are present. The stationary physical Wigner functions do not satisfy the normal eigen equations, the *-eigen equations, unless an ad hoc boundary potential is added [Dias-Prata]. Alternatively, they satisfy a different, higher-order, ``*-eigen-* equation'', locally, i.e. away from the walls [Kryukov-Walton]. Here we show that this substitute equation can be written in a very simple form, even in the presence of an additional, arbitrary, but regular potential. The more general applicability of the -eigen- equation is then demonstrated. First, using an idea from [Fairlie-Manogue], we extend it to a dynamical equation describing time evolution. We then show that also for general contact interactions, the -eigen- equation is satisfied locally. Specifically, we treat the most general possible (Robin) boundary conditions at an infinite wall, general one-dimensional point interactions, and a finite potential jump. Finally, we examine a smooth potential, that has simple but different expressions for x positive and negative. We find that the -eigen- equation is again satisfied locally. It seems, therefore, that the -eigen- equation is generally relevant to the matching of Wigner functions; it can be solved piece-wise and its solutions then matched.

id: quant-ph/0609214
title: Long-distance teleportation of atomic qubit via optical interferometry
authors: Y. P. Huang, M. G. Moore
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609214
abstract: The problem of long-distance teleportation of single-atom qubits via a common photonic channel is examined within the framework of a Mach-Zender optical interferometer. As expected, when a coherent state is used as input, a high-finesse optical cavity is required to overcome sensitivity to spontaneous emission. However, we find that a number-squeezed light field in a twin-Fock state can in principle create useful entanglement without cavity-enhancement. Both approaches require single photon counting detectors, and best results are obtained by combining cavity-feedback with twin-fock inputs. Such an approach may allow a fidelity of $.99$ using a two-photon input and currently available mirror and detector technology. In addition, the present approach can be conveniently extended to generate multi-site entanglement and entanglement swapping, both of which are necessities in quantum networks.

id: quant-ph/0609215
title: Quantum interference of electromagnetic fields from remote quantum memories
authors: T. Chaneliere, D. N. Matsukevich, S. D. Jenkins, S.-Y. Lan, R. Zhao, T. A. B. Kennedy, A. Kuzmich
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 98, 113602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609215
abstract: We observe quantum, Hong-Ou-Mandel, interference of fields produced by two remote atomic memories. High-visibility interference is obtained by utilizing the finite atomic memory time in four-photon delayed coincidence measurements. Interference of fields from remote atomic memories is a crucial element in protocols for scalable generation of multi-node remote qubit entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0609216
title: A Quantum Approach to Classical Statistical Mechanics
authors: Rolando D. Somma, Cristian D. Batista, Gerardo Ortiz
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609216
abstract: We present a new approach to study the thermodynamic properties of $d$-dimensional classical systems by reducing the problem to the computation of ground state properties of a $d$-dimensional quantum model. This classical-to-quantum mapping allows us to deal with standard optimization methods, such as simulated and quantum annealing, on an equal basis. Consequently, we extend the quantum annealing method to simulate classical systems at finite temperatures. Using the adiabatic theorem of quantum mechanics, we derive the rates to assure convergence to the optimal thermodynamic state. For simulated and quantum annealing, we obtain the asymptotic rates of $T(t) \approx (p N) /(k_B \log t)$ and $\gamma(t) \approx (Nt)^{-\bar{c}/N}$, for the temperature and magnetic field, respectively. Other annealing strategies, as well as their potential speed-up, are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0609217
title: Resonant Scattering Can Enhance the Degree of Entanglement
authors: Kazuya Yuasa, Hiromichi Nakazato
comments: 7 pages, 13 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 40 (2007) 297-308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609217
abstract: Generation of entanglement between two qubits by scattering an entanglement mediator is discussed. The mediator bounces between the two qubits and exhibits a resonant scattering. It is clarified how the degree of the entanglement is enhanced by the constructive interference of such bouncing processes. Maximally entangled states are available via adjusting the incident momentum of the mediator or the distance between the two qubits, but their fine tunings are not necessarily required to gain highly entangled states and a robust generation of entanglement is possible.

id: quant-ph/0609218
title: N-body-extended Channel Estimation for Low-Noise Parameters
authors: M. Hotta, T. Karasawa, M. Ozawa
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 No 46 (17 November 2006) 14465-14470
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609218
abstract: The notion of low-noise channels was recently proposed and analyzed in detail in order to describe noise-processes driven by environment [M. Hotta, T. Karasawa and M. Ozawa, Phys. Rev. A72, 052334 (2005)]. An estimation theory of low-noise parameters of channels has also been developed. In this report, we address the low-noise parameter estimation problem for the $N$-body extension of low-noise channels. We perturbatively calculate the Fisher information of the output states in order to evaluate the lower-bound of the mean-square error of the parameter estimation. We show that the maximum of the Fisher information over all input states can be attained by a factorized input state in the leading order of the low-noise parameter. Thus, to achieve optimal estimation, it is not necessary for there to be entanglement of the $N$ subsystems, as long as the true low-noise parameter is sufficiently small.

id: quant-ph/0609219
title: Eigenvalue problems for the complex PT-symmetric potential V(x)= igx
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: no figures, 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609219
abstract: The spectrum of complex PT-symmetric potential, $V(x)=igx$, is known to be null. We enclose this potential in a hard-box: $V(|x| \ge 1) =\infty $ and in a soft-box: $V(|x|\ge 1)=0$. In the former case, we find real discrete spectrum and the exceptional points of the potential. The asymptotic eigenvalues behave as $E_n \sim n^2.$ The solvable purely imaginary PT-symmetric potentials vanishing asymptotically known so far do not have real discrete spectrum. Our solvable soft-box potential possesses two real negative discrete eigenvalues if $|g|<(1.22330447)$. The soft-box potential turns out to be a scattering potential not possessing reflectionless states.

id: quant-ph/0609220
title: Hidden Subhypergroup Problem
authors: Massoud Amini, Mehrdad Kalantar, Mahmood M. Roozbehani
comments: part of a technical report to IPM, Tehran
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609220
abstract: The Hidden Subgroup Problem is used in many quantum algorithms such as Simon's algorithm and Shor's factoring and discrete log algorithms. A polynomial time solution is known in case of abelian groups, and normal subgroups of arbitrary finite groups. The general case is still open. An efficient solution of the problem for symmetric group $S_n$ would give rise to an efficient quantum algorithm for Graph Isomorphism Problem. We formulate a hidden sub-hypergroup problem for finite hypergroups and solve it for finite commutative hypergroups. The given algorithm is efficient if the corresponding QFT could be calculated efficiently.

id: quant-ph/0609221
title: Persistence of Quantum Information
authors: Michael Schulz, Steffen Trimper
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609221
abstract: There is an increasing interest in the role of macroscopic environments to our understanding of the basics of quantum theory. The knowledge of the implications of the quantum theory to other theories, especially to the statistical mechanics and the domain of validity has captivated scientists from the beginning of quantum description. In such a context, the presence of an environment is commonly thought as entanglement, decohering and mixing properties of quantum system. Generically, an environment is assumed to be a noisy reservoir or a heat bath. Whereas in common interpretation of statistical mechanics the heat bath is unspecified, in quantum systems a heat bath can also provide an indirect interaction between otherwise totally decoupled subsystems and consequently a means to entangle them \cite{cdkl,dvclp,bfp}. In simple example for the entanglement between two qubits due to the interaction with a common heat bath has been explicitly shown in \cite{b}. Whereas in that paper the bath is described by a collection of harmonic oscillators, it seems to be more reasonable to specify the bath by stochastic forces represented by stochastic fields. From a more general point of view we expect the bath should be better described in a stochastic manner and not by deterministic forces. In the present paper we consider a two level system (qubits) which are able to perform flip processes by a coupling to classical stochastic fields. Thus we bridge the gap between quantum and classical probability theory. This problem is related to many other questions of quantum optics and quantum electronics where quantum statistical aspects arising from the intrinsic quantum character of the system while the possible time-dependence of system parameters may be interpreted as the influence of classical thermal fluctuations.

id: quant-ph/0609222
title: Dynamical decoupling induced renormalization of the non-Markovian dynamics
authors: Pochung Chen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609222
abstract: In this work we develop a numerical framework to investigate the renormalization of the non-Markovian dynamics of an open quantum system to which dynamical decoupling is applied. We utilize a non-Markovian master equation which is derived from the non-Markovian quantum trajectories formalism. It contains incoherent Markovian dynamics and coherent Schr\"odinger dynamics as its limiting cases and is capable of capture the transition between them. We have performed comprehensive simulations for the cases in which the system is either driven by the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck noise or or is described by the spin-boson model. The renormalized dynamics under bang-bang control and continuous dynamical decoupling are simulated. Our results indicate that the renormalization of the non-Markovian dynamics depends crucially on the spectral density of the environment and the envelop of the decoupling pulses. The framework developed in this work hence provides an unified approach to investigate the efficiency of realistic decoupling pulses. This work also opens a way to further optimize the decoupling via pulse shaping.

id: quant-ph/0609223
title: Pure entangled states probed by multipartite Bell experiments
authors: Jes¨²s Ur¨ªas
comments: Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609223
abstract: The spectral decomposition of all (n,2,2) Bell operators ($2^{2^n}$ in number, $n \ge 2$), as introduced by Werner and Wolf, is done. Its implications on the characterization of Bell operators as probes of entanglement are considered in detail.

id: quant-ph/0609224
title: Improving the Fidelity of Optical Zeno Gates via Distillation
authors: P. M. Leung, T. C. Ralph
comments: 6 pages, 11 figures, Submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609224
abstract: We have modelled the Zeno effect Control-Sign gate of Franson et al (PRA 70, 062302, 2004) and shown that high two-photon to one-photon absorption ratios, $\kappa$, are needed for high fidelity free standing operation. Hence we instead employ this gate for cluster state fusion, where the requirement for $\kappa$ is less restrictive. With the help of partially offline one-photon and two-photon distillations, we can achieve a fusion gate with unity fidelity but non-unit probability of success. We conclude that for $\kappa > 2200$, the Zeno fusion gate will out perform the equivalent linear optics gate.

id: quant-ph/0609225
title: Generating squeezing in an atom laser through self-interaction
authors: Mattias T. Johnsson, Simon A. Haine
comments: v2. Incorporates changes due to referees' comments. We also demonstrate that our scheme generates number squeezing as well as quadrature squeezing
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 010401 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609225
abstract: We describe a scheme for creating quadrature- and intensity-squeezed atom lasers that do not require squeezed light as an input. The beam becomes squeezed due to nonlinear interactions between the atoms in the beam in an analogue to optical Kerr squeezing. We develop an analytic model of the process which we compare to a detailed stochastic simulation of the system using phase space methods. Finally we show that significant squeezing can be obtained in an experimentally realistic system and suggest ways of increasing the tunability of the squeezing.

id: quant-ph/0609226
title: General Classes of Impossible Operations through the Existence of Incomparable States
authors: Indrani Chattopadhyay, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 13 pages, Latex, to appear in Quantum Information and Computation
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, 7 (2007) 392-400
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609226
abstract: In this work we show that the most general class of anti-unitary operators are nonphysical in nature through the existence of incomparable pure bipartite entangled states. It is also shown that a large class of inner-product-preserving operations defined only on the three qubits having spin-directions along x, y and z are impossible. If we perform such an operation locally on a particular pure bipartite state then it will exactly transform to another pure bipartite state that is incomparable with the original one. As subcases of the above results we find the nonphysical nature of universal exact flipping operation and existence of universal Hadamard gate. Beyond the information conservation in terms of entanglement, this work shows how an impossible local operation evolve with the joint system in a nonphysical way.

id: quant-ph/0609227
title: E_7 and the tripartite entanglement of seven qubits
authors: M. J. Duff, S. Ferrara
comments: Minor improvements. 15 page latex
journal: Phys.Rev.D76:025018,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609227
abstract: In quantum information theory, it is well known that the tripartite entanglement of three qubits is described by the group [SL(2,C)]^3 and that the entanglement measure is given by Cayley's hyperdeterminant. This has provided an analogy with certain N=2 supersymmetric black holes in string theory, whose entropy is also given by the hyperdeterminant. In this paper, we extend the analogy to N=8. We propose that a particular tripartite entanglement of seven qubits, encoded in the Fano plane, is described by the exceptional group E_7(C) and that the entanglement measure is given by Cartan's quartic E_7 invariant.

id: quant-ph/0609228
title: Process tomography of ion trap quantum gates
authors: M. Riebe, K. Kim, P. Schindler, T. Monz, P. O. Schmidt, T. K. Koerber, W. Haensel, H. Haeffner, C. F. Roos, R. Blatt
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 220407 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609228
abstract: A crucial building block for quantum information processing with trapped ions is a controlled-NOT quantum gate. In this paper, two different sequences of laser pulses implementing such a gate operation are analyzed using quantum process tomography. Fidelities of up to 92.6(6)% are achieved for single gate operations and up to 83.4(8)% for two concatenated gate operations. By process tomography we assess the performance of the gates for different experimental realizations and demonstrate the advantage of amplitude--shaped laser pulses over simple square pulses. We also investigate whether the performance of concatenated gates can be inferred from the analysis of the single gates.

id: quant-ph/0609229
title: Ergodic Classical-Quantum Channels: Structure and Coding Theorems
authors: Igor Bjelakovic, Holger Boche
comments: 19 pages, no figures. Final version
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory Vol. 54, No. 2, pp. 723-742, February 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609229
abstract: We consider ergodic causal classical-quantum channels (cq-channels) which additionally have a decaying input memory. In the first part we develop some structural properties of ergodic cq-channels and provide equivalent conditions for ergodicity. In the second part we prove the coding theorem with weak converse for causal ergodic cq-channels with decaying input memory. Our proof is based on the possibility to introduce joint input-output state for the cq-channels and an application of the Shannon-McMillan theorem for ergodic quantum states. In the last part of the paper it is shown how this result implies coding theorem for the classical capacity of a class of causal ergodic quantum channels.

id: quant-ph/0609230
title: A Graphic Representation of States for Quantum Copying Machines
authors: Sara Felloni, Giuliano Strini
comments: 30 pages, 22 figures
journal: Electronic Journal of Theoretical Physics - EJTP 3, No. 11 (2006) 159-187
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609230
abstract: The aim of this paper is to introduce a new graphic representation of quantum states by means of a specific application: the analysis of two models of quantum copying machines. The graphic representation by diagrams of states offers a clear and detailed visualization of quantum information's flow during the unitary evolution of not too complex systems. The diagrams of states are exponentially more complex in respect to the standard representation and this clearly illustrates the discrepancy of computational power between quantum and classical systems. After a brief introductive exposure of the general theory, we present a constructive procedure to illustrate the new representation by means of concrete examples. Elementary diagrams of states for single-qubit and two-qubit systems and a simple scheme to represent entangled states are presented. Quantum copying machines as imperfect cloners of quantum states are introduced and the quantum copying machines of Griffiths and Niu and of Buzek and Hillery are analyzed, determining quantum circuits of easier interpretation. The method has indeed shown itself to be extremely successful for the representation of the involved quantum operations and it has allowed to point out the characteristic aspects of the quantum computations examined.

id: quant-ph/0609231
title: Bound-state solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation for the generalized PT-symmetric Hulthen potential
authors: Harun Egrifes, Ramazan Sever
comments: 23 pages including 2 figures and 1 table. To appear in International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: Int. J. Theo. Phys. 46, 935(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609231
abstract: The one-dimensional Klein-Gordon equation is solved for the PT-symmetric generalized Hulthen potential in the scalar coupling scheme. The relativistic bound-state energy spectrum and the corresponding wave functions are obtained by using the Nikiforov-Uvarov method which is based on solving the second-order linear differential equations by reduction to a generalized equation of hypergeometric type.

id: quant-ph/0609232
title: Implementation of quantum operations on single photon qudits
authors: Bing He, J¨¢nos A. Bergou, Zhiyong Wang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042326 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609232
abstract: We show that a general linear transformation from one single photon qudit to another, the dimension of which can be either equal or unequal to that of the first one, can be implemented by linear optics. As an application of the scheme we elaborate a method to deterministically realize any finite-element Positive Operator Value Measure (POVM) on single photon signals, which is also generalizable to any quantum system in principle.

id: quant-ph/0609233
title: On Dalgarno and Lewis Perturbation Theory for Scattering States
authors: Paolo Amore, Francisco M. Fernandez
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609233
abstract: We apply the method of Dalgarno and Lewis to scattering states and discuss the choice of the unperturbed model in order to have a convergent perturbation series for the phase shift.

id: quant-ph/0609234
title: Exploring scalar quantum walks on Cayley graphs
authors: Olga Lopez Acevedo, J¨¦r¨¦mie Roland, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, 8(1&2):68-81, 2008.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609234
abstract: A quantum walk, \emph{i.e.}, the quantum evolution of a particle on a graph, is termed \emph{scalar} if the internal space of the moving particle (often called the coin) has a dimension one. Here, we study the existence of scalar quantum walks on Cayley graphs, which are built from the generators of a group. After deriving a necessary condition on these generators for the existence of a scalar quantum walk, we present a general method to express the evolution operator of the walk, assuming homogeneity of the evolution. We use this necessary condition and the subsequent constructive method to investigate the existence of scalar quantum walks on Cayley graphs of various groups presented with two or three generators. In this restricted framework, we classify all groups -- in terms of relations between their generators -- that admit scalar quantum walks, and we also derive the form of the most general evolution operator. Finally, we point out some interesting special cases, and extend our study to a few examples of Cayley graphs built with more than three generators.

id: quant-ph/0609235
title: Use of dynamical coupling for improved quantum state transfer
authors: A. O. Lyakhov, C. Bruder
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74, 235303 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609235
abstract: We propose a method to improve quantum state transfer in transmission lines. The idea is to localize the information on the last qubit of a transmission line, by dynamically varying the coupling constants between the first and the last pair of qubits. The fidelity of state transfer is higher then in a chain with fixed coupling constants. The effect is stable against small fluctuations in the system parameters.

id: quant-ph/0609236
title: A fast and robust approach to long-distance quantum communication with atomic ensembles
authors: L. Jiang, J. M. Taylor, M. D. Lukin
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, 5 tables (Two appendixes are added to justify two claims used in the maintext.)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609236
abstract: Quantum repeaters create long-distance entanglement between quantum systems while overcoming difficulties such as the attenuation of single photons in a fiber. Recently, an implementation of a repeater protocol based on single qubits in atomic ensembles and linear optics has been proposed [Nature 414, 413 (2001)]. Motivated by rapid experimental progress towards implementing that protocol, here we develop a more efficient scheme compatible with active purification of arbitrary errors. Using similar resources as the earlier protocol, our approach intrinsically purifies leakage out of the logical subspace and all errors within the logical subspace, leading to greatly improved performance in the presence of experimental inefficiencies. Our analysis indicates that our scheme could generate approximately one pair per 3 minutes over 1280 km distance with fidelity (F>78%) sufficient to violate Bell's inequality.

id: quant-ph/0609237
title: Security of quantum bit string commitment depends on the information measure
authors: Harry Buhrman, Matthias Christandl, Patrick Hayden, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Stephanie Wehner
comments: To appear in PRL. Short version of quant-ph/0504078, long version to appear separately. Improved security definition and result, one new lemma that may be of independent interest. v2: added funding reference, no other changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 97, 250501 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609237
abstract: Unconditionally secure non-relativistic bit commitment is known to be impossible in both the classical and the quantum world. However, when committing to a string of n bits at once, how far can we stretch the quantum limits? In this letter, we introduce a framework of quantum schemes where Alice commits a string of n bits to Bob, in such a way that she can only cheat on a bits and Bob can learn at most b bits of information before the reveal phase. Our results are two-fold: we show by an explicit construction that in the traditional approach, where the reveal and guess probabilities form the security criteria, no good schemes can exist: a+b is at least n. If, however, we use a more liberal criterion of security, the accessible information, we construct schemes where a=4 log n+O(1) and b=4, which is impossible classically. Our findings significantly extend known no-go results for quantum bit commitment.

id: cond-mat/0609005
title: Oscillatory multiband dynamics of free particles: The ubiquity of zitterbewegung effects
authors: R. Winkler, U. Z¨¹licke, Jens Bolte
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, various minor clarifying changes (final version)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 205314 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609005
abstract: In the Dirac theory for the motion of free relativistic electrons, highly oscillatory components appear in the time evolution of physical observables such as position, velocity, and spin angular momentum. This effect is known as zitterbewegung. We present a theoretical analysis of rather different Hamiltonians with gapped and/or spin-split energy spectrum (including the Rashba, Luttinger, and Kane Hamiltonians) that exhibit analogs of zitterbewegung as a common feature. We find that the amplitude of oscillations of the Heisenberg velocity operator v(t) generally equals the uncertainty for a simultaneous measurement of two linearly independent components of v. It is also shown that many features of zitterbewegung are shared by the simple and well-known Landau Hamiltonian describing the dynamics of two-dimensional (2D) electron systems in the presence of a magnetic field perpendicular to the plane. Finally, we also discuss the oscillatory dynamics of 2D electrons arising from the interplay of Rashba spin splitting and a perpendicular magnetic field.

id: cond-mat/0609048
title: Breakdown of a topological phase: Quantum phase transition in a loop gas model with tension
authors: Simon Trebst, Philipp Werner, Matthias Troyer, Kirill Shtengel, Chetan Nayak
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 070602 (2007).
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609048
abstract: We study the stability of topological order against local perturbations by considering the effect of a magnetic field on a spin model -- the toric code -- which is in a topological phase. The model can be mapped onto a quantum loop gas where the perturbation introduces a bare loop tension. When the loop tension is small, the topological order survives. When it is large, it drives a continuous quantum phase transition into a magnetic state. The transition can be understood as the condensation of `magnetic' vortices, leading to confinement of the elementary `charge' excitations. We also show how the topological order breaks down when the system is coupled to an Ohmic heat bath and discuss our results in the context of quantum computation applications.

id: cond-mat/0609050
title: Quantum phase transitions of light
authors: Andrew D. Greentree, Charles Tahan, Jared H. Cole, L. C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures (2 in colour)
journal: Nature Physics, 2, 856, 2006
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609050
abstract: Recently, condensed matter and atomic experiments have reached a length-scale and temperature regime where new quantum collective phenomena emerge. Finding such physics in systems of photons, however, is problematic, as photons typically do not interact with each other and can be created or destroyed at will. Here, we introduce a physical system of photons that exhibits strongly correlated dynamics on a meso-scale. By adding photons to a two-dimensional array of coupled optical cavities each containing a single two-level atom in the photon-blockade regime, we form dressed states, or polaritons, that are both long-lived and strongly interacting. Our zero temperature results predict that this photonic system will undergo a characteristic Mott insulator (excitations localised on each site) to superfluid (excitations delocalised across the lattice) quantum phase transition. Each cavity's impressive photon out-coupling potential may lead to actual devices based on these quantum many-body effects, as well as observable, tunable quantum simulators. We explicitly show that such phenomena may be observable in micro-machined diamond containing nitrogen-vacancy colour centres and superconducting microwave strip-line resonators.

id: cond-mat/0609085
title: Jarzynski Equality with Maxwell's Demon
authors: Takahiro Sagawa, Masahito Ueda
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609085
abstract: We propose a new thermodynamic equality and several inequalities concerning the relationship between work and information for an isothermal process with Maxwell's demon. Our approach is based on the formulation a la Jarzynski of the thermodynamic engine and on the quantum information-theoretic characterization of the demon. The lower bound of each inequality, which is expressed in terms of the information gain by the demon and the accuracy of the demon's measurement, gives the minimum work that can be performed on a single heat bath in an isothermal process. These results are independent of the state of the demon, be it in thermodynamic equilibrium or not.

id: cond-mat/0609088
title: Entropy and Exact Matrix Product Representation of the Laughlin Wave Function
authors: S. Iblisdir, J.I. Latorre, R. Orus
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.98:060402,2007
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609088
abstract: An analytical expression for the von Neumann entropy of the Laughlin wave function is obtained for any possible bipartition between the particles described by this wave function, for filling fraction nu=1. Also, for filling fraction nu=1/m, where m is an odd integer, an upper bound on this entropy is exhibited. These results yield a bound on the smallest possible size of the matrices for an exact representation of the Laughlin ansatz in terms of a matrix product state. An analytical matrix product state representation of this state is proposed in terms of representations of the Clifford algebra. For nu=1, this representation is shown to be asymptotically optimal in the limit of a large number of particles.

id: cond-mat/0609164
title: Phonon-induced decoherence and dissipation in donor-based charge qubits
authors: J.Eckel, S.Weiss, M.Thorwart
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, published online in Eur.Phys.J.B, article in press; the original publication is avaiable at www.eurphysj.org
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 53, 91-98 (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609164
abstract: We investigate the phonon-induced decoherence and dissipation in a donor-based charge quantum bit realized by the orbital states of an electron shared by two dopant ions which are implanted in a silicon host crystal. The dopant ions are taken from the group-V elements Bi, As, P, Sb. The excess electron is coupled to deformation potential acoustic phonons which dominate in the Si host. The particular geometry tailors a non-monotonous frequency distribution of the phonon modes. We determine the exact qubit dynamics under the influence of the phonons by employing the numerically exact quasi-adiabatic propagator path integral scheme thereby taking into account all bath-induced correlations. In particular, we have improved the scheme by completely eliminating the Trotter discretization error by a Hirsch-Fye extrapolation. By comparing the exact results to those of a Born-Markov approximation we find that the latter yields appropriate estimates for the decoherence and relaxation rates. However, noticeable quantitative corrections due to non-Markovian contributions appear.

id: cond-mat/0609225
title: Low-decoherence flux qubit
authors: J. Q. You, Xuedong Hu, S. Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 140515(R) (2007)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609225
abstract: A flux qubit can have a relatively long decoherence time at the degeneracy point, but away from this point the decoherence time is greatly reduced by dephasing. This limits the practical applications of flux qubits. Here we propose a new qubit design modified from the commonly used flux qubit by introducing an additional capacitor shunted in parallel to the smaller Josephson junction (JJ) in the loop. Our results show that the effects of noise can be considerably suppressed, particularly away from the degeneracy point, by both reducing the coupling energy of the JJ and increasing the shunt capacitance. This shunt capacitance provides a novel way to improve the qubit.

id: cond-mat/0609249
title: A generalized Chudley-Elliott vibration-jump model in activated atom surface diffusion
authors: R. Martinez-Casado, J. L. Vega, A. S. Sanz, S. Miret-Artes
comments: (5 pages, 2 figures; revised version)
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 126, 194711 (2007)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609249
abstract: Here the authors provide a generalized Chudley-Elliott expression for activated atom surface diffusion which takes into account the coupling between both low-frequency vibrational motion (namely, the frustrated translational modes) and diffusion. This expression is derived within the Gaussian approximation framework for the intermediate scattering function at low coverage. Moreover, inelastic contributions (arising from creation and annihilation processes) to the full width at half maximum of the quasi-elastic peak are also obtained.

id: cond-mat/0609263
title: Entanglement entropy in fermionic Laughlin states
authors: Masudul Haque, Oleksandr Zozulya, Kareljan Schoutens
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures. Minor changes in v2
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 060401 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609263
abstract: We present analytic and numerical calculations on the bipartite entanglement entropy in fractional quantum Hall states of the fermionic Laughlin sequence. The partitioning of the system is done both by dividing Landau level orbitals and by grouping the fermions themselves. For the case of orbital partitioning, our results can be related to spatial partitioning, enabling us to extract a topological quantity (the `total quantum dimension') characterizing the Laughlin states. For particle partitioning we prove a very close upper bound for the entanglement entropy of a subset of the particles with the rest, and provide an interpretation in terms of exclusion statistics.

id: cond-mat/0609332
title: Thermally assisted adiabatic quantum computation
authors: M. H. S. Amin, Peter J. Love, C. J. S. Truncik
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, Final version to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 060503 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609332
abstract: We study the effect of a thermal environment on adiabatic quantum computation using the Bloch-Redfield formalism. We show that in certain cases the environment can enhance the performance in two different ways: (i) by introducing a time scale for thermal mixing near the anticrossing that is smaller than the adiabatic time scale, and (ii) by relaxation after the anticrossing. The former can enhance the scaling of computation when the environment is superohmic, while the latter can only provide a prefactor enhancement. We apply our method to the case of adiabatic Grover search and show that performance better than classical is possible with a superohmic environment, with no a priori knowledge of the energy spectrum.

id: cond-mat/0609411
title: Large Fourier transforms never exactly realized by braiding conformal blocks
authors: Michael H. Freedman, Zhenghan Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609411
abstract: Fourier transform is an essential ingredient in Shor's factoring algorithm. In the standard quantum circuit model with the gate set $\{\U(2), \textrm{CNOT}\}$, the discrete Fourier transforms $F_N=(\omega^{ij})_{N\times N},i,j=0,1,..., N-1, \omega=e^{\frac{2\pi i}{N}}$, can be realized exactly by quantum circuits of size $O(n^2), n=\textrm{log}N$, and so can the discrete sine/cosine transforms. In topological quantum computing, the simplest universal topological quantum computer is based on the Fibonacci (2+1)-topological quantum field theory (TQFT), where the standard quantum circuits are replaced by unitary transformations realized by braiding conformal blocks. We report here that the large Fourier transforms $F_N$ and the discrete sine/cosine transforms can never be realized exactly by braiding conformal blocks for a fixed TQFT. It follows that approximation is unavoidable to implement the Fourier transforms by braiding conformal blocks.

id: cond-mat/0609441
title: Protected qubit based on a superconducting current mirror
authors: Alexei Kitaev
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures (6 .eps files). Version 2: the description of the $R(\pi/4)$ gate has been clarified
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609441
abstract: We propose a qubit implementation based on exciton condensation in capacitively coupled Josephson junction chains. The qubit is protected in the sense that all unwanted terms in its effective Hamiltonian are exponentially suppressed as the chain length increases. We also describe an implementation of a universal set of quantum gates. Most gates also offer exponential error suppression. The only gate that is not intrinsically fault-tolerant needs to be realized with about 50% precision, provided the other gates are exact.

id: cond-mat/0609475
title: From microscopic dynamics to macroscopic irreversibility
authors: A. Perez-Madrid
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609475
abstract: In this contribution we prove that the entropy of an N-body isolated system can not decrease and the entropy production should be non-negative provided the system possesses an equilibrium state. We define the entropy as a functional of the set of n-particle reduced density operators (n=0,....,N) generalizing the von Neumann fine-grained entropy formula. Additionally, as a consequence of our analysis we find the expression of the equilibrium n-particle reduced density operators which enter the definition of the entropy as well as the dissipated energy in an irreversible process.

id: cond-mat/0609490
title: Spin echo without an external permanent magnetic field
authors: Joakim Bergli, Leonid Glazman
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 064301 (2007).
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609490
abstract: The spin echo techniques aim at the elimination of the effect of a random magnetic field on the spin evolution. These techniques conventionally utlize the application of a permanent field which is much stronger than the random one. The strong field, however, may also modify the magnetic response of the medium containing the spins, thus altering their ``natural'' dynamics. We suggest an iterative scheme for generating a sequence of pulses which create an echo without an external permanent field. The approximation to the ideal echo improves with the sequence length.

id: cond-mat/0609535
title: Many-body quantum ratchet in a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Dario Poletti, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati, Baowen Li
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 023421 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609535
abstract: We study the dynamics of a dilute Bose-Einstein condensate confined in a toroidal trap and exposed to a pair of periodically flashed optical lattices. We first prove that in the noninteracting case this system can present a quantum symmetry which forbids the ratchet effect classically expected. We then show how many-body atom-atom interactions, treated within the mean-field approximation, can break this quantum symmetry, thus generating directed transport.

id: cond-mat/0609706
title: Interacting bosons in a nearly-resonant potential well
authors: Joseph P. Straley, Eugene B. Kolomeisky
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Minor changes, version to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 063421 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609706
abstract: We establish that the ability of a localized trapping potential to bind weakly-interacting bosons is dramatically enhanced in the vicinity of the threshold of formation of the single-particle bound-state of the trap. Specifically, for repulsive particles and a super-threshold trapping potential the equilibrium number of bound bosons and the size of the ground state diverge upon approaching the single-particle threshold from above. For attractive interactions and a sub-threshold trap a collective bound state always forms for a sufficiently large number of bosons despite the inability of interparticle attraction alone to form a two-body bound state.

id: cond-mat/0609768
title: Dipole transitions and Stark effect in the charge-dyon system
authors: Levon Mardoyan, Armen Nersessian, Hayk Sarkisyan, Vahagn Yeghikyan
comments: 6 pages, revised version, important references added
journal: J.Phys.A40:5973-5980,2007
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609768
abstract: We consider the dipole transitions and the linear and quadratic Stark effect in the MICZ-Kepler system interpreting as a charge-dyon system. We show, that while the linear Stark effect in the ground state is proportional to azimuth quantum number(and to the sign of monopole number), the quadratic Stark effect in the ground state is independent on the signs of azimuth and monopole numbers.

id: gr-qc/0609128
title: Holography and non-locality in a closed vacuum-dominated universe
authors: T. R. Mongan
comments: 4 pages, no figures, to be published in Int. J. Theor. Phys, references corrected
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.46:399-404,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0609128
abstract: A closed vacuum-dominated Friedmann universe is asymptotic to a de Sitter space with a cosmological event horizon for any observer. The holographic principle says the area of the horizon in Planck units determines the number of bits of information about the universe that will ever be available to any observer. The wavefunction describing the probability distribution of mass quanta associated with bits of information on the horizon is the boundary condition for the wavefunction specifying the probability distribution of mass quanta throughout the universe. Local interactions between mass quanta in the universe cause quantum transitions in the wavefunction specifying the distribution of mass throughout the universe, with instantaneous non-local effects throughout the universe.

id: hep-ph/0609251
title: Strangeness measurements of kaon pairs, CP violation and Bell inequalities
authors: Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures, Lectures given at: Workshop on Neutral Kaon Interferometry at the Phi--factory, Frascati, March 24th, 2006
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0609251
abstract: The nonlocal property of quantum mechanics can be nicely tested in high energy physics; in particular, the neutral kaon pairs as produced at DA$\Phi$NE, Frascati, are very well suited. The analogies of kaons as compared to polarized photons or spin--1/2 particles --the kaonic qubit feature-- are reviewed. However, there are also fundamental differences which occur due to the kaon time evolution and due to internal symmetries; in particular, the violation of CP symmetry is related to the violation of Bell inequalities. Two type of Bell inequalities for kaons are presented, one for the variation of the ``quasi--spin'' and the other for different detection times of the kaon.

id: hep-ph/0609314
title: Kaonic Quantum Erasers at KLOE 2: ``Erasing the Present, changing the Past''
authors: A. Bramon, G. Garbarino, B.H. Hiesmayr
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures, Lectures given at: Workshop on Neutral Kaon Interferometry at the Phi--factory, Frascati, March 24th, 2006
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0609314
abstract: Neutral kaons are unique quantum systems to show some of the most puzzling peculiarities of quantum mechanics. Here we focus on a quantitative version of Bohr's complementary principle and on quantum marking and eraser concepts. In detail we show that neutral kaons (1) are kind of double slit devices encapsulating Bohr's complementarity principle in a simple and transparent way, and (2) offer marking and eraser options which are not afforded by other quantum systems and which can be performed at the DAPHNE machine.

id: hep-th/0609045
title: Entanglement entropy and the Ricci flow
authors: Sergey N. Solodukhin
comments: 13 pages
journal: Phys.Lett.B646:268-274,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0609045
abstract: We analyze the Ricci flow of a noncompact metric that describes a two-dimensional black hole. We consider entanglement entropy of a 2d black hole which is due to the quantum correlations between two subsystems: one is inside and the other is outside the black hole horizon. It is demonstrated that the entanglement entropy is monotonic along the Ricci flow.

id: hep-th/0609075
title: Entanglement and Nonunitary Evolution
authors: Ram Brustein, Martin B. Einhorn, Amos Yarom
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure; Added a clarification regarding the relation with black hole physics
journal: JHEP 0704:086,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0609075
abstract: We consider a collapsing relativistic spherical shell for a free quantum field. Once the center of the wavefunction of the shell passes a certain radius R, the degrees of freedom inside R are traced over. We show that an observer outside this region will determine that the evolution of the system is nonunitary. We argue that this phenomenon is generic to entangled systems, and discuss a possible relation to black hole physics.

id: hep-th/0609093
title: Generalized Abel-Plana formula as a renormalization tool in quantum field theory with boundaries
authors: Aram A. Saharian
comments: 14 pages, talk presented at the Fifth International Conference on Mathematical Methods in Physics, 24-28 April, 2006, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
journal: PoSIC2006:019,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0609093
abstract: We apply the generalized Abel-Plana formula for the investigation of one-loop quantum effects on manifolds with boundaries. This allows to extract from the vacuum expectation values of local physical observables the parts corresponding to the geometry without boundaries and to present the boundary-induced parts in terms of integrals strongly convergent for the points away from the boundaries. As a result, the renormalization procedure for these observables is reduced to the corresponding procedure for the bulks without boundaries.

id: hep-th/0609117
title: Remarks on the Formulation of Quantum Mechanics on Noncommutative Phase Spaces
authors: B. Muthukumar
comments: 25 pages, JHEP3 style; minor changes; Published in JHEP
journal: JHEP 0701:073,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0609117
abstract: We consider the probabilistic description of nonrelativistic, spinless one-particle classical mechanics, and immerse the particle in a deformed noncommutative phase space in which position coordinates do not commute among themselves and also with canonically conjugate momenta. With a postulated normalized distribution function in the quantum domain, the square of the Dirac delta density distribution in the classical case is properly realised in noncommutative phase space and it serves as the quantum condition. With only these inputs, we pull out the entire formalisms of noncommutative quantum mechanics in phase space and in Hilbert space, and elegantly establish the link between classical and quantum formalisms and between Hilbert space and phase space formalisms of noncommutative quantum mechanics. Also, we show that the distribution function in this case possesses 'twisted' Galilean symmetry.

id: hep-th/0609148
title: A Classical Bound on Quantum Entropy
authors: Cosmas K Zachos
comments: Latex2e, 7 pages, publication version
journal: J.Phys.A40:F407-F412,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0609148
abstract: A classical upper bound for quantum entropy is identified and illustrated, $0\leq S_q \leq \ln (e \sigma^2 / 2\hbar)$, involving the variance $\sigma^2$ in phase space of the classical limit distribution of a given system. A fortiori, this further bounds the corresponding information-theoretical generalizations of the quantum entropy proposed by Renyi.

id: math-ph/0609015
title: Singular perturbation of quantum stochastic differential equations with coupling through an oscillator mode
authors: John Gough, Ramon van Handel
comments: 
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 127, 575-607 (2007)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0609015
abstract: We consider a physical system which is coupled indirectly to a Markovian resevoir through an oscillator mode. This is the case, for example, in the usual model of an atomic sample in a leaky optical cavity which is ubiquitous in quantum optics. In the strong coupling limit the oscillator can be eliminated entirely from the model, leaving an effective direct coupling between the system and the resevoir. Here we provide a mathematically rigorous treatment of this limit as a weak limit of the time evolution and observables on a suitably chosen exponential domain in Fock space. The resulting effective model may contain emission and absorption as well as scattering interactions.

id: math-ph/0609052
title: Symmetries and Exact Solutions of Nonlinear Dirac Equations
authors: Wilhelm Fushchych, Renat Zhdanov
comments: electronic version of the book published in 1997 by Institute of Mathematics, Kiev, Ukraine
journal: Mathematical Ukraina Publisher, Kyiv, 1997, 384 pp, ISSN 966-02-0144-3
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0609052
abstract: The authors give a detailed information about symmetry (Lie, non-Lie, conditional) of nonlinear PDEs for spinor, vector and scalar fields; using advanced methods of group-theoretical, symmetry analysis construct wide families of classical solutions of the nonlinear Dirac, Yang-Mills, Maxwell-Dirac, Dirac-d'Alembert, d'Alembert-Hamilton equations; expound a new symmetry approach to variable separation in linear and nonlinear PDEs, which allows, in particular, to classify separable Schroedinger equations. The book offers a uniform and relatively simple presentation of a considerable amount of material that is otherwise not easily available. The basic part of the book contains original results obtained by the authors. It is sure to be of interest to mathematical and theoretical physicists, particularly those working on classical and quantum field theories and on nonlinear dynamical systems.

id: math-ph/0609053
title: A Spin-Polaron Technique Utilized on Triangular-Lattice Antiferromagnet
authors: Z. H. Dong
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0609053
abstract: By expressing the Holstein-Primakoff transformation in a symmetric form a modified spin-polaron technique utilized on triangular-lattice antiferromagnet is developed. With the technique, we have treated an extended t-J model, calculated the quasiparticle dispersion, and we also compared the the dispersion with that obtained by other method.

id: math/0609076
title: Orthogonal maximal abelian *-subalgebras of the 6x6 matrices
authors: Kyle Beauchamp, Remus Nicoara
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0609076
abstract: We construct new pairs of orthogonal maximal abelian $*$-subalgebras of $M_6(\mathbb C)$, by classifying all self-adjoint complex Hadamard matrices of order 6. In particular, we exhibit a non-affine one-parameter family of non-equivalent Hadamard matrices of order 6. In the last part of the paper we present other previously unknown examples of complex Hadamard matrices of higher orders.

id: physics/0609148
title: Classical kinetic energy, quantum fluctuation terms and kinetic-energy functionals
authors: I. P. Hamilton, Ricardo A. Mosna, L. Delle Site
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure. To appear in Theor Chem Acc
journal: Theor Chem Acc 118, 407-415 (2007)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0609148
abstract: We employ a recently formulated dequantization procedure to obtain an exact expression for the kinetic energy which is applicable to all kinetic-energy functionals. We express the kinetic energy of an N-electron system as the sum of an N-electron classical kinetic energy and an N-electron purely quantum kinetic energy arising from the quantum fluctuations that turn the classical momentum into the quantum momentum. This leads to an interesting analogy with Nelson's stochastic approach to quantum mechanics, which we use to conceptually clarify the physical nature of part of the kinetic-energy functional in terms of statistical fluctuations and in direct correspondence with Fisher Information Theory. We show that the N-electron purely quantum kinetic energy can be written as the sum of the (one-electron) Weizsacker term and an (N-1)-electron kinetic correlation term. We further show that the Weizsacker term results from local fluctuations while the kinetic correlation term results from the nonlocal fluctuations. For one-electron orbitals (where kinetic correlation is neglected) we obtain an exact (albeit impractical) expression for the noninteracting kinetic energy as the sum of the classical kinetic energy and the Weizsacker term. The classical kinetic energy is seen to be explicitly dependent on the electron phase and this has implications for the development of accurate orbital-free kinetic-energy functionals. Also, there is a direct connection between the classical kinetic energy and the angular momentum and, across a row of the periodic table, the classical kinetic energy component of the noninteracting kinetic energy generally increases as Z increases.

id: cond-mat/0609750
title: An analytical decomposition protocol for optimal implementation of two-qubit entangling gates
authors: M. Blaauboer, R.L. de Visser
comments: 16 pages, published version
journal: J. Phys. A : Math. Theor. 41, 395307 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0609750
abstract: This paper addresses the question how to implement a desired two-qubit gate U using a given tunable two-qubit entangling interaction H_int. We present a general method which is based on the K_1 A K_2 decomposition of unitary matrices in SU(4) to calculate analytically the smallest number of two-qubit gates U_int [based on H_int] and single-qubit rotations, and the explicit sequence of these operations that are required to implement U. We illustrate our protocol by calculating the implementation of (1) the transformation from standard basis to Bell basis, (2) the CNOT gate, and (3) the quantum Fourier transform for two kinds of interaction - Heisenberg exchange interaction and quantum inductive coupling - and discuss the relevance of our results for solid-state qubits.

