id: quant-ph/0610001
title: Perfect Teleportation and Superdense Coding With W-States
authors: Pankaj Agrawal, Arun Pati
comments: 9 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610001
abstract: True tripartite entanglement of the state of a system of three qubits can be classified on the basis of stochastic local operations and classical communications (SLOCC). Such states can be classified in two categories: GHZ states and W-states. It is known that GHZ states can be used for teleportation and superdense coding, but the prototype W-state cannot be. However, we show that there is a class of W-states that can be used for perfect teleportation and superdense coding.

id: quant-ph/0610002
title: New perturbation theory in QED
authors: G.M. Filippov
comments: 17 pages, no figures, reported at 2-nd Int.Conf. on quantum electrodynamics and statistical physics QEDSP2006 (19-23 Sept.2006, Kharkov, Ukraine
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610002
abstract: The perturbation theory in QED used the new form of ground state as a state of interacted particles is proposed. The mean electromagnetic field of charged elementary particle is calculated. The possibility of elimination the problem with ultraviolet as well as infrared divergences is shown. The electromagnetic energy of the particle turns out to be regular and small.

id: quant-ph/0610003
title: Quantum Coding Theorems for Arbitrary Sources, Channels and Entanglement Resources
authors: Garry Bowen, Nilanjana Datta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610003
abstract: The information spectrum approach gives general formulae for optimal rates of various information theoretic protocols, under minimal assumptions on the nature of the sources, channels and entanglement resources involved. This paper culminates in the derivation of the dense coding capacity for a noiseless quantum channel, assisted by arbitrary shared entanglement, using this approach. We also review the currently known coding theorems, and their converses, for protocols such as data compression for arbitrary quantum sources and transmission of classical information through arbitrary quantum channels. In addition, we derive the optimal rate of data compression for a mixed source

id: quant-ph/0610004
title: Semiclassics of the Chaotic Quantum-Classical Transition
authors: Benjamin D. Greenbaum, Salman Habib, Kosuke Shizume, Bala Sundaram
comments: 16 pages, 7 Figures, Submitted to Phys Rev E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 76, 046215 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610004
abstract: We elucidate the basic physical mechanisms responsible for the quantum-classical transition in one-dimensional, bounded chaotic systems subject to unconditioned environmental interactions. We show that such a transition occurs due to the dual role of noise in regularizing the semiclassical Wigner function and averaging over fine structures in classical phase space. The results are interpreted in the novel context of applying recent advances in the theory of measurement and open systems to the semiclassical quantum regime. We use these methods to show how a local semiclassical picture is stabilized and can then be approximated by a classical distribution at later times. The general results are demonstrated explicitly via high-resolution numerical simulations of the quantum master equation for a chaotic Duffing oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0610005
title: A General Information Theoretical Proof for the Second Law of Thermodynamics
authors: Qi-Ren Zhang
comments: 4 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. E17(2008) 531-537
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610005
abstract: We show that the conservation and the non-additivity of the information, together with the additivity of the entropy make the entropy increase in an isolated system. The collapse of the entangled quantum state offers an example of the information non-additivity. Nevertheless, the later is also true in other fields, in which the interaction information is important. Examples are classical statistical mechanics, social statistics and financial processes. The second law of thermodynamics is thus proven in its most general form. It is exactly true, not only in quantum and classical physics but also in other processes, in which the information is conservative and non-additive.

id: quant-ph/0610006
title: Optimal control of entanglement via quantum feedback
authors: Stefano Mancini, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012330 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610006
abstract: It has recently been shown that finding the optimal measurement on the environment for stationary Linear Quadratic Gaussian control problems is a semi-definite program. We apply this technique to the control of the EPR-correlations between two bosonic modes interacting via a parametric Hamiltonian at steady state. The optimal measurement turns out to be nonlocal homodyne measurement -- the outputs of the two modes must be combined before measurement. We also find the optimal local measurement and control technique. This gives the same degree of entanglement but a higher degree of purity than the local technique previously considered [S. Mancini, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 73}, 010304(R) (2006)].

id: quant-ph/0610007
title: Quantum Entanglement under Non-Markovian Dynamics of Two Qubits Interacting with a common Electromagnetic Field
authors: C. Anastopoulos, S. Shresta, B. L. Hu
comments: 37 pages, revTex, 4 figs. Added a new subsection in the derivation of the master equation and one explaining the origin and significance of the non-Markovian behavior. Also a new appendix giving the time-dependent terms in the master equation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610007
abstract: We study the non-equilibrium dynamics of a pair of qubits made of two-level atoms separated in space with distance r and interacting with one common electromagnetic field but not directly with each other. Our calculation makes a weak coupling assumption, but no Born or Markov approximation. We derived a non-Markovian master equation for the evolution of the reduced density matrix of the two-qubit system after integrating out the electromagnetic field modes. It contains a Markovian part with a Lindblad type operator and a nonMarkovian contribution, the physics of which is the main focus of this study. We use the concurrence function as a measure of quantum entanglement between the two qubits. Two classes of states are studied in detail: Class A is a one parameter family of states which are the superposition of the highest energy and Class B states are linear combinations of the symmetric and the antisymmetric Bell states. We obtain similar behavior for the Bell states as in earlier results derived by using the Born-Markov approximation. However, in the Class A states the behavior is qualitatively different: under the non-Markovian evolution we do not see sudden death of quantum entanglement and subsequent revivals, except when the qubits are sufficiently far apart. We provide explanations for such differences of behavior both between these two classes of states and between the predictions from the Markov and non-Markovian dynamics. We also study the decoherence of this two-qubit system and find that the decoherence rate in the case of one qubit initially in an excited state does not change significantly with the qubits separation whereas it does for the case when one qubit is initially in the ground state.

id: quant-ph/0610008
title: Quantumness of Josephson junctions reexamined
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 8 pages, added new test of quantumness
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610008
abstract: There exists an increasing evidence supporting the picture of the Josephson junction (JJ) as a "macroscopic quantum system". On the other hand the interpretation of experimental data strongly depends on the assumed theoretical model. We analyse the possible states of a Cooper pair box ("charge qubit") for the two types of models : two-mode Bose-Hubbard model with its large $N$ aproximations and the many-body description within the mean-field approximation (Gross-Pitaevski equation). While the first class of models supports the picture of JJ being a quantum subsystem of a single degree of freedom, the second approach yields an essentially classical structure of accessible quantum states which, in particular, implies the absence of entanglement for two coupled JJ's. The arguments in favor of the mean-field theory are presented and different experimental tests including a new proposal are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0610009
title: On the Magic Matrix by Makhlin and the B-C-H Formula in SO(4)
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Tatsuo Suzuki
comments: Latex ; 11 pages ; 1 figure ; minor changes. To appear in International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics (vol.4, no.5 or 6), 2007
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys.4:897-905,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610009
abstract: A closed expression to the Baker-Campbell-Hausdorff (B-C-H) formula in SO(4) is given by making use of the magic matrix by Makhlin. As far as we know this is the {\bf first nontrivial example} on (semi-) simple Lie groups summing up all terms in the B-C-H expansion.

id: quant-ph/0610010
title: Essential state of the electromagnetic field and the double-slit experiment
authors: Neil V. Budko, Alexander B. Samokhin
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610010
abstract: A new class of generalized solutions related to the essential spectrum of linear Maxwell's equations is presented. The essential modes are given in terms of normalized singular Weyl's sequences, whose square represents Dirac's delta functions in spatial and angular frequency domains. The action integral associated with essential modes is well-defined. We claim that these modes represent the collapsed state of the electromagnetic field and, with some additional assumptions on the conservation of action, are suitable for describing the double-slit experiment in accordance with the orthodox point of view.

id: quant-ph/0610011
title: Variational Principle for Mixed Classical-Quantum Systems
authors: M. Grigorescu
comments: 16 pages, LaTex; added Figure 2 and Figure 3
journal: Can. J. Phys. 85 (2007) 1023-1034
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610011
abstract: An extended variational principle providing the equations of motion for a system consisting of interacting classical, quasiclassical and quantum components is presented, and applied to the model of bilinear coupling. The relevant dynamical variables are expressed in the form of a quantum state vector which includes the action of the classical subsystem in its phase factor. It is shown that the statistical ensemble of Brownian state vectors for a quantum particle in a classical thermal environment can be described by a density matrix evolving according to a nonlinear quantum Fokker-Planck equation. Exact solutions of this equation are obtained for a two-level system in the limit of high temperatures, considering both stationary and nonstationary initial states. A treatment of the common time shared by the quantum system and its classical environment, as a collective variable rather than as a parameter, is presented in the Appendix.

id: quant-ph/0610012
title: CPT-like states in an ensemble of interacting fermions. On the possibility of new mechanism of superconductivity
authors: A.V. Taichenachev, V.I. Yudin
comments: Revtex 5 pages, including 1 figure; v2 references added and typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610012
abstract: Using the standard Hamiltonian of the BCS theory, we show that in an ensemble of interacting fermions there exists a coherent state $|NC>$, which nullifies the Hamiltonian of the interparticle interaction. This state has an analogy with the well-known in quantum optics coherent population trapping effect (CPT). A possible application of such CPT-like states in the superconductivity theory is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0610013
title: Quantum Property Testing for Solvable Groups
authors: Yoshifumi Inui
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610013
abstract: Property testing has been extensively studied and its target is to determine whether a given object satisfies a certain property or it is far from the property. In this paper, we construct an efficient quantum algorithm which tests if a given quantum oracle performs the group multiplication of a solvable group. Our work is strongly based on the efficient classical testing algorithm for Abelian groups proposed by Friedl, Ivanyos and Santha. Since every Abelian group is a solvable group, our result is in a sense a generalization of their result.

id: quant-ph/0610014
title: Optimal estimation of an observable's expectation value for pure states for general measure of deviation
authors: Minoru Horibe, Akihisa Hayashi, Takaaki Hashimoto
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610014
abstract: We investigate the optimal estimation of quantum expectation value of a physical observable, which minimizes a mean error with respect to general measure of deviation, when a finite number of copies of a pure state are prepared. If pure sates are uniformly distributed, the minimum value of mean error for any measure of deviation is achieved by projective measurement on each copy.

id: quant-ph/0610015
title: Unconditionally secure one-way quantum key distribution using decoy pulses
authors: Z. L. Yuan, A. W. Sharpe, A. J. Shields
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 90, 011118(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610015
abstract: We report here a complete experimental realization of one-way decoy-pulse quantum key distribution, demonstrating an unconditionally secure key rate of 5.51 kbps for a 25.3 km fibre length. This is two orders of magnitudes higher than the value that can be obtained with a non-decoy system. We introduce also a simple test for detecting the photon number splitting attack and highlight that it is essential for the security of the technique to fully characterize the source and detectors used.

id: quant-ph/0610016
title: Analysis of path integrals at low temperature : Box formula, occupation time and ergodic approximation
authors: S¨¦bastien Paulin, Angel Alastuey, Thierry Dauxois
comments: 
journal: Journal of Statistical Physics 128, 1391-1414 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610016
abstract: We study the low temperature behaviour of path integrals for a simple one-dimensional model. Starting from the Feynman-Kac formula, we derive a new functional representation of the density matrix at finite temperature, in terms of the occupation times of Brownian motions constrained to stay within boxes with finite sizes. From that representation, we infer a kind of ergodic approximation, which only involves double ordinary integrals. As shown by its applications to different confining potentials, the ergodic approximation turns out to be quite efficient, especially in the low-temperature regime where other usual approximations fail.

id: quant-ph/0610017
title: A pairwise additive strategy for quantifying multipartite entanglement
authors: Gerardo A. Paz-Silva, John H. Reina
comments: 4 pages, new version contains corrected typos. Title changed, proofs added, new results reported. Additivity revisited
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610017
abstract: Based on the idea of measuring the factorizability of a given density matrix, we propose a pairwise analysis strategy for quantifying and understanding multipartite entanglement. The methodology proves very effective as it immediately guarantees, in addition to the usual entanglement properties, additivity and strong super additivity. We give a specific set of quantities that fulfill the protocol and which, according to our numerical calculations, make the entanglement measure an LOCC non-increasing function. The strategy allows a redefinition of the structural concept of global entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0610018
title: Optimal quantum chain communication by end gates
authors: D. Burgarth, V. Giovannetti, S. Bose
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; improved version includes discussion on finitely many gate applications
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062327 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610018
abstract: The scalability of solid state quantum computation relies on the ability of connecting the qubits to the macroscopic world. Quantum chains can be used as quantum wires to keep regions of external control at a distance. However even in the absence of external noise their transfer fidelity is too low to assure reliable connections. We propose a method of optimizing the fidelity by minimal usage of the available resources, consisting of applying a suitable sequence of two-qubit gates at the end of the chain. Our scheme allows also the preparation of states in the first excitation sector as well as cooling.

id: quant-ph/0610019
title: Realization of a superconducting atom chip
authors: Thomas Nirrengarten, Angie Qarry, C¨¦dric Roux, Andreas Emmert, Gilles Nogues, Michel Brune, Jean-Michel Raimond, Serge Haroche
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Physical review letters 97 (17/11/2006) 200405
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610019
abstract: We have trapped rubidium atoms in the magnetic field produced by a superconducting atom chip operated at liquid Helium temperatures. Up to $8.2\cdot 10^5$ atoms are held in a Ioffe-Pritchard trap at a distance of 440 $\mu$m from the chip surface, with a temperature of 40 $\mu$K. The trap lifetime reaches 115 s at low atomic densities. These results open the way to the exploration of atom--surface interactions and coherent atomic transport in a superconducting environment, whose properties are radically different from normal metals at room temperature.

id: quant-ph/0610020
title: Parametrizations of Positive Matrices With Applications
authors: M. C. Tseng, Hong Zhou, V. Ramakrishna
comments: Submitted for publication to the refereed book ``Mathematics of Quantum Computation and Technology", and is dedicated to the memory of Professor Tiberiu Constantinescu
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610020
abstract: This paper reviews some characterizations of positive matrices and discusses which lead to useful parametrizations. It is argued that one of them, which we dub the Schur-Constantinescu parametrization is particularly useful. Two new applications of it are given. One shows all block-Toeplitz states are PPT. The other application is to relaxation rates.

id: quant-ph/0610021
title: Dilation Theoretic Parametrizations of Positive Matrices with Applications to Quantum Information
authors: M. C. Tseng, V. Ramakrishna
comments: Submitted to the Tiberiu Constantinescu Memorial Volume
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610021
abstract: This paper, dedicated to the memory of late Professor Tiberiu Constantinescu, discusses two parametrizations of positive matrices. The first, called the Schur-Constantinescu parametrization, is used to construct several examples of separable states (e.g., Hankel states). The second, called the Jacobi parametrization, is used to present an alternative to the Bloch sphere representation of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0610022
title: Demonstration of a Tunable-Bandwidth White Light Interferometer using Anomalous Dispersion in Atomic Vapor
authors: G.S. Pati, M. Salit, K. Salit, M.S. Shahriar
comments: 11 Pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610022
abstract: Recently, the design of a white-light-cavity has been proposed using negative dispersion in an intra-cavity medium to make the cavity resonate over a large range of frequencies and still maintain a high cavity build-up. This paper presents the demonstration of this effect in a free-space cavity. The negative dispersion of the intra-cavity medium is caused by bi-frequency Raman gain in an atomic vapor cell. A significantly broad cavity response over a bandwidth greater than 20 MHz has been observed. The experimental results agree well with the theoretical model, taking into account effects of residual absorption. A key application of this device would be in enhancing the sensitivity-bandwidth product of the next generation gravitational wave detectors that make use of the so-called signal-recycling mirror.

id: quant-ph/0610023
title: Demonstration of Tunable Displacement-Measurement-Sensitivity using Variable Group Index in a Ring Resonator
authors: G.S. Pati, M. Salit, K. Salit, M.S. Shahriar
comments: 14 Pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610023
abstract: We show that an intra-cavity medium with normal dispersion reduces the sensitivity of the cavity resonance frequency to a change in its length by a factor inversely proportional to the group index. Since the group index in an atomic medium can be very large, this effect can help in constructing highly frequency-stable cavities for various potential applications without taking additional measures for mechanical stability. The results also establish indirectly the opposite effect of enhanced sensitivity that can be realized for a negative dispersion corresponding to a group index close to a null value. This enhancement in turn can be employed to increase significantly the sensitivity of a ring laser gyroscope.

id: quant-ph/0610024
title: Topological Computation without Braiding
authors: H. Bombin, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: revtex4, 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.98:160502,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610024
abstract: We show that universal quantum computation can be performed within the ground state of a topologically ordered quantum system, which is a naturally protected quantum memory. In particular, we show how this can be achieved using brane-net condensates in 3-colexes. The universal set of gates is implemented without selective addressing of physical qubits and, being fully topologically protected, it does not rely on quasiparticle excitations or their braiding.

id: quant-ph/0610025
title: KLM quantum computation as a measurement based computation
authors: Sandu Popescu
comments: 4 pages 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610025
abstract: We show that the Knill Laflamme Milburn method of quantum computation with linear optics gates can be interpreted as a one-way, measurement based quantum computation of the type introduced by Briegel and Rausendorf. We also show that the permanent state of n n-dimensional systems is a universal state for quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0610026
title: Vacuum induced torque between corrugated metallic plates
authors: Robson B. Rodrigues, Paulo A. Maia Neto, A. Lambrecht, S. Reynaud
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Europhysics Letters. Technical problem with eps file for figure 4 was fixed
journal: Europhys.Lett.76:822-828,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610026
abstract: We study the torque arising between two corrugated metallic plates due to the interaction with electromagnetic vacuum. This Casimir torque can be measured with torsion pendulum techniques for separation distances as large as 1$\mu$m. It allows one to probe the nontrivial geometry dependence of the Casimir energy in a configuration which can be evaluated theoretically with accuracy. In the optimal experimental configuration, the commonly used proximity force approximation turns out to overestimate the torque by a factor 2 or larger.

id: quant-ph/0610027
title: The Quantum Chernoff Bound
authors: K.M.R. Audenaert, J. Calsamiglia, Ll. Masanes, R. Munoz-Tapia, A. Acin, E. Bagan, F. Verstraete
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 160501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610027
abstract: We consider the problem of discriminating two different quantum states in the setting of asymptotically many copies, and determine the optimal strategy that minimizes the total probability of error. This leads to the identification of the quantum Chernoff bound, thereby solving a long standing open problem. The bound reduces to the classical Chernoff bound when the quantum states under consideration commute. The quantum Chernoff bound is the natural symmetric distance measure between quantum states because of its clear operational meaning and because of the fact that it does not seem to share the undesirable features of other distance measures like the fidelity, the trace norm and the relative entropy.

id: quant-ph/0610028
title: Quantum Error Correction Beyond Completely Positive Maps
authors: A. Shabani, D.A. Lidar
comments: This paper has been withdrawn as it has been superseded by arXiv:0808.0175 and arXiv:0902.2478
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610028
abstract: By introducing an operator sum representation for arbitrary linear maps, we develop a generalized theory of quantum error correction (QEC) that applies to any linear map, in particular maps that are not completely positive (CP). This theory of "linear quantum error correction" is applicable in cases where the standard and restrictive assumption of a factorized initial system-bath state does not apply.

id: quant-ph/0610029
title: Cavity QED determination of atomic number statistics in optical lattices
authors: W. Chen, D. Meiser, P. Meystre
comments: 10 pages revtex, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610029
abstract: We study the reflection of two counter-propagating modes of the light field in a ring resonator by ultracold atoms either in the Mott insulator state or in the superfluid state of an optical lattice. We obtain exact numerical results for a simple two-well model and carry out statistical calculations appropriate for the full lattice case. We find that the dynamics of the reflected light strongly depends on both the lattice spacing and the state of the matter-wave field. Depending on the lattice spacing, the light field is sensitive to various density-density correlation functions of the atoms. The light field and the atoms become strongly entangled if the latter are in a superfluid state, in which case the photon statistics typically exhibit complicated multimodal structures.

id: quant-ph/0610030
title: Reference frames, superselection rules, and quantum information
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Terry Rudolph, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 55 pages, published version
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 79, 555 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610030
abstract: Recently, there has been much interest in a new kind of ``unspeakable'' quantum information that stands to regular quantum information in the same way that a direction in space or a moment in time stands to a classical bit string: the former can only be encoded using particular degrees of freedom while the latter are indifferent to the physical nature of the information carriers. The problem of correlating distant reference frames, of which aligning Cartesian axes and synchronizing clocks are important instances, is an example of a task that requires the exchange of unspeakable information and for which it is interesting to determine the fundamental quantum limit of efficiency. There have also been many investigations into the information theory that is appropriate for parties that lack reference frames or that lack correlation between their reference frames, restrictions that result in global and local superselection rules. In the presence of these, quantum unspeakable information becomes a new kind of resource that can be manipulated, depleted, quantified, etcetera. Methods have also been developed to contend with these restrictions using relational encodings, particularly in the context of computation, cryptography, communication, and the manipulation of entanglement. This article reviews the role of reference frames and superselection rules in the theory of quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0610031
title: Compatibility of subsystem states and convex geometry
authors: William Hall
comments: 12 pages APS format, some minor changes made
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610031
abstract: The subsystem compatibility problem, which concerns the question of whether a set of subsystem states are compatible with a state of the entire system, has received much study. Here we attack the problem from a new angle, utilising the ideas of convexity that have been successfully employed against the separability problem. Analogously to an entanglement witness, we introduce the idea of a compatibility witness, and prove a number of properties about these objects. We show that the subsystem compatibility problem can be solved numerically and efficiently using semidefinite programming, and that the numerical results from this solution can be used to extract exact analytic results, an idea which we use to disprove a conjecture about the subsystem problem made by Butterley et al. [Found. Phys. 36 83 (2006)]. Finally, we consider how the ideas can be used to tackle some important variants of the compatibility problem; in particular, the case of identical particles (known as N-representability in the case of fermions) is considered.

id: quant-ph/0610032
title: Maximally polarized states for quantum light fields
authors: L. L. Sanchez-Soto, E. C. Yustas, G. Bjork, A. B. Klimov
comments: 4 pages, 3 eps-color figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 043820 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610032
abstract: The degree of polarization of a quantum state can be defined as its Hilbert-Schmidt distance to the set of unpolarized states. We demonstrate that the states optimizing this degree for a fixed average number of photons $\bar{N}$ present a fairly symmetric, parabolic photon statistics, with a variance scaling as $\bar{N}^2$. Although no standard optical process yields such a statistics, we show that, to an excellent approximation, a highly squeezed vacuum can be considered as maximally polarized.

id: quant-ph/0610033
title: Quantum mechanics and Leggett's principles of macroscopic realism
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: Latex, 8 pages; I welcome any comments on the paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610033
abstract: On the basis of our recent model of a one-dimensional (1D) completed scattering we argue that Leggett's principles of macroscopic realism must and can be extended onto the level of single electrons and atoms. These principles need three quite feasible innovations in quantum mechanics (QM): (1) at the conceptual level, QM must treat a pure time-dependent one-particle state to involve two or more macroscopically distinct alternatives for a particle as a pure {\it combined} one - the intermediate link between a pure {\it elementary} state (indecomposable into macroscopically distinct parts) and statistical mixture; (2) at the mathematical level, QM must provide the presentation of the pure time-dependent combined state as a coherent superposition of macroscopically distinct elementary states (MDESs); (3) at the experimental level, QM must provide for such states two types of measurements - those for observing the interference pattern resulting from the joint action of MDESs, and non-demolishing 'which-way' measurements for scanning the individual properties of MDESs.

id: quant-ph/0610034
title: Quantum nature of a strongly-coupled single quantum dot-cavity system
authors: K. Hennessy, A. Badolato, M. Winger, D. Gerace, M. Atature, S. Gulde, S. Falt, E. L. Hu, A. Imamoglu
comments: 14 pages 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610034
abstract: Cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) studies the interaction between a quantum emitter and a single radiation-field mode. When an atom is in strong coupling with a cavity mode1,2, it is possible to realize key quantum information processing (QIP) tasks, such as controlled coherent coupling and entanglement of distinguishable quantum systems. Realizing these tasks in the solid state is clearly desirable, and coupling semiconductor self-assembled quantum dots (QDs) to monolithic optical cavities is a promising route to this end. However, validating the efficacy of QDs in QIP applications requires confirmation of the quantum nature of the QD-cavity system in the strong coupling regime. Here we find a confirmation by observing quantum correlations in photoluminescence (PL) from a photonic crystal (PC) nanocavity3-5 interacting with one, and only one, QD located precisely at the cavity electric field maximum. When off-resonance, photon emission from the cavity mode and QD excitons is anti-correlated at the level of single quanta, proving that the mode is driven solely by the QD despite an energy mis-match between cavity and excitons. When tuned into resonance, the exciton and photon enter the strong-coupling regime of cavity-QED and the QD lifetime reduces by a factor of 120. The photon stream from the cavity becomes anti-bunched, proving that the coupled exciton/photon system is in the quantum anharmonic regime. Our observations unequivocally show that QIP tasks requiring the quantum nonlinear regime are achievable in the solid state.

id: quant-ph/0610035
title: Implementation of controlled SWAP gates for quantum fingerprinting and photonic quantum computation
authors: B. Wang, L.-M. Duan
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610035
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement quantum controlled SWAP gates by directing single-photon pulses to a two-sided cavity with a single trapped atom. The resultant gates can be used to realize quantum fingerprinting and universal photonic quantum computation. The performance of the scheme is characterized under realistic experimental noise with the requirements well within the reach of the current technology.

id: quant-ph/0610036
title: Multiplexed Memory-Insensitive Quantum Repeaters
authors: O. A. Collins, S. D. Jenkins, A. Kuzmich, T. A. B. Kennedy
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Accepted for publication in PRL
journal: Physical Review Letters 98, 060502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610036
abstract: Long-distance quantum communication via distant pairs of entangled quantum bits (qubits) is the first step towards more secure message transmission and distributed quantum computing. To date, the most promising proposals require quantum repeaters to mitigate the exponential decrease in communication rate due to optical fiber losses. However, these are exquisitely sensitive to the lifetimes of their memory elements. We propose a multiplexing of quantum nodes that should enable the construction of quantum networks that are largely insensitive to the coherence times of the quantum memory elements.

id: quant-ph/0610037
title: Quantum gambling using mesoscopic ring qubits
authors: Ireneusz Pakula
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, poster during XXX Intern. Conf. of Theoretical Physics, Electron correlations in nano- and microsystems, Ustron 9-14 September 2006. Minor corrections, references added; to appear in physica status solidi b
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610037
abstract: Quantum Game Theory provides us with new tools for practising games and some other risk related enterprices like, for example, gambling. The two party gambling protocol presented by Goldenberg {\it et al} is one of the simplest yet still hard to implement applications of Quantum Game Theory. We propose potential physical realisation of the quantum gambling protocol with use of three mesoscopic ring qubits. We point out problems in implementation of such game.

id: quant-ph/0610038
title: Using error correction to determine the noise model
authors: M. Laforest, D. Simon, J.-C. Boileau, J. Baugh, M. Ditty, R. Laflamme
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. Added discussion section, improved figures
journal: PRA 75, 012331 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610038
abstract: Quantum error correcting codes have been shown to have the ability of making quantum information resilient against noise. Here we show that we can use quantum error correcting codes as diagnostics to characterise noise. The experiment is based on a three-bit quantum error correcting code carried out on a three-qubit nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum information processor. Utilizing both engineered and natural noise, the degree of correlations present in the noise affecting a two-qubit subsystem was determined. We measured a correlation factor of c=0.5+/-0.2 using the error correction protocol, and c=0.3+/-0.2 using a standard NMR technique based on coherence pathway selection. Although the error correction method demands precise control, the results demonstrate that the required precision is achievable in the liquid-state NMR setting.

id: quant-ph/0610039
title: Medium effects on the van der Waals force
authors: M. S. Tomas
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, presented at Brijuni Conference X: Imaging in Space and Time, Brijuni, Croatia, August 28 - September 01, 2006
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012109 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610039
abstract: We consider the van der Waals interaction between two ground-state atoms embedded in adjacent semi-infinite magnetodielectric media, with emphasis on medium effects on it. We demonstrate that, in this case, at small atom-atom distances the van der Waals interaction is screened by the surrounding media in the same way as in an effective (single) medium. At larger atomic distances, however, its dependence on the material parameters of the system and the positions of the atoms is more complex. We also calculate the Casimir-Polder potential of an atom A arising from a uniform distribution of atoms B in the medium across the interface. Comparison of this potential with the corresponding result deduced from the Casimir force on a thin composite slab in front of a composite semi-infinite medium, both obeying the Clausius-Mossotti relation, suggests a hint on how to improve a well-known formula for the van der Waals potential with respect to the local-field effects.

id: quant-ph/0610040
title: Measurement-based quantum computation and undecidable logic
authors: M. Van den Nest, H. J. Briegel
comments: 10 pages. Presentation improved. Paper to appear in Found. Phys.; currently published online
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610040
abstract: We establish a connection between measurement-based quantum computation and the field of mathematical logic. We show that the computational power of an important class of quantum states called graph states, representing resources for measurement-based quantum computation, is reflected in the expressive power of (classical) formal logic languages defined on the underlying mathematical graphs. In particular, we show that for all graph state resources which can yield a computational speed-up with respect to classical computation, the underlying graphs--describing the quantum correlations of the states--are associated with undecidable logic theories. Here undecidability is to be interpreted in a sense similar to Goedel's incompleteness results, meaning that there exist propositions, expressible in the above classical formal logic, which cannot be proven or disproven.

id: quant-ph/0610041
title: Passage-time distributions from a spin-boson detector model
authors: Gerhard C. Hegerfeldt, Jens Timo Neumann, Lawrence S. Schulman
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures; minor changes, references corrected; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 75, 012108 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610041
abstract: The passage-time distribution for a spread-out quantum particle to traverse a specific region is calculated using a detailed quantum model for the detector involved. That model, developed and investigated in earlier works, is based on the detected particle's enhancement of the coupling between a collection of spins (in a metastable state) and their environment. We treat the continuum limit of the model, under the assumption of the Markov property, and calculate the particle state immediately after the first detection. An explicit example with 15 boson modes shows excellent agreement between the discrete model and the continuum limit. Analytical expressions for the passage-time distribution as well as numerical examples are presented. The precision of the measurement scheme is estimated and its optimization discussed. For slow particles, the precision goes like $E^{-3/4}$, which improves previous $E^{-1}$ estimates, obtained with a quantum clock model.

id: quant-ph/0610042
title: Metric perturbation theory of quantum dynamics
authors: Antony L Tambyrajah
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610042
abstract: A theory of quantum dynamics based on a discrete structure underlying the space time manifold is developed for single particles. It is shown that at the micro domain the interaction of particles with the underlying discrete structure results in the quantum space time manifold. Regarding the resulting quantum space-time as perturbation from the Lorentz metric it is shown it is possible to discuss the dynamics of particles in the quantum domain.

id: quant-ph/0610043
title: KLM quantum computation with bosonic atoms
authors: Sandu Popescu
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610043
abstract: A Knill-Laflamme-Milburn (KLM) type quantum computation with bosonic neutral atoms or bosonic ions is suggested. Crucially, as opposite to other quantum computation schemes involving atoms (ions), no controlled interactions between atoms (ions) involving their internal levels are required. Versus photonic KLM computation this scheme has the advantage that single atom (ion) sources are more natural than single photon sources, and single atom (ion) detectors are far more efficient than single photon ones.

id: quant-ph/0610044
title: Rapid state purification protocols for a Cooper pair box
authors: E. J. Griffith, C. D. Hill, J. F. Ralph, H. M. Wiseman, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 14 pages, 14 figures. v2: Revised version after referee comments. Accepted for publication by Physical Review B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 014511 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610044
abstract: We propose techniques for implementing two different rapid state purification schemes, within the constraints present in a superconducting charge qubit system. Both schemes use a continuous measurement of charge (z) measurements, and seek to minimize the time required to purify the conditional state. Our methods are designed to make the purification process relatively insensitive to rotations about the x-axis, due to the Josephson tunnelling Hamiltonian. The first proposed method, based on the scheme of Jacobs [Phys. Rev. A 67, 030301(R) (2003)] uses the measurement results to control bias (z) pulses so as to rotate the Bloch vector onto the x-axis of the Bloch sphere. The second proposed method, based on the scheme of Wiseman and Ralph [New J. Phys. 8, 90 (2006)] uses a simple feedback protocol which tightly rotates the Bloch vector about an axis almost parallel with the measurement axis. We compare the performance of these and other techniques by a number of different measures.

id: quant-ph/0610045
title: Superposition of coherent states prepared in one mode of a dissipative bimodal cavity
authors: Iara P. de Queiros, W. B. Cardoso, N. G. de Almeida
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, submitted to J. Phys. B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 40 (2007) 21-27
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610045
abstract: We solve the problem of the temporal evolution of one of two-modes embedded in a same dissipative environment and investigate the role of the losses after the preparation of a coherent state in only one of the two modes. Based on current cavity QED technology, we present a calculation of the fidelity of a superposition of coherent states engineered in a bimodal high-Q cavity. Our calculation demonstrates that the engineered superposition retains coherence for large times when the mean photon number of the prepared mode is on the order of unity.

id: quant-ph/0610046
title: Stochastic Models of Quantum Mechanics - A Perspective
authors: Mark P. Davidson
comments: 15 pages. To appear in Proceedings of Foundations of Probability and Physics, held at Vaxjo University, Sweden, June 4-9, 2006. Published by the American Institute of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610046
abstract: A subjective survey of stochastic models of quantum mechanics is given along with a discussion of some key radiative processes, the clues they offer, and the difficulties they pose for this program. An electromagnetic basis for deriving quantum mechanics is advocated, and various possibilities are considered. It is argued that only non-local or non-causal theories are likely to be a successful basis for such a derivation.

id: quant-ph/0610047
title: Unsolvability of the Halting Problem in Quantum Dynamics
authors: Daegene Song
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 47, 1785 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610047
abstract: It is shown that the halting problem cannot be solved consistently in both the Schrodinger and Heisenberg pictures of quantum dynamics. The existence of the halting machine, which is assumed from quantum theory, leads into a contradiction when we consider the case when the observer's reference frame is the system that is to be evolved in both pictures. We then show that in order to include the evolution of observer's reference frame in a physically sensible way, the Heisenberg picture with time going backwards yields a correct description.

id: quant-ph/0610048
title: Key distillation from quantum channels using two-way communication protocols
authors: Joonwoo Bae, Antonio Acin
comments: 21 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012334 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610048
abstract: We provide a general formalism to characterize the cryptographic properties of quantum channels in the realistic scenario where the two honest parties employ prepare and measure protocols and the known two-way communication reconciliation techniques. We obtain a necessary and sufficient condition to distill a secret key using this type of schemes for Pauli qubit channels and generalized Pauli channels in higher dimension. Our results can be applied to standard protocols such as BB84 or six-state, giving a critical error rate of 20% and 27.6%, respectively. We explore several possibilities to enlarge these bounds, without any improvement. These results suggest that there may exist weakly entangling channels useless for key distribution using prepare and measure schemes.

id: quant-ph/0610049
title: Coding Theorem for a Class of Quantum Channels with Long-Term Memory
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Tony Dorlas
comments: Some typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610049
abstract: In this paper we consider the transmission of classical information through a class of quantum channels with long-term memory, which are given by convex combinations of product channels. Hence, the memory of such channels is given by a Markov chain which is aperiodic but not irreducible. We prove the coding theorem and weak converse for this class of channels. The main techniques that we employ, are a quantum version of Feinstein's Fundamental Lemma and a generalization of Helstrom's Theorem.

id: quant-ph/0610050
title: Teleportation of two-particle entangled state via cluster state
authors: Da-Chuang Li, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: six pages, no figure
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 47, 464 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610050
abstract: We present two schemes for teleporting an unknown two-particle entangled state from a sender (Alice) to a receiver (Bob) via a four-particle entangled cluster state. As it is shown, the unknown two-particle entangled state can be teleported perfectly, and the successful possibilities and fidelities of the two schemes both reach unit.

id: quant-ph/0610051
title: A new link between Boson and Fermion algebras: an alternative to supersymmetry
authors: Philip Davies
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610051
abstract: In this paper we describe a new family of algebras which in the case of n = 2 reduces to the Fermion algebra and in the limiting case of n tends to infinity reduces to the Boson algebra. These generalized algebras describe particles which obey a generalized exclusion principle, limiting state occupation to (n-1) and obeying a generalized particle statistics.

id: quant-ph/0610052
title: What are Quantum Fluctuations? Round Table of the Third Conference on Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations
authors: Andrei Khrennikov, Guillaume Adenier, Theo M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: Proceedings of Conference Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations-3, American Institute of Physics, Ser. Conference Proceedings, Melville, NY, 2006, vol. 810
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610052
abstract: This is a transcript of the round table that took place during the conference Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations - 3, June 2005, Vaxjo, Sweden. There are presented opinions of leading experts in quantum foundations on such fundamental problems as the origin of quantum fluctuations and completeness of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0610053
title: Features of Magneto-Optical Resonances in an Elliptically Polarized Traveling Light Wave
authors: D.V. Brazhnikov, A.V. Taichenachev, A.M. Tumaikin, V.I. Yudin, S.A. Zibrov, Ya.O. Dudin, V.V. Vasil'ev, V.L. Velichansky
comments: 5 pages
journal: D.V. Brazhnikov, A.V. Taichenachev, A.M. Tumaikin, V.I. Yudin, S.A. Zibrov, Ya.O. Dudin, V.V. Vasil'ev, V.L. Velichansky, JETP Lett. 83(2), 64-68 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610053
abstract: The parameters of nonlinear absorption magneto-optical resonances in the Hanle configuration have been studied as functions of the ellipticity of a traveling light wave. It has been found that these parameters (amplitude, width, and amplitude-to-width ratio) depend strongly on the polarization of the light wave. In particular, the resonance amplitude can increase by more than an order of magnitude when the polarization changes from linear to optimal elliptic. It has been shown that this effect is associated with the Doppler frequency shift for atoms in a gas. The theoretical results have been corroborated in experiments in Rb vapor.

id: quant-ph/0610054
title: Effect of Atomic Coherence on Absorption in Four-level Systems: an Analytical study
authors: S N Sandhya
comments: 15 pages 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610054
abstract: Absorption profile of a four-level ladder atomic system interacting with three driving fields is studied perturbatively and analytical results are presented. Numerical results where the driving field strengths are treated upto all orders are presented. The absorption features is studied in two regimes, i) the weak middle transition coupling, i.e. $\Omega_2 << \Omega_{1,3}$ and ii) the strong middle transition coupling $\Omega_2 >>\Omega_{1,3}$. In case i), it is shown that the ground state absorption and the saturation characteristics of the population of level 2 reveal deviation due to the presence of upper level couplings. In particular, the saturation curve for the population of level 2 shows a dip for $\Omega_1 = \Omega_3$. While the populations of levels 3 and 4 show a maxima when this resonance condition is satisfied. Thus the resonance condition provides a criterion for maximally populating the upper levels. A second order perturbation calculation reveals the nature of this minima (maxima). In the second case, I report two important features: a) Filtering of the Aulter-Townes doublet in the three-peak absorption profile of the ground state, which is achieved by detuning only the upper most coupling field, and b) control of line-width by controlling the strength of the upper coupling fields. This filtering technique coupled with the control of linewidth could prove to be very useful for high resolution studies.

id: quant-ph/0610055
title: Entanglement localization by a single defect in a spin chain
authors: Tony J. G. Apollaro, Francesco Plastina
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062316 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610055
abstract: We discuss the effect of a single diagonal defect on both the static and dynamical properties of entanglement in a spin chain. We show that entanglement localizes at the defect and discuss its localization length, arguing that this can be used as a mean to store entanglement. We also show that the impurity site can behave as an entanglement mirror and characterize the bouncing process in terms of reflection and transmission coefficients.

id: quant-ph/0610056
title: Adiabatic Elimination in a Lambda System
authors: E. Brion, L.H. Pedersen, K. Molmer
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610056
abstract: This paper deals with different ways to extract the effective two-dimensional lower level dynamics of a lambda system excited by off-resonant laser beams. We present a commonly used procedure for elimination of the upper level, and we show that it may lead to ambiguous results. To overcome this problem and better understand the applicability conditions of this scheme, we review two rigorous methods which allow us both to derive an unambiguous effective two-level Hamiltonian of the system and to quantify the accuracy of the approximation achieved: the first one relies on the exact solution of the Schrodinger equation, while the second one resorts to the Green's function formalism and the Feshbach projection operator technique.

id: quant-ph/0610057
title: The Hatsopoulos-Gyftopoulos resolution of the Schroedinger-Park paradox about the concept of "state" in quantum statistical mechanics
authors: Gian Paolo Beretta
comments: RevTeX4, 7 pages, corrected a paragraph and added an example at page 3, to appear in Mod. Phys. Lett. A
journal: Modern Physics Letters A, Vol.21, pp.2799-2811 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610057
abstract: A seldom recognized fundamental difficulty undermines the concept of individual ``state'' in the present formulations of quantum statistical mechanics (and in its quantum information theory interpretation as well). The difficulty is an unavoidable consequence of an almost forgotten corollary proved by E. Schroedinger in 1936 and perused by J.L. Park, Am. J. Phys., Vol. 36, 211 (1968). To resolve it, we must either reject as unsound the concept of state, or else undertake a serious reformulation of quantum theory and the role of statistics. We restate the difficulty and discuss a possible resolution proposed in 1976 by G.N. Hatsopoulos and E.P. Gyftopoulos, Found. Phys., Vol. 6, 15, 127, 439, 561 (1976).

id: quant-ph/0610058
title: Optimal data processing for quantum measurements
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, revtex4. Updated figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 020403 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610058
abstract: We consider the general measurement scenario in which the ensemble average of an operator is determined via suitable data-processing of the outcomes of a quantum measurement described by a POVM. We determine the optimal processing that minimizes the statistical error of the estimation.

id: quant-ph/0610059
title: Robust CNOT gates from almost any interaction
authors: Charles Hill
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610059
abstract: There are many cases where the interaction between two qubits is not precisely known, but single qubit operations are available. In this paper we show how, regardless of an incomplete knowledge of the strength or form of the interaction between two qubits, it is often possible to construct a CNOT gate which has arbitrarily high fidelity. In particular, we show that oscillations in the strength of the exchange interaction in solid state Si and Ge structures are correctable.

id: quant-ph/0610060
title: Parameter estimation of quantum channels
authors: Zhengfeng Ji, Guoming Wang, Runyao Duan, Yuan Feng, Mingsheng Ying
comments: Final Version
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, Vol. 54, No. 11, 5172-5185, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610060
abstract: The efficiency of parameter estimation of quantum channels is studied in this paper. We introduce the concept of programmable parameters to the theory of estimation. It is found that programmable parameters obey the standard quantum limit strictly; hence no speedup is possible in its estimation. We also construct a class of non-unitary quantum channels whose parameter can be estimated in a way that the standard quantum limit is broken. The study of estimation of general quantum channels also enables an investigation of the effect of noises on quantum estimation.

id: quant-ph/0610061
title: Which Quantum Evolutions Can Be Reversed by Local Unitary Operations? Algebraic Classification and Gradient-Flow-Based Numerical Checks
authors: T. Schulte-Herbrueggen, A. Spoerl
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures; comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610061
abstract: Generalising in the sense of Hahn's spin echo, we completely characterise those unitary propagators of effective multi-qubit interactions that can be inverted solely by {\em local} unitary operations on $n$ qubits (spins-$\tfrac{1}{2}$). The subset of $U\in \mathbf{SU}(2^n)$ satisfying $U^{-1}=K_1 U K_2$ with pairs of local unitaries $K_1, K_2\in\mathbf{SU}(2)^{\otimes n}$ comprises two classes: in type-I, $K_1$ and $K_2$ are inverse to one another, while in type-II they are not. {Type-I} consists of one-parameter groups that can jointly be inverted for all times $t\in\R{}$ because their Hamiltonian generators satisfy $K H K^{-1} = \Ad K (H) = -H$. As all the Hamiltonians generating locally invertible unitaries of type-I are spanned by the eigenspace associated to the eigenvalue -1 of the {\em local} conjugation map $\Ad K$, this eigenspace can be given in closed algebraic form. The relation to the root space decomposition of $\mathfrak{sl}(N,\C{})$ is pointed out. Special cases of type-I invertible Hamiltonians are of $p$-quantum order and are analysed by the transformation properties of spherical tensors of order $p$. Effective multi-qubit interaction Hamiltonians are characterised via the graphs of their coupling topology. {Type-II} consists of pointwise locally invertible propagators, part of which can be classified according to the symmetries of their matrix representations. Moreover, we show gradient flows for numerically solving the decision problem whether a propagator is type-I or type-II invertible or not by driving the least-squares distance $\norm{K_1 e^{-itH} K_2 - e^{+itH}}^2_2$ to zero.

id: quant-ph/0610062
title: Direct Production of Tripartite Pump-Signal-Idler Entanglement in the Above-Threshold Optical Parametric Oscillator
authors: A. S. Villar, M. Martinelli, C. Fabre, P. Nussenzveig
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys Rev Lett 97,140504 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610062
abstract: We calculate the quantum correlations existing among the three output fields (pump, signal, and idler) of a triply resonant non-degenerate Optical Parametric Oscillator operating above threshold. By applying the standard criteria [P. van Loock and A. Furusawa, Phys. Rev. A 67, 052315 (2003)], we show that strong tripartite continuous-variable entanglement is present in this well-known and simple system. Furthermore, since the entanglement is generated directly from a nonlinear process, the three entangled fields can have very different frequencies, opening the way for multicolored quantum information networks.

id: quant-ph/0610063
title: Subsystem fault tolerance with the Bacon-Shor code
authors: Panos Aliferis, Andrew W. Cross
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. v3: small revisions, appendix moved to chapter 5 in quant-ph/0703230
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 (2007) 220502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610063
abstract: We discuss how the presence of gauge sub-systems in the Bacon-Shor code [D. Bacon, Phys. Rev. A 73, 012340 (2006)] leads to remarkably simple and efficient methods for fault-tolerant error correction (FTEC). Most notably, FTEC does not require entangled ancillary states and it can be implemented with nearest-neighbor two-qubit measurements. By using these methods, we prove a lower bound on the quantum accuracy threshold, 1.94 \times 10^{-4} for adversarial stochastic noise, that improves previous lower bounds by nearly an order of magnitude.

id: quant-ph/0610064
title: Measuring the quantum statistics of an atom laser beam
authors: A. S. Bradley, M. K. Olsen, S. A. Haine, J. J. Hope
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 033603 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610064
abstract: We propose and analyse a scheme for measuring the quadrature statistics of an atom laser beam using extant optical homodyning and Raman atom laser techniques. Reversal of the normal Raman atom laser outcoupling scheme is used to map the quantum statistics of an incoupled beam to an optical probe beam. A multimode model of the spatial propagation dynamics shows that the Raman incoupler gives a clear signal of de Broglie wave quadrature squeezing for both pulsed and continuous inputs. Finally, we show that experimental realisations of the scheme may be tested with existing methods via measurements of Glauber's intensity correlation function.

id: quant-ph/0610065
title: Photon correlation vs interference of single-atom fluorescence in a half-cavity
authors: Francois Dubin, Daniel Rotter, Manas Mukherjee, Carlos Russo, Juergen Eschner, Rainer Blatt
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610065
abstract: Photon correlations are investigated for a single laser-excited ion trapped in front of a mirror. Varying the relative distance between the ion and the mirror, photon correlation statistics can be tuned smoothly from an antibunching minimum to a bunching-like maximum. Our analysis concerns the non-Markovian regime of the ion-mirror interaction and reveals the field establishment in a half-cavity interferometer.

id: quant-ph/0610066
title: A priori Knowledge and the Kochen-Specker Theorem
authors: Olivier Brunet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610066
abstract: We introduce and formalize a notion of "a priori knowledge" about a quantum system, and show some properties about this form of knowledge. Finally, we show that the Kochen-Specker theorem follows directly from this study. This version is a draft version, the bibliography in particular is extremely scarce. Comments welcome.

id: quant-ph/0610067
title: Optical excitation spectrum of an atom in a surface-induced potential
authors: Fam Le Kien, S. Dutta Gupta, K. Hakuta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610067
abstract: We study the optical excitation spectrum of an atom in the vicinity of a dielectric surface. We calculate the rates of the total scattering and the scattering into the evanescent modes. With a proper assessment of the limitations, we demonstrate the portability of the flat-surface results to an experimental situation with a nanofiber. The effect of the surface-induced potential on the excitation spectrum for free-to-bound transitions is shown to be weak. On the contrary, the effect for bound-to-bound transitions is significant leading to a large excitation linewidth, a substantial negative shift of the peak position, and a strong long tail on the negative side and a small short tail on the positive side of the field--atom frequency detuning.

id: quant-ph/0610068
title: Spontaneous radiative decay of translational levels of an atom near a dielectric surface
authors: Fam Le Kien, K. Hakuta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610068
abstract: We study spontaneous radiative decay of translational levels of an atom in the vicinity of a semi-infinite dielectric. We systematically derive the microscopic dynamical equations for the spontaneous decay process. We calculate analytically and numerically the radiative linewidths and the spontaneous transition rates for the translational levels. The roles of the interference between the emitted and reflected fields and of the transmission into the evanescent modes are clearly identified. Our numerical calculations for the silica--cesium interaction show that the radiative linewidths of the bound excited levels with large enough but not too large vibrational quantum numbers are moderately enhanced by the emission into the evanescent modes and those for the deep bound levels are substantially reduced by the surface-induced red shift of the transition frequency.

id: quant-ph/0610069
title: Bell Inequalities Classifying Bi-separable Three-qubit States
authors: Bao-Zhi Sun, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74(2006)032335
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610069
abstract: We present a set of Bell inequalities that gives rise to a finer classification of the entanglement for tripartite systems. These inequalities distinguish three possible bi-separable entanglements for three-qubit states. The three Bell operators we employed constitute an external sphere of the separable cube.

id: quant-ph/0610070
title: Simultaneous amplification and non-symmetric amplitude damping of two-mode Gaussian state
authors: Xiao-yu Chen, Li-zhen Jiang, Ji-wu Chen
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610070
abstract: The evolution of two-mode Gaussian state under symmetric amplification, non-symmetric damping and thermal noise is studied. The time dependent solution of the state characteristic function is obtained. The separability criterions are given for the final state of weak amplification as well as strong amplification.

id: quant-ph/0610071
title: Diffraction limited optics for single atom manipulation
authors: Y.R.P. Sortais, H. Marion, C. Tuchendler, A.M. Lance, M. Lamare, P. Fournet, C. Armellin, R. Mercier, G. Messin, A. Browaeys, P. Grangier
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures; typos corrected and references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 013406 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610071
abstract: We present an optical system designed to capture and observe a single neutral atom in an optical dipole trap, created by focussing a laser beam using a large numerical aperture N.A.=0.5 aspheric lens. We experimentally evaluate the performance of the optical system and show that it is diffraction limited over a broad spectral range (~ 200 nm) with a large transverse field (+/- 25 microns). The optical tweezer created at the focal point of the lens is able to trap single atoms of 87Rb and to detect them individually with a large collection efficiency. We measure the oscillation frequency of the atom in the dipole trap, and use this value as an independent determination of the waist of the optical tweezer. Finally, we produce with the same lens two dipole traps separated by 2.2 microns and show that the imaging system can resolve the two atoms.

id: quant-ph/0610072
title: Non-deterministic Two-Way Quantum Key Distribution using Coherent States
authors: Won-Ho Kye
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; Protocol and Figure 1 updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610072
abstract: We propose a non-deterministic two-way quantum key distribution in which the quantum correlation is established by transmitting the randomly polarized photon. We analyze the security of the proposed quantum key distribution against photon number splitting, impersonation, and Trojan horse attack and quantify the security bound against mean photon number of the coherent state pulse. Finally, we remark the characteristic features of the protocol.

id: quant-ph/0610073
title: Cavity enhanced light scattering in optical lattices to probe atomic quantum statistics
authors: Igor B. Mekhov, Christoph Maschler, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, to published in Phys. Rev. Lett. (March 2007)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 100402 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610073
abstract: Different quantum states of atoms in optical lattices can be nondestructively monitored by off-resonant collective light scattering into a cavity. Angle resolved measurements of photon number and variance give information about atom-number fluctuations and pair correlations without single-site access. Observation at angles of diffraction minima provides information on quantum fluctuations insensitive to classical noise. For transverse probing, no photon is scattered into a cavity from a Mott insulator phase, while the photon number is proportional to the atom number for a superfluid.

id: quant-ph/0610074
title: A Model for an Irreversible Bias Current in the Superconducting Qubit Measurement Process
authors: G. D. Hutchinson, C. A. Holmes, T. M. Stace, T. P. Spiller, G. J. Milburn, S. D. Barrett, D. G. Hasko, D. A. Williams
comments: 42 pages and 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610074
abstract: The superconducting charge-phase `Quantronium' qubit is considered in order to develop a model for the measurement process used in the experiment of Vion et. al. [Science 296 886 (2002)]. For this model we propose a method for including the bias current in the read-out process in a fundamentally irreversible way, which to first order, is approximated by the Josephson junction tilted-washboard potential phenomenology. The decohering bias current is introduced in the form of a Lindblad operator and the Wigner function for the current biased read-out Josephson junction is derived and analyzed. During the read-out current pulse used in the Quantronium experiment we find that the coherence of the qubit initially prepared in a symmetric superposition state is lost at a time of 0.2 nanoseconds after the bias current pulse has been applied. A timescale which is much shorter than the experimental readout time. Additionally we look at the effect of Johnson-Nyquist noise with zero mean from the current source during the qubit manipulation and show that the decoherence due to the irreversible bias current description is an order of magnitude smaller than that found through adding noise to the reversible tilted washboard potential model. Our irreversible bias current model is also applicable to the persistent current based qubits where the state is measured according to its flux via a small inductance direct current superconducting quantum interference device (DC-SQUID).

id: quant-ph/0610075
title: Quarkonium bound-state problem in momentum space revisited
authors: A. Deloff
comments: Elsevier, 16 pages, no figures
journal: AnnalsPhys.322:2315-2326,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610075
abstract: A semi-spectral Chebyshev method for solving numerically singular integral equations is presented and applied in the quarkonium bound-state problem in momentum space. The integrals containing both, logarithmic and Cauchy singular kernels, can be evaluated without subtractions by dedicated automatic quadratures. By introducing a Chebyshev mesh and using the Nystrom algorithm the singular integral equation is converted into an algebraic eigenvalue problem that can be solved by standard methods. The proposed scheme is very simple to use, is easy in programming and highly accurate.

id: quant-ph/0610076
title: From Objective Amplitudes to Bayesian Probabilities
authors: Ariel Caticha
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. Invited paper presented at the International Conference on Foundations of Probability and Physics - 4 (Vaxjo University, Sweden, 2006). The various versions reflect my attempts to include the figures in the main body of the paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610076
abstract: We review the Consistent Amplitude approach to Quantum Theory and argue that quantum probabilities are explicitly Bayesian. In this approach amplitudes are tools for inference. They codify objective information about how complicated experimental setups are put together from simpler ones. Thus, probabilities may be partially subjective but the amplitudes are not.

id: quant-ph/0610077
title: Displacement deformed quantum fields
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: Relies on quant-ph/0512190. 12 pages. 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610077
abstract: A displacement operator d_\zeta is introduced, verifying commutation relations [d_\zeta, a_f^\dagger]=[d_\zeta, a_f]=\zeta(f)d_\zeta with field creation and annihilation operators that verify [a_f,a_g]=0, [a_f,a_g^\dagger]=(g,f), as usual. f and g are test functions, \zeta is a Poincare invariant real-valued function on the test function space, and (g,f) is a Poincare invariant Hermitian inner product. The *-algebra generated by all these operators, and a state defined on it, nontrivially extends the *-algebra of creation and annihilation operators and its Fock space representation. If the usual requirement for linearity is weakened, as suggested in quant-ph/0512190, we obtain a deformation of the free quantum field.

id: quant-ph/0610078
title: Effective Quantum Dynamics of Interacting Systems with Inhomogeneous Coupling
authors: C.E. Lopez, H. Christ, J.C. Retamal, E. Solano
comments: 9 pages and 10 figures, new version, accepted in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 033818 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610078
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a single mode/particle interacting inhomogeneously with a large number of particles and introduce an effective approach to find the accessible Hilbert space where the dynamics takes place. Two relevant examples are given: the inhomogeneous Tavis-Cummings model (e.g., N atomic qubits coupled to a single cavity mode, or to a motional mode in trapped ions) and the inhomogeneous coupling of an electron spin to N nuclear spins in a quantum dot.

id: quant-ph/0610079
title: Generalized Heisenberg relation and Quantum Harmonic Oscillators
authors: P. Narayana Swamy
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610079
abstract: We study the consequences of the generalized Heisenberg uncertainty relation which admits a minimal uncertainty in length such as the case in a theory of quantum gravity. In particular, the theory of quantum harmonic oscillators arising from such a generalized uncertainty relation is examined. We demonstrate that all the standard properties of the quantum harmonic oscillators prevail when we employ a generalized momentum. We also show that quantum electrodynamics and coherent photon states can be described in the familiar standard manner despite the generalized uncertainty principle.

id: quant-ph/0610080
title: Fuzzy spheres from inequivalent coherent states quantizations
authors: Jean-Pierre Gazeau, Eric Huguet, Marc Lachi¨¨ze-Rey, Jacques Renaud
comments: 20 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 40 (2007) 10225-10249
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610080
abstract: We present a new procedure which allows a coherent state (CS) quantization of any set with a measure. It is manifest through the replacement of classical observables by CS quantum observables, which acts on a Hilbert space of prescribed dimension $N$. The algebra of CS quantum observables has the finite dimension $N^2$. The application to the 2-sphere provides a family of inequivalent CS quantizations, based on the spin spherical harmonics (the CS quantization from usual spherical harmonics appears to give a trivial issue for the cartesian coordinates). We compare these CS quantizations to the usual (Madore) construction of the fuzzy sphere. The difference allows us to consider our procedures as the constructions of new type of fuzzy spheres. The very general character of our method suggests applications to construct fuzzy versions of a variety of sets.

id: quant-ph/0610081
title: Teleporting a qubit a la Everett
authors: George Svetlichny
comments: 3 new references and related remarks. 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610081
abstract: If both Alice and Bob have access to a two-qubit "background state" then, by simulating Everett's many worlds interpretation of measurement, Alice can teleport a qubit to Bob, each using fixed unitaries. The Everett picture unifies unitaries, measurements, and classical communication into just unitaries, provided there are background states shared by all parties. We review some of the literature on this theme and point out an additional fact: If Bob has access to only one of the background qubits, teleportation is still possible by Alice sending Bob one classical bit of information gained from a measurement of the other qubit.

id: quant-ph/0610082
title: Fault-tolerant quantum computation with high threshold in two dimensions
authors: Robert Raussendorf, Jim Harrington
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; v2: A single 2D layer of qubits (simple square lattice) with nearest-neighbor translation-invariant Ising interaction suffices. Slightly improved threshold
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 190504 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610082
abstract: We present a scheme of fault-tolerant quantum computation for a local architecture in two spatial dimensions. The error threshold is 0.75% for each source in an error model with preparation, gate, storage and measurement errors.

id: quant-ph/0610083
title: The readout of the fullerene-based quantum computing by a scanning tunneling microscope
authors: M. Feng, G.J. Dong, B. Hu
comments: RevTex file, 3 figures. To appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610083
abstract: We consider to detect the electron spin of a doped atom, i.e., a nitrogen or a phosphorus, caged in a fullerene by currently available technique of the scanning tunneling microscope (STM), which actually corresponds to the readout of a qubit in the fullerene-based quantum computing. Under the conditions of polarized STM current and Coulomb blockade, we investigate the tunneling matrix elements involving the exchange coupling between the tunneling polarized electrons and the encapsulated polarized electron, and calculate the variation of the tunneling current with respect to different orientations of the encapsulated electron spin. The experimental feasibility of our scheme is discussed under the consideration of some imperfect factors.

id: quant-ph/0610084
title: Nash equilibria in quantum games with generalized two-parameter strategies
authors: Adrian P. Flitney, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 19 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 363 (2007) 381-388
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610084
abstract: In the Eisert protocol for 2 X 2 quantum games [Phys. Rev. Lett. 83, 3077], a number of authors have investigated the features arising from making the strategic space a two-parameter subset of single qubit unitary operators. We argue that the new Nash equilibria and the classical-quantum transitions that occur are simply an artifact of the particular strategy space chosen. By choosing a different, but equally plausible, two-parameter strategic space we show that different Nash equilibria with different classical-quantum transitions can arise. We generalize the two-parameter strategies and also consider these strategies in a multiplayer setting.

id: quant-ph/0610085
title: A lower bound on entanglement-assisted quantum communication complexity
authors: Ashley Montanaro, Andreas Winter
comments: 10 pages; v2 adds references and fixes typos
journal: In Proc. ICALP'07, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610085
abstract: We prove a general lower bound on the bounded-error entanglement-assisted quantum communication complexity of Boolean functions. The bound is based on the concept that any classical or quantum protocol to evaluate a function on distributed inputs can be turned into a quantum communication protocol. As an application of this bound, we give a very simple proof of the statement that almost all Boolean functions on n+n bits have linear communication complexity, even in the presence of unlimited entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0610086
title: Generalized Bell inequality for mixed states with variable constraints
authors: Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song
comments: 5 pages and 3 figures, Comments and suggestion are expected and welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610086
abstract: In this paper, we present a generalized Bell inequality for mixed states. The distinct characteristic is that the inequality has variable bound depending on the decomposition of the density matrix. The inequality has been shown to be more refined than the previous Bell inequality. It is possible that a separable mixed state can violate the Bell inequality.

id: quant-ph/0610087
title: Controlled Single-Photon Emission from a Single Trapped Two-Level Atom
authors: Benoit Darqui¨¦, Matthew Jones, Jos Dingjan, Jerome Beugnon, Silvia Bergamini, Yvan Sortais, Gaetan Messin, Antoine Browaeys, Philippe Grangier
comments: 
journal: Science 309 (2005) 454
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610087
abstract: By illuminating an individual rubidium atom stored in a tight optical tweezer with short resonant light pulses, we create an efficient triggered source of single photons with a well-defined polarization. The measured intensity correlation of the emitted light pulses exhibits almost perfect antibunching. Such a source of high rate, fully controlled single photon pulses has many potential applications for quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0610088
title: Quantum Error Correcting Subsystem Codes From Two Classical Linear Codes
authors: Dave Bacon, Andrea Casaccino
comments: 8 pages, Allerton 2006 conference. Last name fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610088
abstract: The essential insight of quantum error correction was that quantum information can be protected by suitably encoding this quantum information across multiple independently erred quantum systems. Recently it was realized that, since the most general method for encoding quantum information is to encode it into a subsystem, there exists a novel form of quantum error correction beyond the traditional quantum error correcting subspace codes. These new quantum error correcting subsystem codes differ from subspace codes in that their quantum correcting routines can be considerably simpler than related subspace codes. Here we present a class of quantum error correcting subsystem codes constructed from two classical linear codes. These codes are the subsystem versions of the quantum error correcting subspace codes which are generalizations of Shor's original quantum error correcting subspace codes. For every Shor-type code, the codes we present give a considerable savings in the number of stabilizer measurements needed in their error recovery routines.

id: quant-ph/0610089
title: Possible considerations to teleport fermionic particles via studying on teleportation of two-particle state with a four fermionic-particle pure entangled state
authors: Shilan Savan, Mehrdad Ghominejad
comments: 4 pages, poster presented at IPM-LHP06, Tehran, Iran; PSN: IPM-LHP06-19May
journal: ECONFC0605151:0027,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610089
abstract: In this paper we have firstly recapped some evolutionary debates on conceptual quantum information matters, followed by an experiment done by Lamei-Rashti and his collaborator, by which the bell inequality on p-p scattering is violated. We then, by using the goal of his experiment, thought to arrange POVM formalism for a possible teleportation of two particle states, via nuclear magnetic spin of four entangled hydrogen like atoms.

id: quant-ph/0610090
title: Teleportation fidelities of squeezed states from thermodynamical state space measures
authors: Alessio Serafini, Oscar C.O. Dahlsten, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages + 1 figure (not included in journal version)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 170501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610090
abstract: We introduce a "microcanonical" measure (complying with the "general canonical principle") over the second moments of pure bosonic Gaussian states under an energy constraint. We determine the average fidelity for the teleportation of states distributed according to such a measure and compare it to a threshold obtained from a feasible classical strategy. Furthermore, we show that, under the proposed measure, the distribution of the entanglement concentrates around a finite value at the thermodynamical limit and, in general, the typical entanglement of Gaussian states with maximal energy E is not close to the maximum allowed by E.

id: quant-ph/0610091
title: Quantum-classical transition for an analog of double-slit experiment in complex collisions: Dynamical decoherence in quantum many-body systems
authors: L. Benet, L. T. Chadderton, S. Yu. Kun, Wang Qi
comments: 5 pages, 2 ps color figures. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75 (2007), 062110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610091
abstract: We study coherent superpositions of clockwise and anti-clockwise rotating intermediate complexes with overlapping resonances formed in bimolecular chemical reactions. Disintegration of such complexes represents an analog of famous double-slit experiment. The time for disappearance of the interference fringes is estimated from heuristic arguments related to fingerprints of chaotic dynamics of a classical counterpart of the coherently rotating complex. Validity of this estimate is confirmed numerically for the H+D$_2$ chemical reaction. Thus we demonstrate the quantum--classical transition in temporal behavior of highly excited quantum many-body systems in the absence of external noise and coupling to an environment.

id: quant-ph/0610092
title: Correcting Quantum Errors with Entanglement
authors: Todd Brun, Igor Devetak, Min-Hsiu Hsieh
comments: 17 pages, no figure. To appear in Science
journal: Science 314, 436-439 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610092
abstract: We show how entanglement shared between encoder and decoder can simplify the theory of quantum error correction. The entanglement-assisted quantum codes we describe do not require the dual-containing constraint necessary for standard quantum error correcting codes, thus allowing us to ``quantize'' all of classical linear coding theory. In particular, efficient modern classical codes that attain the Shannon capacity can be made into entanglement-assisted quantum codes attaining the hashing bound (closely related to the quantum capacity). For systems without large amounts of shared entanglement, these codes can also be used as catalytic codes, in which a small amount of initial entanglement enables quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0610093
title: A Model for Non-Linear Quantum Evolution based on Time Displaced Entanglement
authors: T.C.Ralph
comments: 
journal: Proc. SPIE 6305, 63050P (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610093
abstract: We discuss a model for non-linear quantum evolution based on the idea of time displaced entanglement, produced by taking one member of an entangled pair on a round trip at relativistic speeds, thus inducing a time-shift between the pair. We show that decoherence of the entangled pair is predicted. For non-maximal entanglement this then implies the ability to induce a non-unitary, non-linear quantum evolution. Although exhibiting unusual characteristics, we show that these evolutions cannot be dismissed on the basis of entropic or causal arguments.

id: quant-ph/0610094
title: Demonstration of optically modulated dispersion forces
authors: F. Chen, G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, opex3.sty is used, text has been made in accordance with the final version to appear in Optics express, 3 misprints are corrected
journal: Optics Express, vol.15, No.8, p.4823-4829 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610094
abstract: We report the first experiment on the optical modulation of dispersion forces through a change of the carrier density in a Si membrane. For this purpose a high-vacuum based atomic force microscope and excitation light pulses from an Ar laser are used. The experimental results are compared with two theoretical models. The modulation of the dispersion force will find applications in optomechanical micromachines.

id: quant-ph/0610095
title: Comment on `Spin Decoherence in Superconducting Atom Chips'
authors: Stefan Scheel, E. A. Hinds, P. L. Knight
comments: 1 page comment
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610095
abstract: We comment on a recent paper [Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 070401 (2006): quant-ph/0603229] concerning rubidium atoms trapped near a superconducting niobium surface at ~4K. This seeks to calculate the rate of atomic spin flips induced by thermal magnetic noise. We point out that the calculation is in error by a large factor because it is based on the two-fluid model of superconductivity. This model gives a poor description of electromagnetic dissipation just below the critical temperature because it cannot incorporate the case II coherences of a fuller quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0610096
title: Quantum key distribution network with wavelength addressing
authors: Xiao-Fan Mo, Tao Zhang, Fang-Xing Xu, Zheng-Fu Han, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610096
abstract: Most traditional applications of quantum cryptography are point-to-point communications, in which only two users can exchange keys. In this letter, we present a network scheme that enable quantum key distribution between multi-user with wavelength addressing. Considering the current state of wavelength division multiplexing technique, dozens or hundreds of users can be connected to such a network and directly exchange keys with each other. With the scheme, a 4-user demonstration network was built up and key exchanges were performed.

id: quant-ph/0610097
title: No quantum advantage for nonlocal computation
authors: Noah Linden, Sandu Popescu, Anthony J. Short, Andreas Winter
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610097
abstract: We investigate the problem of "nonlocal" computation, in which separated parties must compute a function with nonlocally encoded inputs and output, such that each party individually learns nothing, yet together they compute the correct function output. We show that the best that can be done classically is a trivial linear approximation. Surprisingly, we also show that quantum entanglement provides no advantage over the classical case. On the other hand, generalized (i.e. super-quantum) nonlocal correlations allow perfect nonlocal computation. This gives new insights into the nature of quantum nonlocality and its relationship to generalised nonlocal correlations.

id: quant-ph/0610098
title: On strong superadditivity for a class of quantum channels
authors: Grigori Amosov
comments: revtex, 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610098
abstract: Given a quantum channel $\Phi $ in a Hilbert space $H$ put $\hat H_{\Phi}(\rho)=\min \limits_{\rho_{av}=\rho}\Sigma_{j=1}^{k}\pi_{j}S(\Phi (\rho_{j}))$, where $\rho_{av}=\Sigma_{j=1}^{k}\pi_{j}\rho_{j}$, the minimum is taken over all probability distributions $\pi =\{\pi_{j}\}$ and states $\rho_{j}$ in $H$, $S(\rho)=-Tr\rho\log\rho$ is the von Neumann entropy of a state $\rho$. The strong superadditivity conjecture states that $\hat H_{\Phi \otimes \Psi}(\rho)\ge \hat H_{\Phi}(Tr_{K}(\rho))+\hat H_{\Psi}(Tr_{H}(\rho))$ for two channels $\Phi $ and $\Psi $ in Hilbert spaces $H$ and $K$, respectively. We have proved the strong superadditivity conjecture for the quantum depolarizing channel in prime dimensions. The estimation of the quantity $\hat H_{\Phi\otimes \Psi}(\rho)$ for the special class of Weyl channels $\Phi $ of the form $\Phi=\Xi \circ \Phi_{dep}$, where $\Phi_{dep}$ is the quantum depolarizing channel and $\Xi $ is the phase damping is given.

id: quant-ph/0610099
title: A class of quantum many-body states that can be efficiently simulated
authors: G. Vidal
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 110501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610099
abstract: We introduce the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA), an efficient representation of certain quantum many-body states on a D-dimensional lattice. Equivalent to a quantum circuit with logarithmic depth and distinctive causal structure, the MERA allows for an exact evaluation of local expectation values. It is also the structure underlying entanglement renormalization, a coarse-graining scheme for quantum systems on a lattice that is focused on preserving entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0610100
title: A special simplex in the state space for entangled qudits
authors: Bernhard Baumgartner, Beatrix Hiesmayr, Heide Narnhofer
comments: 24 pages, in connection with the Workshop 'Theory and Technology in Quantum Information, Communication, Computation and Cryptography' June 2006, Trieste; summary and outlook added, minor changes in notation
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 7919-7938
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610100
abstract: Focus is on two parties with Hilbert spaces of dimension d, i.e. "qudits". In the state space of these two possibly entangled qudits an analogue to the well known tetrahedron with the four qubit Bell states at the vertices is presented. The simplex analogue to this magic tetrahedron includes mixed states. Each of these states appears to each of the two parties as the maximally mixed state. Some studies on these states are performed, and special elements of this set are identified. A large number of them is included in the chosen simplex which fits exactly into conditions needed for teleportation and other applications. Its rich symmetry - related to that of a classical phase space - helps to study entanglement, to construct witnesses and perform partial transpositions. This simplex has been explored in details for d=3. In this paper the mathematical background and extensions to arbitrary dimensions are analysed.

id: quant-ph/0610101
title: Two-photon interference with two independent pseudo-thermal sources
authors: Yan-Hua Zhai, Xi-Hao Chen, Ling-An Wu
comments: Phys. Rev. A 74, 053807 (2006)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610101
abstract: The nature of two-photon interference is a subject that has aroused renewed interest in recent years and is still under debate. In this paper we report the first observation of two-photon interference with independent pseudo-thermal sources in which sub-wavelength interference is observed. The phenomenon may be described in terms of the classical statistical distribution of the two sources and their optical transfer functions.

id: quant-ph/0610102
title: Time-dependent Fr?hlich transformation approach for two-atom entanglement generated by successive passage through a cavity
authors: Yong Li, C. Bruder, C. P. Sun
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032302 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610102
abstract: Time-dependent Fr\"ohlich transformations can be used to derive an effective Hamiltonian for a class of quantum systems with time-dependent perturbations. We use such a transformation for a system with time-dependent atom-photon coupling induced by the classical motion of two atoms in an inhomogeneous electromagnetic field. We calculate the entanglement between the two atoms resulting from their motion through a cavity as a function of their initial position difference and velocity.

id: quant-ph/0610103
title: Enhancement of entanglement transfer in a spin chain by phase shift-control
authors: K. Maruyama, T. Iitaka, F. Nori
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. v2: a fig added, the main text modified a bit
journal: PRA75, 012325(2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610103
abstract: We study the effect of a phase shift on the amount of transferrable two-spin entanglement in a spin chain. We consider a ferromagnetic Heisenberg/XY spin chain, both numerically and analytically, and two mechanisms to generate a phase shift, the Aharonov-Casher effect and the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction. In both cases, the maximum attainable entanglement is shown to be significantly enhanced, suggesting its potential usefulness in quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0610104
title: The role of degeneracy in the analogy between continuous variable and spin 1/2 systems
authors: J.L. Lucio M.
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610104
abstract: We point out limitations to the analogy between the continuous variable and spin 1/2 systems and show that the maximal violation of Bell inequality is related to an infinite degeneracy. We quantify non-maximal violation of the Bell-CHSH inequality and comment potential experimental implications of our work.

id: quant-ph/0610105
title: Evolving Quantum Oracles with Hybrid Quantum-inspired Evolutionary Algorithm
authors: Shengchao Ding, Zhi Jin, Qing Yang
comments: 8.4 pages, 5 figures and 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610105
abstract: Quantum oracles play key roles in the studies of quantum computation and quantum information. But implementing quantum oracles efficiently with universal quantum gates is a hard work. Motivated by genetic programming, this paper proposes a novel approach to evolve quantum oracles with a hybrid quantum-inspired evolutionary algorithm. The approach codes quantum circuits with numerical values and combines the cost and correctness of quantum circuits into the fitness function. To speed up the calculation of matrix multiplication in the evaluation of individuals, a fast algorithm of matrix multiplication with Kronecker product is also presented. The experiments show the validity and the effects of some parameters of the presented approach. And some characteristics of the novel approach are discussed too.

id: quant-ph/0610106
title: Semi-classical theory of quiet lasers. I: Principles
authors: Jacques Arnaud, Laurent Chusseau, Fabrice Philippe
comments: 116 pages Second draft of a book project. To be completed by a part II incuding extended details on application of the theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610106
abstract: When light originating from a laser diode driven by non-fluctuating electrical currents is incident on a photo-detector, the photo-current does not fluctuate much. Precisely, this means that the variance of the number of photo-electrons counted over a large time interval is much smaller that the average number of photo-electrons. At non-zero Fourier frequency $\Omega$ the photo-current power spectrum is of the form $\Omega^2/(1+\Omega^2)$ and thus vanishes as $\Omega\to 0$, a conclusion equivalent to the one given above. The purpose of this paper is to show that results such as the one just cited may be derived from a (semi-classical) theory in which neither the optical field nor the electron wave-function are quantized. We first observe that almost any medium may be described by a circuit and distinguish (possibly non-linear) conservative elements such as pure capacitances, and conductances that represent the atom-field coupling. The theory rests on the non-relativistic approximation. Nyquist noise sources (in which the Planck term $\hbar\omega/2$ is being restored) are associated with positive or negative conductances, and the law of average-energy conservation is enforced. We consider mainly second-order correlations in stationary linearized regimes.

id: quant-ph/0610107
title: Non-destructive interferometric characterization of an optical dipole trap
authors: Plamen G. Petrov, Daniel Oblak, Carlos L. Garrido Alzar, Niels Kjaergaard, Eugene S. Polzik
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 75, 033803, (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610107
abstract: A method for non-destructive characterization of a dipole trapped atomic sample is presented. It relies on a measurement of the phase-shift imposed by cold atoms on an optical pulse that propagates through a free space Mach-Zehnder interferometer. Using this technique we are able to determine, with very good accuracy, relevant trap parameters such as the atomic sample temperature, trap oscillation frequencies and loss rates. Another important feature is that our method is faster than conventional absorption or fluorescence techniques, allowing the combination of high-dynamical range measurements and a reduced number of spontaneous emission events per atom.

id: quant-ph/0610108
title: Characterizing and measuring multipartite Entanglement
authors: P. Facchi, G. Florio, S. Pascazio
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. Submitted to "International Journal of Quantum Information"
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 5, Nos. 1-2, 97-103 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610108
abstract: A method is proposed to characterize and quantify multipartite entanglement in terms of the probability density function of bipartite entanglement over all possible balanced bipartitions of an ensemble of qubits. The method is tested on a class of random pure states.

id: quant-ph/0610109
title: Quantum Kolmogorov complexity and its applications
authors: C. Mora, H. Briegel, B. Kraus
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610109
abstract: Kolmogorov complexity is a measure of the information contained in a binary string. We investigate here the notion of quantum Kolmogorov complexity, a measure of the information required to describe a quantum state. We show that for any definition of quantum Kolmogorov complexity measuring the number of classical bits required to describe a pure quantum state, there exists a pure n-qubit state which requires exponentially many bits of description. This is shown by relating the classical communication complexity to the quantum Kolmogorov complexity. Furthermore we give some examples of how quantum Kolmogorov complexity can be applied to prove results in different fields, such as quantum computation and thermodynamics, and we generalize it to the case of mixed quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0610110
title: Observation of Faraday rotation from a single confined spin
authors: Mete Atature, Jan Dreiser, Antonio Badolato, Atac Imamoglu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610110
abstract: Ability to read-out the state of a single confined spin lies at the heart of solid-state quantum information processing. While all-optical spin measurements using Faraday rotation has been successfully implemented in ensembles of semiconductor spins, read-out of a single semiconductor spin has only been achieved using transport measurements based on spin-charge conversion. Here, we demonstrate an all-optical dispersive measurement of the spin-state of a single electron trapped in a semiconductor quantum dot. We obtain information on the spin state through conditional Faraday rotation of a spectrally detuned optical field, induced by the polarization- and spin-selective trion (charged quantum dot) transitions. To assess the sensitivity of the technique, we use an independent resonant laser for spin-state preparation. An all-optical dispersive measurement on single spins has the important advantage of channeling the measurement back-action onto a conjugate observable, thereby allowing for repetitive or continuous quantum nondemolition (QND) read-out of the spin-state. We infer from our results that there are of order unity back-action induced spin-flip Raman scattering events within our measurement timescale. Therefore, straightforward improvements such as the use of a solid-immersion lens and higher efficiency detectors would allow for back-action evading spin measurements, without the need for a cavity.

id: quant-ph/0610111
title: Topological Quantum Compiling
authors: L. Hormozi, G. Zikos, N.E. Bonesteel, S.H. Simon
comments: 20 pages, 20 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 165310 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610111
abstract: A method for compiling quantum algorithms into specific braiding patterns for non-Abelian quasiparticles described by the so-called Fibonacci anyon model is developed. The method is based on the observation that a universal set of quantum gates acting on qubits encoded using triplets of these quasiparticles can be built entirely out of three-stranded braids (three-braids). These three-braids can then be efficiently compiled and improved to any required accuracy using the Solovay-Kitaev algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0610112
title: Experimental demonstration of four-party quantum secret sharing
authors: S. Gaertner, C. Kurtsiefer, M. Bourennane, H. Weinfurter
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 020503 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610112
abstract: Secret sharing is a multiparty cryptographic task in which some secret information is splitted into several pieces which are distributed among the participants such that only an authorized set of participants can reconstruct the original secret. Similar to quantum key distribution, in quantum secret sharing, the secrecy of the shared information relies not on computational assumptions, but on laws of quantum physics. Here, we present an experimental demonstration of four-party quantum secret sharing via the resource of four-photon entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0610113
title: On the role of memory errors in quantum repeaters
authors: L. Hartmann, B. Kraus, H.-J. Briegel, W. D¨¹r
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures, 3 tables; V2: references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032310, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610113
abstract: We investigate the influence of memory errors in the quantum repeater scheme for long-range quantum communication. We show that the communication distance is limited in standard operation mode due to memory errors resulting from unavoidable waiting times for classical signals. We show how to overcome these limitations by (i) improving local memory, and (ii) introducing two new operational modes of the quantum repeater. In both operational modes, the repeater is run blindly, i.e. without waiting for classical signals to arrive. In the first scheme, entanglement purification protocols based on one-way classical communication are used allowing to communicate over arbitrary distances. However, the error thresholds for noise in local control operations are very stringent. The second scheme makes use of entanglement purification protocols with two-way classical communication and inherits the favorable error thresholds of the repeater run in standard mode. One can increase the possible communication distance by an order of magnitude with reasonable overhead in physical resources. We outline the architecture of a quantum repeater that can possibly ensure intercontinental quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0610114
title: Rotation of atoms in a two dimensional lattice with a harmonic trap
authors: T. Wang, S. Yelin
comments: 4 pages, some paragraphs were refrased, typos corrected. beta is corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610114
abstract: Rotation of atoms in a lattice is studied using a Hubbard model. It is found that the atoms are still contained in the trap even when the rotation frequency is larger than the trapping frequency. This is very different from the behavior in continuum. Bragg scattering and coupling between angular and radial motion are believed to make this stability possible. In this regime, density depletion at the center of the trap can be developed for spin polarized fermions.

id: quant-ph/0610115
title: Alternate Scheme for Optical Cluster-State Generation without Number-Resolving Photon Detectors
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Federico Spedalieri, Jonathan P. Dowling, Hwang Lee
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, 4 tables; made significant revisions and changed format
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 5, No. 4 (2007) pp. 617-626
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610115
abstract: We design a controlled-phase gate for linear optical quantum computing by using photodetectors that cannot resolve photon number. An intrinsic error-correction circuit corrects errors introduced by the detectors. Our controlled-phase gate has a 1/4 success probability. Recent development in cluster-state quantum computing has shown that a two-qubit gate with non-zero success probability can build an arbitrarily large cluster state with only polynomial overhead. Hence, it is possible to generate optical cluster states without number-resolving detectors and with polynomial overhead.

id: quant-ph/0610116
title: Electronic Noise in Optical Homodyne Tomography
authors: Juergen Appel, Dallas Hoffman, Eden Figueroa, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: Experimental results added
journal: Physical Review A 75, 035802 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610116
abstract: The effect of the detector electronic noise in an optical homodyne tomography experiment is shown to be equivalent to an optical loss if the detector is calibrated by measuring the quadrature noise of the vacuum state. An explicit relation between the electronic noise level and the equivalent optical efficiency is obtained and confirmed in an experiment with a narrowband squeezed vacuum source operating at an atomic rubidium wavelength.

id: quant-ph/0610117
title: Is Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation Really Possible?
authors: M. I. Dyakonov
comments: Based on a talk given at the Future Trends in Microelectronics workshop, Crete, June 2006. 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: In: Future Trends in Microelectronics. Up the Nano Creek, S. Luryi, J. Xu, and A. Zaslavsky (eds), Wiley (2007), pp. 4-18
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610117
abstract: The so-called "threshold" theorem says that, once the error rate per qubit per gate is below a certain value, indefinitely long quantum computation becomes feasible, even if all of the qubits involved are subject to relaxation processes, and all the manipulations with qubits are not exact. The purpose of this article, intended for physicists, is to outline the ideas of quantum error correction and to take a look at the proposed technical instruction for fault-tolerant quantum computation. It seems that the mathematics behind the threshold theorem is somewhat detached from the physical reality, and that some ideal elements are always present in the construction. This raises serious doubts about the possibility of large scale quantum computations, even as a matter of principle.

id: quant-ph/0610118
title: Simple and efficient quantum key distribution with parametric down-conversion
authors: Yoritoshi Adachi, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; published version in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 180503 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610118
abstract: We propose an efficient quantum key distribution protocol based on the photon-pair generation from parametric down-conversion (PDC). It uses the same experimental setup as the conventional protocol, but a refined data analysis enables detection of photon-number splitting attacks by utilizing information from a built-in decoy state. Assuming the use of practical detectors, we analyze the unconditional security of the new scheme and show that it improves the secure key generation rate by several orders of magnitude at long distances, using a high intensity PDC source.

id: quant-ph/0610119
title: Building Gaussian Cluster States by Linear Optics
authors: Peter van Loock, Christian Weedbrook, Mile Gu
comments: 5 Pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032321 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610119
abstract: The linear optical creation of Gaussian cluster states, a potential resource for universal quantum computation, is investigated. We show that for any Gaussian cluster state, the canonical generation scheme in terms of QND-type interactions, can be entirely replaced by off-line squeezers and beam splitters. Moreover, we find that, in terms of squeezing resources, the canonical states are rather wasteful and we propose a systematic way to create cheaper states. As an application, we consider Gaussian cluster computation in multiple-rail encoding. This encoding may reduce errors due to finite squeezing, even when the extra rails are achieved through off-line squeezing and linear optics.

id: quant-ph/0610120
title: Implementation of adiabatic Abelian geometric gates with superconducting phase qubits
authors: Z.H. Peng, H.F. Chu, Z.D. Wang, D.N. Zheng
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610120
abstract: We have developed an adiabatic Abelian geometric quantum computation strategy based on the non-degenerate energy eigenstates in (but not limited to) superconducting phase-qubit systems. The fidelity of the designed quantum gate was evaluated in the presence of simulated thermal fluctuation in superconducting phase qubits circuit and was found to be rather robust against the random errors. In addition, it was elucidated that the Berry phase in the designed adiabatic evolution may be detected directly via the quantum state tomography developed for superconducting qubits.

id: quant-ph/0610121
title: A modal-Hamiltonian interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: Olimpia Lombardi, Mario Castagnino
comments: 82 pages, no figures. Forthcoming in Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610121
abstract: The aim of this paper is to introduce a new member of the family of the modal interpretations of quantum mechanics. In this modal-Hamiltonian interpretation, the Hamiltonian of the quantum system plays a decisive role in the property-ascription rule that selects the definite-valued observables whose possible values become actual. We show that this interpretation is effective for solving the measurement problem, both in its ideal and its non-ideal versions, and we argue for the physical relevance of the property-ascription rule by applying it to well-known physical situations. Moreover, we explain how this interpretation supplies a description of the elemental categories of the ontology referred to by the theory, where quantum systems turn out to be bundles of possible properties.

id: quant-ph/0610122
title: Classical Representations of Quantum Mechanics Related to Statistically Complete Observables
authors: Werner Stulpe
comments: 118 pages, no figures. This work was published 1997 as a book by Wissenschaft und Technik Verlag Berlin. Since it has proved to be of interest to some researchers, it is published here for an easier access
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610122
abstract: We present a reformulation of quantum mechanics in terms of probability measures and functions on a general classical sample space and in particular in terms of probability densities and functions on phase space. The basis of our proceeding is the existence of so-called statistically complete observables and the duality between the state spaces and the spaces of the observables, the latter holding in the quantum as well as in the classical case. In the phase-space context, we further discuss joint position-momentum observables, Hilbert spaces of infinitely differentiable functions on phase space, and dequantizations. Finally, the relation of quantum dynamics to the classical Liouville dynamics is investigated.

id: quant-ph/0610123
title: Interaction of a two-level atom with squeezed light
authors: Eyob Alebachew, K. Fesseha
comments: 9 pages and 9 figures, in press, Opt. Commun
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610123
abstract: We consider a degenerate parametric oscillator whose cavity contains a two-level atom. Applying the Heisenberg and quantum Langevin equations, we calculate in the bad-cavity limit the mean photon number, the quadrature variance, and the power spectrum for the cavity mode in general and for the signal light and fluorescent light in particular. We also obtain the normalized second-order correlation function for the fluorescent light. We find that the presence of the two-level atom leads to a decrease in the degree of squeezing of the signal light. It so turns out that the fluorescent light is in a squeezed state and the power spectrum consists of a single peak only.

id: quant-ph/0610124
title: Point Estimation of States of Finite Quantum Systems
authors: D. Petz, K.M. Hangos, A. Magyar
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610124
abstract: The estimation of the density matrix of a $k$-level quantum system is studied when the parametrization is given by the real and imaginary part of the entries and they are estimated by independent measurements. It is established that the properties of the estimation procedure depend very much on the invertibility of the true state. In particular, in case of a pure state the estimation is less efficient. Moreover, several estimation schemes are compared for the unknown state of a qubit when one copy is measured at a time. It is shown that the average mean quadratic error matrix is the smallest if the applied observables are complementary. The results are illustrated by computer simulations.

id: quant-ph/0610125
title: Local noise can enhance entanglement teleportation
authors: Ye Yeo
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610125
abstract: Recently we have considered two-qubit teleportation via mixed states of four qubits and defined the generalized singlet fraction. For single-qubit teleportation, Badziag {\em et al.} [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 62}, 012311 (2000)] and Bandyopadhyay [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 65}, 022302 (2002)] have obtained a family of entangled two-qubit mixed states whose teleportation fidelity can be enhanced by subjecting one of the qubits to dissipative interaction with the environment via an amplitude damping channel. Here, we show that a dissipative interaction with the local environment via a pair of time-correlated amplitude damping channels can enhance fidelity of entanglement teleportation for a class of entangled four-qubit mixed states. Interestingly, we find that this enhancement corresponds to an enhancement in the quantum discord for some states.

id: quant-ph/0610126
title: Quantum tunneling through vacuum-multiparticle induced potentials
authors: Mihai A. Macovei
comments: Multiparticle samples, quantum tunneling, vacuum induced potentials
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 043803 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610126
abstract: The vacuum cavity mode induces a potential barrier and a well when an ultra-slow excited atom enters the interaction region so that it can be reflected or transmitted with a certain probability. We demonstrate here that a slow-velocity excited particle tunnels freely through a vacuum electromagnetic field mode filled with $N-1$ ground state atoms. The reason for this is the trapping of the moving atom into its upper state due to multiparticle influences and the corresponding decoupling from the interaction with the environment such that the emitter does not {\it see} the induced potentials.

id: quant-ph/0610127
title: Noisy Qutrit Channels
authors: A. Checinska, K. Wodkiewicz
comments: contributed paper: Quantum Probability, Information and Control Symposium, The University of Nottingham, July 2006, 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610127
abstract: We present an analysis of spontaneous emission in a 3-level atom as an example of a qutrit state under the action of noisy quantum channels. We choose a 3-level atom with V-configuration to be the qutrit state. Gell-Mann matrices and a generalized Bloch vector (8-dimensional) are used to describe the qutrit density operator. Using the time-evolution equations of atomic variables we find the Kraus representation of spontaneous emission quantum channel (SE channel). Furthermore, we consider a generalized Werner state of two qutrits and investigate the separability condition. We give similar analysis of spontaneous emission for qubit channels. The influence of spontaneous emission on the separability of Werner states for qutrit and qubit states is compared.

id: quant-ph/0610128
title: Regular and Chaotic Quantum Dynamic in Atom-Diatom Reactive Collisions
authors: Ashot S. Gevorkyan, Alexander V. Bogdanov, Gunnar Nyman
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610128
abstract: A new micro-irreversible 3D theory of quantum multichannel scattering in the three-body system is developed. The quantum approach is constructed on the generating trajectory tubes which allow taking into account influence of classical non-integrability on the dynamical quantum system. It was shown that when the volume of classical chaos in phase space is larger than quantum sell in the main object of quantum system the wavefunction generates chaos (quantum chaos). The probability of quantum transitions is constructed for this case. On the example of collinear collision of Li+(FH) -> (LiF)+H system is carried out the numerical calculation and was shown that in the system is generated quantum (wave) chaos.

id: quant-ph/0610129
title: Net Fisher information measure versus ionization potential and dipole polarizability in atoms
authors: K.D. Sen, C.P. Panos, K.Ch. Chatzisavvas, Ch.C. Moustakidis
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610129
abstract: The net Fisher information measure, defined as the product of position and momentum Fisher information measures and derived from the non-relativistic Hartree-Fock wave functions for atoms with Z=1-102, is found to correlate well with the inverse of the experimental ionization potential. Strong direct correlations of the net Fisher information are also reported for the static dipole polarizability of atoms with Z=1-88. The complexity measure, defined as the ratio of the net Onicescu information measure and net Fisher information, exhibits clearly marked regions corresponding to the periodicity of the atomic shell structure. The reported correlations highlight the need for using the net information measures in addition to either the position or momentum space analogues. With reference to the correlation of the experimental properties considered here, the net Fisher information measure is found to be superior than the net Shannon information entropy.

id: quant-ph/0610130
title: Grover's algorithm on a Feynman computer
authors: Diego de Falco, Dario Tamascelli
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 909-930
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610130
abstract: We present an implementation of Grover's algorithm in the framework of Feynman's cursor model of a quantum computer. The cursor degrees of freedom act as a quantum clocking mechanism, and allow Grover's algorithm to be performed using a single, time-independent Hamiltonian. We examine issues of locality and resource usage in implementing such a Hamiltonian. In the familiar language of Heisenberg spin-spin coupling, the clocking mechanism appears as an excitation of a basically linear chain of spins, with occasional controlled jumps that allow for motion on a planar graph: in this sense our model implements the idea of "timing" a quantum algorithm using a continuous-time random walk. In this context we examine some consequences of the entanglement between the states of the input/output register and the states of the quantum clock.

id: quant-ph/0610131
title: Quantum Physics and Human Language
authors: James B. Hartle
comments: Contribution to the festschrift for G.C. Ghirardi on his 70th Birthday, minor corrections
journal: J.Phys.A40:3101-3121,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610131
abstract: Human languages employ constructions that tacitly assume specific properties of the limited range of phenomena they evolved to describe. These assumed properties are true features of that limited context, but may not be general or precise properties of all the physical situations allowed by fundamental physics. In brief, human languages contain `excess baggage' that must be qualified, discarded, or otherwise reformed to give a clear account in the context of fundamental physics of even the everyday phenomena that the languages evolved to describe. The surest route to clarity is to express the constructions of human languages in the language of fundamental physical theory, not the other way around. These ideas are illustrated by an analysis of the verb `to happen' and the word `reality' in special relativity and the modern quantum mechanics of closed systems.

id: quant-ph/0610132
title: Entanglement of Collaboration
authors: Gilad Gour
comments: 6 pages, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 74, 052307 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610132
abstract: The entanglement of collaboration (EoC) quantifies the maximum amount of entanglement, that can be generated between two parties, A and B, given collaboration with N-2 other parties, when the N parties share a multipartite (possibly mixed) state and where the collaboration consists of local operations and classical communication (LOCC) by all parties. The localizable entanglement (LE) is defined similarly except that A and B do not participate in the effort to generate bipartite entanglement. We compare between these two operational definitions and find sufficient conditions for which the EoC is equal to the LE. In particular, we find that the two are equal whenever they are measured by the concurrence or by one of its generalizations called the G-concurrence. We also find a simple expression for the LE in terms of the Jamiolkowski isomorphism and prove that it is convex.

id: quant-ph/0610133
title: Dissipation in Quantum Mechanics, Scalar and Vector Field Theory
authors: F. Kheirandish, M. Amooshahi
comments: 32 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610133
abstract: A new minimal coupling method is introduced. A general dissipative quantum system is investigated consistently and systematically. Some coupling functions describing the interaction between the system and the environment are introduced. Based on coupling functions, some susceptibility functions are attributed to the environment explecitly. Transition probabilities relating the way energy flows from the system to the environment are calculated and the energy conservation is explecitly examined. This new formalism is generalized to the dissipative scalar and vector field theories along the ideas developed for the quantum dissipative systems

id: quant-ph/0610134
title: Practical decoy state method in quantum key distribution with heralded single photon source
authors: Qin Wang, Xiang-Bin Wang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 10 pages, 4 Postscript figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610134
abstract: We propose a practical decoy state method with heralded single photon source for quantum key distribution (QKD). In the protocol, 3 intensities are used and one can estimate the fraction of single-photon counts. The final key rate over transmission distance is simulated under various parameter sets. Due to the lower dark count than that of a coherent state, it is shown that a 3-intensity decoy-state QKD with a heralded source can work for a longer distance than that of a coherent state.

id: quant-ph/0610135
title: Majorana spin-flip transitions in a magnetic trap
authors: D.M.Brink, C.V.Sukumar
comments: 16pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610135
abstract: Atoms confined in a magnetic trap can escape by making spin-flip Majorana transitions due to a breakdown of the adiabatic approximation. Several papers have studied this process for atoms with spin $F = 1/2$ or $F= 1$. The present paper calculates the escape rate for atoms with spin $F > 1$. This problem has new features because the perturbation $\Delta T$ which allows atoms to escape satisfies a selection rule $\Delta F_z = 0, \pm 1, \pm 2$ and multi-step processes contribute in leading order. When the adiabatic approximation is satisfied the leading order terms can be summed to yield a simple expression for the escape rate.

id: quant-ph/0610136
title: Optical Nanofibers for Manipulating and Probing Single-Atom Fluorescence
authors: K. P. Nayak, P. N. Melentiev, M. Morinaga, Fam Le Kien, V. I. Balykin, K. Hakuta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610136
abstract: We demonstrate how optical nanofibers can be used to manipulate and probe single-atom fluorescence. We show that fluorescence photons from a very small number of atoms, average atom number of less than 0.1, around the nanofiber can readily be observed through single-mode optical fiber under resonant laser irradiation. We show also that optical nanofibers enable us to probe the van der Waals interaction between atoms and surface with high precision by observing the fluorescence excitation spectrum.

id: quant-ph/0610137
title: Simultaneous creations of discrete-variable entangle state and single-photon-added coherent state
authors: Yan Li, Hui Jing, Ming-Sheng Zhan
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610137
abstract: The single-photon-added coherent state (SPACS), as an intermediate classical-to-purely-quantum state, was first realized recently by Zavatta \emph{$et al.$} (Science 306, 660 (2004)). We show here that the success probability of their SPACS generation can be enhanced by a simple method which leads to simultaneous creations of a discrete-variable entangled state and a SPACS or even a hybrid-variable entangled SPACS in two different channels. The impacts of the input thermal noise are also analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0610138
title: Asymmetric two-output quantum processor in any dimension
authors: Iulia Ghiu, Gunnar Bjork
comments: 8 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: Rom. Journ. Phys. 53, 725 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610138
abstract: We propose two different implementations of an asymmetric two-output probabilistic quantum processor, which can implement a restricted set of one-qubit operations. One of them is constructed by combining asymmetric telecloning with a quantum gate array. We analyze the efficiency of this processor by evaluating the fidelities between the desired operation and the one generated by the processor and show that the two output states are the same as the ones produced by the optimal universal asymmetric Pauli cloning machine. The schemes require only local operations and classical communication, they have the advantage of transmitting the two output states directly to two spatially separated receivers but they have a success probability of 1/2. We show further that we can perform the same one-qubit operation with unity probability at the cost of using nonlocal operations. We finally generalize the two schemes for D-level systems and find that the local ones are successful with a probability of 1/D and the nonlocal generalized scheme is always successful.

id: quant-ph/0610139
title: Observable geometric phase induced by a cyclically evolving dissipative process
authors: Angelo Carollo, G. Massimo Palma
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Laser Physics 16 (N 11), 1595-1600, (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610139
abstract: In a prevous paper (Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 150403 (2006)) we have proposed a new way to generate an observable geometric phase on a quantum system by means of a completely incoherent phenomenon. The basic idea was to force the ground state of the system to evolve ciclically by "adiabatically" manipulating the environment with which it interacts. The specific scheme we have previously analyzed, consisting of a multilevel atom interacting with a broad-band squeezed vacuum bosonic bath whose squeezing parameters are smoothly changed in time along a closed loop, is here solved in a more direct way. This new solution emphasizes how the geometric phase on the ground state of the system is indeed due to a purely incoherent dynamics

id: quant-ph/0610140
title: Microscopic derivation of the Jaynes-Cummings model with cavity losses
authors: M. Scala, B. Militello, A. Messina, J. Piilo, S. Maniscalco
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures New version with minor correction Accepted for publication on Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 013811 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610140
abstract: In this paper we provide a microscopic derivation of the master equation for the Jaynes-Cummings model with cavity losses. We single out both the differences with the phenomenological master equation used in the literature and the approximations under which the phenomenological model correctly describes the dynamics of the atom-cavity system. Some examples wherein the phenomenological and the microscopic master equations give rise to different predictions are discussed in detail.

id: quant-ph/0610141
title: High-temperature Bose-Einstein condensation of polaritons: realization under the intracavity laser pumping of matter condition
authors: V. A. Averchenko, A. P. Alodjants, S. M. Arakelian, S. N. Bagayev, E. A. Vinogradov, V. S. Egorov, A. I. Stolyarov, I. A. Chekhonin
comments: 9 pages, PDF only
journal: Kvantovaya Elektronika (Quantum Elactronics), V.36 (2006) pp.532-538
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610141
abstract: A quantum model of Bose-Einstein condensation based on processes involving polaritons excited in an intracavity absorbing cell with resonance atoms, which is manifested in the spectral characteristics of the system, is considered. It is shown that the spectral 'condensation' appears which is directly related to the degeneracy of a weakly interacting gas of polaritons resulting in quasi-condensation at room temperature. The possibility of obtaining polariton condensation as a new phase state by using the confinement of polaritons in an atomic optical harmonic trap is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0610142
title: Applications of the group SU(1,1) for quantum computation and tomography
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: Laser Physics, 2006, Vol. 16, No. 11, pp. 1572-1581
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610142
abstract: This paper collects miscellaneous results about the group SU(1,1) that are helpful in applications in quantum optics. Moreover, we derive two new results, the first is about the approximability of SU(1,1) elements by a finite set of elementary gates, and the second is about the regularization of group identities for tomographic purposes.

id: quant-ph/0610143
title: Scheme for conditional generation of photon-added coherent state and optical entangled $W$ state
authors: Yan Li, Hui Jing, Ming-Sheng Zhan
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610143
abstract: We propose a simple scheme to generate an arbitrary photon-added coherent state of a travelling optical field by using only a set of degenerate parametric amplifiers and single-photon detectors. Particularly, when the single-photon-added coherent state (SPACS) is observed by following, e.g., the novel technique of Zavatta \emph{$et al.$} (Science 306, 660 (2004)), we also obtain the generalized optical entangled $W$ state. Finally, a qualitative analysis of possible losses in our scheme is given.

id: quant-ph/0610144
title: Driven single-band tight-binding dynamics, mesoscopic quantum circuits and realization of generalized parafermionic polynomial algebrasDeformed parafermionic algebra from single-band tight-binding dynamics
authors: F. Kheirandish, H. Pahlavani
comments: 15 pages. to be published in Physica Scripta (2008)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610144
abstract: The quantum dynamics of a driven single-band tight-binding model with different boundary conditions is considered. The relation between the Hamiltonian describing the single-band tight-binding dynamics and the Hamiltonian of a discrete-charge mesoscopic quantum circuit is elucidated. It is shown that the former Hamiltonian, with Dirichlet boundary conditions, can be considered as a realization of the deformed parafermionic polynomial algebras.

id: quant-ph/0610145
title: Demonstration of efficient scheme for generation of "Event Ready" entangled photon pairs from single photon source
authors: Qiang Zhang, Xiao-Hui Bao, Chao-Yang Lu, Xiao-Qi Zhou, Tao Yang, Terry Rudolph, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062316 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610145
abstract: We present a feasible and efficient scheme, and its proof-of-principle demonstration, of creating entangled photon pairs in an event-ready way using only simple linear optical elements and single photons. The quality of entangled photon pair produced in our experiment is confirmed by a strict violation of Bell's inequality. This scheme and the associated experimental techniques present an important step toward linear optics quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0610146
title: A Sharp Fannes-type Inequality for the von Neumann Entropy
authors: Koenraad M.R. Audenaert
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 40, 8127--8136 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610146
abstract: We derive an inequality relating the entropy difference between two quantum states to their trace norm distance, sharpening a well-known inequality due to M. Fannes. In our inequality, equality can be attained for every prescribed value of the trace norm distance.

id: quant-ph/0610147
title: On Adler's "Conway-Kochen Twin Argument"
authors: John Conway, Simon Kochen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610147
abstract: We respond to Stephen Adler's comments on our paper "The Free Will Theorem",and add some further observations.

id: quant-ph/0610148
title: Teleportation, Braid Group and Temperley--Lieb Algebra
authors: Yong Zhang
comments: 33 pages, 19 figures, latex. The present article is a short version of the preprint, quant-ph/0601050, which includes details of calculation, more topics such as topological diagrammatical operations and entanglement swapping, and calls the Temperley--Lieb category for the collection of all the Temperley--Lieb algebra with physical operations like local unitary transformations
journal: J.Phys.A39:11599-11622,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610148
abstract: We explore algebraic and topological structures underlying the quantum teleportation phenomena by applying the braid group and Temperley--Lieb algebra. We realize the braid teleportation configuration, teleportation swapping and virtual braid representation in the standard description of the teleportation. We devise diagrammatic rules for quantum circuits involving maximally entangled states and apply them to three sorts of descriptions of the teleportation: the transfer operator, quantum measurements and characteristic equations, and further propose the Temperley--Lieb algebra under local unitary transformations to be a mathematical structure underlying the teleportation. We compare our diagrammatical approach with two known recipes to the quantum information flow: the teleportation topology and strongly compact closed category, in order to explain our diagrammatic rules to be a natural diagrammatic language for the teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0610149
title: Quantum interference between two single photons emitted by independently trapped atoms
authors: Jerome Beugnon, Matthew Jones, Jos Dingjan, Benoit Darqui¨¦, Gaetan Messin, Antoine Browaeys, Philippe Grangier
comments: 
journal: Nature 440 (06/04/2006) 779
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610149
abstract: When two indistinguishable single photons are fed into the two input ports of a beam splitter, the photons will coalesce and leave together from the same output port. This is a quantum interference effect, which occurs because the two possible paths where the photons leave in different output ports interfere destructively. This effect was first observed in parametric downconversion by Hong, Ou and Mandel, and then with single photons produced one after the other by the same quantum emitter. With the recent development of quantum information, a lot of attention has been devoted to this coalescence effect as a resource for quantum data processing using linear optics techniques. To ensure the scalability of schemes based on these ideas, it is crucial that indistinguishable photons are emitted by a collection of synchronized, but otherwise independent sources. In this paper, we demonstrate the quantum interference of two single photons emitted by two independently trapped single atoms, bridging the gap towards the simultaneous emission of many indistinguishable single photons by different emitters. Our data analysis shows that the coalescence observed is mostly limited by the wavefront matching of the light emitted by the two atoms, and to a lesser extent by the motion of each atom in its own trap.

id: quant-ph/0610150
title: Atom in a coherently controlled squeezed vacuum
authors: Itay Rabinak, Eran Ginossar, Shimon Levit
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76 013821 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610150
abstract: A broadband squeezed vacuum photon field is characterized by a complex squeezing function. We show that by controlling the wavelength dependence of its phase it is possible to change the dynamics of the atomic polarization interacting with the squeezed vacuum. Such a phase modulation effectively produces a finite range temporal interaction kernel between the two quadratures of the atomic polarization yielding the change in the decay rates as well as the appearance of additional oscillation frequencies. We show that decay rates slower than the spontaneous decay rate can be achieved even for a squeezed bath in the classic regime. For linear and quadratic phase modulations the power spectrum of the scattered light exhibits narrowing of the central peak due to the modified decay rates. For strong phase modulations side lobes appear symmetrically around the central peak reflecting additional oscillation frequencies.

id: quant-ph/0610151
title: Security of quantum key distribution protocols using two-way classical communication or weak coherent pulses
authors: Barbara Kraus, Cyril Branciard, Renato Renner
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012316 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610151
abstract: We apply the techniques introduced in [Kraus et. al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 080501, 2005] to prove security of quantum key distribution (QKD) schemes using two-way classical post-processing as well as QKD schemes based on weak coherent pulses instead of single-photon pulses. As a result, we obtain improved bounds on the secret-key rate of these schemes.

id: quant-ph/0610152
title: Quantum computers based on electron spins controlled by ultra-fast, off-resonant, single optical pulses
authors: Susan M. Clark, Kai-Mei C. Fu, Thaddeus D. Ladd, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, introduction is clarified, the section on two-qubit gates was expanded and much more detail about gate fidelities is given, figures were modified, one figure replaced with a figure showing gate fidelities for relevant parameters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610152
abstract: We describe a fast quantum computer based on optically controlled electron spins in charged quantum dots that are coupled to microcavities. This scheme uses broad-band optical pulses to rotate electron spins and provide the clock signal to the system. Non-local two-qubit gates are performed by phase shifts induced by electron spins on laser pulses propagating along a shared waveguide. Numerical simulations of this scheme demonstrate high-fidelity single-qubit and two-qubit gates with operation times comparable to the inverse Zeeman frequency.

id: quant-ph/0610153
title: Subsystem Codes
authors: Salah A. Aly, Andreas Klappenecker, Pradeep Kiran Sarvepalli
comments: 8 pages; 44th Allerton Conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610153
abstract: We investigate various aspects of operator quantum error-correcting codes or, as we prefer to call them, subsystem codes. We give various methods to derive subsystem codes from classical codes. We give a proof for the existence of subsystem codes using a counting argument similar to the quantum Gilbert-Varshamov bound. We derive linear programming bounds and other upper bounds. We answer the question whether or not there exist [[n,n-2d+2,r>0,d]]<sub>q</sub> subsystem codes. Finally, we compare stabilizer and subsystem codes with respect to the required number of syndrome qudits.

id: quant-ph/0610154
title: Hybrid quantum repeater based on dispersive CQED interactions between matter qubits and bright coherent light
authors: Thaddeus D. Ladd, Peter van Loock, Kae Nemoto, William J. Munro, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: Please consult the published version, where assorted typos are corrected. It is freely available at this http URL
journal: New J. Phys. 8, 164 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610154
abstract: We describe a system for long-distance distribution of quantum entanglement, in which coherent light with large average photon number interacts dispersively with single, far-detuned atoms or semiconductor impurities in optical cavities. Entanglement is heralded by homodyne detection using a second bright light pulse for phase reference. The use of bright pulses leads to a high success probability for the generation of entanglement, at the cost of a lower initial fidelity. This fidelity may be boosted by entanglement purification techniques, implemented with the same physical resources. The need for more purification steps is well compensated for by the increased probability of success when compared to heralded entanglement schemes using single photons or weak coherent pulses with realistic detectors. The principle cause of the lower initial fidelity is fiber loss; however, spontaneous decay and cavity losses during the dispersive atom/cavity interactions can also impair performance. We show that these effects may be minimized for emitter-cavity systems in the weak-coupling regime as long as the resonant Purcell factor is larger than one, the cavity is over-coupled, and the optical pulses are sufficiently long. We support this claim with numerical, semiclassical calculations using parameters for three realistic systems: optically bright donor-bound impurities such as 19-F:ZnSe with a moderate-Q microcavity, the optically dim 31-P:Si system with a high-Q microcavity, and trapped ions in large but very high-Q cavities.

id: quant-ph/0610155
title: Field-theoretical space-time position operator of the Dirac electron
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong, Bing He
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial error in this paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610155
abstract: A field-theoretical space-time position operator can be properly introduced for the Dirac field, it plays the role of a generalized Noether charge associated with a local symmetry, and its second-quantized form shows that quantum fields possess zero-point time, which implies that a zero-point fluctuation of energy must be accompanied with a zero-point fluctuation of time, and then in agreement with the time-energy uncertainty principle. In practice, some possible physical effects owing to zero-point time remain to be found.

id: quant-ph/0610156
title: Weak measurement and rapid state reduction in bipartite quantum systems
authors: Charles D. Hill, J. F. Ralph
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610156
abstract: In this paper we consider feedback control algorithms for the rapid purification of a bipartite state consisting of two qubits, when the observer has access to only one of the qubits. We show 1) that the algorithm that maximizes the average purification rate is not the same as that that for a single qubit, and 2) that it is always possible to construct an algorithm that generates a deterministic rate of purification for {\em both} qubits. We also reveal a key difference between projective and continuous measurements with regard to state-purification.

id: quant-ph/0610157
title: Classical spin models and the quantum stabilizer formalism
authors: M. Van den Nest, W. D¨¹r, H. J. Briegel
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 117207 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610157
abstract: We relate a large class of classical spin models, including the inhomogeneous Ising, Potts, and clock models of q-state spins on arbitrary graphs, to problems in quantum physics. More precisely, we show how to express partition functions as inner products between certain quantum stabilizer states and product states. This connection allows us to use powerful techniques developed in quantum information theory, such as the stabilizer formalism and classical simulation techniques, to gain general insights into these models in a unified way. We recover and generalize several symmetries and high-low temperature dualities, and we provide an efficient classical evaluation of partition functions for all interaction graphs with a bounded tree-width.

id: quant-ph/0610158
title: Quantum Nondemolition Measurement of Discrete Fock States of a Nanomechanical Resonator
authors: Eyal Buks, Eran Arbel-Segev, Stav Zaitsev, Baleegh Abdo, M. P. Blencowe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610158
abstract: We study theoretically a radio frequency superconducting interference device integrated with both a nanomechanical resonator and an LC one. By applying adiabatic and rotating wave approximations, we obtain an effective Hamiltonian that governs the dynamics of the mechanical and LC resonators. Nonlinear terms in this Hamiltonian can be exploited for performing a quantum nondemolition measurement of Fock states of the nanomechanical resonator. We address the feasibility of experimental implementation and show that the nonlinear coupling can be made sufficiently strong to allow the detection of discrete mechanical Fock states.

id: quant-ph/0610159
title: Are superluminal "signals" an acceptable hypothesis? - Difficulties in building a communication protocol with them
authors: Sofia Wechsler
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, text reorganized and some proofs simplified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610159
abstract: The local hidden variable assumption was repeatedly proved unable to explain results of experiments in which contextuality is involved. Then, the correlated results of measurements of entangled particles, began to be attributed to a communication between particles through so-called "signals". These "signals" need to possess superluminal velocity or move backward in time. No object that has a rest-mass, not even the photons whose rest mass is zero, behave this way. Still, as the nature of the presumed "sinals" is not known, people don't reject the idea, despite the conflict with the theory of relativity. For this reason, the present article examines the "signals" from another point of view: wherever runs a communication, there has also to exist a communication protocol. The article tries to outline a communication protocol between the space-separated, entangled particles, and comes to a contradiction, making the idea of such a communication highly doubtable.

id: quant-ph/0610160
title: De-Gaussification by inconclusive photon subtraction
authors: Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 17 pages, 30 figures
journal: Laser Physics vol. 16, 1533 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610160
abstract: We address conditional de-Gaussification of continuous variable states by inconclusive photon subtraction (IPS) and review in details its application to bipartite twin-beam state of radiation. The IPS map in the Fock basis has been derived, as well as its counterpart in the phase-space. Teleportation assisted by IPS states is analyzed and the corresponding fidelity evaluated as a function of the involved parameters. Nonlocality of IPS states is investigated by means of different tests including displaced parity, homodyne detection, pseudospin, and displaced on/off photodetection. Dissipation and thermal noise are taken into account, as well as non unit quantum efficiency in the detection stage. We show that the IPS process, for a suitable choice of the involved parameters, improves teleportation fidelity and enhances nonlocal properties.

id: quant-ph/0610161
title: Mubs and Hadamards of Order Six
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson, Wojciech Bruzda, Asa Ericsson, Jan-Ake Larsson, Wojciech Tadej, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 33 pages, 3 figures. References added in v2
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48, 052106 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610161
abstract: We report on a search for mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) in 6 dimensions. We find only triplets of MUBs, and thus do not come close to the theoretical upper bound 7. However, we point out that the natural habitat for sets of MUBs is the set of all complex Hadamard matrices of the given order, and we introduce a natural notion of distance between bases in Hilbert space. This allows us to draw a detailed map of where in the landscape the MUB triplets are situated. We use available tools, such as the theory of the discrete Fourier transform, to organise our results. Finally we present some evidence for the conjecture that there exists a four dimensional family of complex Hadamard matrices of order 6. If this conjecture is true the landscape in which one may search for MUBs is much larger than previously thought.

id: quant-ph/0610162
title: On measurement-based quantum computation with the toric code states
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Robert Raussendorf
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022304 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610162
abstract: We study measurement-based quantum computation (MQC) using as quantum resource the planar code state on a two-dimensional square lattice (planar analogue of the toric code). It is shown that MQC with the planar code state can be efficiently simulated on a classical computer if at each step of MQC the sets of measured and unmeasured qubits correspond to connected subsets of the lattice.

id: quant-ph/0610163
title: Resonant Propagation of Entangled Rhodium Mossbauer Gammas
authors: Yao Cheng, Zhongming Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610163
abstract: We report the resonant propagation of the long-lived Mossbauer gamma in the time-resolved Mossbauer spectroscopy. Recently, three entangled gammas emitted from the E3 rhodium Mossbauer transition has been proposed to interpret the extraordinary observations in the previous report. Further observation reported here is the dynamic beat of these entangled gammas at room temperature and 77K. Apparent beat anisotropy reveals their long-distance resonant propagation, which leads to suppressed Doppler shift of entangled photon transport in the Borrmann channel.

id: quant-ph/0610164
title: Zeroth order quantum coherences and preparation of pseudopure state in homonuclear dipolar coupling spin systems
authors: Gregory B. Furman
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610164
abstract: Dynamics of zeroth order quantum coherences and preparation of the pseudopure states in homonuclear systems of dipolar coupling spins is closely examined. It has been shown an extreme important role of the non-diagonal part of zeroth order coherence in construction of the pseudopure state. Simulations of the preparation process of pseudopure states with the real molecular structures (a rectangular (-chloro- -nitrobenzene molecule), a chain (hydroxyapatite molecule), a ring (benzene molecule), and a double ring (cyclopentane molecule)) open the way to experimental testing of the obtained results.

id: quant-ph/0610165
title: Entanglement-enhanced classical capacity of two-qubit quantum channels with memory: the exact solution
authors: D. Daems
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012310 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610165
abstract: The maximal amount of information which is reliably transmitted over two uses of general Pauli channels with memory is proven to be achieved by maximally entangled states beyond some memory threshold. In particular, this proves a conjecture on the depolarizing channel by Macchiavello and Palma [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 65}, 050301(R) (2002)]. Below the memory threshold, for arbitrary Pauli channels, the two-use classical capacity is only achieved by a particular type of product states.

id: quant-ph/0610166
title: Dynamical Realization of Macroscopic Superposition States of Cold Bosons in a Tilted Double Well
authors: Lincoln D. Carr, D. R. Dounas-Frazer, Miguel-?ngel Garc¨ªa-March
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, final version, only minor changes from previous arXiv version
journal: Europhys. Lett., v. 90, p. 10005 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610166
abstract: We present exact expressions for the quantum sloshing of Bose-Einstein condensates in a tilted two-well potential. Tunneling is suppressed by a small potential difference between wells, or tilt. However, tunneling resonances occur for critical values of the tilt when the barrier is high. At resonance, tunneling times on the order of 10-100 ms are possible. Furthermore, such tilted resonances lead to a dynamical scheme for creating few-body NOON-like macroscopic superposition states which are protected by the many body wavefunction against potential fluctuations.

id: quant-ph/0610167
title: High Fidelity Single-Qubit Gates Using Non-adiabatic Rapid Passage
authors: Ran Li, Melique Hoover, Frank Gaitan
comments: 16 pages; further discussion added on quantum interferences and sweep parameter precision
journal: Quantum Information and Computation vol. 7, 594 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610167
abstract: Numerical simulation results are presented which suggest that a class of non-adiabatic rapid passage sweeps first realized experimentally in 1991 should be capable of implementing a set of quantum gates that is universal for one-qubit unitary operations and whose elements operate with error probabilities per operation P < 10^{-4}. The sweeps are non-composite and generate controllable quantum interference effects which allow the one-qubit gates produced to operate non-adiabatically while maintaining high accuracy. The simulations suggest that the one-qubit gates produced by these sweeps show promise as possible elements of a fault-tolerant scheme for quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0610168
title: Local Operations in qubit arrays via global but periodic Manipulation
authors: Zheng-Wei Zhou, Yong-Jian Han, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052334 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610168
abstract: We provide a scheme for quantum computation in lattice systems via global but periodic manipulation, in which only effective periodic magnetic fields and global nearest neighbor interaction are required. All operations in our scheme are attainable in optical lattice or solid state systems. We also investigate universal quantum operations and quantum simulation in 2 dimensional lattice. We find global manipulations are superior in simulating some nontrivial many body Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0610169
title: Loschmidt echo in a system of interacting electrons
authors: G. Manfredi, P.-A. Hervieux
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures, to appear in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610169
abstract: We study the Loschmidt echo for a system of electrons interacting through mean-field Coulomb forces. The electron gas is modeled by a self-consistent set of hydrodynamic equations. It is observed that the quantum fidelity drops abruptly after a time that is proportional to the logarithm of the perturbation amplitude. The fidelity drop is related to the breakdown of the symmetry properties of the wave function.

id: quant-ph/0610170
title: Geometric phases for mixed states and decoherence
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 23 pages. To be published in Annals of Physics
journal: AnnalsPhys.322:1500-1517,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610170
abstract: The gauge invariance of geometric phases for mixed states is analyzed by using the hidden local gauge symmetry which arises from the arbitrariness of the choice of the basis set defining the coordinates in the functional space. This approach gives a reformulation of the past results of adiabatic, non-adiabatic and mixed state geometric phases. The geometric phases are identified uniquely as the holonomy associated with the hidden local gauge symmetry which is an exact symmetry of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation. The purification and its inverse in the description of de-coherent mixed states are consistent with the hidden local gauge symmetry. A salient feature of the present formulation is that the total phase and visibility in the mixed state, which are directly observable in the interference experiment, are manifestly gauge invariant.

id: quant-ph/0610171
title: Probabilistic exact deletion and probabilistic no-signalling
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, Satyabrata Adhikari, B.S. Choudhury
comments: 6 pages, Accepted in Physica Scripta
journal: Phys. Scr.74 (2006) 555-557
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610171
abstract: In this work we show that one cannot use non-local resources for probabilistic signalling even if one can delete a quantum state with the help of probabilistic quantum deletion machine. Here we find that probabilistic quantum deletion machine is not going to help us in identifying two statistical mixture at remote location. Also we derive the bound on deletion probability from no-signalling condition.

id: quant-ph/0610172
title: Giant Optical Non-linearity induced by a Single Two-Level System interacting with a Cavity in the Purcell Regime
authors: Alexia Auffeves-Garnier, Christoph Simon, Jean-Michel Gerard, Jean-Philippe Poizat
comments: 40 pages, 16 figures, accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610172
abstract: A two-level system that is coupled to a high-finesse cavity in the Purcell regime exhibits a giant optical non-linearity due to the saturation of the two-level system at very low intensities, of the order of one photon per lifetime. We perform a detailed analysis of this effect, taking into account the most important practical imperfections. Our conclusion is that an experimental demonstration of the giant non-linearity should be feasible using semiconductor micropillar cavities containing a single quantum dot in resonance with the cavity mode.

id: quant-ph/0610173
title: Are quantum `irreality' and `nonlocality' ineluctable?
authors: A. F. Kracklauer
comments: 5 pages RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610173
abstract: The early history of the development of Quantum Mechanics is surveyed to discern the arguments leading to the introduction of the notions of `irreal' wave functions and `nonlocal' correlations. It is argued that the assumption that Quantum Mechanics is `complete', i.e., not just a variant of Statistical Mechanics, is the feature compelling the introduction of these otherwise problematic properties. Additionally, a consequence of the error first found by Jaynes in proofs of Bell's ``theorem'', is illustrated. Finally, speculation on the practical consequences of recognising that ``entanglement'' is a feature of all hyperbolic differential equations is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0610174
title: The Impossibility of the Counterfactual Computation for all Possible Outcomes
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: This version includes a better answer to Hosten and Kwiat comment [quant-ph/0612159]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610174
abstract: Recent proposal for counterfactual computation [Hosten et al., Nature, 439, 949 (2006)] is analyzed. It is argued that the method does not provide counterfactual computation for all possible outcomes. The explanation involves a novel paradoxical feature of pre- and post-selected quantum particles: the particle can reach a certain location without being on the path that leads to this location.

id: quant-ph/0610175
title: Pseudo-telepathy: input cardinality and Bell-type inequalities
authors: N. Gisin, A.A. Methot, V. Scarani
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 5: 525-534, 2007.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610175
abstract: Pseudo-telepathy is the most recent form of rejection of locality. Many of its properties have already been discovered: for instance, the minimal entanglement, as well as the minimal cardinality of the output sets, have been characterized. This paper contains two main results. First, we prove that no bipartite pseudo-telepathy game exists, in which one of the partners receives only two questions; as a corollary, we show that the minimal "input cardinality", that is, the minimal number of questions required in a bipartite pseudo-telepathy game, is 3x3. Second, we study the Bell-type inequality derived from the pseudo-telepathy game known as the Magic Square game: we demonstrate that it is a tight inequality for 3 inputs and 4 outputs on each side and discuss its weak resistance to noise.

id: quant-ph/0610176
title: Three-qubit dynamics of entanglement in magnetic field
authors: E. A. Ivanchenko
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures accepted by Fiz. Niz. Temp., vol. 33, 2007 [Low Temperature Physics ]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610176
abstract: A closed system of the equations for the local Bloch vectors and spin correlation functions is obtained by decomplexification of the Liouville-von Neumann equation for three magnetic qubits with the exchange interaction, that takes place in an arbitrary time-dependent external magnetic field. The numerical comparative analysis of entanglement is carried out depending on initial conditions and the magnetic field modulation. The present study may be useful for analysis of interference experiments and in the field of quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0610177
title: Boltzmann-Shannon Entropy: Generalization and Application
authors: C.G.Chakrabarti, Indranil Chakrabarty
comments: 5 pages, Accepted in Mod.Phys.Lett.B
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.B, Vol.20, No. 23, 1471 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610177
abstract: The paper deals with the generalization of both Boltzmann entropy and distribution in the light of most-probable interpretation of statistical equilibrium. The statistical analysis of the generalized entropy and distribution leads to some new interesting results of significant physical importance.

id: quant-ph/0610178
title: Analysis of the Entanglement Cost and Calculation of the Holevo Capacity
authors: Toshiyuki Shimono
comments: A doctoral dissertation, the University of Tokyo, 112 pages, 65 figure files
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610178
abstract: ``Beam me over,'' Alice: A cricket's quantum journey This thesis addresses two known quantities in quantum information science: (1) entanglement cost, and (2) Holevo capacity. These quantities will be crucial values when teleportation becomes common in daily life, perhaps centuries from now. Assume that Alice desires to send a singing Japanese cricket to her friend Bob in America, and that Alice and Bob already share a quantum entanglement. First, Alice sends Bob a mass of information bits resulting from the interaction between the cricket she holds in her hand and half of the entanglement. Subsequently, Bob receives the information bits and manipulates the other half of the entanglement, transforming them back into the original cricket. Examining this situation from an instrumental engineering viewpoint, quantifying the amount of the quantum entanglement and the number of information bits is crucial for this transmission. If both values are enough, Alice could even send herself to Bob's place instead of the tiny cricket. The topics of this thesis therefore are: (1) the mathematical properties of the entanglement cost, such as whether it is an additive measure similar to normal length or weight; and (2) how to calculate the Holevo capacity, an ultimately achievable limit of the information conveyance capacity of an information channel, such as of a single photon passing through an optical fiber or space. These two distinct quantities are magically tied together by several ``additive or not'' hypotheses, which await mathematical proof.

id: quant-ph/0610179
title: Total Quantum Zeno effect and Intelligent States for a two level system in a squeezed bath
authors: D. Mundarain, M. Orszag, J. Stephany
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610179
abstract: In this work we show that by frequent measurements of adequately chosen observables, a complete suppression of the decay in an exponentially decaying two level system interacting with a squeezed bath is obtained. The observables for which the effect is observed depend on the the squeezing parameters of the bath. The initial states which display Total Zeno Effect are intelligent states of two conjugate observables associated to the electromagnetic fluctuations of the bath.

id: quant-ph/0610180
title: Strong Violations of Bell-type Inequalities for Path-Entangled Number States
authors: Christoph F. Wildfeuer, Austin P. Lund, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 6 pages, LaTex; revised version accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052101 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610180
abstract: We show that nonlocal correlation experiments on the two spatially separated modes of a maximally path-entangled number state may be performed and lead to a violation of a Clauser-Horne Bell inequality for any finite photon number N. We present also an analytical expression for the two-mode Wigner function of a maximally path-entangled number state and investigate a Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt Bell inequality for such states. We test other Bell-type inequalities. Some are violated by a constant amount for any N.

id: quant-ph/0610181
title: Exact zero-point interaction energy between cylinders
authors: F.D. Mazzitelli, D.A.R. Dalvit, F.C. Lombardo
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J.Phys.8:240,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610181
abstract: We calculate the exact Casimir interaction energy between two perfectly conducting, very long, eccentric cylindrical shells using a mode summation technique. Several limiting cases of the exact formula for the Casimir energy corresponding to this configuration are studied both analytically and numerically. These include concentric cylinders, cylinder-plane, and eccentric cylinders, for small and large separations between the surfaces. For small separations we recover the proximity approximation, while for large separations we find a weak logarithmic decay of the Casimir interaction energy, typical of cylindrical geometries.

id: quant-ph/0610182
title: Optical Nondestructive Controlled-NOT Gate without Using Entangled Photons
authors: Xiao-Hui Bao, Teng-Yun Chen, Qiang Zhang, Jian Yang, Han Zhang, Tao Yang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, Slight changes have been made, Journal-ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 170502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610182
abstract: We present and experimentally demonstrate a novel optical nondestructive controlled-NOT gate without using entangled ancilla. With much fewer measurements compared with quantum process tomography, we get a good estimation of the gate fidelity. The result shows a great improvement compared with previous experiments. Moreover, we also show that quantum parallelism is achieved in our gate and the performance of the gate can not be reproduced by local operations and classical communications.

id: quant-ph/0610183
title: Exact Solution of the Klein-Gordon Equation for the PT-Symmetric Generalized Woods-Saxon Potential by the Nikiforov-Uvarov Method
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 29 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610183
abstract: The one-dimensional Klein-Gordon (KG) equation has been solved for the PT-symmetric generalized Woods-Saxon (WS) potential. The Nikiforov-Uvarov(NU} method which is based on solving the second-order linear differential equations by reduction to a generalized equation of hypergeometric type is used to obtain exact energy eigenvalues and corresponding eigenfunctions. We have also investigated the positive and negative exact bound states of the s-states for different types of complex generalized WS potentials.

id: quant-ph/0610184
title: Irreducible decomposition of Gaussian distributions and the spectrum of black-body radiation
authors: Sandor Varro
comments: 29 pages
journal: Physica Scripta, Vol. 75, pp 160-169 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610184
abstract: It is shown that the energy of a mode of a classical chaotic field, following the continuous exponential distribution as a classical random variable, can be uniquely decomposed into a sum of its fractional part and of its integer part. The integer part is a discrete random variable (we call it Planck variable) whose distribution is just the Bose distribution yielding the Planck law of black-body radiation. The fractional part is the dark part (we call is dark variable) with a continuous distribution, which is, of course, not observed in the experiments. It is proved that the Bose distribution is infinitely divisible, and the irreducible decomposition of it is given. The Planck variable can be decomposed into an infinite sum of independent binary random variables representing the binary photons (more accurately photo-molecules or photo-multiplets) of energies 2^s*h*nu with s=0,1,2... . These binary photons follow the Fermi statistics. Consequently, the black-body radiation can be viewed as a mixture of statistically and thermodynamically independent fermion gases consisting of binary photons. The binary photons give a natural tool for the dyadic expansion of arbitrary (but not coherent) ordinary photon excitations. It is shown that the binary photons have wave-particle fluctuations of fermions. These fluctuations combine to give the wave-particle fluctuations of the original bosonic photons expressed by the Einstein fluctuation formula.

id: quant-ph/0610185
title: Go and return propagation of biphotons in fiber and polarization entanglement
authors: G. Brida, M.V. Chekhova, M. Genovese, L.A. Krivitsky, E. Predazzi
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A, 40 7985-7995 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610185
abstract: Propagation of entangled photons in optical fiber is one of the fundamental issues for realizing quantum communication protocols. When entanglement in polarization is considered, arises the problem of compensating for the fiber effect on photons polarization. In this paper we demonstrate an effective solution where a Faraday mirror allows to cancel undesired effects of polarization drift in fiber. This technique is applied to a protocol for generating Bell states by a narrow temporal selection of the second-order intensity correlation function.

id: quant-ph/0610186
title: Sudden death and long-living of entanglement in an ion-trap laser
authors: Mahmoud Abdel-Aty
comments: 10 pages 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610186
abstract: he dynamical properties of quantum entanglement in a time-dependent three-level-trapped ion interacting with a laser field are studied in terms of the reduced-density linear entropy considering two specific initial states of the field. Allowing the instantaneous position of the center-of-mass motion of the ion to be explicitly time-dependent, it is shown that either sudden death of entanglement or survivability of quantum entanglement can be obtained with a specific choice of the initial state parameters. The difference in evolution picture corresponding to the multi-quanta processes is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0610187
title: Notes on Geometric-Algebra Quantum-Like Algorithms
authors: Diederik Aerts, Marek Czachor
comments: Preliminary version of notes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610187
abstract: In these notes we present preliminary results on quantum-like algorithms where tensor product is replaced by geometric product. Such algorithms possess the essential properties typical of quantum computation (entanglement, parallelism) but employ additional algebraic structures typical of geometric algebra -- structures absent in standard quantum computation. As a test we reformulate in Geometric Algebra terms the Deutsch-Jozsa problem.

id: quant-ph/0610188
title: Generation of maximally entangled mixed states of two atoms via on-resonance asymmetric atom-cavity couplings
authors: Shang-Bin Li
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 054304 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610188
abstract: A scheme for generating the maximally entangled mixed state of two atoms on-resonance asymmetrically coupled to a single mode optical cavity field is presented. The part frontier of both maximally entangled mixed states and maximal Bell violating mixed states can be approximately reached by the evolving reduced density matrix of two atoms if the ratio of coupling strengths of two atoms is appropriately controlled. It is also shown that exchange symmetry of global maximal concurrence is broken if and only if coupling strength ratio lies between $\frac{\sqrt{3}}{3}$ and $\sqrt{3}$ for the case of one-particle excitation and asymmetric coupling, while this partial symmetry-breaking can not be verified by detecting maximal Bell violation.

id: quant-ph/0610189
title: Complementarity in quantum systems
authors: Denes Petz
comments: 17 pages
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 59(2007), 209-224.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610189
abstract: Reduction of a state of a quantum system to a subsystem gives partial quantum information about the true state of the total system. Two subalgebras A1 and A2 of B(H) are called complementary if the traceless subspaces of A1 and A2 are orthogonal (with respect to the Hilbert-Schmidt inner product). When both subalgebras are maximal Abelian, then the concept reduces to complementary observables or mutually unbiased bases. In the paper several characterizations of complementary subalgebras are given in the general case and several examples are presented. For a 4-level quantum system, the structure of complementary subalgebras can be described very well, the Cartan decomposition of unitaries plays a role. It turns out that a measurement corresponding to the Bell basis is complementary to any local measurement of the two-qubit-system.

id: quant-ph/0610190
title: Recovery of classical chaotic-like behaviour in a quantum three-body problem
authors: M. J. Everitt
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 75, 036217 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610190
abstract: Recovering trajectories of quantum systems whose classical counterparts display chaotic behavior has been a subject that has received a lot of interest over the last decade. However, most of these studies have focused on driven and dissipative systems. The relevance and impact of chaoticlike phenomena to quantum systems has been highlighted in recent studies which have shown that quantum chaos is significant in some aspects of quantum computation and information processing. In this paper we study a three-body system comprising of identical particles arranged so that the system's classical trajectories exhibit Hamiltonian chaos. Here we show that it is possible to recover very nearly classical-like, conservative, chaotic trajectories from such a system through an unravelling of the master equation. First, this is done through continuous measurement of the position of each system. Second, and perhaps somewhat surprisingly, we demonstrate that we still obtain a very good match between the classical and quantum dynamics by weakly measuring the position of only one of the oscillators.

id: quant-ph/0610191
title: Indirect control with quantum accessor (I): coherent control of multi-level system via qubit chain
authors: H.C.Fu, Hui Dong, X.F.Liu, C.P.Sun
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. To appear in Phys.Rev.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610191
abstract: Indirect controllability of an arbitrary finite dimensional quantum system (N-dimensional qudit) through a quantum accessor is investigated. Here, The qudit is coupled to a quantum accessor which is modeled as a fully controllable spin chain with nearest neighbor (anisotropic) XY-coupling. The complete controllability of such indirect control system is investigated in detail. The general approach is applied to the indirect controllability of two and three dimensional quantum systems. For two and three dimensional systems, a simpler indirect control scheme is also presented.

id: quant-ph/0610192
title: (p,q)-Deformations and (p,q)-Vector Coherent States of the Jaynes-Cummings Model in the Rotating Wave Approximation
authors: Joseph Ben Geloun, Jan Govaerts, M. Norbert Hounkonnou
comments: 1+25 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610192
abstract: Classes of (p,q)-deformations of the Jaynes-Cummings model in the rotating wave approximation are considered. Diagonalization of the Hamiltonian is performed exactly, leading to useful spectral decompositions of a series of relevant operators. The latter include ladder operators acting between adjacent energy eigenstates within two separate infinite discrete towers, except for a singleton state. These ladder operators allow for the construction of (p,q)-deformed vector coherent states. Using (p,q)-arithmetics, explicit and exact solutions to the associated moment problem are displayed, providing new classes of coherent states for such models. Finally, in the limit of decoupled spin sectors, our analysis translates into (p,q)-deformations of the supersymmetric harmonic oscillator, such that the two supersymmetric sectors get intertwined through the action of the ladder operators as well as in the associated coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0610193
title: Conjugate Codes and Applications to Cryptography
authors: Mitsuru Hamada
comments: 7 pages, no fugure. To appear in Tamagawa University Research Review
journal: Tamagawa University Research Review, No. 12, pp. 19--25, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610193
abstract: A conjugate code pair is defined as a pair of linear codes such that one contains the dual of the other. The conjugate code pair represents the essential structure of the corresponding Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) quantum code. It is argued that conjugate code pairs are applicable to quantum cryptography in order to motivate studies on conjugate code pairs.

id: quant-ph/0610194
title: Concatenated Conjugate Codes
authors: Mitsuru Hamada
comments: Submitted to IEEE Trans. Information Theory (Aug. 2006). Ver.2: an obvious tiny error corrected (rate is k/n, not k)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610194
abstract: A conjugate code pair is defined as a pair of linear codes either of which contains the dual of the other. A conjugate code pair represents the essential structure of the corresponding Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) quantum code. It is known that conjugate code pairs are applicable to (quantum) cryptography. We give a construction method for efficiently decodable conjugate code pairs.

id: quant-ph/0610195
title: Concatenated Quantum Codes Constructible in Polynomial Time: Efficient Decoding and Error Correction
authors: Mitsuru Hamada
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures. Ver.4: Title changed. Ver.3: Due to a request of the AE of the journal, the present version has become a combination of (thoroughly revised) quant-ph/0610194 and the former quant-ph/0610195. Problem formulations of polynomial complexity are strictly followed. An erroneous instance of a lower bound on minimum distance was removed
journal: IEEE Trans. on Information Theory, vol. 54, no. 12, pp. 5689--5704, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610195
abstract: A method for concatenating quantum error-correcting codes is presented. The method is applicable to a wide class of quantum error-correcting codes known as Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) codes. As a result, codes that achieve a high rate in the Shannon theoretic sense and that are decodable in polynomial time are presented. The rate is the highest among those known to be achievable by CSS codes. Moreover, the best known lower bound on the greatest minimum distance of codes constructible in polynomial time is improved for a wide range.

id: quant-ph/0610196
title: Information-Disturbance Tradeoff in Quantum State Discrimination
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 5 pages, 2 (low-quality) figures. Eq. (20) corrected. Final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052320 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610196
abstract: When discriminating between two pure quantum states, there exists a quantitative tradeoff between the information retrieved by the measurement and the disturbance caused on the unknown state. We derive the optimal tradeoff and provide the corresponding quantum measurement. Such an optimal measurement smoothly interpolates between the two limiting cases of maximal information extraction and no measurement at all.

id: quant-ph/0610197
title: Experimental observation of three-color optical quantum correlations
authors: K. N. Cassemiro, A. S. Villar, P. Valente, M. Martinelli, P. Nussenzveig
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610197
abstract: Quantum correlations between bright pump, signal, and idler beams produced by an optical parametric oscillator, all with different frequencies, are experimentally demonstrated. We show that the degree of entanglement between signal and idler fields is improved by using information of pump fluctuations. This is the first observation of three-color optical quantum correlations.

id: quant-ph/0610198
title: Time delay for one-dimensional quantum systems with steplike potentials
authors: W. O. Amrein, Philippe A. Jacquet
comments: 48 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.A75:022106,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610198
abstract: This paper concerns time-dependent scattering theory and in particular the concept of time delay for a class of one-dimensional anisotropic quantum systems. These systems are described by a Schr\"{o}dinger Hamiltonian $H = -\Delta + V$ with a potential $V(x)$ converging to different limits $V_{\ell}$ and $V_{r}$ as $x \to -\infty$ and $x \to +\infty$ respectively. Due to the anisotropy they exhibit a two-channel structure. We first establish the existence and properties of the channel wave and scattering operators by using the modern Mourre approach. We then use scattering theory to show the identity of two apparently different representations of time delay. The first one is defined in terms of sojourn times while the second one is given by the Eisenbud-Wigner operator. The identity of these representations is well known for systems where $V(x)$ vanishes as $|x| \to \infty$ ($V_\ell = V_r$). We show that it remains true in the anisotropic case $V_\ell \not = V_r$, i.e. we prove the existence of the time-dependent representation of time delay and its equality with the time-independent Eisenbud-Wigner representation. Finally we use this identity to give a time-dependent interpretation of the Eisenbud-Wigner expression which is commonly used for time delay in the literature.

id: quant-ph/0610199
title: Asymptotic entanglement manipulation of bipartite pure states
authors: Garry Bowen, Nilanjana Datta
comments: 7 pages, requires IEEEtran.cls
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610199
abstract: Entanglement of pure states of bipartite quantum systems has been shown to have a unique measure in terms of the von Neumann entropy of the reduced states of either of its subsystems. The measure is established under entanglement manipulation of an asymptotically large number of copies of the states. In this paper, different asymptotic measures of entanglement assigned to arbitrary sequences of bipartite pure states are shown to coincide only when the sequence is information stable, in terms of the quantum spectral information rates of the sequence of subsystem states. Additional bounds on the optimal rates of entanglement manipulation protocols in quantum information are also presented, including bounds given by generalizations of the coherent information and the relative entropy of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0610200
title: Quantum List Decoding of Classical Block Codes of Polynomially Small Rate from Quantumly Corrupted Codewords
authors: Tomoyuki Yamakami
comments: A4 size, 24 pages. A complete version of an early paper that appeared in the Proceedings of the 13th Computing: The Australasian Theory Symposium (CATS 2007), pp.153-162, Ballarat, Australia, January 30--February 2, 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610200
abstract: Given a classical error-correcting block code, the task of quantum list decoding is to produce from any quantumly corrupted codeword a short list containing all messages whose codewords exhibit high "presence" in the quantumly corrupted codeword. Efficient quantum list decoders have been used to prove a quantum hardcore property of classical codes. The code rates of all known families of efficiently quantum list-decodable codes, unfortunately, are too small for other practical applications. To improve those known code rates, we prove that a specific code family of polynomially small code rate over a fixed code alphabet, obtained by concatenating generalized Reed-Solomon codes as outer codes with Hadamard codes as inner codes, has an efficient quantum list-decoding algorithm if its codewords have relatively high codeword presence in a given quantumly corrupted codeword. As an immediate application, we use the quantum list decodability of this code family to solve a certain form of quantum search problems in polynomial time. When codeword presence becomes arbitrarily smaller, however, we show that the quantum list decodability of generalized Reed-Solomon codes with high confidence is closely related to the efficient solvability of the following two problems: noisy polynomial interpolation problems and bounded distance vector problems. Moreover, assuming that NP is not included in BQP, we prove that there is no efficient quantum list decoder for the generalized Reed-Solomon codes.

id: quant-ph/0610201
title: Numerical simulation of a macroscopic quantum-like experiment: oscillating wave packet
authors: L. Nottale, T. Lehner
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610201
abstract: We simulate the transformation of a classical fluid into a quantum-like (super)-fluid by the application of a generalized quantum potential through a retro-active loop. This numerical experiment is exemplified in the case of a non-spreading oscillating wave packet in a harmonic potential. We find signatures of a quantum-like behavior which are stable against various perturbations.

id: quant-ph/0610202
title: Architecture of the Secoqc Quantum Key Distribution network
authors: Mehrdad Dianati, Romain Alleaume
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures. Accepted for publication in the proceedings of the IEEE QSEC 2007 workshop. This paper will be presented at the workshop, as well as other aspects of the work related to the Secoqc network. Revised version: one reference added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610202
abstract: The European projet Secoqc (Secure Communication based on Quantum Cryptography) aims at developing a global network for unconditionally secure key distribution. This paper specifies the requirements and presents the principles guiding the design of this network, and relevant to its architecture and protocols.

id: quant-ph/0610203
title: Security of quantum key distribution using weak coherent states with nonrandom phases
authors: Hoi-Kwong Lo, John Preskill
comments: supersedes quant-ph/0504209. (v2): 28 pages, uses qic.sty. Further discussion of universal composability and of the double Mach-Zehnder scheme
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. 8 (2007) 431-458
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610203
abstract: We prove the security of the Bennett-Brassard (BB84) quantum key distribution protocol in the case where the key information is encoded in the relative phase of a coherent-state reference pulse and a weak coherent-state signal pulse, as in some practical implementations of the protocol. In contrast to previous work, our proof applies even if the eavesdropper knows the phase of the reference pulse, provided that this phase is not modulated by the source, and even if the reference pulse is bright. The proof also applies to the case where the key is encoded in the photon polarization of a weak coherent-state pulse with a known phase, but only if the phases of the four BB84 signal states are judiciously chosen. The achievable key generation rate scales quadratically with the transmission in the channel, just as for BB84 with phase-randomized weak coherent-state signals (when decoy states are not used). For the case where the phase of the reference pulse is strongly modulated by the source, we exhibit an explicit attack that allows the eavesdropper to learn every key bit in a parameter regime where a protocol using phase-randomized signals is provably secure.

id: quant-ph/0610204
title: Quantum Dynamics without the Wave Function
authors: Rafael D. Sorkin
comments: plainTeX, 24 pages, no figures. To appear in a special volume of {\it Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General} entitled ``The Quantum Universe'' and dedicated to Giancarlo Ghirardi on the occasion of his 70th birthday. Most current version is available at this http URL (or wherever my home-page may be)
journal: J.Phys.A40:3207-3222,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610204
abstract: When suitably generalized and interpreted, the path-integral offers an alternative to the more familiar quantal formalism based on state-vectors, selfadjoint operators, and external observers. Mathematically one generalizes the path-integral-as-propagator to a {\it quantal measure} $\mu$ on the space $\Omega$ of all ``conceivable worlds'', and this generalized measure expresses the dynamics or law of motion of the theory, much as Wiener measure expresses the dynamics of Brownian motion. Within such ``histories-based'' schemes new, and more ``realistic'' possibilities open up for resolving the philosophical problems of the state-vector formalism. In particular, one can dispense with the need for external agents by locating the predictive content of $\mu$ in its sets of measure zero: such sets are to be ``precluded''. But unrestricted application of this rule engenders contradictions. One possible response would remove the contradictions by circumscribing the application of the preclusion concept. Another response, more in the tradition of ``quantum logic'', would accommodate the contradictions by dualizing $\Omega$ to a space of ``co-events'' and effectively identifying reality with an element of this dual space.

id: quant-ph/0610205
title: Optimal multicopy asymmetric Gaussian cloning of coherent states
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052335 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610205
abstract: We investigate the asymmetric Gaussian cloning of coherent states which produces M copies from N input replicas, such that the fidelity of all copies may be different. We show that the optimal asymmetric Gaussian cloning can be performed with a single phase-insensitive amplifier and an array of beam splitters. We obtain a simple analytical expression characterizing the set of optimal asymmetric Gaussian cloning machines.

id: quant-ph/0610206
title: Implementation of quantum gates based on geometric phases accumulated in the eigenstates of periodic invariant operators
authors: L. B. Shao, Z. D. Wang, D. Y. Xing
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 014301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610206
abstract: We propose a new strategy to physically implement a universal set of quantum gates based on geometric phases accumulated in the nondegenerate eigenstates of a designated invariant operator in a periodic physical system. The system is driven to evolve in such a way that the dynamical phase shifts of the invariant operator eigenstates are the same (or {\it mod} $2\pi$) while the corresponding geometric phases are nontrivial. We illustrate how this strategy to work in a simple but typical NMR-type qubit system.

id: quant-ph/0610207
title: Sum rules and the domain after the last node of an eigenstate
authors: C.V.Sukumar
comments: 17 pages
journal: J.Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 14153-14163
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610207
abstract: It is shown that it is possible to establish sum rules that must be satisfied at the nodes and extrema of the eigenstates of confining potentials which are functions of a single variable. At any boundstate energy the Schroedinger equation has two linearly independent solutions one of which is normalisable while the other is not. In the domain after the last node of a boundstate eigenfunction the unnormalisable linearly independent solution has a simple form which enables the construction of functions analogous to Green's functions that lead to certain sum rules. One set of sum rules give conditions that must be satisfied at the nodes and extrema of the boundstate eigenfunctions of confining potentials. Another sum rule establishes a relation between an integral involving an eigenfunction in the domain after the last node and a sum involving all the eigenvalues and eigenstates. Such sum rules may be useful in the study of properties of confining potentials. The exactly solvable cases of the particle in a box and the simple harmonic oscillator are used to illustrate the procedure. The relations between one of the sum rules and two-particle densities and a construction based on Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0610208
title: Entanglement in the above-threshold optical parametric oscillator
authors: Alessandro S. Villar, Katiuscia N. Cassemiro, Kaled Dechoum, Antonio Z. Khoury, Marcelo Martinelli, Paulo Nussenzveig
comments: 9 pages, 6 figs. Important reference for readers of quant-ph/0610197. J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, Feature Issue on Optical Quantum-Information Science, doc. ID 70938 (posted 5 September 2006, in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610208
abstract: We investigate entanglement in the above-threshold Optical Parametric Oscillator, both theoretically and experimentally, and discuss its potential applications to quantum information. The fluctuations measured in the subtraction of signal and idler amplitude quadratures are $\Delta^2 \hat p_-=0.50(1)$, or $-3.01(9)$ dB, and in the sum of phase quadratures are $\Delta^2 \hatq_+=0.73(1)$, or $-1.37(6)$ dB. A detailed experimental study of the noise behavior as a function of pump power is presented, and discrepancies with theory are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0610209
title: The Conway-Kochen argument and relativistic GRW models
authors: A. Bassi, G.C. Ghirardi
comments: 16 pages, RevTeX
journal: Found. Phys. 37, 169 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610209
abstract: In a recent paper, Conway and Kochen proposed what is now known as the "Free Will theorem" which, among other things, should prove the impossibility of combining GRW models with special relativity, i.e., of formulating relativistically invariant models of spontaneous wavefunction collapse. Since their argument basically amounts to a non-locality proof for any theory aiming at reproducing quantum correlations, and since it was clear since very a long time that any relativistic collapse model must be non-local in some way, we discuss why the theorem of Conway and Kochen does not affect the program of formulating relativistic GRW models.

id: quant-ph/0610210
title: Quantum State Transfer in Spin-1 Chains
authors: O. Romero-Isart, K. Eckert, A. Sanpera
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 050303(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610210
abstract: We study the transfer of quantum information through a Heisenberg spin-1 chain prepared in its ground state. We measure the efficiency of such a quantum channel {\em via} the fidelity of retrieving an arbitrarily prepared state and {\em via} the transfer of quantum entanglement. The Heisenberg spin-1 chain has a very rich quantum phase diagram. We show that the phase boundaries are reflected in sharp variations of the transfer efficiency. In the vicinity of the border between the dimer and the ferromagnetic phase (in the conjectured spin-nematic region), we find strong indications for a qualitative change of the excitation spectrum. Moreover, we identify two regions of the phase diagram which give rise to particularly high transfer efficiency; the channel might be non-classical even for chains of arbitrary length, in contrast to spin-1/2 chains.

id: quant-ph/0610211
title: Dissipation Effects in Hybrid Systems
authors: X. X. Yi, W. Wang
comments: 4+ pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys Rev A 76,042109(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610211
abstract: The dissipation effect in a hybrid system is studied in this Letter. The hybrid system is a compound of a classical magnetic particle and a quantum single spin. Two cases are considered. In the first case, we investigate the effect of the dissipative quantum subsystem on the motion of its classical partner. Whereas in the second case we show how the dynamics of the quantum single spin are affected by the dissipation of the classical particle. Extension to general dissipative hybrid systems is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0610212
title: Quantum transport on two-dimensional regular graphs
authors: Antonio Volta, Oliver Muelken, Alexander Blumen
comments: 22 pages, 11 figure, acceted for publication in J.Phys.A
journal: J. Phys. A 39, 14997 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610212
abstract: We study the quantum-mechanical transport on two-dimensional graphs by means of continuous-time quantum walks and analyse the effect of different boundary conditions (BCs). For periodic BCs in both directions, i.e., for tori, the problem can be treated in a large measure analytically. Some of these results carry over to graphs which obey open boundary conditions (OBCs), such as cylinders or rectangles. Under OBCs the long time transition probabilities (LPs) also display asymmetries for certain graphs, as a function of their particular sizes. Interestingly, these effects do not show up in the marginal distributions, obtained by summing the LPs along one direction.

id: quant-ph/0610213
title: Superradiant Rayleigh scattering in a ring cavity
authors: S. Slama, S. Bux, G. Krenz, C. Zimmermann, Ph.W. Courteille
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610213
abstract: Collective interaction of light with an atomic gas can give rise to superradiant instabilities. We experimentally study the sudden build-up of a reverse light field in a laser-driven high-finesse ring cavity filled with ultracold thermal or condensed atoms. While superradiant Rayleigh scattering from atomic clouds is normally only observed at very low temperatures (i.e. well below $1 \mu$K), the presence of the ring cavity enhances cooperativity and allows for superradiance with thermal clouds as hot as several $10 \mu$K. A characterization of the superradiance at various temperatures and cooperativity parameters allows us to link it to the collective atomic recoil laser.

id: quant-ph/0610214
title: Arbitrary accuracy iterative phase estimation algorithm as a two qubit benchmark
authors: M. Dobsicek, G. Johansson, V.S. Shumeiko, G. Wendin
comments: Improved error model. Dephasing is considered
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610214
abstract: We discuss the implementation of an iterative quantum phase estimation algorithm, with a single ancillary qubit. We suggest using this algorithm as a benchmark for multi-qubit implementations. Furthermore we describe in detail the smallest possible realization, using only two qubits, and exemplify with a superconducting circuit. We discuss the robustness of the algorithm in the presence of gate errors, and show that 7 bits of precision is obtainable, even with very limited gate accuracies.

id: quant-ph/0610215
title: Restrictions on Information Transfer in Quantum Measurements and State Collapse
authors: S. Mayburov
comments: 9 pages; Latex; more calculations and comments added
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 5 (2007) 279
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610215
abstract: Information-theoretical restrictions on the information transfer in quantum measurements are studied. They are derived for the measurement of system S by detector D, registrated and processed by information system O. The formalism of inference maps in Hilbert space is used for it; it permit to calculate O restricted state which contains available for O information on S parameters. It's shown that the principal information losses, inevitable in this formalism and induced by Heisenberg commutation relations, stipulate the stochasticity of measurement outcomes, registrated by O in the individual events.

id: quant-ph/0610216
title: Three ways to look at mutually unbiased bases
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: 18 pages. Talk at the Vaxjo Conference on Foundations of Probability and Physics, June 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610216
abstract: This is a review of the problem of Mutually Unbiased Bases in finite dimensional Hilbert spaces, real and complex. Also a geometric measure of "mubness" is introduced, and applied to some recent calculations in six dimensions (partly done by Bjorck and by Grassl). Although this does not yet solve any problem, some appealing structures emerge.

id: quant-ph/0610217
title: Entanglement reciprocation between atomic qubits and entangled coherent state
authors: Ling Zhou, Guo-Hui Yang
comments: 5 pages, 3 fighres. accepted by J Phys B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 39, (2006) 5143
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610217
abstract: Introducing classical fields, we can transfer entanglement completely from discrete qubits into entangled coherent state. The entanglement also can be retrieved from the continuous-variable state of the cavities to the atomic qubits. Via postselection measure, atomic entangled state and entangled coherent state can be mutual transformed fully.

id: quant-ph/0610218
title: Loschmidt Echo and Berry phase of the quantum system coupled to the XY spin chain: Proximity to quantum phase transition
authors: Zi-Gang Yuan, Ping Zhang, Shu-Shen Li
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610218
abstract: We study the Loschmidt echo (LE) of a coupled system consisting of a central spin and its surrounding environment described by a general XY spin-chain model. The quantum dynamics of the LE is shown to be remarkably influenced by the quantum criticality of the spin chain. In particular, the decaying behavior of the LE is found to be controlled by the anisotropy parameter of the spin chain. Furthermore, we show that due to the coupling to the spin chain, the ground-state Berry phase for the central spin becomes nonanalytical and its derivative with respect to the magnetic parameter $\lambda$ in spin chain diverges along the critical line $\lambda=1$, which suggests an alternative measurement of the quantum criticality of the spin chain.

id: quant-ph/0610219
title: Concurrence of superposition
authors: Chang-shui Yu, X. X. Yi, He-shan Song
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022332 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610219
abstract: The bounds on concurrence of the superposition state in terms of those of the states being superposed are studied in this paper. The bounds on concurrence are quite different from those on the entanglement measure based on von Neumann entropy (Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 100502 (2006)). In particular, a nonzero lower bound can be provided if the states being superposed are properly constrained.

id: quant-ph/0610220
title: De-Quantising the Solution of Deutsch's Problem
authors: Cristian S. Calude
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610220
abstract: Probably the simplest and most frequently used way to illustrate the power of quantum computing is to solve the so-called {\it Deutsch's problem}. Consider a Boolean function $f: \{0,1\} \to \{0,1\}$ and suppose that we have a (classical) black box to compute it. The problem asks whether $f$ is constant (that is, $f(0) = f(1)$) or balanced ($f(0) \not= f(1)$). Classically, to solve the problem seems to require the computation of $f(0)$ and $ f(1)$, and then the comparison of results. Is it possible to solve the problem with {\em only one} query on $f$? In a famous paper published in 1985, Deutsch posed the problem and obtained a ``quantum'' {\em partial affirmative answer}. In 1998 a complete, probability-one solution was presented by Cleve, Ekert, Macchiavello, and Mosca. Here we will show that the quantum solution can be {\it de-quantised} to a deterministic simpler solution which is as efficient as the quantum one. The use of ``superposition'', a key ingredient of quantum algorithm, is--in this specific case--classically available.

id: quant-ph/0610221
title: Optimal cloning of coherent states by linear optics
authors: Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, presented at the 13th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics, May 23-27 2006, Vienna, Austria (Proceedings will be published in "Acta Physica Hungarica"); reference added, Eq. (8) corrected
journal: Acta Phys. Hung. B 26, 293 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610221
abstract: We describe an optical scheme for optimal Gaussian n to m cloning of coherent states. The scheme, which generalizes a recently demonstrated scheme for 1 to 2 cloning, involves only linear optical components and homodyne detection.

id: quant-ph/0610222
title: Fuzzy de Sitter space-times via coherent states quantization
authors: Jean-Pierre Gazeau, Jihad Mourad, Julien Queva
comments: 
journal: Dans Proceedings of the XXVIth Colloquium on Group Theorical Methods in Physics (A Paraitre) - XXVIth Colloquium on Group Theorical Methods in Physics, New-York : \'Etats-Unis d'Am\'erique (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610222
abstract: A construction of the 2d and 4d fuzzy de Sitter hyperboloids is carried out by using a (vector) coherent state quantization. We get a natural discretization of the dS "time" axis based on the spectrum of Casimir operators of the respective maximal compact subgroups SO(2) and SO(4) of the de Sitter groups SO\_0(1,2) and SO\_0(1,4). The continuous limit at infinite spins is examined.

id: quant-ph/0610223
title: Two-photon and EIT-assisted Doppler cooling in a three-level cascade system
authors: Giovanna Morigi, Ennio Arimondo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Revised version, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev A (Rapid Comm.)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 051404(R) (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610223
abstract: Laser cooling is theoretically investigated in a cascade three-level scheme, where the excited state of a laser-driven transition is coupled by a second laser to a top, more stable level, as for alkali-earth atoms. The second laser action modifies the atomic scattering cross section and produces temperatures lower than those reached by Doppler cooling on the lower transition. When multiphoton processes due to the second laser are relevant, an electromagnetic induced transparency modifies the absorption of the first laser, and the final temperature is controlled by the second laser parameters. When the intermediate state is only virtually excited, the dynamics is dominated by the two-photon process and the final temperature is determined by the spontaneous decay rate of the top state.

id: quant-ph/0610224
title: Quantum information processing using strongly-dipolar coupled nuclear spins
authors: T. S. Mahesh, Dieter Suter
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, Accepted in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610224
abstract: Dipolar coupled homonuclear spins present challenging, yet useful systems for quantum information processing. In such systems, eigenbasis of the system Hamiltonian is the appropriate computational basis and coherent control can be achieved by specially designed strongly modulating pulses. In this letter we describe the first experimental implementation of the quantum algorithm for numerical gradient estimation on the eigenbasis of a four spin system.

id: quant-ph/0610225
title: Geometric phase of an atom in a magnetic storage ring
authors: P. Zhang, L. You
comments: 7pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062110 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610225
abstract: A magnetically trapped atom experiences an adiabatic geometric (Berry's) phase due to changing field direction. We investigate theoretically such an Aharonov-Bohm-like geometric phase for atoms adiabatically moving inside a storage ring as demonstrated in several recent experiments. Our result shows that this phase shift is easily observable in a closed loop interference experiment, and thus the shift has to be accounted for in the proposed inertial sensing applications. The spread in phase shift due to the atom transverse distribution is quantified through numerical simulations.

id: quant-ph/0610226
title: Programmable unknown quantum-state discriminators with multiple copies of program and data: A Jordan basis approach
authors: Bing He, J¨¢nos A. Bergou
comments: 12 pages in revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032316, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610226
abstract: The discrimination of any pair of unknown quantum states is performed by devices processing three parts of inputs: copies of the pair of unknown states we want to discriminate are respectively stored in two program systems and copies of data, which is guaranteed to be one of the unknown states, in a third system. We study the efficiency of such programmable devices with the inputs prepared with $n$ and $m$ copies of unknown qubits used as programs and data, respectively. By finding a symmetry in the average inputs, we apply the Jordan basis method to derive their optimal unambiguous discrimination and the minimum-error discrimination schemes. The dependence of the optimal solutions on the a prior probabilities of the mean input states is also demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0610227
title: Polarization-controlled single photons
authors: T. Wilk, S. C. Webster, H. P. Specht, G. Rempe, A. Kuhn
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 063601 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610227
abstract: Vacuum-stimulated Raman transitions are driven between two magnetic substates of a rubidium-87 atom strongly coupled to an optical cavity. A magnetic field lifts the degeneracy of these states, and the atom is alternately exposed to laser pulses of two different frequencies. This produces a stream of single photons with alternating circular polarization in a predetermined spatio-temporal mode. MHz repetition rates are possible as no recycling of the atom between photon generations is required. Photon indistinguishability is tested by time-resolved two-photon interference.

id: quant-ph/0610228
title: Quantum Formalism: Brief Epistemological Considerations
authors: Helen Lynn, Michele Caponigro
comments: 8 pages, will be submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610228
abstract: We argue about a conceptual approach to quantum formalism. Starting from philosophical conjectures (Platonism, Idealism and Realism) as basic ontic elements (namely: math world, data world, and state of matter), we will analyze the quantum superposition principle. This analysis bring us to demonstrate that the basic assumptions affect in different ways:(a) the general problem of the information and computability about a system, (b) the nature of the math tool utilized and (c) the correspondent physical reality.

id: quant-ph/0610229
title: Classical Coding and the Cauchy-Schwarz Inequality
authors: Bas Janssens
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610229
abstract: In classical coding, a single quantum state is encoded into classical information. Decoding this classical information in order to regain the original quantum state is known to be impossible. However, one can attempt to construct a state which comes as close as possible. We give bounds on the smallest possible trace distance between the original and the decoded state which can be reached. We give two approaches to the problem: one starting from Keyl and Werner's no-cloning theorem, and one starting from an operator-valued Cauchy-Schwarz inequality.

id: quant-ph/0610230
title: Squeezing the Local Oscillator Does Not Improve Signal-to-Noise Ratio in Heterodyne Laser Radar
authors: Mark A. Rubin, Sumanth Kaushik
comments: 3 pp., no figs. Typos corrected, discussion extended, conclusions unchanged
journal: Opt. Lett. 32 (2007) 1369-1371
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610230
abstract: The signal-to-noise ratio for heterodyne laser radar with a coherent target-return beam and a squeezed local-oscillator beam is lower than that obtained using a coherent local oscillator, regardless of the method employed to combine the beams at the detector.

id: quant-ph/0610231
title: Reply to the comment in quant-ph/0609028 on "controlled teleportation"
authors: Chui-Ping Yang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610231
abstract: This is to reply to the comment of Kenigsberg and Mor on our previous work ``Efficient many-party controlled teleportation of multi-qubit quantum information via entanglement''[Phys. Rev. A 70, 022329 (2004)].

id: quant-ph/0610232
title: A minimum-disturbing quantum state discriminator
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, OSID style. Submitted to the special issue of "Open Systems and Information Dynamics", Proceedings of the "38th Symposium on Mathematical Physics", Torun, Poland, June 2006
journal: Open Sys. & Information Dyn. 14, 17 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610232
abstract: We propose two experimental schemes for quantum state discrimination that achieve the optimal tradeoff between the probability of correct identification and the disturbance on the quantum state.

id: quant-ph/0610233
title: Inductive Entanglement Classification of Four Qubits under SLOCC
authors: L. Lamata, J. Leon, D. Salgado, E. Solano
comments: 11 pages and no figures. Accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022318 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610233
abstract: Using an inductive approach to classify multipartite entangled states under stochastic local operations and classical communication introduced recently by the authors [Phys. Rev. A 74, 052336 (2006)], we give the complete classification of four-qubit entangled pure states. Apart from the expected degenerate classes, we show that there exist eight inequivalent ways to entangle four qubits. In this respect, permutation symmetry is taken into account and states with a structure differing only by parameters inside a continuous set are considered to belong to the same class.

id: quant-ph/0610234
title: On the Possibility of Nonlinearities and Chaos Underlying Quantum Mechanics
authors: Wm. C. McHarris
comments: 36 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610234
abstract: Some of the so-called imponderables and counterintuitive puzzles associated with the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics appear to have alternate, parallel explanations in terms of nonlinear dynamics and chaos. These include the mocking up of exponetial decay in closed systems, possible nonlinear extensions of Bell's inequalities, spontaneous symmetry breaking and the existence of intrinsically preferred internal oscillation modes (quantization) in nonlinear systems, and perhaps even the production of diffraction-like patterns by "order in chaos." The existence of such parallel explanations leads to an empirical, quasi-experimental approach to the question of whether or not there might be fundamental nonlinearities underying quantum mechanics. This will be contrasted with recent more theoretical approaches, in which nonlinear extensions have been proposed rather as corrections to a fundamentally linear quantum mechanics. Sources of nonlinearity, such as special relativity and the measurement process itself, will be investigated, as will possible implications of nonlinearities for entanglement and decoherence. It is conceivable that in their debates both Einstein and Bohr could have been right -- for chaos provides the fundamental determinism favored by Einstein, yet for practical measurements it requires the probabilistic interpretation of the Bohr school.

id: quant-ph/0610235
title: BQP-complete Problems Concerning Mixing Properties of Classical Random Walks on Sparse Graphs
authors: Dominik Janzing, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610235
abstract: We describe two BQP-complete problems concerning properties of sparse graphs having a certain symmetry. The graphs are specified by efficiently computable functions which output the adjacent vertices for each vertex. Let i and j be two given vertices. The first problem consists in estimating the difference between the number of paths of length m from j to j and those which from i to j, where m is polylogarithmic in the number of vertices. The scale of the estimation accuracy is specified by some a priori known upper bound on the growth of these differences with increasing m. The problem remains BQP-hard for regular graphs with degree 4. The second problem is related to continuous-time classical random walks. The walk starts at some vertex j. The promise is that the difference of the probabilities of being at j and at i, respectively, decays with O(exp(-\mu t)) for some \mu>0. The problem is to decide whether this difference is greater than a exp(-\mu T) or smaller than b exp(-\mu T) after some time instant T, where T is polylogarithmic and the difference a-b is inverse polylogarithmic in the number of vertices. Since the probabilities differ only by an exponentially small amount, an exponential number of trials would be necessary if one tried to answer this question by running the walk itself. A modification of this problem, asking whether there exists a pair of nodes for which the probability difference is at least a exp(-\mu T), is QCMA-complete.

id: quant-ph/0610236
title: Quantum-limited force measurement with an optomechanical device
authors: Marco Lucamarini, David Vitali, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 063816 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610236
abstract: We study the detection of weak coherent forces by means of an optomechanical device formed by a highly reflecting isolated mirror shined by an intense and highly monochromatic laser field. Radiation pressure excites a vibrational mode of the mirror, inducing sidebands of the incident field, which are then measured by heterodyne detection. We determine the sensitivity of such a scheme and show that the use of an entangled input state of the two sideband modes improves the detection, even in the presence of damping and noise acting on the mechanical mode.

id: quant-ph/0610237
title: Experimental Realization of Maximum Confidence State Discrimination for the Extraction of Quantum Information
authors: Peter J. Mosley, Sarah Croke, Ian A. Walmsley, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, to be published in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610237
abstract: We present the first experimental demonstration of the maximum confidence measurement strategy for quantum state discrimination. Applying this strategy to an arbitrary set of states assigns to each input state a measurement outcome which, when realized, gives the highest possible confidence that the state was indeed present. The theoretically optimal measurement for discriminating between three equiprobable symmetric qubit states is implemented in a polarization-based free-space interferometer. The maximum confidence in the measurement result is 2/3. This is the first explicit demonstration that an improvement in the confidence over the optimal minimum error measurement is possible for linearly dependent states.

id: quant-ph/0610238
title: Entanglement of electrons in interacting molecules
authors: Tina A.C. Maiolo, Fabio Della Sala, Luigi Martina, Giulio Soliani
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures, standard latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610238
abstract: Quantum entanglement is a concept commonly used with reference to the existence of certain correlations in quantum systems that have no classical interpretation. It is a useful resource to enhance the mutual information of memory channels or to accelerate some quantum processes as, for example, the factorization in Shor's Algorithm. Moreover, entanglement is a physical observable directly measured by the von Neumann entropy of the system. We have used this concept in order to give a physical meaning to the electron correlation energy in systems of interacting electrons. The electronic correlation is not directly observable, since it is defined as the difference between the exact ground state energy of the many--electrons Schroedinger equation and the Hartree--Fock energy. We have calculated the correlation energy and compared with the entanglement, as functions of the nucleus--nucleus separation using, for the hydrogen molecule, the Configuration Interaction method. Then, in the same spirit, we have analyzed a dimer of ethylene, which represents the simplest organic conjugate system, changing the relative orientation and distance of the molecules, in order to obtain the configuration corresponding to maximum entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0610239
title: Quantum Mechanical Reflection Resonances
authors: Erica Caden, Robert Gilmore
comments: 4.1 pages 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610239
abstract: Resonances in the reflection probability amplitude r(E) can occur in energy ranges in which the reflection probability R(E)=|r(E)|^2 is 1. They occur as the phase phi(E) defined by r(E) = t*(E)/t(E) = 1e^{i 2phi(E)} undergoes a rapid change of pi radians. During this transition the phase angle exhibits a Lorentzian profile in that d(phi(E))/dE ~= 1/[(E-E_0)^2+(hbar*gamma/2)^2]. The energy E_0 identifies the location of a quasi-bound state, gamma measures the lifetime of this state, and t(E) is a matrix element of the transfer operator. Methods for computing and measuring these resonances are proposed.

id: quant-ph/0610240
title: Optimal computation with non-unitary quantum walks
authors: Viv Kendon, Olivier Maloyer
comments: 16 pages, 3 eps figures, ELsevier style; v2 clarification added to start of Sec. 4, typos fixed & refs updated; v3 error fixed in qubit counts on p. 9, refs updated, to appear (in 2008) in TCS-A postproceedings volume of CiE 2006
journal: Theoretical Computer Science 394(3) pp187-196 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610240
abstract: Quantum versions of random walks on the line and the cycle show a quadratic improvement over classical random walks in their spreading rates and mixing times respectively. Non-unitary quantum walks can provide a useful optimisation of these properties, producing a more uniform distribution on the line, and faster mixing times on the cycle. We investigate the interplay between quantum and random dynamics by comparing the resources required, and examining numerically how the level of quantum correlations varies during the walk. We show numerically that the optimal non-unitary quantum walk proceeds such that the quantum correlations are nearly all removed at the point of the final measurement. This requires only O(log T) random bits for a quantum walk of T steps

id: quant-ph/0610241
title: Experimental realization of Wheeler's delayed-choice GedankenExperiment
authors: Vincent Jacques, E. Wu, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Grosshans, Fran?ois Treussart, Philippe Grangier, Alain Aspect, Jean-Fran?ois Roch
comments: 
journal: Science 315, 5814 (2007) 966
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610241
abstract: The quantum "mystery which cannot go away" (in Feynman's words) of wave-particle duality is illustrated in a striking way by Wheeler's delayed-choice GedankenExperiment. In this experiment, the configuration of a two-path interferometer is chosen after a single-photon pulse has entered it : either the interferometer is \textit{closed} (\textit{i.e.} the two paths are recombined) and the interference is observed, or the interferometer remains \textit{open} and the path followed by the photon is measured. We report an almost ideal realization of that GedankenExperiment, where the light pulses are true single photons, allowing unambiguous which-way measurements, and the interferometer, which has two spatially separated paths, produces high visibility interference. The choice between measuring either the 'open' or 'closed' configuration is made by a quantum random number generator, and is space-like separated -- in the relativistic sense -- from the entering of the photon into the interferometer. Measurements in the closed configuration show interference with a visibility of 94%, while measurements in the open configuration allow us to determine the followed path with an error probability lower than 1%.

id: quant-ph/0610242
title: Formation of ions by high energy photons
authors: E. G. Drukarev, A. I. Mikhailov, I.A. Mikhailov, Kh. Yu. Rakhimov, W. Scheid
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610242
abstract: We calculate the electron energy spectrum of ionization by a high energy photon, accompanied by creation of electron-positron pair. The total cross section of the process is also obtained. The asymptotics of the cross section does not depend on the photon energies. At the photon energies exceeding a certain value $\omega_0$ this appeares to to be the dominant mechanism of formation of the ions. The dependence of $\omega_0$ on the value of nuclear charge is obtained. Our results are consistent with experimental data.

id: quant-ph/0610243
title: Global stability criterion for a quantum feedback control process on a single qubit and exponential stability in case of perfect detection efficiency
authors: Andreas de Vries
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 75, 032101 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610243
abstract: Quantum feedback control is a technology which can be used to drive a quantum system into a predetermined eigenstate. In this article, sufficient conditions for the experiment parameters of a quantum feedback control process of a homodyne QND measurement are given to guarantee feedback control of a spin-1/2 quantum system in case of imperfect detection efficiency. For the case of pure states and perfect detection efficiency, time scales of feedback control processes are calculated.

id: quant-ph/0610244
title: Emergent quantum phases in a heteronuclear molecular Bose--Einstein condensate model
authors: Melissa Duncan, Angela Foerster, Jon Links, Eduardo Mattei, Norman Oelkers, Arlei Prestes Tonel
comments: 23 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610244
abstract: We study a three-mode Hamiltonian modelling a heteronuclear molecular Bose--Einstein condensate. Two modes are associated with two distinguishable atomic constituents, which can combine to form a molecule represented by the third mode. Beginning with a semi-classical analogue of the model, we conduct an analysis to determine the phase space fixed points of the system. Bifurcations of the fixed points naturally separate the coupling parameter space into different regions. Two distinct scenarios are found, dependent on whether the imbalance between the number operators for the atomic modes is zero or non-zero. This result suggests the ground-state properties of the model exhibit an unusual sensitivity on the atomic imbalance. We then test this finding for the quantum mechanical model. Specifically we use Bethe ansatz methods, ground-state expectation values, the character of the quantum dynamics, and ground-state wavefunction overlaps to clarify the nature of the ground-state phases. The character of the transition is smoothed due to quantum fluctuations, but we may nonetheless identify the emergence of a quantum phase boundary in the limit of zero atomic imbalance.

id: quant-ph/0610245
title: Probabilistic cloning with supplementary information contained in the quantum states of two auxiliary systems
authors: Lvjun Li, Daowen Qiu
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610245
abstract: In probabilistic cloning with two auxiliary systems, we consider and compare three different protocols for the success probabilities of cloning. We show that, in certain circumstances, it may increase the success probability to add an auxiliary system to the probabilistic cloning machine having one auxiliary system, but we always can find another cloning machine with one auxiliary system having the same success probability as that with two auxiliary systems.

id: quant-ph/0610246
title: Information-disturbance tradeoff for spin coherent state estimation
authors: Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures; improved introduction, simplified notation, and new references. To appear on Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012306 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610246
abstract: We show how to quantify the optimal tradeoff between the amount of information retrieved by a quantum measurement in estimating an unknown spin coherent state and the disturbance on the state itself, and how to derive the corresponding minimum-disturbing measurement.

id: quant-ph/0610247
title: Hardy's proof of nonlocality in the presence of noise
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Luca Marinatto
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, RevTex, revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062107 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610247
abstract: We extend the validity of Hardy's nonlocality without inequalities proof to cover the case of special one-parameter classes of non-pure statistical operators. These mixed states are obtained by mixing the Hardy states with a completely chaotic noise or with a colored noise and they represent a realistic description of imperfect preparation processes of (pure) Hardy states in nonlocality experiments. Within such a framework we are able to exhibit a precise range of values of the parameter measuring the noise affecting the non-optimal preparation of an arbitrary Hardy state, for which it is still possible to put into evidence genuine nonlocal effects. Equivalently, our work exhibits particular classes of bipartite mixed states whose constituents do not admit any local and deterministic hidden variable model reproducing the quantum mechanical predictions.

id: quant-ph/0610248
title: A new effective mass Hamiltonian and associated Lame equation: bound states
authors: A. Ganguly, M.V. Ioffe, L.M. Nieto
comments: To be published in J.Phys.A (Present e-mail of AG: gangulyasish@rediffmail.com)
journal: J.Phys. A39 (2006) 14659-14680
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610248
abstract: A new quantum model with rational functions for the potential and effective mass is proposed in a stretchable region outside which both are constant. Starting from a generalized effective mass kinetic energy operator the matching and boundary conditions for the envelope wave functions are derived. It is shown that in a mapping to an auxiliary constant-mass Schrodinger picture one obtains one-period ``associated Lame'' well bounded by two delta-wells or delta-barriers depending on the values of one ordering parameter. The results for bound states of this new solvable model are provided for a wide variation of the parameters.

id: quant-ph/0610249
title: Asymmetric quantum telecloning of multiqubit states
authors: Lin Chen, Yi-Xin Chen
comments: Revtex, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610249
abstract: We propose a scheme of 1$\to$2 optimal universal asymmetric quantum telecloning of pure multiqubit states. In particular, we first investigate the asymmetric telecloning of arbitrary 2-qubit states and then extend it to the case of multiqubit system. Many figures of merit for the telecloning process are checked, including the entanglement of the quantum channel and fidelities of the clones. Our scheme can be used for the 1$\to$4 universal telecloning of mixed multiqubit states.

id: quant-ph/0610250
title: Coupled cavity QED for coherent control of photon transmission (I): Green function approach for hybrid systems with two-level doping
authors: F. M. Hu, Lan Zhou, Tao Shi, C. P. Sun
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610250
abstract: This is the first one of a series of our papers theoretically studying the coherent control of photon transmission along the coupled resonator optical waveguide (CROW) by doping artificial atoms for various hybrid structures. We will provide the several approaches correspondingly based on Green function, the mean field method and spin wave theory et al. In the present paper we adopt the two-time Green function approach to study the coherent transmission photon in a CROW with homogeneous couplings, each cavity of which is doped by a two-level artificial atom. We calculate the two-time correlation function for photon in the weak-coupling case. Its poles predict the exact dispersion relation, which results in the group velocity coherently controlled by the collective excitation of the doping atoms. We emphasize the role of the population inversion of doping atoms induced by some polarization mechanism.

id: quant-ph/0610251
title: Reply to Comment on 'Spin Decoherence in Superconducting Atom Chips'
authors: Bo-Sture K. Skagerstam, Ulrich Hohenester, Asier Eiguren, Per Kristian Rekdal
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610251
abstract: This is a reply to the Comment on 'Spin Decoherence in Superconducting Atom Chips' [arXiv:quant-ph/0610095 (2006)].

id: quant-ph/0610252
title: Value Assignments to Observables Depending on a History of Context Change
authors: Satoshi Uchiyama
comments: 22 pages. Errors in the previous proof of Proposition 5 were corrected. This is the full version of "On Hysteresis of Value Assignments to Observables during Changes of Context" in Foundations of Probability and Physics - 4, eds. A. Yu. Khrennikov et al., AIP Conf. Proc. 889, 2007, pp. 422-426
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610252
abstract: The functional composition principle is generalized by taking into account of history of context change. Analysis of Peres' example shows hysteresis of value assignments. It is shown that value assignments which depend on the history of context change are possible in the case that the Hilbert space of state vectors is finite dimensional.

id: quant-ph/0610253
title: Entanglement in quantum information theory
authors: J. Eisert
comments: 153 pages, 30 figures. An ancient PhD thesis, covering the time period April 1998 - December 2000. On quant-ph/9806088, quant-ph/9807034, quant-ph/9907021, quant-ph/9912080, quant-ph/0004076, quant-ph/0005101, quant-ph/0007081, quant-ph/0103096, quant-ph/0212007. Some material has only been published here (such as a more detailed discussion of entanglement loss under twirling with respect to the symmetric group as encountered in symmetric group superselection rules, an early independent proof that the negativity is an entanglement monotone and hence a proper measure of entanglement, discussions of entanglement transformations, catalysis, and non-local gates in distributed quantum computation, and some review material)
journal: PhD thesis, University of Potsdam, February 2001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610253
abstract: This thesis covers several aspects of entanglement in the context of quantum information theory.

id: quant-ph/0610254
title: Simple setups for quantum games in optical networks
authors: Rubens Viana Ramos, Paulo Benicio Melo de Sousa
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610254
abstract: In this work, we propose two optical setups for two-players, non-zero and zero sum, quantum games in optical networks using light polarization of single-photon pulses, single-photon detectors and linear optical devices. The optical setups proposed can be easily implemented permitting a fast experimental realization of quantum games with present technology.

id: quant-ph/0610255
title: Comments on Proposed Gravitational Modifications of Schrodinger Dynamics and their Experimental Implications
authors: Stephen L. Adler
comments: Tex, 17p
journal: J.Phys.A40:755-764,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610255
abstract: We discuss aspects of gravitational modifications of Schrodinger dynamics proposed by Diosi and Penrose. We consider first the Diosi-Penrose criterion for gravitationally induced state vector reduction, and compute the reduction time expected for a superposition of a uniform density cubical solid in two positions displaced by a small fraction of the cube side. We show that the predicted effect is much smaller than would be observable in the proposed Marshall et al. mirror experiment. We then consider the ``Schrodinger -Newton'' equation for an N-particle system. We show that in the independent particle approximation, it differs from the usual Hartree approximation applied to the Newtonian potential by self-interaction terms, which do not have a consistent Born rule interpretation. This raises doubts about the use of the Schrodinger-Newton equation to calculate gravitational effects on molecular interference experiments. When the effects of Newtonian gravitation on molecular diffraction are calculated using the standard many-body Schrodinger equation, no washing out of the interference pattern is predicted.

id: quant-ph/0610256
title: Effective generation of cat and kitten states
authors: Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, G. J. Milburn, Krzysztof W¨®dkiewicz
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Open Systems and Information Dynamics 14, 81 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610256
abstract: We present an effective method of coherent state superposition (cat state) generation using single trapped ion in a Paul trap. The method is experimentally feasible for coherent states with amplitude $\alpha \le 2$ using available technology. It works both in and beyond the Lamb-Dicke regime.

id: quant-ph/0610257
title: Quantum state conversion between continuous variable and qubits systems
authors: Xiao-yu Chen, Liang Han, Li-zhen Jiang
comments: 6 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 359 (2006) 587-591
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610257
abstract: We investigate how quantum state can be converted between continuous variable and qubits systems. Non-linear Jaynes-Cumings interaction Hamiltonian is introduced to accomplish the conversion. Detail analysis on the conversion of thermal state exhibits that pretty good fidelity can be achieved.

id: quant-ph/0610258
title: Conversion of entanglement between continuous variable and qubit systems
authors: Xiao-yu Chen, Liang-neng Wu, Li-zhen Jiang, Ya-zhuo Li
comments: 5 pages
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information,Vol. 6, No. 5 (2008) 1011-1019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610258
abstract: We investigate how entanglement can be transferred between continuous variable and qubit systems. We find that a two-mode squeezed vacuum state and a continuous variable Werner state can be converted to the product states of infinitive number of two-qubit states while keeping the entanglement. The reverse process is also possible.

id: quant-ph/0610259
title: Contractions, Matrix Paramatrizations, and Quantum Information
authors: M.C. Tseng
comments: Submitted to J. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610259
abstract: In this note, we discuss dilation-theoretic matrix parametrizations of contractions and positive matrices. These parametrizations are then applied to some problems in quantum information theory. First we establish some properties of positive maps, or entanglement witnesses. Two further applications, concerning concrete dilations of completely positive maps, in particular quantum operations, are given.

id: quant-ph/0610260
title: PT/Non-PT Symmetric and Non-Hermitian Poschl-Teller-Like Solvable Potentials via Nikiforov-Uvarov Method
authors: Ozlem Yesiltas
comments: 18 pages 8 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 75 (2007) 41--46
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610260
abstract: The solutions of trigonometric Scarf potential, PT/non-PT-symmetric and non-Hermitian q-deformed hyperbolic Scarf and Manning-Rosen potentials are obtained by solving the Schrodinger equation. The Nikiforov-Uvarov method is used to obtain the real energy spectra and corresponding eigenfunctions.

id: quant-ph/0610261
title: Reply to Comment on "On the Original Proof by Reductio ad Absurdum of the Hohenberg-Kohn Theorem for Many-Electron Coulomb Systems" [Szczepanik, W; Dulak, M.; Wesolowski, T. A., Int. J. Quantum Chem. 106 (2006)]
authors: E. S. Kryachko
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610261
abstract: It is shown that the title Comment by W. Szczepanik, M. Dulak, and T. A. Wesolowski [Int. J. Quantum Chem. 106 (2006)] is unsatisfactory.

id: quant-ph/0610262
title: An application of renormalization in Hilbert space at phase transition points in strongly interacting systems
authors: Tarek Khalil, Jean Richert
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610262
abstract: We introduce an algorithm aimed to reduce the dimensions of Hilbert space. It is used here in order to study the behaviour of low energy states of strongly interacting quantum many-body systems at first order transitions and avoided crossings. The method is tested on different frustrated quantum spin ladders with two legs. The role and importance of symmetries are investigated by using different bases of states.

id: quant-ph/0610263
title: Estimating the Degree of Entanglement of Unknown Gaussian States
authors: Janet Anders
comments: Diploma thesis, September 2003, roughly 90 pages, several figures (some color), put here for reference, (in particular chapters 2-4) may be helpful for students as an introduction to Gaussian States
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610263
abstract: We give an introduction to Gaussian states and operations. A discussion of the entanglement properties of bipartite Gaussian states in terms of its covariance matrix follows. It is explained how entanglement can be witnessed using feasible measurements, e.g. homodyne measurements. We find that the outcome of such a measurements cannot only witness but also quantify entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0610264
title: Single-photon-emitting diodes: a review
authors: A. J. Bennett, P. Atkinson, P. See, M. B. Ward, R. M. Stevenson, Z. L. Yuan, D. C. Unitt, D. J. P. Ellis, K. Cooper, D. A. Ritchie, A. J. Shields
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Stat. Sol. (b) 243, No 14, p3730 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610264
abstract: Compact and reliable sources of non-classical light could find many applications in emerging technologies such as quantum cryptography, quantum imaging and also in fundamental tests of quantum physics. Single self-assembled quantum dots have been widely studied for this reason, but the vast majority of reported work has been limited to optically excited sources. Here we discuss the progress made so far, and prospects for, electrically driven single-photon-emitting diodes (SPEDs).

id: quant-ph/0610265
title: Suppression of Quantum Scattering in Strongly Confined Systems
authors: J.I. Kim, V.S. Melezhik, P. Schmelcher
comments: 3 figs, Phys. Rev. Lett. (early November issue)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610265
abstract: We demonstrate that scattering of particles strongly interacting in three dimensions (3D) can be suppressed at low energies in a quasi-one-dimensional (1D) confinement. The underlying mechanism is the interference of the s- and p-wave scattering contributions with large s- and p-wave 3D scattering lengths being a necessary prerequisite. This low-dimensional quantum scattering effect might be useful in "interacting" quasi-1D ultracold atomic gases, guided atom interferometry, and impurity scattering in strongly confined quantum wire-based electronic devices.

id: quant-ph/0610266
title: Demonstration of three-photon de Broglie wavelength by projection measurement
authors: B. H. Liu, F. W. Sun, Y. X. Gong, Y. F. Huang, Z. Y. Ou, G. C. Guo
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610266
abstract: Two schemes of projection measurement are realized experimentally to demonstrate the de Broglie wavelength of three photons without the need for a maximally entangled three-photon state (the NOON state). The first scheme is based on the proposal by Wang and Kobayashi (Phys. Rev. A {\bf 71}, 021802) that utilizes a couple of asymmetric beam splitters while the second one applies the general method of NOON state projection measurement to three-photon case. Quantum interference of three photons is responsible for projecting out the unwanted states, leaving only the NOON state contribution in these schemes of projection measurement.

id: quant-ph/0610267
title: Graph States Under the Action of Local Clifford Group in Non-Binary Case
authors: Mohsen Bahramgiri, Salman Beigi
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, corrected various minor errors and added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610267
abstract: Graph states are well-entangled quantum states that are defined based on a graph. Of course, if two graphs are isomorphic their associated states are the same. Also, we know local operations do not change the entanglement of quantum states. Therefore, graph states that are either isomorphic or equivalent under the local Clifford group have the same properties. In this paper, we first establish a bound on the number of graph states which are neither isomorphic nor equivalent under the action of local Clifford group. Also, we study graph states in non-binary case. We translate the action of local Clifford group, as well as measurement of Pauli operators, into transformations on their associated graphs. Finally, we present an efficient algorithm to verify whether two graph states, in non-binary case, are locally equivalent or not.

id: quant-ph/0610268
title: Macroscopic Entanglement and Phase Transitions
authors: Janet Anders, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures (color), Submitted to special OSID issue, Proceedings of the 38th Symposium on Mathematical Physics - Quantum Entanglement & Geometry, Torun (Poland), June 2006
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics, 14:1 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610268
abstract: This paper summarises the results of our research on macroscopic entanglement in spin systems and free Bosonic gases. We explain how entanglement can be observed using entanglement witnesses which are themselves constructed within the framework of thermodynamics and thus macroscopic observables. These thermodynamical entanglement witnesses result in bounds on macroscopic parameters of the system, such as the temperature, the energy or the susceptibility, below which entanglement must be present. The derived bounds indicate a relationship between the occurrence of entanglement and the establishment of order, possibly resulting in phase transition phenomena. We give a short overview over the concepts developed in condensed matter physics to capture the characteristics of phase transitions in particular in terms of order and correlation functions. Finally we want to ask and speculate whether entanglement could be a generalised order concept by itself, relevant in (quantum induced) phase transitions such as BEC, and that taking this view may help us to understand the underlying process of high-T superconductivity.

id: quant-ph/0610269
title: Subsystem Pseudo-pure States
authors: P. Cappellaro, J. S. Hodges, T. F. Havel, D. G. Cory
comments: 9 pages, 1 Figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042321 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610269
abstract: A critical step in experimental quantum information processing (QIP) is to implement control of quantum systems protected against decoherence via informational encodings, such as quantum error correcting codes, noiseless subsystems and decoherence free subspaces. These encodings lead to the promise of fault tolerant QIP, but they come at the expense of resource overheads. Part of the challenge in studying control over multiple logical qubits, is that QIP test-beds have not had sufficient resources to analyze encodings beyond the simplest ones. The most relevant resources are the number of available qubits and the cost to initialize and control them. Here we demonstrate an encoding of logical information that permits the control over multiple logical qubits without full initialization, an issue that is particularly challenging in liquid state NMR. The method of subsystem pseudo-pure state will allow the study of decoherence control schemes on up to 6 logical qubits using liquid state NMR implementations.

id: astro-ph/0610700
title: Pointer states for primordial fluctuations in inflationary cosmology
authors: C. Kiefer, I. Lohmar, D. Polarski, A. A. Starobinsky
comments: 32 pages, 2 figures, matches published version: discussion expanded, references added, conclusions unchanged
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.24:1699-1718,2007
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0610700
abstract: Primordial fluctuations in inflationary cosmology acquire classical properties through decoherence when their wavelengths become larger than the Hubble scale. Although decoherence is effective, it is not complete, so a significant part of primordial correlations remains up to the present moment. We address the issue of the pointer states which provide a classical basis for the fluctuations with respect to the influence by an environment (other fields). Applying methods from the quantum theory of open systems (the Lindblad equation), we show that this basis is given by narrow Gaussians that approximate eigenstates of field amplitudes. We calculate both the von Neumann and linear entropy of the fluctuations. Their ratio to the maximal entropy per field mode defines a degree of partial decoherence in the entropy sense. We also determine the time of partial decoherence making the Wigner function positive everywhere which, for super-Hubble modes during inflation, is virtually independent of coupling to the environment and is only slightly larger than the Hubble time. On the other hand, assuming a representative environment (a photon bath), the decoherence time for sub-Hubble modes is finite only if some real dissipation exists.

id: astro-ph/0610928
title: The $He_2^{2+}$ molecular ion can exist in a magnetic field
authors: A.V. Turbiner, N.L. Guevara
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, 3 tables
journal: Phys.Rev.A74:063419,2006
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0610928
abstract: A detailed study of the ground state of the Coulomb system $(\al \al e e)$ which corresponds to the $He_2^{2+}$ molecular ion in a magnetic field $B=0-4.414 \times 10^{13} $ G in parallel configuration (infinitely massive $\al-$particles are situated along a magnetic field line) is presented. The variational method is employed using a trial function which includes electronic correlation in the form $\exp{(\gamma r_{12})}$ where $\gamma$ is a variational parameter. It is shown that the quantum numbers of the lowest total energy state depend on the magnetic field strength. It evolves from the spin-singlet ${}^1\Si_g$ metastable state at $0 \leq B \lesssim 0.85$ a.u. to a repulsive spin-triplet ${}^3\Si_u$ state for $0.85 {a.u.} \lesssim B \lesssim 1100$ a.u. and, finally, to a strongly bound spin-triplet ${}^3\Pi_u$ state at stronger fields $B \gtrsim 1100$ a.u. The lowest vibrational energy for the latter case is calculated.

id: cond-mat/0610003
title: Quantitative Determination of the Adiabatic Condition Using Force-Detected Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
authors: Casey W. Miller, John T. Markert
comments: 5 pages, 3 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. B 72, 224402 (2005)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610003
abstract: The adiabatic condition governing cyclic adiabatic inversion of proton spins in a micron-sized ammonium chloride crystal was studied using room temperature nuclear magnetic resonance force microscopy. A systematic degradation of signal-to-noise was observed as the adiabatic condition became violated. A theory of adiabatic following applicable to cyclic adiabatic inversion is reviewed and implemented to quantitatively determine an adiabaticity threshold $(\gamma H_1)^2/(\omega_{osc}\Omega) = 6.0$ from our experimental results.

id: cond-mat/0610019
title: Quantum dots based on parabolic quantum wells: importance of electronic correlations
authors: T. Ihn, C. Ellenberger, C. Yannouleas, U. Landman, K. Ensslin, D. Driscoll, A.C. Gossard
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610019
abstract: We present measurements and theoretical interpretation of the magnetic field dependent excitation spectra of a two-electron quantum dot. The quantum dot is based on an Al$_x$Ga$_{1-x}$As parabolic quantum well with effective $g^\star$-factor close to zero. Results of tunneling spectroscopy of the four lowest states are compared to exact diagonalization calculations and a generalized Heitler--London approximation and good agreement is found. Electronic correlations, associated with the formation of an H$_2$-type Wigner molecule, turn out to be very important in this system.

id: cond-mat/0610024
title: Entanglement from the Dynamics of an Ideal Bose Gas in a Lattice
authors: Sougato Bose
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610024
abstract: We show how the remotest sites of a finite lattice can be entangled, with the amount of entanglement exceeding that of a singlet, solely through the dynamics of an ideal Bose gas in a special initial state in the lattice. When additional occupation number measurements are made on the intermediate lattice sites, then the amount of entanglement and the length of the lattice separating the entangled sites can be significantly enhanced. The entanglement generated by this dynamical procedure is found to be higher than that for the ground state of an ideal Bose gas in the same lattice. A second dynamical evolution is shown to verify the existence of these entangled states, as well entangle qubits belonging to well separated quantum registers.

id: cond-mat/0610089
title: Single electron spin and its coherence in Si quantum computer architecture
authors: M.J. Calderon, Belita Koiller, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review B 75, 161304(R) (2007).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610089
abstract: The possibility of performing single spin measurements in Si-based quantum computers through electric field control of electrons bound to double donors near a barrier interface is assessed. We find that both the required electric fields and the tunneling times involved are probably too large for practical implementations. On the other hand, operations with double donors in their first excited state require smaller fields and faster tunneling times, and are therefore suitable for spin-to-charge conversion measurements. We also propose a measurement scheme that would render statistical (ensemble) estimates of the spin coherence at the Si/SiO2 interface.

id: cond-mat/0610135
title: Complexity in parametric Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonians and structural analysis of eigenstates
authors: Moritz Hiller, Tsampikos Kottos, T. Geisel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 061604(R), 2006
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610135
abstract: We consider a family of chaotic Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonians (BHH) parameterized by the coupling strength $k$ between neighboring sites. As $k$ increases the eigenstates undergo changes, reflected in the structure of the Local Density of States. We analyze these changes, both numerically and analytically, using perturbative and semiclassical methods. Although our focus is on the quantum trimer, the presented methodology is applicable for the analysis of longer lattices as well.

id: cond-mat/0610198
title: Quantum liquid of repulsively bound pairs of particles in a lattice
authors: David Petrosyan, Bernd Schmidt, James R. Anglin, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: Corrected dimer energy & references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 033606 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610198
abstract: Repulsively interacting particles in a periodic potential can form bound composite objects, whose dissociation is suppressed by a band gap. Nearly pure samples of such repulsively bound pairs of cold atoms -- "dimers" -- have recently been prepared by Winkler et al. [Nature 441, 853 (2006)]. We here derive an effective Hamiltonian for a lattice loaded with dimers only and discuss its implications to the many-body dynamics of the system. We find that the dimer-dimer interaction includes strong on-site repulsion and nearest-neighbor attraction which always dominates over the dimer kinetic energy at low temperatures. The dimers then form incompressible, minimal-surface "droplets" of a quantum lattice liquid. For low lattice filling, the effective Hamiltonian can be mapped onto the spin-1/2 XXZ model with fixed total magnetization which exhibits a first-order phase transition from the "droplet" to a "gas" phase. This opens the door to studying first order phase transitions using highly controllable ultracold atoms.

id: cond-mat/0610210
title: Time evolution algorithms for Matrix Product States and DMRG
authors: Juan Jose Garcia-Ripoll
comments: This work, with 18 pages and 17 figures, is a continuation/extension of cond-mat/0602305
journal: New J. Phys. 8 305 (2006)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610210
abstract: In this work we develop several new simulation algorithms for 1D many-body quantum mechanical systems combining the Matrix Product State variational ansatz with Taylor, Pad\'e and Arnoldi approximations to the evolution operator. By comparing with previous techniques based on MPS and DMRG we demonstrate that the Arnoldi method is the best one, reaching extremely good accuracy with moderate resources. Finally we apply this algorithm to studying how correlations are transferred from the atomic to the molecular cloud when crossing a Feschbach resonance with two-species hard-core bosons in a 1D optical lattice.

id: cond-mat/0610225
title: Sequential superradiant scattering from atomic Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: O. Zobay, G. M. Nikolopoulos
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. Submitted to Proceedings of LPHYS'06 workshop
journal: Laser Phys. 17, 180 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610225
abstract: We theoretically discuss several aspects of sequential superradiant scattering from atomic Bose-Einstein condensates. Our treatment is based on the semiclassical description of the process in terms of the Maxwell-Schroedinger equations for the coupled matter-wave and optical fields. First, we investigate sequential scattering in the weak-pulse regime and work out the essential mechanisms responsible for bringing about the characteristic fan-shaped side-mode distribution patterns. Second, we discuss the transition between the Kapitza-Dirac and Bragg regimes of sequential scattering in the strong-pulse regime. Finally, we consider the situation where superradiance is initiated by coherently populating an atomic side mode through Bragg diffraction, as in studies of matter-wave amplification, and describe the effect on the sequential scattering process.

id: cond-mat/0610379
title: Entanglement in the Majumdar-Ghosh model
authors: Ravindra W. Chhajlany, Piotr Tomczak, Antoni Wojcik, Johannes Richter
comments: 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032340 (2007)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610379
abstract: We present an analysis of the entanglement characteristics in the Majumdar-Ghosh (MG) or $J_{1}$-$J_{2}$ Heisenberg model. For a system consisting of up to 28 spins, there is a deviation from the scaling behaviour of the entanglement entropy characterizing the unfrustrated Heisenberg chain as soon as $J_{2} >0.25$. This feature can be used as an indicator of the dimer phase transition that occurs at $J_{2} = J_{2}^{*} \approx 0.2411 J_{1}$. Additionally, we also consider entanglement at the MG point $J_{2}=0.5 J_{1}$.

id: cond-mat/0610530
title: Matrix Product States Algorithms and Continuous Systems
authors: S. Iblisdir, R. Orus, J.I. Latorre
comments: 22 pages, 14 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 104305 (2007)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610530
abstract: A generic method to investigate many-body continuous-variable systems is pedagogically presented. It is based on the notion of matrix product states (so-called MPS) and the algorithms thereof. The method is quite versatile and can be applied to a wide variety of situations. As a first test, we show how it provides reliable results in the computation of fundamental properties of a chain of quantum harmonic oscillators achieving off-critical and critical relative errors of the order of 10^(-8) and 10^(-4) respectively. Next, we use it to study the ground state properties of the quantum rotor model in one spatial dimension, a model that can be mapped to the Mott insulator limit of the 1-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model. At the quantum critical point, the central charge associated to the underlying conformal field theory can be computed with good accuracy by measuring the finite-size corrections of the ground state energy. Examples of MPS-computations both in the finite-size regime and in the thermodynamic limit are given. The precision of our results are found to be comparable to those previously encountered in the MPS studies of, for instance, quantum spin chains. Finally, we present a spin-off application: an iterative technique to efficiently get numerical solutions of partial differential equations of many variables. We illustrate this technique by solving Poisson-like equations with precisions of the order of 10^(-7).

id: cond-mat/0610626
title: Topological characterization of quantum phase transitions in a S=1/2 spin model
authors: Xiao-Yong Feng, Guang-Ming Zhang, Tao Xiang
comments: 5 figurs
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 087204 (2007)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610626
abstract: We have introduced a novel Majorana representation of S=1/2 spins using the Jordan-Wigner transformation and have shown that a generalized spin model of Kitaev defined on a brick-wall lattice is equivalent to a model of non-interacting Majorana fermions with Z_2 gauge fields without redundant degrees of freedom. The quantum phase transitions of the system at zero temperature are found to be of topological type and can be characterized by nonlocal string order parameters. In appropriate dual representations, these string order parameters become local order parameters and the basic concept of Landau theory of continuous phase transition can be applied.

id: cond-mat/0610652
title: Electronic structures of (In,Ga)As/GaAs quantum dot molecules made of dots with dissimilar sizes
authors: Lixin He, Alex Zunger
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610652
abstract: Using single-particle pseudopotential and many-particle configuration interaction methods, we compare various physical quantities of (In,Ga)As/GaAs quantum dot molecules (QDMs) made of dissimilar dots (heteropolar QDMs) with QDMs made of identical dots (homopolar QDMs). The calculations show that the electronic structures of hetero-QDMs and homo-QDMs differ significantly at large inter-dot distance. In particular (i) Unlike those of homo-QDMs, the single-particle molecular orbitals of hetero-QDMs convert to dot localized orbitals at large inter-dot distance. (ii) Consequently, in a hetero-QMD the bonding-antibonding splitting of molecular orbitals at large inter-dot distance is significantly larger than the electron hopping energy whereas for homo-QDM, the bonding-antibonding splitting is very similar to the hopping energy. (iii) The asymmetry of the QDM increases significantly the double occupation for the two-electron ground states, and therefore affects the degree of entanglement of the two electrons.

id: cond-mat/0610686
title: Coherent dynamics on hierarchical systems
authors: Alexander Blumen, Veronika Bierbaum, Oliver Muelken
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physica A 371, 10 (2006)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610686
abstract: We study the coherent transport modeled by continuous-time quantum walks, focussing on hierarchical structures. For these we use Husimi cacti, lattices dual to the dendrimers. We find that the transport depends strongly on the initial site of the excitation. For systems of sizes $N\le21$, we find that processes which start at central sites are nearly recurrent. Furthermore, we compare the classical limiting probability distribution to the long time average of the quantum mechanical transition probability which shows characteristic patterns. We succeed in finding a good lower bound for the (space) average of the quantum mechanical probability to be still or again at the initial site.

id: cond-mat/0610756
title: Quantitative Treatment of Decoherence
authors: L. Fedichkin, V. Privman
comments: Revised version, 26 pages, in LaTeX, 3 EPS figures
journal: Electron Spin Resonance and Related Phenomena in Low Dimensional Structures, Topics in Applied Physics 115 (Springer, Berlin, 2009) Pages 141-167
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610756
abstract: We outline different approaches to define and quantify decoherence. We argue that a measure based on a properly defined norm of deviation of the density matrix is appropriate for quantifying decoherence in quantum registers. For a semiconductor double quantum dot qubit, evaluation of this measure is reviewed. For a general class of decoherence processes, including those occurring in semiconductor qubits, we argue that this measure is additive: It scales linearly with the number of qubits.

id: cond-mat/0610833
title: Entanglement entropy in collective models
authors: J. Vidal, S. Dusuel, T. Barthel
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: J.Stat.Mech.0701:P01015,2007
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610833
abstract: We discuss the behavior of the entanglement entropy of the ground state in various collective systems. Results for general quadratic two-mode boson models are given, yielding the relation between quantum phase transitions of the system (signaled by a divergence of the entanglement entropy) and the excitation energies. Such systems naturally arise when expanding collective spin Hamiltonians at leading order via the Holstein-Primakoff mapping. In a second step, we analyze several such models (the Dicke model, the two-level BCS model, the Lieb-Mattis model and the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model) and investigate the properties of the entanglement entropy in the whole parameter range. We show that when the system contains gapless excitations the entanglement entropy of the ground state diverges with increasing system size. We derive and classify the scaling behaviors that can be met.

id: cs/0610075
title: On Geometric Algebra representation of Binary Spatter Codes
authors: Diederik Aerts, Marek Czachor, Bart De Moor
comments: preliminary version
journal: 
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0610075
abstract: Kanerva's Binary Spatter Codes are reformulated in terms of geometric algebra. The key ingredient of the construction is the representation of XOR binding in terms of geometric product.

id: cs/0610086
title: The central nature of the Hidden Subgroup problem
authors: S. A. Fenner, Y. Zhang
comments: 12 pages, no figures. Corrected Proposition 3.3 and added discussion relating it to results of Childs and van Dam (quant-ph/0507190). Adjusted Definition 2.2 and the proof of Proposition 3.3 to fix a minor bug. Other minor corrections/clarifications. Updated references
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0610086
abstract: We show that several problems that figure prominently in quantum computing, including Hidden Coset, Hidden Shift, and Orbit Coset, are equivalent or reducible to Hidden Subgroup for a large variety of groups. We also show that, over permutation groups, the decision version and search version of Hidden Subgroup are polynomial-time equivalent. For Hidden Subgroup over dihedral groups, such an equivalence can be obtained if the order of the group is smooth. Finally, we give nonadaptive program checkers for Hidden Subgroup and its decision version.

id: cs/0610101
title: Entropy generation in a model of reversible computation
authors: Diego de Falco, Dario Tamascelli
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: RAIRO-Inf.Theor.Appl. 40, (2006) 93-105
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0610101
abstract: We present a model in which, due to the quantum nature of the signals controlling the implementation time of successive unitary computational steps, \emph{physical} irreversibility appears in the execution of a \emph{logically} reversible computation.

id: cs/0610114
title: Instant Computing - A New Computation Paradigm
authors: Hans-Rudolf Thomann
comments: Final version, 34 pages. Theorem 3 generalized and strengthened. Review results implemented. Typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0610114
abstract: Voltage peaks on a conventional computer's power lines allow for the well-known dangerous DPA attacks. We show that measurement of a quantum computer's transient state during a computational step reveals information about a complete computation of arbitrary length, which can be extracted by repeated probing, if the computer is suitably programmed. Instant computing, as we name this mode of operation, recognizes for any total or partial recursive function arguments lying in the domain of definition and yields their function value with arbitrary small error probability in probabilistic linear time. This implies recognition of (not necessarily recursively enumerable) complements of recursively enumerable sets and the solution of the halting problem. Future quantum computers are shown to be likely to allow for instant computing, and some consequences are pointed out.

id: cs/0610159
title: Boolean Functions, Projection Operators and Quantum Error Correcting Codes
authors: Vaneet Aggarwal, A. Robert Calderbank
comments: Submitted to IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, October 2006, to appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 2008
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 54, no. 4, pp.1700-1707, Apr. 2008.
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0610159
abstract: This paper describes a fundamental correspondence between Boolean functions and projection operators in Hilbert space. The correspondence is widely applicable, and it is used in this paper to provide a common mathematical framework for the design of both additive and non-additive quantum error correcting codes. The new framework leads to the construction of a variety of codes including an infinite class of codes that extend the original ((5,6,2)) code found by Rains [21]. It also extends to operator quantum error correcting codes.

id: cs/0610171
title: Coupling of quantum angular momenta: an insight into analogic/discrete and local/global models of computation
authors: Annalisa Marzuoli, Mario Rasetti
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure; Workshop `Natural processes and models of computation' Bologna (Italy) June 16-18 2005; to appear in Natural Computing
journal: Natural Computing Vol 6, No.2 (2007) 151-168
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0610171
abstract: In the past few years there has been a tumultuous activity aimed at introducing novel conceptual schemes for quantum computing. The approach proposed in (Marzuoli A and Rasetti M 2002, 2005a) relies on the (re)coupling theory of SU(2) angular momenta and can be viewed as a generalization to arbitrary values of the spin variables of the usual quantum-circuit model based on `qubits' and Boolean gates. Computational states belong to finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces labelled by both discrete and continuous parameters, and unitary gates may depend on quantum numbers ranging over finite sets of values as well as continuous (angular) variables. Such a framework is an ideal playground to discuss discrete (digital) and analogic computational processes, together with their relationships occuring when a consistent semiclassical limit takes place on discrete quantum gates. When working with purely discrete unitary gates, the simulator is naturally modelled as families of quantum finite states--machines which in turn represent discrete versions of topological quantum computation models. We argue that our model embodies a sort of unifying paradigm for computing inspired by Nature and, even more ambitiously, a universal setting in which suitably encoded quantum symbolic manipulations of combinatorial, topological and algebraic problems might find their `natural' computational reference model.

id: gr-qc/0610007
title: The Kerr theorem, Kerr-Schild formalizm and multiparticle Kerr-Schild solutions
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: Brief version of hep-th/0510246. Plenary talk at the Intern. Conf. on Gravitation, Cosmology, Astrophysics and Nonstationary Gas Dynamics, dedicated to Prof. K.P. Staniukovich's 90th birthday, Moscow, 2-6 March 2006
journal: Grav.Cosmol. 12 (2006) 119-125
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0610007
abstract: We consider an extended version of the Kerr theorem incorporated in the Kerr-Schild formalism. It allows one to construct the series of exact solutions of the Einstein-Maxwell field equations from a holomorphic generating function $F$ of twistor variables. The exact multiparticle Kerr-Schild solutions are obtained from generating function of the form $F=\prod_i^k F_i, $ where $F_i$ are partial generating functions for the spinning particles $ i=1...k$. Gravitational and electromagnetic interaction of the spinning particles occurs via the light-like singular twistor lines. As a result, each spinning particle turns out to be `dressed' by singular pp-strings connecting it to other particles. Physical interpretation of this solution is discussed.

id: gr-qc/0610022
title: Entanglement as a source of black hole entropy
authors: Saurya Das, S. Shankaranarayanan
comments: 12 pages, latex, 5 figures. Invited talk by SD at `Recent Developments in Gravity' (NEB XII), Nafplion, Greece, 30 June 2006. To appear in Journal of Physics: Conference Series; V2: References added, Minor changes to match published version
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.68:012015,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0610022
abstract: We review aspects of black hole thermodynamics, and show how entanglement of a quantum field between the inside and outside of a horizon can account for the area-proportionality of black hole entropy, provided the field is in its ground state. We show that the result continues to hold for Coherent States and Squeezed States, while for Excited States, the entropy scales as a power of area less than unity. We also identify location of the degrees of freedom which give rise to the above entropy.

id: gr-qc/0610049
title: Absolute Being vs Relative Becoming
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 34 pages; To appear in Relativity and the Dimensionality of the World (within the series Fundamental Theories of Physics), edited by V. Petkov (Springer, NY 2007)
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0610049
abstract: Contrary to our immediate and vivid sensation of past, present, and future as continually shifting non-relational modalities, time remains as tenseless and relational as space in all of the established theories of fundamental physics. Here an empirically adequate generalized theory of the inertial structure is discussed in which proper time is causally compelled to be tensed within both spacetime and dynamics. This is accomplished by introducing the inverse of the Planck time at the conjunction of special relativity and Hamiltonian mechanics, which necessitates energies and momenta to be invariantly bounded from above, and lengths and durations similarly bounded from below, by their respective Planck scale values. The resulting theory abhors any form of preferred structure, and yet captures the transience of now along timelike worldlines by causally necessitating a genuinely becoming universe. This is quite unlike the scenario in Minkowski spacetime, which is prone to a block universe interpretation. The minute deviations from the special relativistic effects such as dispersion relations and Doppler shifts predicted by the generalized theory remain quadratically suppressed by the Planck energy, but may nevertheless be testable in the near future, for example via observations of oscillating flavor ratios of ultrahigh energy cosmic neutrinos, or of altering pulse rates of extreme energy binary pulsars.

id: gr-qc/0610072
title: Hamiltonian and physical Hilbert space in polymer quantum mechanics
authors: Alejandro Corichi, Tatjana Vukasinac, Jose A. Zapata
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures. Comments and references added. Version to be published in CQG
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.24:1495-1512,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0610072
abstract: In this paper, a version of polymer quantum mechanics, which is inspired by loop quantum gravity, is considered and shown to be equivalent, in a precise sense, to the standard, experimentally tested, Schroedinger quantum mechanics. The kinematical cornerstone of our framework is the so called polymer representation of the Heisenberg-Weyl (H-W) algebra, which is the starting point of the construction. The dynamics is constructed as a continuum limit of effective theories characterized by a scale, and requires a renormalization of the inner product. The result is a physical Hilbert space in which the continuum Hamiltonian can be represented and that is unitarily equivalent to the Schroedinger representation of quantum mechanics. As a concrete implementation of our formalism, the simple harmonic oscillator is fully developed.

id: gr-qc/0610076
title: Topological charges and quasi-charges in Absolute Parallelism
authors: I.L. Zhogin
comments: Latex, 21 pages, no figures. Style corrections (thanks to S.Sherstyuk), clarifications and reference added, v3 - few typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0610076
abstract: Absolute Parallelism (AP) has many interesting features: large symmetry group of equations; field irreducibility with respect to this group; vast list of consistent second order equations not restricted to Lagrangian ones. There is the variant of AP which solutions are free of arising singularities if D=5; in this case AP acquires topological features of nonlinear sigma-model. Starting with topological charge, one can also introduce the topological quasi-charge groups for field configurations having some symmetry. For 4D, considering symmetrical equipped 0-(sub)manifolds in R^3, we find QC-groups for some symmetries (subsets of O_3) and describe their morphisms. Differential 3-form of topological charge (dual to topological current) is derived, as well as O_3-quasi-charge 1-form. Results of topological classification of symmetric configurations in 5D case (alighting on evident parallels with the Standard Model combinatorics of fundamental particles) are announced. An example of SO_2-symmetric configuration is considered; (quasi-)charge forms (self-dual and anti-self-dual) are obtained. In conclusion, we propose a variant of experiment with single photon interference (or with bi-photon non-local correlations) which should verify a possible non-local (spaghetti-like) 5D ontology of particles.

id: hep-ex/0610085
title: Barionic Resonances with Positive Strangeness S=+1 in the System nK+ from the Reaction np -> npK+K- at the Momentum of Incident Neutrons Pn=5.20 Gev/c
authors: Yu.A.Troyan, A.V.Beljaev, A.Yu.Troyan, E.B.Plekhanov, A.P.Jerusalimov, S.G.Arakelian
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, 4 tables; Presented at XVIII ISHEPP "Relativistic Nuclear Physics and Quantum Chromodynamics" JINR, Dubna, Russia, September, 2006
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ex/0610085
abstract: The production and properties of the resonances with the strangeness S=+1 in the system of nK+ were studied in the reaction np->npK+K- at the momentum of incident neutrons Pn=(5.20 +/- 0.12)GeV/c. A number of peculiarities were found in the effective mass spectrum of the mentioned above system. Their widths are comparable with the mass resolution. The estimation of the spins of resonances was carried out and the rotational band connecting the resonances masses and their spins was constructed.

id: hep-th/0610032
title: Astrophysical and Cosmological Tests of Quantum Theory
authors: Antony Valentini
comments: 25 pages. Amendment to section 7. Contribution to: "The Quantum Universe", special issue of Journal of Physics A, dedicated to Prof. G.-C. Ghirardi on the occasion of his seventieth birthday
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 3285--3303
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0610032
abstract: We discuss several proposals for astrophysical and cosmological tests of quantum theory. The tests are motivated by deterministic hidden-variables theories, and in particular by the view that quantum physics is merely an effective theory of an equilibrium state. The proposed tests involve searching for nonequilibrium violations of quantum theory in: primordial inflaton fluctuations imprinted on the cosmic microwave background, relic cosmological particles, Hawking radiation, photons with entangled partners inside black holes, neutrino oscillations, and particles from very distant sources.

id: hep-th/0610074
title: Moyal dynamics of constraint systems
authors: M. I. Krivoruchenko
comments: REVTeX 8 pages, 2 eps figures. Presented at the XIII Annual Seminar "Nonlinear Phenomena in Complex Systems: Chaos, Fractals, Phase Transitions, Self-organization", Minsk, Belarus, May 16-19, 2006
journal: Nonlinear Dynamics and Applications. Vol. 13 (2006) 94 - 105
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0610074
abstract: Quantization of constraint systems within the Weyl-Wigner-Groenewold-Moyal framework is discussed. Constraint dynamics of classical and quantum systems is reformulated using the skew-gradient projection formalism. The quantum deformation of the Dirac bracket is generalized to match smoothly the classical Dirac bracket in and outside of the constraint submanifold in the limit $\hbar \to 0$.

id: hep-th/0610083
title: Scattering of a relativistic scalar particle by a cusp potential
authors: Victor M. Villalba, Clara Rojas
comments: To appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys.Lett.A362:21-25,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0610083
abstract: We solve the Klein-Gordon equation in the presence of a spatially one-dimensional cusp potential. The scattering solutions are obtained in terms of Whittaker functions and the condition for the existence of transmission resonances is derived. We show the dependence of the zero-reflection condition on the shape of the potential. In the low momentum limit, transmission resonances are associated with half-bound states. We express the condition for transmission resonances in terms of the phase shifts.

id: hep-th/0610138
title: Bohmian mechanics in relativistic quantum mechanics, quantum field theory and string theory
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 6 pages, talk given at Third International Workshop DICE2006, Piombino, Italy, September 11-15, 2006
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.67:012035,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0610138
abstract: I present a short overview of my recent achievements on the Bohmian interpretation of relativistic quantum mechanics, quantum field theory and string theory. This includes the relativistic-covariant Bohmian equations for particle trajectories, the problem of particle creation and destruction, the Bohmian interpretation of fermionic fields and the intrinsically Bohmian quantization of fields and strings based on the De Donder-Weyl covariant canonical formalism.

id: hep-th/0610153
title: New Approach to $N$-body Relativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ying-Qiu Gu
comments: 13 pages, no figure
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A22:2007-2020,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0610153
abstract: In this paper, we propose a new approach to the relativistic quantum mechanics for many-body, which is a self-consistent system constructed by juxtaposed but mutually coupled nonlinear Dirac's equations. The classical approximation of this approach provides the exact Newtonian dynamics for many-body, and the nonrelativistic approximation gives the complete Schr\"odinger equation for many-body.

id: hep-th/0610173
title: Casimir piston for massless scalar fields in three dimensions
authors: Ariel Edery
comments: 19 pages,3 figures; references updated and typos fixed to match published version
journal: Phys.Rev.D75:105012,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0610173
abstract: We study the Casimir piston for massless scalar fields obeying Dirichlet boundary conditions in a three dimensional cavity with sides of arbitrary lengths $a,b$ and $c$ where $a$ is the plate separation. We obtain an exact expression for the Casimir force on the piston valid for any values of the three lengths. As in the electromagnetic case with perfect conductor conditions, we find that the Casimir force is negative (attractive) regardless of the values of $a$, $b$ and $c$. Though cases exist where the interior contributes a positive (repulsive) Casimir force, the total Casimir force on the piston is negative when the exterior contribution is included. We also obtain an alternative expression for the Casimir force that is useful computationally when the plate separation $a$ is large.

id: hep-th/0610222
title: The Noncommutative Anandan's Quantum Phase
authors: E. Passos, L. R. Ribeiro, C. Furtado, J. R. Nascimento
comments: 15 pages, revtex4, version to appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0610222
abstract: In this work we study the noncommutative nonrelativistic quantum dynamics of a neutral particle, that possesses permanent magnetic and electric dipole momenta, in the presence of an electric and magnetic fields. We use the Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation of the Dirac spinor with a non-minimal coupling to obtain the nonrelativistic limit. In this limit, we will study the noncommutative quantum dynamics and obtain the noncommutative Anandan's geometric phase. We analyze the situation where magnetic dipole moment of the particle is zero and we obtain the noncommutative version of the He-McKellar-Wilkens effect. We demonstrate that this phase in the noncommutative case is a geometric dispersive phase. We also investigate this geometric phase considering the noncommutativity in the phase space and the Anandan's phase is obtained.

id: hep-th/0610245
title: On the Path-Integral Derivation of the Anomaly for the Hermitian Equivalent of the Complex $PT$-Symmetric Quartic Hamiltonian
authors: H. F.Jones, J. Mateo, R. J. Rivers
comments: LaTeX, 12 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D74:125022,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0610245
abstract: It can be shown using operator techniques that the non-Hermitian $PT$-symmetric quantum mechanical Hamiltonian with a "wrong-sign" quartic potential $-gx^4$ is equivalent to a Hermitian Hamiltonian with a positive quartic potential together with a linear term. A naive derivation of the same result in the path-integral approach misses this linear term. In a recent paper by Bender et al. it was pointed out that this term was in the nature of a parity anomaly and a more careful, discretized treatment of the path integral appeared to reproduce it successfully. However, on re-examination of this derivation we find that a yet more careful treatment is necessary, keeping terms that were ignored in that paper. An alternative, much simpler derivation is given using the additional potential that has been shown to appear whenever a change of variables to curvilinear coordinates is made in a functional integral.

id: hep-th/0610296
title: Quantum Field Theory in de Sitter space : A survey of recent approaches
authors: Jean-Pierre Gazeau, Marc Lachi¨¨ze-Rey
comments: 
journal: PoSIC2006:007,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0610296
abstract: We present a survey of rigourous quantization results obtained in recent works on quantum free fields in de Sitter space. For the "massive'' cases which are associated to principal series representations of the de Sitter group SO\_0(1,4), the construction is based on analyticity requirements on the Wightman two-point function. For the "massless'' cases (e.g. minimally coupled or conformal), associated to the discrete series, the quantization schemes are of the Gupta-Bleuler-Krein type.

id: hep-th/0610314
title: Strings, black holes, the tripartite entanglement of seven qubits and the Fano plane
authors: P¨¦ter L¨¦vay
comments: 42 pages, 5 figures, LATEX
journal: Phys.Rev.D75:024024,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0610314
abstract: Recently it has been observed that the group $E_7$ can be used to describe a special type of quantum entanglement of seven qubits partitioned into seven tripartite systems. Here we show that this curious type of entanglement is entirely encoded into the discrete geometry of the Fano plane. We explicitly work out the details concerning a qubit interpretation of the $E_7$ generators as representatives of tripartite protocols acting on the 56 dimensional representation space. Using these results we extend further the recently studied analogy between quantum information theory and supersymmetric black holes in four-dimensional string theory. We point out there is a dual relationship between entangled subsystems containing three and four tripartite systems. This relationship is reflected in the structure of the expressions for the black hole entropy in the N=4 and N=2 truncations of the $E_{7(7)}$ symmetric area form of N=8 supergravity. We conjecture that a similar picture based on other qubit systems might hold for black hole solutions in magic supergravities.

id: hep-th/0610317
title: Bosonized supersymmetry of anyons and supersymmetric exotic particle on the non-commutative plane
authors: Peter A. Horvathy, Mikhail S. Plyushchay, Mauricio Valenzuela
comments: 18 pages; new section on noncommutative coordinates and refs added, the version to appear in Nucl. Phys. B
journal: Nucl.Phys.B768:247-262,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0610317
abstract: A covariant set of linear differential field equations, describing an N=1 supersymmetric anyon system in (2+1)D, is proposed in terms of Wigner's deformation of the bosonic Heisenberg algebra. The non-relativistic ``Jackiw-Nair'' limit extracts the ordinary bosonic and fermionic degrees of freedom from the Heisenberg-Wigner algebra. It yields first-order, non-relativistic wave equations for a spinning particle on the non-commutative plane that admits a Galilean exotic planar N=1 supersymmetry.

id: math-ph/0610022
title: Non-linear Supersymmetry for non-Hermitian, non-diagonalizable Hamiltonians: II. Rigorous results
authors: A. V. Sokolov
comments: 31 pp., comments on PT symmetry and few relevant refs are added
journal: Nucl.Phys.B773:137-171,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0610022
abstract: We continue our investigation of the nonlinear SUSY for complex potentials started in the Part I (math-ph/0610024) and prove the theorems characterizing its structure in the case of non-diagonalizable Hamiltonians. This part provides the mathematical basis of previous studies. The classes of potentials invariant under SUSY transformations for non-diagonalizable Hamiltonians are specified and the asymptotics of formal eigenfunctions and associated functions are derived. Several results on the normalizability of associated functions at infinities are rigorously proved. Finally the Index Theorem on relation between Jordan structures of intertwined Hamiltonians depending of the behavior of elements of canonical basis of supercharge kernel at infinity is proven.

id: math-ph/0610024
title: Non-linear Supersymmetry for non-Hermitian, non-diagonalizable Hamiltonians: I. General properties
authors: A. A. Andrianov, F. Cannata, A. V. Sokolov
comments: 31 pp., detailed discussion of PT symmetry and more of relevant refs are added
journal: Nucl.Phys.B773:107-136,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0610024
abstract: We study complex potentials and related non-diagonalizable Hamiltonians with special emphasis on formal definitions of associated functions and Jordan cells. The nonlinear SUSY for complex potentials is considered and the theorems characterizing its structure are presented. We present the class of potentials invariant under SUSY transformations for non-diagonalizable Hamiltonians and formulate several results concerning the properties of associated functions . We comment on the applicability of these results for softly non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Hamiltonians. The role of SUSY (Darboux) transformations in increasing/decreasing of Jordancells in SUSY partner Hamiltonians is thoroughly analyzed and summarized in the Index Theorem. The properties of non-diagonalizable Hamiltonians as well as the Index Theorem are illustrated in the solvable examples of non-Hermitian reflectionless Hamiltonians . The rigorous proofs are relegated to the Part II of this paper. At last, some peculiarities in resolution of identity for discrete and continuous spectra with a zero-energy bound state at threshold are discussed.

id: math-ph/0610036
title: Quantum Algebras Associated With Bell States
authors: Yong Zhang, Naihuan Jing, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: v1: 15 pages, 2 figures, latex; v2: 18 pages, 2 figures, latex, references and notes added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 055310
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0610036
abstract: The antisymmetric solution of the braided Yang--Baxter equation called the Bell matrix becomes interesting in quantum information theory because it can generate all Bell states from product states. In this paper, we study the quantum algebra through the FRT construction of the Bell matrix. In its four dimensional representations via the coproduct of its two dimensional representations, we find algebraic structures including a composition series and a direct sum of its two dimensional representations to characterize this quantum algebra. We also present the quantum algebra using the FRT construction of Yang--Baxterization of the Bell matrix.

id: math-ph/0610052
title: Virtual Extension of Temperley--Lieb Algebra
authors: Yong Zhang, Louis H. Kauffman, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 10 pages, latex
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0610052
abstract: The virtual knot theory is a new interesting subject in the recent study of low dimensional topology. In this paper, we explore the algebraic structure underlying the virtual braid group and call it the virtual Temperley--Lieb algebra which is an extension of the Temperley--Lieb algebra by adding the group algebra of the symmetrical group. We make a connection clear between the Brauer algebra and virtual Temperley--Lieb algebra, and show the algebra generated by permutation and its partial transpose to be an example for the virtual Temperley--Lieb algebra and its important quotients.

id: math-ph/0610065
title: Equivalence of resolvent and scattering resonances on quantum graphs
authors: Pavel Exner, Ji?¨ª Lipovsk?
comments: 9 pages, AMS-LaTeX, written for proceedings of a conference in honour of J.-M. Combes, Cergy-Pontoise, September 2006
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0610065
abstract: We discuss resonances for Schr\"odinger operators on metric graphs which consists of a finite compact part and a finite number of halflines attached to it; the vertex coupling is assumed to be of the $\delta$-type or certain modifications of it. Using exterior complex scaling on the graph we show that the resolvent and scattering resonances coincide in this case.

id: math-ph/0610070
title: On localization and position operators in Moebius-covariant theories
authors: Nicola Pinamonti
comments: 19 pages, UTM 705, version to appear in RMP
journal: Rev.Math.Phys.19:385-404,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0610070
abstract: Some years ago it was shown that, in some cases, a notion of locality can arise from the group of symmetry enjoyed by the theory, thus in an intrinsic way. In particular, when Moebius covariance is present, it is possible to associate some particular transformations to the Tomita Takesaki modular operator and conjugation of a specific interval of an abstract circle. In this context we propose a way to define an operator representing the coordinate conjugated with the modular transformations. Remarkably this coordinate turns out to be compatible with the abstract notion of locality. Finally a concrete example concerning a quantum particle on a line is also given.

id: math-ph/0610075
title: Hanbury-Brown and Twiss Intensity Correlations of Parabosons
authors: Charles A. Nelson, Paresh R. Shimpi
comments: 16 pages; version 4 to add simple p-independent recursion relation
journal: Phys.Lett.A364:104-111,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0610075
abstract: This paper shows that in intensity correlation measurements there will be clear and unambiguous signals that new-physics particles are, or aren't, parabosons. For a parabosonic field in a dominant single-mode, there is a diagonal P-representation in the "even and odd coherent states" basis. It is used to analyze zero-time-interval intensity correlations of parabosons in a maximum-entropic state. As the mean number of parabosons decreases, there is a monotonic reduction to (2/p) of the constant bosonic ``factor of two'' proportionality of the second-order versus the squared first-order intensity correlation function.

id: math-ph/0610077
title: Combinatorics of transformations from standard to non-standard bases in Brauer algebras
authors: Vincenzo Chilla
comments: IOP class; 19 pages, 2 figures
journal: J.Phys.A40:5395-5414,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0610077
abstract: Transformation coefficients between standard bases for irreducible representations of the Brauer centralizer algebra $\mathfrak{B}_f(x)$ and split bases adapted to the $\mathfrak{B}_{f_1} (x) \times \mathfrak{B}_{f_2} (x) \subset \mathfrak{B}_f (x)$ subalgebra ($f_1 +f_2 = f$) are considered. After providing the suitable combinatorial background, based on the definition of $i$-coupling relation on nodes of the subduction grid, we introduce a generalized version of the subduction graph which extends the one given in J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. $\mathbf{39}$ 7657-7668 for symmetric groups. Thus, we can describe the structure of the subduction system arising from the linear method and give an outline of the form of the solution space. An ordering relation on the grid is also given and then, as in the case of symmetric groups, the choices of the phases and of the free factors governing the multiplicity separations are discussed.

id: math/0610005
title: Unitarity in "quantization commutes with reduction"
authors: Brian C. Hall, William D. Kirwin
comments: 36 pages (LaTeX); v1. minor corrections; v2. minor corrections; v3. final version (to appear in Comm. Math. Phys.)
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 275 (2007), no. 3, pages 401 -- 442
subjects: Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0610005
abstract: Let M be a compact Kahler manifold equipped with a Hamiltonian action of a compact Lie group G. In this paper, we study the geometric quantization of the symplectic quotient M//G. Guillemin and Sternberg [Invent. Math. 67 (1982), 515--538] have shown, under suitable regularity assumptions, that there is a natural invertible map between the quantum Hilbert space over M//G and the G-invariant subspace of the quantum Hilbert space over M. We prove that in general the natural map of Guillemin and Sternberg is not unitary, \textit{even to leading order in Planck's constant}. We then modify the quantization procedure by the "metaplectic correction" and show that in this setting there is still a natural invertible map between the Hilbert space over M//G and the G-invariant subspace of the Hilbert space over M. We then prove that this modified Guillemin--Sternberg map is asymptotically unitary to leading order in Planck's constant.

id: math/0610115
title: Better Bell inequalities (passion at a distance)
authors: Richard D. Gill
comments: Published at this http URL in the IMS Lecture Notes Monograph Series (this http URL) by the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (this http URL)
journal: IMS Lecture Notes Monograph Series 2007, Vol. 55, 135-148
subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0610115
abstract: I explain so-called quantum nonlocality experiments and discuss how to optimize them. Statistical tools from missing data maximum likelihood are crucial. New results are given on CGLMP, CH and ladder inequalities. Open problems are also discussed.

id: math/0610818
title: The Geometric Weil Representation
authors: Shamgar Gurevich, Ronny Hadani
comments: A remark due to Ofer Gabber added (page 12). Accepted for publication (Selecta, December 2006)
journal: 
subjects: Representation Theory (math.RT); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0610818
abstract: In this paper we construct a geometric analogue of the Weil representation over a finite field. Our construction is principally invariant, not choosing any specific realization. This eliminates most of the unpleasant formulas that appear in the traditional (non-invariant) approaches, and puts in the forefront some delicate geometric phenomena which underlie this representation.

id: nlin/0610031
title: Integrable Models of Interaction of Matter with Radiation
authors: Vladimir I. Inozemtsev, Natalia G. Inozemtseva
comments: This is a contribution to the Vadim Kuznetsov Memorial Issue on Integrable Systems and Related Topics, published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 2 (2006), 069, 9 pages
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0610031
abstract: The simplified models of interaction of charged matter with resonance modes of radiation generalizing the well-known Jaynes-Cummings and Dicke models are considered. It is found that these new models are integrable for arbitrary numbers of dipole sources and resonance modes of the radiation field. The problem of explicit diagonalisation of corresponding Hamiltonians is discussed.

id: nucl-ex/0610017
title: Inelastic Scatterings of Entangled Mossbauer Gammas
authors: Yao Cheng, Zhongming Wang
comments: corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-ex/0610017
abstract: We report the observation of the temperature-dependent inelastic scattering of three entangled Mossbauer gammas in the time-resolved Mossbauer spectroscopy. Recently, the long-lived E3 Mossbauer transition of rhodium generated by bremsstrahlung irradiation has been reported. Two kinds of X-rays with the fast decay are attributed to the tri-photon effect. They are tri-photon pile-up of rhodium K X-rays and the high-Z impurity K X-rays. Energy of the particular K emission is higher than the sum energy of two Mossbauer gammas. This letter reports new discoveries by cooling down the sample using liquid nitrogen, namely the collective anomalous emission of entangled Mossbauer gammas. The enhancement of inelastic scatterings at low temperature such as rhodium K satellites is attributed to this entanglement.

id: nucl-th/0610001
title: Angular Momentum Dependent Quark Potential of QCD Traits and Dynamical O(4) Symmetry
authors: C. B. Compean, M. Kirchbach
comments: Invited talk given by one of us (M.K.) at the Mini-Workshop Bled 2006, "Progress in Quark Models", Bled, Slovenia, July 10-17, 2006. 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0610001
abstract: A common quark potential that captures the essential traits of the QCD quark-gluon dynamics is expected to (i) interpolate between a Coulomb-like potential (associated with one-gluon exchange) and the infinite wall potential (associated with trapped but asymptotically free quarks), (ii) reproduce in the intermediary region the linear confinement potential (associated with multi-gluon self-interactions) as established by lattice QCD calculations of hadron properties. We first show that the exactly soluble trigonometric Rosen-Morse potential possesses all these properties. Next we observe that this potential, once interpreted as angular momentum dependent, acquires a dynamical O(4) symmetry and reproduces exactly quantum numbers and level splittings of the non-strange baryon spectra in the SU(2)_I* O(4) classification scheme according to which baryons cling on to multi-spin parity clusters of the type (K/2,K/2)*[(1/2,0) + (0, 1/2)], whose relativistic image is \psi_{\mu_{1}...\mu_{K}}. Finally, we bring exact energies and wave functions of the levels within the above potential and thus put it on equal algebraic footing with such common potentials of wide spread as are the harmonic-oscillator- and the Coulomb potentials.

id: physics/0610008
title: Breaking of Energy Conservation Law: Creating and Destroying of Energy by Subwavelength Nanosystems
authors: S.V. Kukhlevsky
comments: resubmitted to PRL, Dec. 15, 2006
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0610008
abstract: The extra energy, negative energy and annihilation of energy by the subwavelength conservative systems that have a wave nature of light or matter (quantum) objects are predicted. The creating and destroying of energy break the energy conservation law in any subwavelength physical system. The paradoxical phenomenon is demonstrated in the context of extraordinary transmission of light and matter through subwavelength apertures [T.W. Ebbesen et al., Nature (London) 391, 667 (1998) and E. Moreno et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 170406 (2005)].

id: physics/0610054
title: Julian Schwinger: Nuclear Physics, the Radiation Laboratory, Renormalized QED, Source Theory, and Beyond
authors: K. A. Milton
comments: 54 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Perspect.9:70-114,2007
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0610054
abstract: Julian Schwinger's influence on twentieth century science is profound and pervasive. Of course, he is most famous for his renormalization theory of quantum electrodynamics, for which he shared the Nobel Prize with Richard Feynman and Sin-itiro Tomonaga. But although this triumph was undoubtedly his most heroic work, his legacy lives on chiefly through subtle and elegant work in classical electrodynamics, quantum variational principles, proper-time methods, quantum anomalies, dynamical mass generation, partial symmetry, and more. Starting as just a boy, he rapidly became the pre-eminent nuclear physicist in the late 1930s, led the theoretical development of radar technology at MIT during World War II, and then, soon after the war, conquered quantum electrodynamics, and became the leading quantum field theorist for two decades, before taking a more iconoclastic route during his last quarter century.

id: physics/0610058
title: Observation of multiple ionization pathways for OCS in an intense laser field resolved by three-dimensional covariance mapping and visualized by hierarchical ionization topology
authors: W. A. Bryan, W. R. Newell, J. H. Sanderson, A. J. Langley
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A, reference to follow
journal: Phys. Rev. A, vol 74, art 053409 (2006)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0610058
abstract: The two- and three-body Coulomb explosion of carbonyl sulfide (OCS) by 790 nm, 50 fs laser pulses focussed to $\approx $ 10$^{16}$ Wcm$^{-2}$ has been investigated by three-dimensional covariance mapping technique. For the first time in a triatomic molecule, a single charge state, in this case the trication, has been observed to dissociate into two distinct energy channels. With the aid of a three dimensional visualization technique to reveal the ionization hierarchy, evidence is presented for the existence of two sets of ionization pathways resulting from these two initial states. While one group of ions can be modeled using a Classical enhanced ionization model, the second group, consisting of mainly asymmetric channels, can not. The results provide clear evidence that an enhanced ionization approach must also be accompanied by an appreciation of the effects of excited ionic states and multi-electronic processes.

id: physics/0610096
title: Optical atomic coherence at the one-second time scale
authors: Martin M. Boyd, Tanya Zelevinsky, Andrew D. Ludlow, Seth M. Foreman, Sebastian Blatt, Tetsuya Ido, Jun Ye
comments: in press (2006)
journal: Science 314, 1430 (2006)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0610096
abstract: Highest resolution laser spectroscopy has generally been limited to single trapped ion systems due to rapid decoherence which plagues neutral atom ensembles. Here, precision spectroscopy of ultracold neutral atoms confined in a trapping potential shows superior optical coherence without any deleterious effects from motional degrees of freedom, revealing optical resonance linewidths at the hertz level with an excellent signal to noise ratio. The resonance quality factor of 2.4 x 10^{14} is the highest ever recovered in any form of coherent spectroscopy. The spectral resolution permits direct observation of the breaking of nuclear spin degeneracy for the 1S0 and 3P0 optical clock states of 87Sr under a small magnetic bias field. This optical NMR-like approach allows an accurate measurement of the differential Lande g-factor between the two states. The optical atomic coherence demonstrated for collective excitation of a large number of atoms will have a strong impact on quantum measurement and precision frequency metrology.

id: physics/0610098
title: Dynamic cancellation of ac Stark shift for pulsed EIT/Raman optical lattice clocks
authors: T. Zanon-Willette, A.D. Ludlow, S. Blatt, M.M. Boyd, E. Arimondo, * Jun Ye
comments: submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 233001 (2006)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0610098
abstract: We propose a combination of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT)/Raman and pulsed spectroscopy techniques to accurately cancel frequency shifts arising from EIT fields in forbidden optical lattice clock transitions of alkaline earth atoms. Time-separated laser pulses are designed to trap atoms in coherent superpositions while eliminating off-resonance ac Stark contributions at particular laser detunings from the intermediate excited state. The scheme achieves efficient population transfer up to 60% with potential inaccuracy $<$ $10^{-17}$. Cancellation of external light shifts determined by a density matrix approach is confirmed by a complex wave-function formalism, sufficient at the mHz accuracy, under low field strengths or short interaction times.

id: physics/0610274
title: Compact, thermal-noise-limited optical cavity for diode laser stabilization at 1 x 10-15
authors: A. D. Ludlow, X. Huang*, M. Notcutt, T. Zanon, S. M. Foreman, M. M. Boyd, S. Blatt, J. Ye
comments: 14 double-spaced pages (= 3 journal pages), 4 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 32, 641 (2007)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0610274
abstract: We demonstrate phase and frequency stabilization of a diode laser at the thermal noise limit of a passive optical cavity. The system is compact and exploits a cavity design that reduces vibration sensitivity. The sub-Hz laser is characterized by comparison to a second independent system with similar fractional frequency stability (1 x 10-15 at 1 s). The laser is further characterized by resolving a 2 Hz wide, ultranarrow optical clock transition in ultracold strontium.

id: cond-mat/0610767
title: Universality in nonadiabatic behaviour of classical actions in nonlinear models with separatrix crossings
authors: A.P. Itin, S. Watanabe
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review E; Several misprints are corrected; main results are emphasized in the end of Introduction (including finite conversion efficiency in Feshbach resonance passage due to geometric jump in the action); bibliography is extended
journal: Phys. Rev. E 76, 026218 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610767
abstract: We discuss dynamics of approximate adiabatic invariants in several nonlinear models being related to physics of Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC). We show that nonadiabatic dynamics in Feshbach resonance passage, nonlinear Landau-Zener (NLZ) tunnelling, and BEC tunnelling oscillations in a double-well can be considered within a unifying approach based on the theory of separatrix crossings. The separatrix crossing theory was applied previously to some problems of classical mechanics, plasma physics and hydrodynamics, but has not been used in the rapidly growing BEC-related field yet. We derive explicit formulas for the change in the action in several models. Extensive numerical calculations support the theory and demonstrate its universal character. We also discovered a qualitatively new nonlinear phenomenon in a NLZ model which we propose to call {\em separated adiabatic tunnelling}

id: cond-mat/0610433
title: Spins in few-electron quantum dots
authors: R. Hanson, L. P. Kouwenhoven, J. R. Petta, S. Tarucha, L. M. K. Vandersypen
comments: final version (52 pages, 49 figures), Rev. Mod. Phys
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 79, 1217 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610433
abstract: This review describes the physics of spins in quantum dots containing one or two electrons, from an experimentalist's viewpoint. Various methods for extracting spin properties from experiment are presented, restricted exclusively to electrical measurements. Furthermore, experimental techniques are discussed that allow for: (1) the rotation of an electron spin into a superposition of up and down, (2) the measurement of the quantum state of an individual spin and (3) the control of the interaction between two neighbouring spins by the Heisenberg exchange interaction. Finally, the physics of the relevant relaxation and dephasing mechanisms is reviewed and experimental results are compared with theories for spin-orbit and hyperfine interactions. All these subjects are directly relevant for the fields of quantum information processing and spintronics with single spins (i.e. single-spintronics).

id: cond-mat/0610596
title: Non-orthogonal Theory of Polarons and Application to Pyramidal Quantum Dots
authors: D. Obreschkow, F. Michelini, S. Dalessi, E. Kapon, M.-A. Dupertuis
comments: 17 pages, 11 figures, 3 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 035329 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610596
abstract: We present a general theory for semiconductor polarons in the framework of the Froehlich interaction between electrons and phonons. The latter is investigated using non-commuting phonon creation/annihilation operators associated with a natural set of non-orthogonal modes. This setting proves effective for mathematical simplification and physical interpretation and reveals a nested coupling structure of the Froehlich interaction. The theory is non-perturbative and well adapted for strong electron-phonon coupling, such as found in quantum dot (QD) structures. For those particular structures we introduce a minimal model that allows the computation and qualitative prediction of the spectrum and geometry of polarons. The model uses a generic non-orthogonal polaron basis, baptized the "natural basis". Accidental and symmetry-related electronic degeneracies are studied in detail and are shown to generate unentangled zero-shift polarons, which we consistently eliminate. As a practical example, these developments are applied to realistic pyramidal GaAs QDs. The energy spectrum and the 3D-geometry of polarons are computed and analyzed, and prove that realistic pyramidal QDs clearly fall in the regime of strong coupling. Further investigation reveals an unexpected substructure of "weakly coupled strong coupling regimes", a concept originating from overlap considerations. Using Bennett's entanglement measure, we finally propose a heuristic quantification of the coupling strength in QDs.

