id: quant-ph/0610130
title: Grover's algorithm on a Feynman computer
authors: Diego de Falco, Dario Tamascelli
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 909-930
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610130
abstract: We present an implementation of Grover's algorithm in the framework of Feynman's cursor model of a quantum computer. The cursor degrees of freedom act as a quantum clocking mechanism, and allow Grover's algorithm to be performed using a single, time-independent Hamiltonian. We examine issues of locality and resource usage in implementing such a Hamiltonian. In the familiar language of Heisenberg spin-spin coupling, the clocking mechanism appears as an excitation of a basically linear chain of spins, with occasional controlled jumps that allow for motion on a planar graph: in this sense our model implements the idea of "timing" a quantum algorithm using a continuous-time random walk. In this context we examine some consequences of the entanglement between the states of the input/output register and the states of the quantum clock.

id: quant-ph/0610192
title: (p,q)-Deformations and (p,q)-Vector Coherent States of the Jaynes-Cummings Model in the Rotating Wave Approximation
authors: Joseph Ben Geloun, Jan Govaerts, M. Norbert Hounkonnou
comments: 1+25 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610192
abstract: Classes of (p,q)-deformations of the Jaynes-Cummings model in the rotating wave approximation are considered. Diagonalization of the Hamiltonian is performed exactly, leading to useful spectral decompositions of a series of relevant operators. The latter include ladder operators acting between adjacent energy eigenstates within two separate infinite discrete towers, except for a singleton state. These ladder operators allow for the construction of (p,q)-deformed vector coherent states. Using (p,q)-arithmetics, explicit and exact solutions to the associated moment problem are displayed, providing new classes of coherent states for such models. Finally, in the limit of decoupled spin sectors, our analysis translates into (p,q)-deformations of the supersymmetric harmonic oscillator, such that the two supersymmetric sectors get intertwined through the action of the ladder operators as well as in the associated coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0610212
title: Quantum transport on two-dimensional regular graphs
authors: Antonio Volta, Oliver Muelken, Alexander Blumen
comments: 22 pages, 11 figure, acceted for publication in J.Phys.A
journal: J. Phys. A 39, 14997 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610212
abstract: We study the quantum-mechanical transport on two-dimensional graphs by means of continuous-time quantum walks and analyse the effect of different boundary conditions (BCs). For periodic BCs in both directions, i.e., for tori, the problem can be treated in a large measure analytically. Some of these results carry over to graphs which obey open boundary conditions (OBCs), such as cylinders or rectangles. Under OBCs the long time transition probabilities (LPs) also display asymmetries for certain graphs, as a function of their particular sizes. Interestingly, these effects do not show up in the marginal distributions, obtained by summing the LPs along one direction.

id: quant-ph/0610235
title: BQP-complete Problems Concerning Mixing Properties of Classical Random Walks on Sparse Graphs
authors: Dominik Janzing, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610235
abstract: We describe two BQP-complete problems concerning properties of sparse graphs having a certain symmetry. The graphs are specified by efficiently computable functions which output the adjacent vertices for each vertex. Let i and j be two given vertices. The first problem consists in estimating the difference between the number of paths of length m from j to j and those which from i to j, where m is polylogarithmic in the number of vertices. The scale of the estimation accuracy is specified by some a priori known upper bound on the growth of these differences with increasing m. The problem remains BQP-hard for regular graphs with degree 4. The second problem is related to continuous-time classical random walks. The walk starts at some vertex j. The promise is that the difference of the probabilities of being at j and at i, respectively, decays with O(exp(-\mu t)) for some \mu>0. The problem is to decide whether this difference is greater than a exp(-\mu T) or smaller than b exp(-\mu T) after some time instant T, where T is polylogarithmic and the difference a-b is inverse polylogarithmic in the number of vertices. Since the probabilities differ only by an exponentially small amount, an exponential number of trials would be necessary if one tried to answer this question by running the walk itself. A modification of this problem, asking whether there exists a pair of nodes for which the probability difference is at least a exp(-\mu T), is QCMA-complete.

id: quant-ph/0610240
title: Optimal computation with non-unitary quantum walks
authors: Viv Kendon, Olivier Maloyer
comments: 16 pages, 3 eps figures, ELsevier style; v2 clarification added to start of Sec. 4, typos fixed & refs updated; v3 error fixed in qubit counts on p. 9, refs updated, to appear (in 2008) in TCS-A postproceedings volume of CiE 2006
journal: Theoretical Computer Science 394(3) pp187-196 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0610240
abstract: Quantum versions of random walks on the line and the cycle show a quadratic improvement over classical random walks in their spreading rates and mixing times respectively. Non-unitary quantum walks can provide a useful optimisation of these properties, producing a more uniform distribution on the line, and faster mixing times on the cycle. We investigate the interplay between quantum and random dynamics by comparing the resources required, and examining numerically how the level of quantum correlations varies during the walk. We show numerically that the optimal non-unitary quantum walk proceeds such that the quantum correlations are nearly all removed at the point of the final measurement. This requires only O(log T) random bits for a quantum walk of T steps

id: cond-mat/0610686
title: Coherent dynamics on hierarchical systems
authors: Alexander Blumen, Veronika Bierbaum, Oliver Muelken
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physica A 371, 10 (2006)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0610686
abstract: We study the coherent transport modeled by continuous-time quantum walks, focussing on hierarchical structures. For these we use Husimi cacti, lattices dual to the dendrimers. We find that the transport depends strongly on the initial site of the excitation. For systems of sizes $N\le21$, we find that processes which start at central sites are nearly recurrent. Furthermore, we compare the classical limiting probability distribution to the long time average of the quantum mechanical transition probability which shows characteristic patterns. We succeed in finding a good lower bound for the (space) average of the quantum mechanical probability to be still or again at the initial site.

