id: quant-ph/0611001
title: Monogamy of Bell correlations and Tsirelson's bound
authors: Benjamin Toner, Frank Verstraete
comments: 5 pages, 1 intriguing figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611001
abstract: We consider three parties, A, B, and C, each performing one of two local measurements on a shared quantum state of arbitrary dimension. We characterize the trade-off between the nonlocality of the Bell correlations observed by AB and of those observed by AC. This generalizes Tsirelson's bound on the quantum value of the CHSH inequality, the latter being recovered when C is completely uncorrelated with AB. We also discuss the trade-off between Bell violations and local expectation values of observables that anticommute with the ones used in the Bell test.

id: quant-ph/0611002
title: Evenly distributed unitaries: on the structure of unitary designs
authors: D. Gross, K. Audenaert, J. Eisert
comments: 15 pages, one figure. Minor revisions to mirror version to appear in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48, 052104 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611002
abstract: We clarify the mathematical structure underlying unitary $t$-designs. These are sets of unitary matrices, evenly distributed in the sense that the average of any $t$-th order polynomial over the design equals the average over the entire unitary group. We present a simple necessary and sufficient criterion for deciding if a set of matrices constitutes a design. Lower bounds for the number of elements of 2-designs are derived. We show how to turn mutually unbiased bases into approximate 2-designs whose cardinality is optimal in leading order. Designs of higher order are discussed and an example of a unitary 5-design is presented. We comment on the relation between unitary and spherical designs and outline methods for finding designs numerically or by searching character tables of finite groups. Further, we sketch connections to problems in linear optics and questions regarding typical entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0611003
title: A chaotic dynamical reduction model for the quantum mechanical state vector
authors: H. Brusheim-Johansson, J.Hansson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611003
abstract: A new model is proposed for the purpose of modelling the ``wave function collapse'' of a two-state quantum system. The collapse to a classical state is driven by a nonlinear evolution equation with an extreme sensitivity to absolute phase. It is hypothesized that the phase, or part of it, is displaying chaotic behaviour. This chaotic behaviour can then be responsible for the apparent indeterminacy we are experiencing for a single quantum system. Through this randomness, the statistical ``ensemble'' behaviour, due to Born, to describe a single quantum system, is no longer needed.

id: quant-ph/0611004
title: Experimental Implementation of Logical Bell State Encoding
authors: J. S. Hodges, P. Cappellaro, T. F. Havel, R. Martinez, D. G. Cory
comments: 9 Pages, 5 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042320 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611004
abstract: Liquid phase NMR is a general purpose test-bed for developing methods of coherent control relevant to quantum information processing. Here we extend these studies to the coherent control of logical qubits and in particular to the unitary gates necessary to create entanglement between logical qubits. We report an experimental implementation of a conditional logical gate between two logical qubits that are each in decoherence free subspaces that protect the quantum information from fully correlated dephasing.

id: quant-ph/0611005
title: Properties of a coupled two species atom-heteronuclear molecule condensate
authors: Lu Zhou, Weiping Zhang, Hong Y. Ling, Lei Jiang, Han Pu
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 043603 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611005
abstract: We study the coherent association of a two-species atomic condensate into a condensate of heteronuclear diatomic molecules, using both a semiclassical treatment and a quantum mechanical approach. The differences and connections between the two approaches are examined. We show that, in this coupled nonlinear atom-molecule system, the population difference between the two atomic species plays a significant role in the ground-state stability properties as well as in coherent population oscillation dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0611006
title: Characterization of a noisy quantum process by complementary classical operations
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Ryo Okamoto, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 6 pages, including 5 tables, contribution to the proceedings of QIT15, held November 21st to 22nd 2006 in Kyoto
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611006
abstract: One of the challenges in quantum information is the demonstration of quantum coherence in the operations of experimental devices. While full quantum process tomography can do the job, it is both cumbersome and unintuitive. In this presentation, we show that a surprisingly detailed and intuitively accessible characterization of errors is possible by measuring the error statistics of only two complementary classical operations of a quantum gate.

id: quant-ph/0611007
title: Quantum Booth's array multiplier
authors: J.J. Alvarez-Sanchez, J.V. Alvarez-Bravo, L.M. Nieto
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures, needs Qcircuit.tex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611007
abstract: A new quantum architecture for multiplying signed integers is presented based on Booth's algorithm, which is well known in classical computation. It is shown how a quantum binary chain might be encoded by its flank changes, giving the final product in 2's-complement representation.

id: quant-ph/0611008
title: Channel simulation with quantum side information
authors: Zhicheng Luo, Igor Devetak
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611008
abstract: We study and solve the problem of classical channel simulation with quantum side information at the receiver. This is a generalization of both the classical reverse Shannon theorem, and the classical-quantum Slepian-Wolf problem. The optimal noiseless communication rate is found to be reduced from the mutual information between the channel input and output by the Holevo information between the channel output and the quantum side information. Our main theorem has two important corollaries. The first is a quantum generalization of the Wyner-Ziv problem: rate-distortion theory with quantum side information. The second is an alternative proof of the trade-off between classical communication and common randomness distilled from a quantum state. The fully quantum generalization of the problem considered is quantum state redistribution. Here the sender and receiver share a mixed quantum state and the sender wants to transfer part of her state to the receiver using entanglement and quantum communication. We present outer and inner bounds on the achievable rate pairs.

id: quant-ph/0611009
title: Security aspects of the Authentication used in Quantum Cryptography
authors: Jorgen Cederlof, Jan-Ake Larsson
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, v2: added email addresses, v3: published version
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf Theory, 54: 1735-1741 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611009
abstract: Unconditionally secure message authentication is an important part of quantum cryptography (QC). In this correspondence, we analyze security effects of using a key obtained from QC for authentication purposes in later rounds of QC. In particular, the eavesdropper gains partial knowledge on the key in QC that may have an effect on the security of the authentication in the later round. Our initial analysis indicates that this partial knowledge has little effect on the authentication part of the system, in agreement with previous results on the issue. However, when taking the full QC protocol into account, the picture is different. By accessing the quantum channel used in QC, the attacker can change the message to be authenticated. This, together with partial knowledge of the key, does incur a security weakness of the authentication. The underlying reason for this is that the authentication used, which is insensitive to such message changes when the key is unknown, becomes sensitive when used with a partially known key. We suggest a simple solution to this problem, and stress usage of this or an equivalent extra security measure in QC.

id: quant-ph/0611010
title: A study on black-body radiation: classical and binary photons
authors: Sandor Varro
comments: 20 pages
journal: Acta Physica Hungarica B, Vol. 26, pp 365-389 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611010
abstract: The present study gives a detailed analysis of the black-body radiation based on classical random variables. It is shown that the energy of a mode of a chaotic radiation field (Gauss variable) can be uniquely decomposed into a sum of a discrete variable (Planck variable having the Planck-Bose distribution) and a continuous dark variable (with a truncated exponential distribution of finite support). The Planck variable is decomposed, on one hand, into a sum of binary variables representing the binary photons of energies 2^s*h*nu with s=0,1,2,etc. In this way the black-body radiation can be viewed as a mixture of thermodinamically independent fermion gases. The Planck variable can also be decomposed into a sum of independent Poisson components representing the classical photo-molecules of energies m*h*nu with m=1,2,3,etc. These classical photons have only particle-like fluctuations, on the other hand, the binary photons have wave-particle fluctuations of fermionic character.

id: quant-ph/0611011
title: Genuine tripartite entanglement and quantum phase transition
authors: Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song, Hai-tao Cui
comments: 5 pages and 1 figure
journal: Chinese Physics B, 17(8):1674 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611011
abstract: A new formulation called as entanglement measure for simplification, is presented to characterize genuine tripartite entanglement of $(2\times 2\times n)-$dimensional quantum pure states. The formulation shows that the genuine tripartite entanglement can be described only on the basis of the local $(2\times 2)-$dimensional reduced density matrix. In particular, the two exactly solvable models of spin system studied by Yang (Phys. Rev. A \textbf{71}, 030302(R) (2005)) is reconsidered by employing the entanglement measure. The results show that a discontinuity in the first derivative of the entanglement measure or in the entanglement measure itself of the ground state just corresponds to the existence of quantum phase transition, which is obviously prior to concurrence. Hence, the given entanglement measure may become a new alternate candidate to help study the connection between quantum entanglement and quantum phase transitions.

id: quant-ph/0611012
title: Phase equivalent potentials, Complex coordinates and Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: C.V.Sukumar
comments: 11pages
journal: J.Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 14499-14509
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611012
abstract: Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics may be used to construct reflectionless potentials and phase-equivalent potentials. The exactly solvable case of the $\lambda sech^2$ potential is used to show that for certain values of the strength $\lambda$ the phase-equivalent singular potential arising from the elimination of all the boundstates is identical to the original potential evaluated at a point shifted in the complex cordinate space. This equivalence has the consequence that certain general relations valid for reflectionless potentials and phase-equivalent potentials lead to hitherto unknown identities satisfied by the Associated Legendre functions. This exactly solvable probelm is used to demonstrate some aspects of scattering theory.

id: quant-ph/0611013
title: Error Exponent in Asymmetric Quantum Hypothesis Testing and Its Application to Classical-Quantum Channel coding
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 76, 062301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611013
abstract: In the simple quantum hypothesis testing problem, upper bound with asymmetric setting is shown by using a quite useful inequality by Audenaert et al, quant-ph/0610027, which was originally invented for symmetric setting. Using this upper bound, we obtain the Hoeffding bound, which are identical with the classical counter part if the hypotheses, composed of two density operators, are mutually commutative. Our upper bound improves the bound by Ogawa-Hayashi, and also provides a simpler proof of the direct part of the quantum Stein's lemma. Further, using this bound, we obtain a better exponential upper bound of the average error probability of classical-quantum channel coding.

id: quant-ph/0611014
title: Quantum entanglement of two flux qubits induced by an auxiliary SQUID
authors: T. Shi, Z. Song
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611014
abstract: We revisit a theoretical scheme to create quantum entanglement of two three-levels superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) with the help of an auxiliary SQUID. In this scenario, two three-levels systems are coupled to a quantized cavity field and a classical external field and thus form dark states. The quantum entanglement can be produced by a quantum measurement on the auxiliary SQUID. Our investigation emphasizes the quantum effect of the auxiliary SQUID. For the experimental feasibility and accessibility of the scheme, we calculate the time evolution of the whole system including the auxiliary SQUID. To ensure the efficiency of generating quantum entanglement, relations between the measurement time and dominate parameters of the system are analyzed according to detailed calculations.

id: quant-ph/0611015
title: Single observable concurrence measurement without simultaneous copies
authors: A. Salles, F. de Melo, J. C. Retamal, R. L. de Matos Filho, N. Zagury
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 060303R (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611015
abstract: We present a protocol that allows us to obtain the concurrence of any two qubit pure state by performing a minimal and optimal tomography of one of the subsystems through measuring a single observable of an ancillary four dimensional qudit. An implementation for a system of trapped ions is also proposed, which can be achieved with present day experimental techniques.

id: quant-ph/0611016
title: Direct measurement of concurrence for atomic two-qubit pure states
authors: G. Romero, C.E. Lopez, F. Lastra, E. Solano, J.C. Retamal
comments: 4 pages and 3 figures, submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032303 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611016
abstract: We propose a general scheme to measure the concurrence of an arbitrary two-qubit pure state in atomic systems. The protocol is based on one- and two-qubit operations acting on two available copies of the bipartite system, and followed by a global qubit readout. We show that it is possible to encode the concurrence in the probability of finding all atomic qubits in the ground state. Two possible scenarios are considered: atoms crossing 3D microwave cavities and trapped ion systems.

id: quant-ph/0611017
title: A non-adiabatic approach to entanglement distribution over long distances
authors: Mohsen Razavi, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 15 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611017
abstract: Entanglement distribution between trapped-atom quantum memories, viz. single atoms in optical cavities, is addressed. In most scenarios, the rate of entanglement distribution depends on the efficiency with which the state of traveling single photons can be transferred to trapped atoms. This loading efficiency is analytically studied for two-level, $V$-level, $\Lambda$-level, and double-$\Lambda$-level atomic configurations by means of a system-reservoir approach. An off-resonant non-adiabatic approach to loading $\Lambda$-level trapped-atom memories is proposed, and the ensuing trade-offs between the atom-light coupling rate and input photon bandwidth for achieving a high loading probability are identified. The non-adiabatic approach allows a broad class of optical sources to be used, and in some cases it provides a higher system throughput than what can be achieved by adiabatic loading mechanisms. The analysis is extended to the case of two double-$\Lambda$ trapped-atom memories illuminated by a polarization-entangled biphoton.

id: quant-ph/0611018
title: Generation of two-photon states with arbitrary degree of entanglement via nonlinear crystal superlattices
authors: Alfred B. U'Ren, Reinhard K. Erdmann, Manuel de la Cruz-Gutierrez, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, accepted Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys Rev Lett 97 223602 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611018
abstract: We demonstrate a general method of engineering the joint quantum state of photon pairs produced in spontaneous parametric downconversion (PDC). The method makes use of a superlattice structure of nonlinear and linear materials, in conjunction with a broadband pump, to manipulate the group delays of the signal and idler photons relative to the pump pulse, and realizes a joint spectral amplitude with arbitrary degree of entanglement for the generated pairs. This method of group delay engineering has the potential of synthesizing a broad range of states including factorizable states crucial for quantum networking and states optimized for Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometry. Experimental results for the latter case are presented, illustrating the principles of this approach.

id: quant-ph/0611019
title: Generation of Pure-State Single-Photon Wavepackets by Conditional Preparation Based on Spontaneous Parametric Downconversion
authors: Alfred B. U'Ren, Christine Silberhorn, Reinhard Erdmann, Konrad Banaszek, Warren P. Grice, Ian A. Walmsley, Michael G. Raymer
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Las. Phys. 15 146 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611019
abstract: We study the conditional preparation of single photons based on parametric downconversion, where the detection of one photon from a given pair heralds the existence of a single photon in the conjugate mode. We derive conditions on the modal characteristics of the photon pairs, which ensure that the conditionally prepared single photons are quantum-mechanically pure. We propose specific experimental techniques that yield photon pairs ideally suited for single-photon conditional preparation.

id: quant-ph/0611020
title: Expectations of two-level telegraph noise
authors: Jesse Fern
comments: 10 pages, revtek4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611020
abstract: We find expectation values of functions of time integrated two-level telegraph noise. Expectation values of this noise are evaluated under simple control pulses. Both the Gaussian limit and $1/f$ noise are considered. We apply the results to a specific superconducting quantum computing example, which illustrates the use of this technique for calculating error probabilities.

id: quant-ph/0611021
title: Merlin-Arthur Games and Stoquastic Complexity
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Arvid J. Bessen, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures (proof of AM-hardness is simplified in Section 5)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611021
abstract: MA is a class of decision problems for which `yes'-instances have a proof that can be efficiently checked by a classical randomized algorithm. We prove that MA has a natural complete problem which we call the stoquastic k-SAT problem. This is a matrix-valued analogue of the satisfiability problem in which clauses are k-qubit projectors with non-negative matrix elements, while a satisfying assignment is a vector that belongs to the space spanned by these projectors. Stoquastic k-SAT is the first non-trivial example of a MA-complete problem. We also study the minimum eigenvalue problem for local stoquastic Hamiltonians that was introduced in quant-ph/0606140, stoquastic LH-MIN. A new complexity class StoqMA is introduced so that stoquastic LH-MIN is StoqMA-complete. Lastly, we consider the average LH-MIN problem for local stoquastic Hamiltonians that depend on a random or `quenched disorder' parameter, stoquastic AV-LH-MIN. We prove that stoquastic AV-LH-MIN is contained in the complexity class \AM, the class of decision problems for which yes-instances have a randomized interactive proof with two-way communication between prover and verifier.

id: quant-ph/0611022
title: Wigner formula of rotation matrices and quantum walks
authors: Takahiro Miyazaki, Makoto Katori, Norio Konno
comments: v2: REVTeX4, 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A76 (2007) 012332/1-14
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611022
abstract: Quantization of a random-walk model is performed by giving a qudit (a multi-component wave function) to a walker at site and by introducing a quantum coin, which is a matrix representation of a unitary transformation. In quantum walks, the qudit of walker is mixed according to the quantum coin at each time step, when the walker hops to other sites. As special cases of the quantum walks driven by high-dimensional quantum coins generally studied by Brun, Carteret, and Ambainis, we study the models obtained by choosing rotation as the unitary transformation, whose matrix representations determine quantum coins. We show that Wigner's $(2j+1)$-dimensional unitary representations of rotations with half-integers $j$'s are useful to analyze the probability laws of quantum walks. For any value of half-integer $j$, convergence of all moments of walker's pseudovelocity in the long-time limit is proved. It is generally shown for the present models that, if $(2j+1)$ is even, the probability measure of limit distribution is given by a superposition of $(2j+1)/2$ terms of scaled Konno's density functions, and if $(2j+1)$ is odd, it is a superposition of $j$ terms of scaled Konno's density functions and a Dirac's delta function at the origin. For the two-, three-, and four-component models, the probability densities of limit distributions are explicitly calculated and their dependence on the parameters of quantum coins and on the initial qudit of walker is completely determined. Comparison with computer simulation results is also shown.

id: quant-ph/0611023
title: Einstein's fluctuation formula. A historical overview
authors: Sandor Varro
comments: 34 pages
journal: Fluctuation and Noise Letters, Vol. 6, No. 3 (2006) R11-R46
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611023
abstract: A historical overview is given on the basic results which appeared by the year 1926 concerning Einstein's fluctuation formula of black-body radiation, in the context of light-quanta and wave-particle duality. On the basis of the original publications (from Planck's derivation of the black-body spectrum and Einstein's introduction of the photons up to the results of Born, Heisenberg and Jordan on the quantization of a continuum) a comparative study is presented on the first line of thoughts that led to the concept of quanta. The nature of the particle-like fluctuations and the wave-like fluctuations are analysed by using several approaches. With the help of the classical probability theory, it is shown that the infinite divisibility of the Bose distribution leads to the new concept of classical poissonian photo-multiplets or to the binary photo-multiplets of fermionic character. As an application, Einstein's fluctuation formula is derived as a sum of fermion type fluctuations of the binary photo-multiplets.

id: quant-ph/0611024
title: Thermodynamic Limit and Decoherence: Rigorous Results
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 5 pages, no figures. Contribution to proceedings of DICE 2006 (Piombino, Italy, September 11-15, 2006)
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 67 (2007) 012026
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611024
abstract: Time evolution operator in quantum mechanics can be changed into a statistical operator by a Wick rotation. This strict relation between statistical mechanics and quantum evolution can reveal deep results when the thermodynamic limit is considered. These results translate in a set of theorems proving that these effects can be effectively at work producing an emerging classical world without recurring to any external entity that in some cases cannot be properly defined. In a many-body system has been recently shown that Gaussian decay of the coherence is the rule with a duration of recurrence more and more small as the number of particles increases. This effect has been observed experimentally. More generally, a theorem about coherence of bulk matter can be proved. All this takes us to the conclusion that a well definite boundary for the quantum to classical world does exist and that can be drawn by the thermodynamic limit, extending in this way the deep link between statistical mechanics and quantum evolution to a high degree.

id: quant-ph/0611025
title: Electron Fabry-Perot interferometer with two entangled magnetic impurities
authors: F. Ciccarello, G. M. Palma, M. Zarcone, Y. Omar, V. R. Vieira
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, 7993 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611025
abstract: We consider a one-dimensional (1D) wire along which single conduction electrons can propagate in the presence of two spin-1/2 magnetic impurities. The electron may be scattered by each impurity via a contact-exchange interaction and thus a spin-flip generally occurs at each scattering event. Adopting a quantum waveguide theory approach, we derive the stationary states of the system at all orders in the electron-impurity exchange coupling constant. This allows us to investigate electron transmission for arbitrary initial states of the two impurity spins. We show that for suitable electron wave vectors, the triplet and singlet maximally entangled spin states of the impurities can respectively largely inhibit the electron transport or make the wire completely transparent for any electron spin state. In the latter case, a resonance condition can always be found, representing an anomalous behaviour compared to typical decoherence induced by magnetic impurities. We provide an explanation for these phenomena in terms of the Hamiltonian symmetries. Finally, a scheme to generate maximally entangled spin states of the two impurities via electron scattering is proposed.

id: quant-ph/0611026
title: Introduction to error correcting codes in quantum computers
authors: P. J. Salas
comments: To appear in Revista Mexicana de Fisica 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611026
abstract: The goal of this paper is to review the theoretical basis for achieving a faithful quantum information transmission and processing in the presence of noise. Initially encoding and decoding, implementing gates and quantum error correction will be considered error free. Finally we will relax this non realistic assumption, introducing the quantum fault-tolerant concept. The existence of an error threshold permits to conclude that there is no physical law preventing a quantum computer from being built. An error model based on the depolarizing channel will be able to provide a simple estimation of the storage or memory computation error threshold: < 5.2 10-5. The encoding is made by means of the [[7,1,3]] Calderbank-Shor-Steane quantum code and the Shor's fault-tolerant method to measure the stabilizer's generators is used.

id: quant-ph/0611027
title: The Importance of the Algorithmic Information Theory to Construct a Possible Example Where NP#P
authors: Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611027
abstract: In this short communication, it is shown a simple problem using quantum circuits for which the algorithmic information theory guarantee that the minimal length of the algorithm able to solve it grows exponentially with the number of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0611028
title: When Non-Gaussian States are Gaussian: Generalization of Non-Separability Criterion for Continuous Variables
authors: Derek McHugh, Vladim{¨ª}r Bu?ek, M¨¢rio Ziman
comments: Removed 1 figure, added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611028
abstract: We present a class of non-Gaussian two-mode continuous variable states for which the separability criterion for Gaussian states can be employed to detect whether they are separable or not. These states reduce to the two-mode Gaussian states as a special case.

id: quant-ph/0611029
title: Quantum randomness and value indefiniteness
authors: Cristian S. Calude, Karl Svozil
comments: 13 pages, revised
journal: Advanced Science Letters, Volume 1, Number 2, December 2008, pp. 165-168(4)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611029
abstract: As computability implies value definiteness, certain sequences of quantum outcomes cannot be computable.

id: quant-ph/0611030
title: Casimir Force on Real Materials - the Slab and Cavity Geometry
authors: Simen A. Ellingsen, Iver Brevik
comments: 24 pages, 11 figures; expanded discussion, one appendix added, 1 new figure and 10 new references. To appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J.Phys.A40:3643-3664,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611030
abstract: We analyse the potential of the geometry of a slab in a planar cavity for the purpose of Casimir force experiments. The force and its dependence on temperature, material properties and finite slab thickness are investigated both analytically and numerically for slab and walls made of aluminium and teflon FEP respectively. We conclude that such a setup is ideal for measurements of the temperature dependence of the Casimir force. By numerical calculation it is shown that temperature effects are dramatically larger for dielectrics, suggesting that a dielectric such as teflon FEP whose properties vary little within a moderate temperature range, should be considered for experimental purposes. We finally discuss the subtle but fundamental matter of the various Green's two-point function approaches present in the literature and show how they are different formulations describing the same phenomenon.

id: quant-ph/0611031
title: Possible Stimulated Emission of Entangled Rhodium Mossbauer Gammas
authors: Yao Cheng, Zhongming Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611031
abstract: Observation of possible stimulated emission of Mossbauer gamma is reported by liquid-nitrogen quenching of rhodium sample from room temperature to 77K in the time-resolved Mossbauer spectroscopy. Recently, we have demonstrated the anomalous emission of three entangled gammas of the E3 Mossbauer transition generated by bremsstrahlung irradiation. In this work, we further report the high-speed decay of excited state. We conjecture that cooling shrinkage, gravitational redshift and crystal lattice collimate entangled gammas in a linear cavity. This opens up a new approach towards gamma lasing, if the stimulated emission occurs at this obtained low excitation density.

id: quant-ph/0611032
title: What you always wanted to know about Bohmian mechanics but were afraid to ask
authors: Oliver Passon
comments: Invited talk at the spring meeting of the Deutsche Physikalische Gesellschaft, Dortmund, 2006. Forthcoming in Physics and Philosophy
journal: Physics and Philosophy 3 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611032
abstract: Bohmian mechanics is an alternative interpretation of quantum mechanics. We outline the main characteristics of its non-relativistic formulation. Most notably it does provide a simple solution to the infamous measurement problem of quantum mechanics. Presumably the most common objection against Bohmian mechanics is based on its non-locality and its apparent conflict with relativity and quantum field theory. However, several models for a quantum field theoretical generalization do exist. We give a non-technical account of some of these models.

id: quant-ph/0611033
title: Approximate Randomization of Quantum States With Fewer Bits of Key
authors: Paul A. Dickinson, Ashwin Nayak
comments: 18 pages, Quantum Computing Back Action, IIT Kanpur, March 2006, volume 864 of AIP Conference Proceedings, pages 18--36. Springer, New York
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611033
abstract: Randomization of quantum states is the quantum analogue of the classical one-time pad. We present an improved, efficient construction of an approximately randomizing map that uses O(d/epsilon^2) Pauli operators to map any d-dimensional state to a state that is within trace distance epsilon of the completely mixed state. Our bound is a log d factor smaller than that of Hayden, Leung, Shor, and Winter (2004), and Ambainis and Smith (2004). Then, we show that a random sequence of essentially the same number of unitary operators, chosen from an appropriate set, with high probability form an approximately randomizing map for d-dimensional states. Finally, we discuss the optimality of these schemes via connections to different notions of pseudorandomness, and give a new lower bound for small epsilon.

id: quant-ph/0611034
title: Comment on ``Experimental realization of Wheeler's delayed-choice GedankenExperiment''
authors: Travis Norsen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611034
abstract: A shortcoming in the authors' interpretation of this beautiful new experiment is pointed out and briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0611035
title: Determination of ground state properties in quantum spin systems by single qubit unitary operations and entanglement excitation energies
authors: S. M. Giampaolo, F. Illuminati, P. Verrucchi, S. De Siena
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012319 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611035
abstract: We introduce a method for analyzing ground state properties of quantum many body systems, based on the characterization of separability and entanglement by single subsystem unitary operations. We apply the method to the study of the ground state structure of several interacting spin-1/2 models, described by Hamiltonians with different degrees of symmetry. We show that the approach based on single qubit unitary operations allows to introduce {\it ``entanglement excitation energies''}, a set of observables that can characterize ground state properties, including the quantification of single-site entanglement and the determination of quantum critical points. The formalism allows to identify the existence and location of factorization points, and a purely quantum {\it ``transition of entanglement''} that occurs at the approach of factorization. This kind of quantum transition is characterized by a diverging ratio of excitation energies associated to single-qubit unitary operations.

id: quant-ph/0611036
title: Quantum cards and quantum rods
authors: Milan Batista, Joze Peternelj
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611036
abstract: Quantum mechanical analysis of a rigid rod with one end fixed to a flat table is presented. It is shown, that for a macroscopic rod the ground state is orientationally delocalized only if the table is absolutely horizontal. In this latter case the rod, assumed to be initally in the upright orientation, falls down symmetrically and simultaneously in both directions, as claimed by Tegmark and Wheeler. In addition, the time of fall is calculated using WKB wavefunctions representing energy eigenstates near the barrier summit.

id: quant-ph/0611037
title: Approximate Private Quantum Channels
authors: Paul Dickinson
comments: 78 pages, 1 figure. Master's Thesis accepted at University of Waterloo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611037
abstract: This thesis includes a survey of the results known for private and approximate private quantum channels. We develop the best known upper bound for $\epsilon$-randomizing maps, $n+2\log(1/\epsilon)+c$ bits required to $\epsilon$-randomize an arbitrary $n$-qubit state by improving a scheme of Ambainis and Smith \cite{AS04} based on small bias spaces \cite{NN90, AGHP92}. We show by a probabilistic argument that in fact the great majority of random schemes using slightly more than this many bits of key are also $\epsilon$-randomizing. We provide the first known non-trivial lower bound for $\epsilon$-randomizing maps, and develop several conditions on them which we hope may be useful in proving stronger lower bounds in the future.

id: quant-ph/0611038
title: Stationary entanglement between two movable mirrors in a classically driven Fabry-Perot cavity
authors: David Vitali, Stefano Mancini, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, 8055-8068 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611038
abstract: We consider a Fabry-Perot cavity made by two moving mirrors and driven by an intense classical laser field. We show that stationary entanglement between two vibrational modes of the mirrors, with effective mass of the order of micrograms, can be generated by means of radiation pressure. The resulting entanglement is however quite fragile with respect to temperature.

id: quant-ph/0611039
title: Quantum Network Coding for General Graphs
authors: Kazuo Iwama, Harumichi Nishimura, Rudy Raymond, Shigeru Yamashita
comments: 14pages, 4figures. Main result and lemma are improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611039
abstract: Network coding is often explained by using a small network model called Butterfly. In this network, there are two flow paths, s_1 to t_1 and s_2 to t_2, which share a single bottleneck channel of capacity one. So, if we consider conventional flow (of liquid, for instance), then the total amount of flow must be at most one in total, say 1/2 for each path. However, if we consider information flow, then we can send two bits (one for each path) at the same time by exploiting two side links, which are of no use for the liquid-type flow, and encoding/decoding operations at each node. This is known as network coding and has been quite popular since its introduction by Ahlswede, Cai, Li and Yeung in 2000. In QIP 2006, Hayashi et al showed that quantum network coding is possible for Butterfly, namely we can send two qubits simultaneously with keeping their fidelity strictly greater than 1/2. In this paper, we show that the result can be extended to a large class of general graphs by using a completely different approach. The underlying technique is a new cloning method called entanglement-free cloning which does not produce any entanglement at all. This seems interesting on its own and to show its possibility is an even more important purpose of this paper. Combining this new cloning with approximation of general quantum states by a small number of fixed ones, we can design a quantum network coding protocol which ``simulates'' its classical counterpart for the same graph.

id: quant-ph/0611040
title: Semiclassical quantization of an N-particle Bose-Hubbard model
authors: E.-M. Graefe, H. J. Korsch
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 76 (2007) 032116
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611040
abstract: A semiclassical Bohr-Sommerfeld approximation is derived for an N-particle, two-mode Bose-Hubbard system modeling a Bose-Einstein condensate in a double-well potential. This semiclassical description is based on the `classical' dynamics of the mean-field Gross-Pitaevskii equation and is expected to be valid for large N. We demonstrate the possibility to reconstruct quantum properties of the N-particle system from the mean-field dynamics. The resulting semiclassical eigenvalues and eigenstates are found to be in very good agreement with the exact ones, even for small values of N, both for subcritical and supercritical particle interaction strength where tunneling has to be taken into account.

id: quant-ph/0611041
title: Transmission area and two-photon correlated imaging
authors: Yanfeng Bai, Shensheng Han, Honglin Liu
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611041
abstract: The relationship between transmission area of an object imaged and the visibility of its image is investigated in a lensless system. We show that the changes of the visibility are quite different when the transmission area is varied by different manners. An increase of the transmission by adding the slit number leads to a decrease of the visibility. While, the change is adverse when the slit width is widened for a given distance between two slits.

id: quant-ph/0611042
title: Quantum states characterization for the zero-error capacity
authors: Rex A C Medeiros, Romain Alleaume, Gerard Cohen, Francisco M. de Assis
comments: submitted to J. Phys A. Needs IOP latex class files to compile
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611042
abstract: The zero-error capacity of quantum channels was defined as the least upper bound of rates at which classical information can be transmitted through a quantum channel with probability of error equal to zero. This paper investigates some properties of input states and measurements used to attain the quantum zero-error capacity. We start by reformulating the problem of finding the zero-error capacity in the language of graph theory. This alternative definition is used to prove that the zero-error capacity of any quantum channel can be reached by using tensor products of pure states as channel inputs, and projective measurements in the channel output. We conclude by presenting an example that illustrates our results.

id: quant-ph/0611043
title: On the analytic structure of Green's function for the Fano - Anderson model
authors: E. Kogan
comments: 4 pages, 6 eps figures, latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611043
abstract: We study analytic structure of the Green's function (GF) for the exactly solvable Fano-Anderson model. We analyze the GF poles, branch points and Riemann surface, and show how the Fermi's Golden Rule, valid in perturbative regime for not to large time, appears in this context. The knowledge of analytic structure of the GF in frequency representation opens opportunities for obtaining formulas for the GF in time representation alternative to the standard one using the spectral density.

id: quant-ph/0611044
title: Quantum key distribution with "dual detectors"
authors: Bing Qi, Yi Zhao, Xiongfeng Ma, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Li Qian
comments: 22 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review A 75 052304 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611044
abstract: To improve the performance of a quantum key distribution (QKD) system, high speed, low dark count single photon detectors (or low noise homodyne detectors) are required. However, in practice, a fast detector is usually noisy. Here, we propose a "dual detectors" method to improve the performance of a practical QKD system with realistic detectors: the legitimate receiver randomly uses either a fast (but noisy) detector or a quiet (but slow) detector to measure the incoming quantum signals. The measurement results from the quiet detector can be used to bound eavesdropper's information, while the measurement results from the fast detector are used to generate secure key. We apply this idea to various QKD protocols. Simulation results demonstrate significant improvements in both BB84 protocol with ideal single photon source and Gaussian-modulated coherent states (GMCS) protocol; while for decoy-state BB84 protocol with weak coherent source, the improvement is moderate. We also discuss various practical issues in implementing the "dual detectors" scheme.

id: quant-ph/0611045
title: Entanglement properties in the Inhomogeneous Tavis-Cummings model
authors: C. E. L¨®pez, F. Lastra, G. Romero, J. C. Retamal
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022107 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611045
abstract: In this work we study the properties of the atomic entanglement in the eigenstates spectrum of the inhomogeneous Tavis-Cummings Model. The inhomogeneity is present in the coupling among the atoms with quantum electromagnetic field. We calculate analytical expressions for the concurrence and we found that this exhibits a strong dependence on the inhomogeneity.

id: quant-ph/0611046
title: Local Hidden Variables Underpinning of Entanglement and Teleportation
authors: A. Kalev, A. Mann, M. Revzen
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure, accepted Found. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611046
abstract: Entangled states whose Wigner functions are non-negative may be viewed as being accounted for by local hidden variables (LHV). Recently, there were studies of Bell's inequality violation (BIQV) for such states in conjunction with the well known theorem of Bell that precludes BIQV for theories that have LHV underpinning. We extend these studies to teleportation which is also based on entanglement. We investigate if, to what extent, and under what conditions may teleportation be accounted for via LHV theory. Our study allows us to expose the role of various quantum requirements. These are, e.g., the uncertainty relation among non-commuting operators, and the no-cloning theorem which forces the complete elimination of the teleported state at its initial port.

id: quant-ph/0611047
title: Context, spacetime loops, and the interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: Andrew M. Steane
comments: 19 pages. For special issue of J.Phys.A, "The Quantum Universe", on the occasion of 70th birthday of Professor Giancarlo Ghirardi
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611047
abstract: Three postulates are discussed: first that well-defined properties cannot be assigned to an isolated system, secondly that quantum unitary evolution is atemporal, and thirdly that some physical processes are never reversed. It is argued that these give useful insight into quantum behaviour. The first postulate emphasizes the fundamental role in physics of interactions and correlations, as opposed to internal properties of systems. Statements about physical interactions can only be framed in a context of further interactions. This undermines the possibility of objectivity in physics. However, quantum mechanics retains objectivity through the combination of the second and third postulates. A rule is given for determining the circumstances in which physical evolution is non-unitary. This rule appeals to the absence of spacetime loops in the future evolution of a set of interacting systems. A single universe undergoing non-unitary evolution is a viable interpretation.

id: quant-ph/0611048
title: Errors in trapped-ion quantum gates due to spontaneous photon scattering
authors: R. Ozeri, W. M. Itano, R. B. Blakestad, J. Britton, J. Chiaverini, J. D. Jost, C. Langer, D. Leibfried, R. Reichle, S. Seidelin, J. H. Wesenberg, D. J. Wineland
comments: 15 pages and 6 figures, updated, fixed typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611048
abstract: We analyze the error in trapped-ion, hyperfine qubit, quantum gates due to spontaneous scattering of photons from the gate laser beams. We investigate single-qubit rotations that are based on stimulated Raman transitions and two-qubit entangling phase-gates that are based on spin-dependent optical dipole forces. This error is compared between different ion species currently being investigated as possible quantum information carriers. For both gate types we show that with realistic laser powers the scattering error can be reduced to below current estimates of the fault-tolerance error threshold.

id: quant-ph/0611049
title: How to Distinguish Identical Particles. the General Case
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 41 page, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611049
abstract: The many-identical-particle quantum correlations are revisited utilizing the machinery of basic group theory, especially that of the group of permutations. It is done with the purpose to obtain precise definitions of effective distinct particles, and of the limitations involved. Namely, certain restrictions allow one to distinguish identical particles in the general case of N of them, and of J clusters of effectively distinct particles, where N and J are arbitrary integers (but 1<J<(N+1)). Mutually orthogonal, single-particle distinguishing projectors (events or ptoperties), J of them, are the backbone of the construction. The general results are exemplified by local quantum mechanics, and by the case of nucleons. The former example suits laboratory experiments, and a critical view of it is presented.

id: quant-ph/0611050
title: The computational complexity of PEPS
authors: Norbert Schuch, Michael M. Wolf, Frank Verstraete, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Published version, plus a few extras
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 140506 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611050
abstract: We determine the computational power of preparing Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS), as well as the complexity of classically simulating them, and generally the complexity of contracting tensor networks. While creating PEPS allows to solve PP problems, the latter two tasks are both proven to be #P-complete. We further show how PEPS can be used to approximate ground states of gapped Hamiltonians, and that creating them is easier than creating arbitrary PEPS. The main tool for our proofs is a duality between PEPS and postselection which allows to use existing results from quantum compexity.

id: quant-ph/0611051
title: Superfast Algorithms and the Halting Problem in Geometric Algebra
authors: Marcin Paw?owski
comments: 4 pages, no figures, preliminary version, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611051
abstract: A new type of algorithms is presented that combine the advantages of quantum and classical ones. Those combined advantages along with aspects of Geometric Algebra that open possibilities unavailable to both of these computations are exploited to obtain database search and number factoring algorithms that are faster than the quantum ones, and even to create a ''pseudoalgorithm'' that can perform noncomputational tasks.

id: quant-ph/0611052
title: The Quantum Interference Computer: error correction
authors: A. Y. Shiekh
comments: 4 pages, significant changes
journal: Int. Jour. of Theo. Phys., 47, 2176, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611052
abstract: An error correcting mechanism is proposed in the context of the Quantum Interference Computer approach

id: quant-ph/0611053
title: The Systematic Measurement Errors and Uncertainty Relation
authors: Timur F. Kamalov
comments: Latex, 4 pages
journal: New Technologies MSOU (2006),n. 5, p. 10-12
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611053
abstract: Inertial effects in non-inertial reference frames are compared with quantum properties of tests objects. The real space-time and perfect inertial reference frame can be compared accurate to the uncertainty relation. Complexities if describing micro-object in non-inertial reference-frames are avoidable using Ostrogradski's Canonical Formalism.

id: quant-ph/0611054
title: Negative weights make adversaries stronger
authors: Peter Hoyer, Troy Lee, Robert Spalek
comments: 29 pages, v2: added automorphism principle, extended to non-boolean functions, simplified examples, added matching upper bound for ADV
journal: STOC 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611054
abstract: The quantum adversary method is one of the most successful techniques for proving lower bounds on quantum query complexity. It gives optimal lower bounds for many problems, has application to classical complexity in formula size lower bounds, and is versatile with equivalent formulations in terms of weight schemes, eigenvalues, and Kolmogorov complexity. All these formulations rely on the principle that if an algorithm successfully computes a function then, in particular, it is able to distinguish between inputs which map to different values. We present a stronger version of the adversary method which goes beyond this principle to make explicit use of the stronger condition that the algorithm actually computes the function. This new method, which we call ADV+-, has all the advantages of the old: it is a lower bound on bounded-error quantum query complexity, its square is a lower bound on formula size, and it behaves well with respect to function composition. Moreover ADV+- is always at least as large as the adversary method ADV, and we show an example of a monotone function for which ADV+-(f)=Omega(ADV(f)^1.098). We also give examples showing that ADV+- does not face limitations of ADV like the certificate complexity barrier and the property testing barrier.

id: quant-ph/0611055
title: Defending the Pondicherry interpretation: A response to Shafiee, Jafar-Aghdami, and Golshani
authors: U. Mohrhoff
comments: 20 pages, no graphics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611055
abstract: Recently Shafiee, Jafar-Aghdami, and Golshani (Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics, 37, 316--329) took issue with certain aspects of the Pondicherry interpretation of quantum mechanics, especially its definitions and uses of "objective probability," its conception of space, the role it assigns to the macroworld in a universe governed by quantum laws, and its claim for the completeness of quantum mechanics. These issues are addressed.

id: quant-ph/0611056
title: Laser stabilization using spectral hole burning
authors: L. Rippe, B. Julsgaard, A. Walther, S. Kr?ll
comments: RevTeX, 25 pages, 13 figures, 1 table. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611056
abstract: We have frequency stabilized a Coherent CR699-21 dye laser to a transient spectral hole on the 606 nm transition in Pr^{+3}:Y_2SiO_5. A frequency stability of 1 kHz has been obtained on the 10 microsecond timescale together with a long-term frequency drift below 1 kHz/s. RF magnetic fields are used to repopulate the hyperfine levels allowing us to control the dynamics of the spectral hole. A detailed theory of the atomic response to laser frequency errors has been developed which allows us to design and optimize the laser stabilization feedback loop, and specifically we give a stability criterion that must be fulfilled in order to obtain very low drift rates. The laser stability is sufficient for performing quantum gate experiments in Pr^{+3}:Y_2SiO_5.

id: quant-ph/0611057
title: Robustness of quantum Markov chains
authors: Ben Ibinson, Noah Linden, Andreas Winter
comments: 14 pages, no figures; not for the feeble-minded
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611057
abstract: If the conditional information of a classical probability distribution of three random variables is zero, then it obeys a Markov chain condition. If the conditional information is close to zero, then it is known that the distance (minimum relative entropy) of the distribution to the nearest Markov chain distribution is precisely the conditional information. We prove here that this simple situation does not obtain for quantum conditional information. We show that for tri-partite quantum states the quantum conditional information is always a lower bound for the minimum relative entropy distance to a quantum Markov chain state, but the distance can be much greater; indeed the two quantities can be of different asymptotic order and may even differ by a dimensional factor.

id: quant-ph/0611058
title: Simulating a single qubit channel using a mixed state environment
authors: Geetu Narang, Arvind
comments: Published version with minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032305 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611058
abstract: We analyze the class of single qubit channels with the environment modeled by a one-qubit mixed state. The set of affine transformations for this class of channels is computed analytically, employing the canonical form for the two-qubit unitary operator. We demonstrate that, 3/8 of the generalized depolarizing channels can be simulated by the one-qubit mixed state environment by explicitly obtaining the shape of the volume occupied by this class of channels within the tetrahedron representing the generalized depolarizing channels. Further, as a special case, we show that the two-Pauli Channel cannot be simulated by a one-qubit mixed state environment.

id: quant-ph/0611059
title: Experimental quantum key distribution with active phase randomization
authors: Yi Zhao, Bing Qi, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures, RevTEX
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett., 90 (4), 044106 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611059
abstract: Phase randomization is an important assumption made in many security proofs of practical quantum key distribution (QKD) systems. Here, we present the first experimental demonstration of QKD with reliable active phase randomization. One key contribution is a polarization-insensitive phase modulator, which we added to a commercial phase-coding QKD system to randomize the global phase of each bit. We also proposed a simple but useful method to verify experimentally that the phase is indeed randomized. Our result shows very low QBER (<1%). We expect this active phase randomization process to be a standard part in future QKD set-ups due to its significance and feasibility.

id: quant-ph/0611060
title: Some Possibility and Impossibility Results related to Discrete Fourier type transforms in Quantum Information
authors: Arpita Maitra
comments: This paper has been revised a lot in further works. The duly revised and published version is available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611060
abstract: Very recently the most general ensemble of qubits are identified using the notion of linearity; any of these qubits gets accepted by a Hadamard gate to generate the equal superposition of the qubit and its orthogonal. Towards more generalization, we investigate the possibility and impossibility results related to Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) type of operations for a more general set up of qutrits.

id: quant-ph/0611061
title: On the relationship between entropy and information
authors: Afshin Shafiee, Majid Karimi
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures. The content of paper is improved throughly in the second version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611061
abstract: In this paper, we analyze the relationship between entropy and information in the context of the mixing process of two identical ideal gases. We will argue that entropy has a special information-based feature that is enfolded in the statistical entropy, but the second law does not include it directly. Therefore, in some given processes in thermodynamics where there is no matter and energy interaction between the system and environment, the state of the system may go towards a situation of lower probability to increase observer's information in environment. This is a kind of an information-based interaction in which the total entropy is not constrained by the second law.

id: quant-ph/0611062
title: Lissajous curves and semiclassical theory: The two-dimensional harmonic oscillator
authors: Roland Doll, Gert-Ludwig Ingold
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures; to appear in Am. J. Phys
journal: Am. J. Phys. 75, 208 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611062
abstract: The semiclassical treatment of the two-dimensional harmonic oscillator provides an instructive example of the relation between classical motion and the quantum mechanical energy spectrum. We extend previous work on the anisotropic oscillator with incommensurate frequencies and the isotropic oscillator to the case with commensurate frequencies for which the Lissajous curves appear as classical periodic orbits. Because of the three different scenarios depending on the ratio of its frequencies, the two-dimensional harmonic oscillator offers a unique way to explicitly analyze the role of symmetries in classical and quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0611063
title: Projective Ring Line Encompassing Two-Qubits
authors: Metod Saniga, Michel Planat, Petr Pracna
comments: 8 pages, three tables; Version 2 - a few typos and one discrepancy corrected; Version 3: substantial extension of the paper - two-qubits are generalized quadrangles of order two; Version 4: self-dual picture completed; Version 5: intriguing triality found -- three kinds of geometric hyperplanes within GQ and three distinguished subsets of Pauli operators
journal: Theoretical and Mathematical Physics 155, 3 (2008) 905-913
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611063
abstract: The projective line over the (non-commutative) ring of two-by-two matrices with coefficients in GF(2) is found to fully accommodate the algebra of 15 operators - generalized Pauli matrices - characterizing two-qubit systems. The relevant sub-configuration consists of 15 points each of which is either simultaneously distant or simultaneously neighbor to (any) two given distant points of the line. The operators can be identified with the points in such a one-to-one manner that their commutation relations are exactly reproduced by the underlying geometry of the points, with the ring geometrical notions of neighbor/distant answering, respectively, to the operational ones of commuting/non-commuting. This remarkable configuration can be viewed in two principally different ways accounting, respectively, for the basic 9+6 and 10+5 factorizations of the algebra of the observables. First, as a disjoint union of the projective line over GF(2) x GF(2) (the "Mermin" part) and two lines over GF(4) passing through the two selected points, the latter omitted. Second, as the generalized quadrangle of order two, with its ovoids and/or spreads standing for (maximum) sets of five mutually non-commuting operators and/or groups of five maximally commuting subsets of three operators each. These findings open up rather unexpected vistas for an algebraic geometrical modelling of finite-dimensional quantum systems and give their numerous applications a wholly new perspective.

id: quant-ph/0611064
title: Perturbation theory for sextic doubly anharmonic oscillator
authors: I. V. Dobrovolska, R. S. Tutik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611064
abstract: A simple method for the calculation of higher orders of the logarithmic perturbation theory for bound states of the spherical anharmonic oscillator is developed. The structure of the perturbation series for energy eigenvalues of the sextic doubly anharmonic oscillator is investigated. The recursion technique for deriving renormalized perturbation expansions is offered.

id: quant-ph/0611065
title: Exact Polynomial Solutions of the Mie-Type Potential in the N-Dimensional Schrodinger Equation
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Mol. Struc(Theochem) 855, 13(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611065
abstract: The polynomial solution of the N-dimensional space Schrodinger equation for a special case of Mie potential is obtained for any arbitrary $% l-state. The exact bound-state energy eigenvalues and the corresponding eigenfunctions are calculated for diatomic molecular systems in the Mie-type potential. Keywords: Mie potential, Schrodinger equation, Eigenvalue, Eigenfunction, Diatomic molecules

id: quant-ph/0611066
title: Sum rules for Confining Potentials
authors: C. V. Sukumar
comments: 16 pages This paper is withdrawn to make some minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611066
abstract: Using the Green's function associated with the one-dimensional Schroedinger equation it is possible to establish a hierarchy of sum rules involving the eigenvalues of confining potentials which have only a boundstate spectrum. For some potentials the sum rules could lead to divergences. It is shown that when this happens it is possible to examine the separate sum rules satisfied by the even and odd eigenstates of a symmetric confining potential and by subtraction cancel the divergences exactly and produce a new sum rule which is free of divergences. The procedure is illustrated by considering symmetric power law potentials and the use of several examples. One of the examples considered shows that the zeros of the Airy function and its derivative obey a sum rule and this sum rule is verified. It is also shown how the procedure may be generalised to establish sum rules for arbitrary symmetric confining potentials.

id: quant-ph/0611067
title: A Straightforward Introduction to Continuous Quantum Measurement
authors: Kurt Jacobs, Daniel A. Steck
comments: 24 pages, 3 eps figues. To appear in Contemporary Physics
journal: Contemporary Physics 47, 279 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611067
abstract: We present a pedagogical treatment of the formalism of continuous quantum measurement. Our aim is to show the reader how the equations describing such measurements are derived and manipulated in a direct manner. We also give elementary background material for those new to measurement theory, and describe further various aspects of continuous measurements that should be helpful to those wanting to use such measurements in applications. Specifically, we use the simple and direct approach of generalized measurements to derive the stochastic master equation describing the continuous measurements of observables, give a tutorial on stochastic calculus, treat multiple observers and inefficient detection, examine a general form of the measurement master equation, and show how the master equation leads to information gain and disturbance. To conclude, we give a detailed treatment of imaging the resonance fluorescence from a single atom as a concrete example of how a continuous position measurement arises in a physical system.

id: quant-ph/0611068
title: Exact bound states in volcano potentials
authors: Ratna Koley, Sayan Kar
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys.Lett.A363:369-373,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611068
abstract: Quantum mechanics in a one--parameter family of volcano potentials is investigated. After a discussion on their construction and classical mechanics, we obtain exact, normalisable bound states for specific values of the energy. The nature of the wave functions and probability densities, as well as some curious features of the solutions are highlighted.

id: quant-ph/0611069
title: Physical theory of the twentieth century and contemporary philosophy
authors: Milos V. Lokajicek
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611069
abstract: It has been shown that the criticism of Pauli as well as of Susskind and Glogover may be avoided if the standard quantum-mechanical mathematical model has been suitably extended. There is not more any reason for Einstein's citicism, either, if in addition to some new results concerning Bell's inequalities and Belifante's argument are taken into account. The ensemble interpretation of quantum mechanics (or the hidden-variable theory) should be preferred, which is also supported by the already published results of experiments with three polarizers. Greater space in the text has been devoted also to the discussion of epistemological problems and some philosophical consequences.

id: quant-ph/0611070
title: Quantum erasure of decoherence
authors: F. Buscemi, G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Open Sys. & Information Dyn. 14, 53 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611070
abstract: We consider the classical algebra of observables that are diagonal in a given orthonormal basis, and define a complete decoherence process as a completely positive map that asymptotically converts any quantum observable into a diagonal one, while preserving the elements of the classical algebra. For quantum systems in dimension two and three any decoherence process can be undone by collecting classical information from the environment and using such an information to restore the initial system state. As a relevant example, we illustrate the quantum eraser of Scully et al. [Nature 351, 111 (1991)] as an example of environment-assisted correction. Moreover, we present the generalization of the eraser setup for d-dimensional systems, showing that any von Neumann measurement on a system can be undone by a complementary measurement on the environment.

id: quant-ph/0611071
title: Breakdown of the few-level approximation in collective systems
authors: M. Kiffner, J. Evers, C. H. Keitel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 013807 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611071
abstract: The validity of the few-level approximation in dipole-dipole interacting collective systems is discussed. As example system, we study the archetype case of two dipole-dipole interacting atoms, each modelled by two complete sets of angular momentum multiplets. We establish the breakdown of the few-level approximation by first proving the intuitive result that the dipole-dipole induced energy shifts between collective two-atom states depend on the length of the vector connecting the atoms, but not on its orientation, if complete and degenerate multiplets are considered. A careful analysis of our findings reveals that the simplification of the atomic level scheme by artificially omitting Zeeman sublevels in a few-level approximation generally leads to incorrect predictions. We find that this breakdown can be traced back to the dipole-dipole coupling of transitions with orthogonal dipole moments. Our interpretation enables us to identify special geometries in which partial few-level approximations to two- or three-level systems are valid.

id: quant-ph/0611072
title: On the Physical Interpretation of Partial Traces: Two Nonstandard Viewpoints
authors: Claudio Garola, Sandro Sozzo
comments: Revised Introduction. Minor changes in the abstract and in Secs. 2-5
journal: Theoretical and Mathematical Physics, 152(2): 1087-1098 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611072
abstract: Mixed states are introduced in physics in order to express our ignorance about the actual state of a physical system and are represented in standard quantum mechanics (QM) by density operators. Such operators also appear if one considers a (pure) entangled state of a compound system $\Omega$ and performs partial traces on the projection operator representing it. Yet, they do not represent mixed states (or proper mixtures) of the subsystems in this case, but improper mixtures, since the coefficients in the convex sums expressing them never bear the ignorance interpretation. Hence, one cannot attribute states to the subsystems of a compound physical system in QM (subentity problem). We discuss here two alternative proposals that can be worked out within the Brussels and Lecce approaches. We firstly summarize the general framework provided by the former, which suggests that improper mixtures could be considered as new pure states. Then, we show that improper mixtures can be considered as true (yet nonpure) states also according to the latter. The two proposals seem to be compatible notwithstanding their different terminologies.

id: quant-ph/0611073
title: Stationary light pulses in ultra cold atomic gasses
authors: Kristian Rymann Hansen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611073
abstract: We present a theoretical treatment of electromagnetically induced transparency and light storage using standing wave coupling fields in a medium comprised of stationary atoms, such as an ultra cold atomic gas or a solid state medium. We show that it is possible to create stationary pulses of light which have a qualitatively different behavior than in the case of a thermal gas medium, offering greater potential for quantum information processing applications.

id: quant-ph/0611074
title: Analysis of critical parameters in the scheme of Bj?rk, Jonsson, and S¨¢nchez-Soto
authors: Marcin Wiesniak, Marek Zukowski
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611074
abstract: Bj\"ork, Jonsson, and S\'anchez-Soto describe an interesting (gedanken-)experiment which demonstrates that single photons can indeed lead to effects which have no local realistic description. %It is one of few cases where the experimental falsification of the conjecture of local realism has been done with use of the CH inequality, rather that the CHSH inequality. We study the critical values of parameters of some possible features of a non-perfect realisation of the experiment (especially photon loss, which could be looked at as the detection efficiency), that need to be satisfied so that the experiment can be considered as a valid test of quantum mechanics versus local realism. Interestingly, the scheme turns out to be robust against photon loss.

id: quant-ph/0611075
title: The disentangling power of unitaries
authors: Lieven Clarisse, Sibasish Ghosh, Simone Severini, Anthony Sudbery
comments: 2 pages; Addendum to quant-ph/0502040
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611075
abstract: We define the disentangling power of a unitary operator in a similar way as the entangling power defined by Zanardi, Zalka and Faoro [PRA, 62, 030301]. A general formula is derived and it is shown that both quantities are directly proportional. All results concerning the entangling power can simply be translated into similar statements for the disentangling power. In particular, the disentangling power is maximal for certain permutations derived from orthogonal latin squares. These permutations can therefore be interpreted as those that distort entanglement in a maximal way.

id: quant-ph/0611076
title: Classicality in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Olaf Dreyer
comments: Converence talk presented at DICE 2006 in Piombino. To be published in the Journal of Physics: Conference Series
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.67:012051,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611076
abstract: In this article we propose a solution to the measurement problem in quantum mechanics. We point out that the measurement problem can be traced to an a priori notion of classicality in the formulation of quantum mechanics. If this notion of classicality is dropped and instead classicality is defined in purely quantum mechanical terms the measurement problem can be avoided. We give such a definition of classicality. It identifies classicality as a property of large quantum system. We show how the probabilistic nature of quantum mechanics is a result of this notion of classicality. We also comment on what the implications of this view are for the search of a quantum theory of gravity.

id: quant-ph/0611077
title: Entanglement dynamics in chains of qubits with noise and disorder
authors: D.I. Tsomokos, M.J. Hartmann, S.F. Huelga, M.B. Plenio
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures (replaced with published version: updated references, minor changes and typos)
journal: New Journal of Physics 9, 79 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611077
abstract: The entanglement dynamics of arrays of qubits is analysed in the presence of some general sources of noise and disorder. In particular, we consider linear chains of Josephson qubits in experimentally realistic conditions. Electromagnetic and other (spin or boson) fluctuations due to the background circuitry and surrounding substrate, finite temperature in the external environment, and disorder in the initial preparation and the control parameters are embedded into our model. We show that the amount of disorder that is typically present in current experiments does not affect the entanglement dynamics significantly, while the presence of noise can have a drastic influence on the generation and propagation of entanglement. We examine under which circumstances the system exhibits steady-state entanglement for both short (N < 10) and long (N > 30) chains and show that, remarkably, there are parameter regimes where the steady-state entanglement is strictly non-monotonic as a function of the noise strength. We also present optimized schemes for entanglement verification and quantification based on simple correlation measurements that are experimentally more economic than state tomography.

id: quant-ph/0611078
title: Stability and entanglement in optical-atomic amplification of trapped atoms: the role of atomic collisions
authors: V. V. Fran?a, G. A. Prataviera
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 043604 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611078
abstract: Atomic collisions are included in an interacting system of optical fields and trapped atoms allowing field amplification. We study the effects of collisions on the system stability. Also a study of the degree of entanglement between atomic and optical fields is made. We found that, for an atomic field initially in a vacuum state and optical field in a coherent state, the degree of entanglement does not depend on the optical field intensity or phase. We show that in conditions of exponential instability the system presents at long times two distinct stationary degree of entanglement with collisions affecting only one of them.

id: quant-ph/0611079
title: Robustness against parametric noise of non ideal holonomic gates
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Paolo Aniello, Mario Napolitano, Giuseppe Florio
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, several changes made, accepted for publication on Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012309 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611079
abstract: Holonomic gates for quantum computation are commonly considered to be robust against certain kinds of parametric noise, the very motivation of this robustness being the geometric character of the transformation achieved in the adiabatic limit. On the other hand, the effects of decoherence are expected to become more and more relevant when the adiabatic limit is approached. Starting from the system described by Florio et al. [Phys. Rev. A 73, 022327 (2006)], here we discuss the behavior of non ideal holonomic gates at finite operational time, i.e., far before the adiabatic limit is reached. We have considered several models of parametric noise and studied the robustness of finite time gates. The obtained results suggest that the finite time gates present some effects of cancellation of the perturbations introduced by the noise which mimic the geometrical cancellation effect of standard holonomic gates. Nevertheless, a careful analysis of the results leads to the conclusion that these effects are related to a dynamical instead of geometrical feature.

id: quant-ph/0611080
title: Optimal, reliable estimation of quantum states
authors: Robin Blume-Kohout
comments: RevTeX; 14 pages, 2 embedded figures. Comments enthusiastically welcomed!
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 043034 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611080
abstract: Accurately inferring the state of a quantum device from the results of measurements is a crucial task in building quantum information processing hardware. The predominant state estimation procedure, maximum likelihood estimation (MLE), generally reports an estimate with zero eigenvalues. These cannot be justified. Furthermore, the MLE estimate is incompatible with error bars, so conclusions drawn from it are suspect. I propose an alternative procedure, Bayesian mean estimation (BME). BME never yields zero eigenvalues, its eigenvalues provide a bound on their own uncertainties, and it is the most accurate procedure possible. I show how to implement BME numerically, and how to obtain natural error bars that are compatible with the estimate. Finally, I briefly discuss the differences between Bayesian and frequentist estimation techniques.

id: quant-ph/0611081
title: Superadditivity of distillable entanglement From Quantum Teleportation
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Vwani Roychowdhury
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 060303(R) (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611081
abstract: We show that the phenomenon of superadditivity of distillable entanglement observed in multipartite quantum systems results from the consideration of states created during the execution of the standard end-to-end quantum teleportation protocol (and a few additional local operations and classical communication (LOCC) steps) on a linear chain of singlets. Some of these intermediate states are tensor products of bound-entangled (BE) states, and hence, by construction possess distillable entanglement, which can be unlocked by simply completing the rest of the LOCC operations required by the underlying teleportation protocol. We use this systematic approach to construct both new and known examples of superactivation of bound entanglement, and first examples of activation of BE states using other BE states. A surprising outcome is the construction of noiseless quantum relay channels with no distillable entanglement between any two parties, except for that between the two end nodes.

id: quant-ph/0611082
title: Comment on the sign of the Casimir force
authors: C.P. Bachas
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, Latex file. Several points clarified and expanded, two references added.
journal: J.Phys.A40:9089-9096,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611082
abstract: I show that reflection positivity implies that the force between any mirror pair of charge-conjugate probes of the quantum vacuum is attractive. This generalizes a recent theorem of Kenneth and Klich to interacting quantum fields, to arbitrary semiclassical bodies, and to quantized probes with non-overlapping wavefunctions. I also prove that the torques on charge-conjugate probes tend always to rotate them into a mirror-symmetric position.

id: quant-ph/0611083
title: Explicit form of correlation function three-settings tight Bell inequalities for three qubits
authors: Marcin Wiesniak, Piotr Badziag, Marek Zukowski
comments: 8 pages, no figures,
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611083
abstract: We present a method to derive explicit forms of tight correlation function Bell inequalities for three systems and dichotomic observables, which involve three settings for each observer. We also give sufficient conditions for quantum predictions to satisfy the new inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0611084
title: Coherent control in a decoherence-free subspace of a collective multi-level system
authors: M. Kiffner, J. Evers, C. H. Keitel
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032313 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611084
abstract: Decoherence-free subspaces (DFS) in systems of dipole-dipole interacting multi-level atoms are investigated theoretically. It is shown that the collective state space of two dipole-dipole interacting four-level atoms contains a four-dimensional DFS. We describe a method that allows to populate the antisymmetric states of the DFS by means of a laser field, without the need of a field gradient between the two atoms. We identify these antisymmetric states as long-lived entangled states. Further, we show that any single-qubit operation between two states of the DFS can be induced by means of a microwave field. Typical operation times of these qubit rotations can be significantly shorter than for a nuclear spin system.

id: quant-ph/0611085
title: Generation of Long-Lived Isomeric States via Bremsstrahlung Irradiation
authors: Yao Cheng, Bing Xia, Chuanxiang Tang, Yinong Liu, Qingxiu Jin
comments: ICAME 05 conference report
journal: Hyperfine Interactions Vol.167, 833-838(2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611085
abstract: A method to generate long-lived isomeric states effectively for Mossbauer applications is reported. We demonstrate that this method is better and easier to provide highly sensitive Mossbauer effect of long-lived isomers (>1ms) such as 103Rh. Excitation of (gamma,gamma) process by synchrotron radiation is painful due mainly to their limited linewidth. Instead,(gamma,gamma') process of bremsstrahlung excitation is applied to create these long-lived isomers. Isomers of 45Sc, 107Ag, 109Ag, and 103Rh have been generated from this method. Among them, 103Rh is the only one that we have obtained the gravitational effect at room temperature.

id: quant-ph/0611086
title: All tight multipartite Bell correlation inequalities for three dichotomic observables per observer
authors: Marek Zukowski
comments: 10 pages, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611086
abstract: A derivation of the full set of Bell inequalities involving correlation functions, for two parties, with binary observables, and three possible local settings. The procedure can be extended straightforwardly to multiparty correlations.

id: quant-ph/0611087
title: Optimum unambiguous discrimination of two mixed states and application to a class of similar states
authors: Ulrike Herzog
comments: 8 pages, changes in title and presentation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611087
abstract: We study the measurement for the unambiguous discrimination of two mixed quantum states that are described by density operators $\rho_1$ and $\rho_2$ of rank d, the supports of which jointly span a 2d-dimensional Hilbert space. Based on two conditions for the optimum measurement operators, and on a canonical representation for the density operators of the states, two equations are derived that allow the explicit construction of the optimum measurement, provided that the expression for the fidelity of the states has a specific simple form. For this case the problem is mathematically equivalent to distinguishing pairs of pure states, even when the density operators are not diagonal in the canonical representation. The equations are applied to the optimum unambiguous discrimination of two mixed states that are similar states, given by $\rho_2= U\rho_1 U^{\dag}$, and that belong to the class where the unitary operator U can be decomposed into multiple rotations in the d mutually orthogonal two-dimensional subspaces determined by the canonical representation.

id: quant-ph/0611088
title: Quantum superchemistry in an output coupler of coherent matter waves
authors: Hui Jing, Jing Cheng
comments: 3 figures, accepted by Phys.Rev.A (submitted to prl in July, transferred to pra in Sep. and accepted in Nov.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611088
abstract: We investigate the quantum superchemistry or Bose-enhanced atom-molecule conversions in a coherent output coupler of matter waves, as a simple generalization of the two-color photo-association. The stimulated effects of molecular output step and atomic revivals are exhibited by steering the rf output couplings. The quantum noise-induced molecular damping occurs near a total conversion in a levitation trap. This suggests a feasible two-trap scheme to make a stable coherent molecular beam.

id: quant-ph/0611089
title: Quantum Zero-error Capacity
authors: Rex A. C. Medeiros, Francisco M. De Assis
comments: Published in the International Journal of Quantum Informaton
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611089
abstract: We define here a new kind of quantum channel capacity by extending the concept of zero-error capacity for a noisy quantum channel. The necessary requirement for which a quantum channel has zero-error capacity greater than zero is given. Finally, we point out some directions on how to calculate the zero-error capacity of such channels.

id: quant-ph/0611090
title: Decoherence Free Subspace and entanglement by interaction with a common squeezed bath
authors: D.Mundarain, M.Orszag
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611090
abstract: In this work we find explicitly the decoherence free subspace (DFS) for a two two-level system in a common squeezed vacuum bath. We also find an orthogonal basis for the DFS composed of a symmetrical and an antisymmetrical (under particle permutation) entangled state. For any initial symmetrical state, the master equation has one stationary state which is the symmetrical entangled decoherence free state. In this way, one can generate entanglement via common squeezed bath of the two systems. If the initial state does not have a definite parity, the stationary state depends strongly on the initial conditions of the system and it has a statistical mixture of states which belong to the DFS. We also study the effect of the coupling between the two-level systems on the DFS.

id: quant-ph/0611091
title: On the existence of negative energy states in QED in the temporal gauge
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611091
abstract: It is generally assumed that the vacuum state is the quantum state with the lowest energy. However, it has been shown that this is not the case for a Dirac-Maxwell field in the temporal gauge. In this paper we will present another proof, different from that presented in previous work, which shows that the vacuum state is not the minimum energy state for a Dirac-Maxwell field in the temporal gauge.

id: quant-ph/0611092
title: Linear dynamical entropy and free-independence for quantized maps on the torus
authors: Monika Pogorzelska, Robert Alicki
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611092
abstract: We study the relations between the averaged linear entropy production in periodically measured quantum systems and ergodic properties of their classical counterparts. Quantized linear automorphisms of the torus, both classically chaotic and regular ones, are used as examples. Numerical calculations show different entropy production regimes depending on the relation between the Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy and the measurement entropy. The hypothesis of free independence relations between the dynamics and measurement proposed to explain the initial constant and maximal entropy production is tested numerically for those models.

id: quant-ph/0611093
title: Quantum processing photonic states in optical lattices
authors: Christine A. Muschik, Ines de Vega, Diego Porras, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 063601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611093
abstract: The mapping of photonic states to collective excitations of atomic ensembles is a powerful tool which finds a useful application in the realization of quantum memories and quantum repeaters. In this work we show that cold atoms in optical lattices can be used to perform an entangling unitary operation on the transferred atomic excitations. After the release of the quantum atomic state, our protocol results in a deterministic two qubit gate for photons. The proposed scheme is feasible with current experimental techniques and robust against the dominant sources of noise.

id: quant-ph/0611094
title: Operational Axioms for Quantum Mechanics
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: New improvements have been made. Work presented at the conference "Foundations of Probability and Physics-4, Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations-3" held on 4-9 June at the International Centre for Mathematical Modelling in Physics, Engineering and Cognitive Sciences, Vaxjo University, Sweden. Also contains an errata to "How to Derive the Hilbert-Space Formulation of Quantum Mechanics From Purely Operational Axioms", quant-ph/0603011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611094
abstract: The mathematical formulation of Quantum Mechanics in terms of complex Hilbert space is derived for finite dimensions, starting from a general definition of "physical experiment" and from five simple Postulates concerning "experimental accessibility and simplicity". For the infinite dimensional case, on the other hand, a C*-algebra representation of physical transformations is derived, starting from just four of the five Postulates via a Gelfand-Naimark-Segal (GNS) construction. The present paper simplifies and sharpens the previous derivation in version 1. The main ingredient of the axiomatization is the postulated existence of "faithful states" that allows one to calibrate the experimental apparatus. Such notion is at the basis of the operational definitions of the scalar product and of the "transposed" of a physical transformation. What is new in the present paper with respect to quant-ph/0603011 is the operational deduction of an involution corresponding to the "complex-conjugation" for effects, whose extension to transformations allows to define the "adjoint" of a transformation when the extension is composition-preserving.

id: quant-ph/0611095
title: Unambiguous discrimination of mixed states: A description based on system-ancilla coupling
authors: Xiang-Fa Zhou, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 6 pages, 1 table, added some examples
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052314 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611095
abstract: We propose a general description on the unambiguous discrimination of mixed states according to the system-environment coupling, and present a procedure to reduce this to a standard semidefinite programming problem. In the two states case, we introduce the canonical vectors and partly simplify the problem to the case of discrimination between pairs of canonical vectors. By considering the positivity of the two by two matrices, we obtain a series of new upper bounds of the total success probability which depends on both the prior probabilities and specific state structures.

id: quant-ph/0611096
title: Physical accessible transformations on a finite number of quantum states
authors: Xiang-Fa Zhou, Qing Lin, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611096
abstract: We consider to treat the usual probabilistic cloning, state separation, unambiguous state discrimination, \emph{etc} in a uniform framework. All these transformations can be regarded as special examples of generalized completely positive trace non-increasing maps on a finite number of input states. From the system-ancilla model we construct the corresponding unitary implementation of pure $\to$ pure, pure $\to$ mixed, mixed $\to$ pure, and mixed $\to$ mixed states transformations in the whole system and obtain the necessary and sufficient conditions on the existence of the desired maps. We expect our work will be helpful to explore what we can do on a finite set of input states.

id: quant-ph/0611097
title: Ultraslow Propagation of Squeezed Vacuum Pulses with Electromagnetically Induced Transparency
authors: Daisuke Akamatsu, Yoshihiko Yokoi, Manabu Arikawa, Satoshi Nagatsuka, Takahito Tanimura, Akira Furusawa, Mikio Kozuma
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 99, 153602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611097
abstract: We have succeeded in observing ultraslow propagation of squeezed vacuum pulses with electromagnetically induced transparency. Squeezed vacuum pulses (probe lights) were incident on a laser cooled 87Rb gas together with an intense coherent light (control light). A homodyne method sensitive to the vacuum state was employed for detecting the probe pulse passing through the gas. A delay of 3.1us was observed for the probe pulse having a temporal width of 10 us.

id: quant-ph/0611098
title: Near field in quantum electrodynamics: Green functions, Lorentz condition, "nonlocality in the small", frustrated total reflection
authors: Mark E. Perel'man
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611098
abstract: Investigation of near field of QED requires the refuse from an averaging of the Lorentz condition that smooths out some field peculiarities. Instead of it Schwinger decomposition of the 4-potential with the Bogoliubov method of interaction switching in time and in space regions is considered. At such approach near field is describable by the part of covariant Green function of QED, the fast-damping Schwinger function formed by longitudinal and scalar components of A&#956; none restricted by light cone. This description reveals possibility of superluminal phenomena within the near field zone as a "nonlocality in the small". Some specification of Bogoliubov method allows, as examples, descriptions of near fields of point-like charge and at FTIR phenomena. Precisely such possibilities of nonlocal interactions are revealed in the common QED expressions for the Van-der-Waals and Casimir interactions and in the F\"{o}rster law. Key words: Lorentz condition, near field, propagators, superluminal, FTIR. PACS: 03.30.+p, 12.20.-m, 13.40.-f, 68.37.Uv.

id: quant-ph/0611099
title: Traceable 2D finite-element simulation of the whispering-gallery modes of axisymmetric electromagnetic resonators
authors: Mark Oxborrow
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, submitted to IEEE Microwave Theory and Techniques. Last revision March 19 2007. This paper is a significantly abridged/revised version of quant-ph/0607156
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611099
abstract: This paper explains how a popular, commercially-available software package for solving partial-differential-equations (PDEs), as based on the finite-element method (FEM), can be configured to calculate, efficiently, the frequencies and fields of the whispering-gallery (WG) modes of axisymmetric dielectric resonators. The approach is traceable; it exploits the PDE-solver's ability to accept the definition of solutions to Maxwell's equations in so-called `weak form'. Associated expressions and methods for estimating a WG mode's volume, filling factor(s) and, in the case of closed(open) resonators, its wall(radiation) loss, are provided. As no transverse approximation is imposed, the approach remains accurate even for quasi-transverse magnetic/electric modes of low, finite azimuthal mode order. The approach's generality and utility are demonstrated by modeling several non-trivial structures: (i) two different optical microcavities [one toroidal made of silica, the other an AlGaAs microdisk]; (ii) a 3rd-order sapphire:air Bragg cavity; (iii) two different cryogenic sapphire WG-mode resonators; both (ii) and (iii) operate in the microwave X-band. By fitting one of (iii) to a set of measured resonance frequencies, the dielectric constants of sapphire at liquid-helium temperature have been estimated.

id: quant-ph/0611100
title: Homodyne QPSK Detection for Quantum Key Distribution
authors: M. B. Costa e Silva, Q. Xu, S. Agnolini, P. Gallion, F. J. Mendieta
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures, COTA/OSA Conference, Whistler, British Columbia, Canada, June 2006 2006
journal: COTA/OSA Conference Proceeding 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611100
abstract: We present a QKD system with fainted pulses using self-homodyne coherent detection in optical fibers at 1543nm. BB84 protocol key is encoded in the optical phase using a twoelectrode Mach-Zehnder modulator, producing a QPSK modulation.

id: quant-ph/0611101
title: Development of a high sensitivity torsional balance for the study of the Casimir force in the 1-10 micrometer range
authors: A. Lambrecht, V.V. Nesvizhevsky, R. Onofrio, S. Reynaud
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 22, 5397 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611101
abstract: We discuss a proposal to measure the Casimir force in the parallel plate configuration in the $1-10\mu$m range via a high-sensitivity torsional balance. This will allow to measure the thermal contribution to the Casimir force therefore discriminating between the various approaches discussed so far. The accurate control of the Casimir force in this range of distances is also required to improve the limits to the existence of non-Newtonian forces in the micrometer range predicted by unification models of fundamental interactions.

id: quant-ph/0611102
title: Integrating a QPSK Quantum Key Distribution Link
authors: M. B. Costa e Silva, Q. Xu, S. Agnolini, S. Guilley, J-L. Danger, P. Gallion, F. J. Mendieta
comments: 2 pages, 4 figures, European Conference on Optical Communication 2006
journal: ECOC 2006 Proceeding
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611102
abstract: We present the integration of the optical and electronic subsystems of a BB84-QKD fiber link. A highspeed FPGA MODEM generates the random QPSK sequences for a fiber-optic delayed self-homodyne scheme using APD detectors.

id: quant-ph/0611103
title: The Casimir effect within scattering theory
authors: A. Lambrecht, P. A. Maia Neto, S. Reynaud
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 8, 243 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611103
abstract: We review the theory of the Casimir effect using scattering techniques. After years of theoretical efforts, this formalism is now largely mastered so that the accuracy of theory-experiment comparisons is determined by the level of precision and pertinence of the description of experimental conditions. Due to an imperfect knowledge of the optical properties of real mirrors used in the experiment, the effect of imperfect reflection remains a source of uncertainty in theory-experiment comparisons. For the same reason, the temperature dependence of the Casimir force between dissipative mirrors remains a matter of debate. We also emphasize that real mirrors do not obey exactly the assumption of specular reflection, which is used in nearly all calculations of material and temperature corrections. This difficulty may be solved by using a more general scattering formalism accounting for non-specular reflection with wavevectors and field polarizations mixed. This general formalism has already been fruitfully used for evaluating the effect of roughness on the Casimir force as well as the lateral Casimir force appearing between corrugated surfaces. The commonly used `proximity force approximation' turns out to lead to inaccuracies in the description of these two effects.

id: quant-ph/0611104
title: Force on a neutral atom near conducting microstructures
authors: Claudia Eberlein, Robert Zietal
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032516 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611104
abstract: We derive the non-retarded energy shift of a neutral atom for two different geometries. For an atom close to a cylindrical wire we find an integral representation for the energy shift, give asymptotic expressions, and interpolate numerically. For an atom close to a semi-infinite halfplane we determine the exact Green's function of the Laplace equation and use it derive the exact energy shift for an arbitrary position of the atom. These results can be used to estimate the energy shift of an atom close to etched microstructures that protrude from substrates.

id: quant-ph/0611105
title: Ab-initio path integral techniques for molecules
authors: Daejin Shin, Ming-Chak Ho, J. Shumway
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611105
abstract: Path integral Monte Carlo with Green's function analysis allows the sampling of quantum mechanical properties of molecules at finite temperature. While a high-precision computation of the energy of the Born-Oppenheimer surface from path integral Monte Carlo is quite costly, we can extract many properties without explicitly calculating the electronic energies. We demonstrate how physically relevant quantities, such as bond-length, vibrational spectra, and polarizabilities of molecules may be sampled directly from the path integral simulation using Matsubura (temperature) Green's functions (imaginary-time correlation functions). These calculations on the hydrogen molecule are a proof-of-concept, designed to motivate new work on fixed-node path-integral calculations for molecules.

id: quant-ph/0611106
title: Pauli Diagonal Channels Constant on Axes
authors: M. Nathanson, M.B. Ruskai
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 8171-8204.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611106
abstract: We define and study the properties of channels which are analogous to unital qubit channels in several ways. A full treatment can be given only when the dimension d is a prime power, in which case each of the (d+1) mutually unbiased bases (MUB) defines an axis. Along each axis the channel looks like a depolarizing channel, but the degree of depolarization depends on the axis. When d is not a prime power, some of our results still hold, particularly in the case of channels with one symmetry axis. We describe the convex structure of this class of channels and the subclass of entanglement breaking channels. We find new bound entangled states for d = 3. For these channels, we show that the multiplicativity conjecture for maximal output p-norm holds for p=2. We also find channels with behavior not exhibited by unital qubit channels, including two pairs of orthogonal bases with equal output entropy in the absence of symmetry. This provides new numerical evidence for the additivity of minimal output entropy.

id: quant-ph/0611107
title: Optimal and covariant single-copy LOCC transformation between two two-qubit states
authors: K. Bradler
comments: 10 pages, minor corrections, accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611107
abstract: Given two two-qubit pure states characterized by their Schmidt numbers we investigate an optimal strategy to convert the states between themselves with respect to their local unitary invariance. We discuss the efficiency of this transformation and its connection to LOCC convertibility properties between two single-copy quantum states. As an illustration of the investigated transformations we present a communication protocol where in spite of all expectations a shared maximally entangled pair between two participants is the worst quantum resource.

id: quant-ph/0611108
title: Environmental effects on electron spin relaxation in N@C60
authors: John J. L. Morton, Alexei M. Tyryshkin, Arzhang Ardavan, Kyriakos Porfyrakis, S. A. Lyon, G. Andrew D. Briggs
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611108
abstract: We examine environmental effects of surrounding nuclear spins on the electron spin relaxation of the N@C60 molecule (which consists of a nitrogen atom at the centre of a fullerene cage). Using dilute solutions of N@C60 in regular and deuterated toluene, we observe and model the effect of translational diffusion of nuclear spins of the solvent molecules on the N@C60 electron spin relaxation times. We also study spin relaxation in frozen solutions of N@C60 in CS2, to which small quantities of a glassing agent, S2Cl2 are added. At low temperatures, spin relaxation is caused by spectral diffusion of surrounding nuclear 35Cl and 37Cl spins in the S2Cl2, but nevertheless, at 20 K, T2 times as long as 0.23 ms are observed.

id: quant-ph/0611109
title: Intercontinental quantum liaisons between entangled electrons in ion traps of thermoluminescent crystals
authors: Robert Desbrandes, Daniel Van Gent
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611109
abstract: The experiments reported in this paper were carried out with space-separated entangled thermoluminescent dosimetry (TLD) crystals in Baton Rouge, Louisiana (USA) and Givarlais (France) at 8,182 km between entangled samples. Samples consisted of doped lithium fluoride TLD's that were simultaneously irradiated in pairs together at one location by Bremsstrahlung radiation generated by a Varian CLINAC unit. One of the paired TLD crystals was then mailed to Baton Rouge and its entangled counterpart remained in Givarlais. The crystal in Baton Rouge (master) was then subjected to thermal stimulation which elicited a measurable light emission response in the counterpart (slave) under a photomultiplier in Givarlais. Highly correlated passive light emissions were observed in the nonheated slave TLD while the master TLD was ramped up in temperature and then allowed to cool to ambient temperature. Maximum correlations in the slave TLD light emissions were observed at the turn around temperature which is the point where the master TLD temperature is allowed to decrease. The experimenter in Girvalais was thus able to determine with high accuracy the point in time at which the master TLD heating oven was turned off (turn around point) without any communication between the experimenters during the heating-cooling phase of the experiment. The implications of these observed results are of great significance for quantum communication technology.

id: quant-ph/0611110
title: Coordinating quantum agents' perspectives: convex operational theories, quantum information, and quantum foundations
authors: Howard Barnum
comments: 41 pages. Greatly extended version of quant-ph/0304159 with several additional topics discussed--more philosophical material toward the beginning, more technical (but still fairly discursive) material toward the end
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611110
abstract: In this paper, I propose a project of enlisting quantum information science as a source of task-oriented axioms for use in the investigation of operational theories in a general framework capable of encompassing quantum mechanics, classical theory, and more. Whatever else they may be, quantum states of systems are compendia of probabilities for the outcomes of possible operations we may perform on the systems: ``operational theories.'' I discuss appropriate general frameworks for such theories, in which convexity plays a key role. Such frameworks are appropriate for investigating what things look like from an ``inside view,'' i.e. for describing perspectival information that one subsystem of the world can have about another. Understanding how such views can combine, and whether an overall ``geometric'' picture (``outside view'') coordinating them all can be had, even if this picture is very different in nature from the structure of the perspectives within it, is the key to understanding whether we may be able to achieve a unified, ``objective'' physical view in which quantum mechanics is the appropriate description for certain perspectives, or whether quantum mechanics is truly telling us we must go beyond this ``geometric'' conception of physics. The nature of information, its flow and processing, as seen from various operational persepectives, is likely to be key to understanding whether and how such coordination and unification can be achieved.

id: quant-ph/0611111
title: Channel correction via quantum erasure
authors: Francesco Buscemi
comments: 4 pages RevTex4. Revised version, drastically modified. To appear on PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 180501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611111
abstract: By exploiting a generalization of recent results on environment-assisted channel correction, we show that, whenever a quantum system undergoes a channel realized as an interaction with a probe, the more efficiently the information about the input state can be erased from the probe, the higher is the corresponding entanglement fidelity of the corrected channel, and vice-versa. The present analysis applies also to channels for which perfect quantum erasure is impossible, thus extending the original quantum eraser arrangement, and naturally embodies a general information-disturbance tradeoff.

id: quant-ph/0611112
title: Heralded single photon source at 1550 nm from pulsed parametric down conversion
authors: Alexandre Soujaeff, Shigeki Takeuchi, Keiji Sasaki, Toshio Hasegawa, Mitsuru Matsui
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, accepted by Journal of Modern Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611112
abstract: Heralding of single photon at 1550 nm from pump pulsed non degenerate spontaneous parametric downconversion is demonstrated. P(1) and P(2) of our source are 0.1871 and 2.4 x 10 ^-3 respectively. Triggering of our source is 2.16 x 10^5 trigger.s^-1. This source may be used in QKD system.

id: quant-ph/0611113
title: Non-Markovian Decay and Lasing Condition in an Optical Microcavity Coupled to a Structured Reservoir
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. A (December 2006 issue)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 063826 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611113
abstract: The decay dynamics of the classical electromagnetic field in a leaky optical resonator supporting a single mode coupled to a structured continuum of modes (reservoir) is theoretically investigated, and the issue of threshold condition for lasing in presence of an inverted medium is comprehensively addressed. Specific analytical results are given for a single-mode microcavity resonantly coupled to a coupled resonator optical waveguide (CROW), which supports a band of continuous modes acting as decay channels. For weak coupling, the usual exponential Weisskopf-Wigner (Markovian) decay of the field in the bare resonator is found, and the threshold for lasing increases linearly with the coupling strength. As the coupling between the microcavity and the structured reservoir increases, the field decay in the passive cavity shows non exponential features, and correspondingly the threshold for lasing ceases to increase, reaching a maximum and then starting to decrease as the coupling strength is further increased. A singular behavior for the "laser phase transition", which is a clear signature of strong non-Markovian dynamics, is found at critical values of the coupling between the microcavity and the reservoir.

id: quant-ph/0611114
title: New Inequalities for Tomograms in the Probability Representation of Quantum States
authors: Sergio De Nicola Renato Fedele, Margarita A. Man'ko}, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 10 pages,presented at International Workshop "Nonlinear Physics.Thery and Experiment.IV" (Gallipoli,Lecce,Italy,2006) to be published in Special Issue of "Theoretical and Mathematical Physics"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611114
abstract: New inequalities for symplectic tomograms of quantum states and their connection with entropic uncertainty relations are discussed within the framework of the probability representation of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0611115
title: Probabilistic Teleportation of a Qudit
authors: Arun K. Pati, Pankaj Agrawal
comments: Latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611115
abstract: It is known that if the shared resource is a maximally entangled state then it is possible to teleport an unknown state with unit fidelity and unit probability. However, if the shared resource is a non-maximally entangled state then one has to follow a probabilistic scheme where one can teleport a qubit with unit fidelity and non-unit probability. In this work, we investigate the feasibility of using partially entangled states as a resource for quantum teleportation of a qudit. We also give an expression for the probability of successful teleportation of an unknown qudit.

id: quant-ph/0611116
title: Quantum mechanics on a circle: Husimi phase space distributions and semiclassical coherent state propagators
authors: B. Bahr, H. J. Korsch
comments: 29 pages
journal: J.Phys.A40:3959-3985,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611116
abstract: We discuss some basic tools for an analysis of one-dimensionalquantum systems defined on a cyclic coordinate space. The basic features of the generalized coherent states, the complexifier coherent states are reviewed. These states are then used to define the corresponding (quasi)densities in phase space. The properties of these generalized Husimi distributions are discussed, in particular their zeros.Furthermore, the use of the complexifier coherent states for a semiclassical analysis is demonstrated by deriving a semiclassical coherent state propagator in phase space.

id: quant-ph/0611117
title: Decay and storage of multiparticle entangled states of atoms in collective thermostat
authors: A.M. Basharov, V.N. Gorbachev, A.A. Rodichkina
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.A 74, 042313 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611117
abstract: We derive a master equation describing the collective decay of two-level atoms inside a single mode cavity in the dispersive limit. By considering atomic decay in the collective thermostat, we found a decoherence-free subspace of the multiparticle entangled states of the W-like class. We present a scheme for writing and storing these states in collective thermostat.

id: quant-ph/0611118
title: Thermal and dissipative effects in Casimir physics
authors: M Brown-Hayes, J.H. Brownell, D.A.R. Dalvit, W.J. Kim, A. Lambrecht, F.C. Lombardo, F.D. Mazzitelli, S.M. Middleman, V.V. Nesvizhevsky, R. Onofrio, S. Reynaud
comments: Contribution to QFEXT'06, appeared in special issue of Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A 39, 6195 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611118
abstract: We report on current efforts to detect the thermal and dissipative contributions to the Casimir force. For the thermal component, two experiments are in progress at Dartmouth and at the Institute Laue Langevin in Grenoble. The first experiment will seek to detect the Casimir force at the largest explorable distance using a cylinder-plane geometry which offers various advantages with respect to both sphere-plane and parallel-plane geometries. In the second experiment, the Casimir force in the parallel-plane configuration is measured with a dedicated torsional balance, up to 10 micrometers. Parallelism of large surfaces, critical in this configuration, is maintained through the use of inclinometer technology already implemented at Grenoble for the study of gravitationally bound states of ultracold neutrons, For the dissipative component of the Casimir force, we discuss detection techniques based upon the use of hyperfine spectroscopy of ultracold atoms and Rydberg atoms. Although quite challenging, this triad of experimental efforts, if successful, will give us a better knowledge of the interplay between quantum and thermal fluctuations of the electromagnetic field and of the nature of dissipation induced by the motion of objects in a quantum vacuum.

id: quant-ph/0611119
title: Basic Logic and Quantum Entanglement
authors: Paola Zizzi
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure,LaTeX. Shorter version for proceedings requirements. Contributed paper at DICE2006, Piombino, Italy
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.67:012045,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611119
abstract: As it is well known, quantum entanglement is one of the most important features of quantum computing, as it leads to massive quantum parallelism, hence to exponential computational speed-up. In a sense, quantum entanglement is considered as an implicit property of quantum computation itself. But...can it be made explicit? In other words, is it possible to find the connective "entanglement" in a logical sequent calculus for the machine language? And also, is it possible to "teach" the quantum computer to "mimic" the EPR "paradox"? The answer is in the affirmative, if the logical sequent calculus is that of the weakest possible logic, namely Basic logic. A weak logic has few structural rules. But in logic, a weak structure leaves more room for connectives (for example the connective "entanglement"). Furthermore, the absence in Basic logic of the two structural rules of contraction and weakening corresponds to the validity of the no-cloning and no-erase theorems, respectively, in quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0611120
title: Continuous-Variables Quantum Key Distribution over Standard Telecom Fiber
authors: Lei-Lei Huang, Bing Qi, Li Qian, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611120
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn

id: quant-ph/0611121
title: A measurement-based measure of the size of macroscopic quantum superpositions
authors: Jan Ivar Korsbakken, K. Birgitta Whaley, Jonathan DuBois, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 21 pages, 20 figures. Accepted by Phys. Rev. A. Replaced old version with accepted version. Significant changes and improvements, particularly to section on 1-particle measurements
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042106 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611121
abstract: Recent experiments claiming formation of quantum superposition states in near macroscopic sys- tems raise the question of how the sizes of general quantum superposition states in an interacting system are to be quantified. We propose here a measure of size for such superposition states that is based on what measurements can be performed to probe and distinguish the different branches of the state. The measure allows comparison of the effective size for superposition states in very different physical systems. It can be applied to a very general class of superposition states and reproduces known results for near-ideal cases. Comparison with a prior measure based on analy- sis of coherence between branches indicates that significantly smaller effective superposition sizes result from our measurement-based measure. Application to a system of interacting bosons in a double-well trapping potential shows that the effective superposition size is strongly dependent on the relative magnitude of the barrier height and interparticle interaction.

id: quant-ph/0611122
title: Discrimination between pure states and mixed states
authors: Chi Zhang, Guoming Wang, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611122
abstract: In this paper, we discuss the problem of determining whether a quantum system is in a pure state, or in a mixed state. We apply two strategies to settle this problem: the unambiguous discrimination and the maximum confidence discrimination. We also proved that the optimal versions of both strategies are equivalent. The efficiency of the discrimination is also analyzed. This scheme also provides a method to estimate purity of quantum states, and Schmidt numbers of composed systems.

id: quant-ph/0611123
title: Photon Counting and Super Homodyne Detection of Weak QPSK Signals for Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Q. XU, M.B. Costa e Silva, S. Agnolini, P. Gallion, F.J. Mendieta
comments: 2 pages, 3 figues, EOS Annual Meeting 2006, Topical Meeting on Extreme Optics (QEOD/EPS), Paris, Oct. 2006
journal: EOS 2006 Annual meeting Proceeding
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611123
abstract: We compare the principles and experimental results of two different QPSK signal detection configurations, photon counting and super homodyning, for applications in fiber-optic Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) systems operating at telecom wavelength, using the BB84 protocol.

id: quant-ph/0611124
title: Stronger Violation of Local Theories with Equalities
authors: Hossein Movahhedian
comments: 8 pages, RevTeX4
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 2839-2847
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611124
abstract: Bell type inequalities are used to test local realism against quantum theory.In this paper, we consider a two party system with two settings and two possible outcomes on each side, and derive equalities in local theories which are violated by quantum theory by a factor of 1.522 tolerating 0.586 fraction of white noise admixture which is twice that of the previous results.

id: quant-ph/0611125
title: Structure of propagators for quantum nondemolition systems
authors: Subhashish Banerjee, R. Ghosh
comments: 7 page, no figures, REVTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611125
abstract: In the scheme of a quantum nondemolition (QND) measurement, an observable is measured without perturbing its evolution. In the context of studies of decoherence in quantum computing, we examine the `open' quantum system of a two-level atom, or equivalently, a spin-1/2 system, in interaction with quantum reservoirs of either oscillators or spins, under the QND condition of the Hamiltonian of the system commuting with the system-reservoir interaction. The propagators for these QND Hamiltonians are shown to be connected to the squeezing and rotation operators for the two baths, respectively. Squeezing and rotation being both phase space area-preserving canonical transformations, this brings out an interesting analogy between the energy-preserving QND Hamiltonians and the homogeneous linear canonical transformations.

id: quant-ph/0611126
title: Variants of Bell inequalities
authors: Zeqian Chen
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611126
abstract: A family of Bell-type inequalities is present, which are constructed directly from the "standard" Bell inequalities involving two dichotomic observables per site. It is shown that the inequalities are violated by all the generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states of multiqubits. Remarkably, our new inequalities can provide stronger non-locality tests in a sense that the local reality inequalities are exponentially stronger than the corresponding multipartite separability inequalities. This reveals that the exponential violation of local realism by separable states is an interesting consequence of quantum fluctuation of multipartite systems.

id: quant-ph/0611127
title: Functional integral treatment of some quantum nondemolition systems
authors: Subhashish Banerjee, R. Ghosh
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theo. 40, 1273 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611127
abstract: In the scheme of a quantum nondemolition (QND) measurement, an observable is measured without perturbing its evolution. In the context of studies of decoherence in quantum computing, we examine the `open' quantum system of a two-level atom, or equivalently, a spin-1/2 system, in interaction with quantum reservoirs of either oscillators or spins, under the QND condition of the Hamiltonian of the system commuting with the system-reservoir interaction. For completeness, we also examine the well-known non-QND spin-Bose problem. For all these many-body systems, we use the methods of functional integration to work out the propagators. The propagators for the QND Hamiltonians are shown to be analogous to the squeezing and rotation operators, respectively, for the two kinds of baths considered. Squeezing and rotation being both phase space area-preserving canonical transformations, this brings out an interesting connection between the energy-preserving QND Hamiltonians and the homogeneous linear canonical transformations.

id: quant-ph/0611128
title: Dual species matter qubit entangled with light
authors: S.-Y. Lan, S. D. Jenkins, T. Chaneliere, D. N. Matsukevich, C. J. Campbell, R. Zhao, T. A. B. Kennedy, A. Kuzmich
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 98, 123602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611128
abstract: We propose and demonstrate an atomic qubit based on a cold $^{85}$Rb-$^{87}$Rb isotopic mixture, entangled with a frequency-encoded optical qubit. The interface of an atomic qubit with a single spatial light mode, and the ability to independently address the two atomic qubit states, should provide the basic element of an interferometrically robust quantum network.

id: quant-ph/0611129
title: Continuous-Time Quantum Random Walks Require Discrete Space
authors: K. Manouchehri, J.B. Wang
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611129
abstract: Quantum random walks are shown to have non-intuitive dynamics which makes them an attractive area of study for devising quantum algorithms for long-standing open problems as well as those arising in the field of quantum computing. In the case of continuous-time quantum random walks, such peculiar dynamics can arise from simple evolution operators closely resembling the quantum free-wave propagator. We investigate the divergence of quantum walk dynamics from the free-wave evolution and show that in order for continuous-time quantum walks to display their characteristic propagation, the state space must be discrete. This behavior rules out many continuous quantum systems as possible candidates for implementing continuous-time quantum random walks.

id: quant-ph/0611130
title: Entanglement and optimal strings of qubits for memory channels
authors: V. Karimipour, L. Memarzadeh
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures, latex, accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062311 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611130
abstract: We investigate the problem of enhancement of mutual information by encoding classical data into entangled input states of arbitrary length and show that while there is a threshold memory or correlation parameter beyond which entangled states outperform the separable states, resulting in a higher mutual information, this memory threshold increases toward unity as the length of the string increases. These observations imply that encoding classical data into entangled states may not enhance the classical capacity of quantum channels.

id: quant-ph/0611131
title: Homological invariants of stabilizer states
authors: Klaus Wirthm¨¹ller
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 8, 595 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611131
abstract: We propose a new kind of invariant of multi-party stabilizer states with respect to local Clifford equivalence. These homological invariants are discrete entities defined in terms of the entanglement a state enjoys with respect to arbitrary groupings of the parties, and they may be thought of as reflecting entanglement in a qualitative way. We investigate basic properties of the invariants and link them with known results on the extraction of GHZ states.

id: quant-ph/0611132
title: Delocalized Entanglement of Atoms in optical Lattices
authors: K. G. H. Vollbrecht, J. I. Cirac
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 190502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611132
abstract: We show how to detect and quantify entanglement of atoms in optical lattices in terms of correlations functions of the momentum distribution. These distributions can be measured directly in the experiments. We introduce two kinds of entanglement measures related to the position and the spin of the atoms.

id: quant-ph/0611133
title: Unambiguous State Discrimination of two density matrices in Quantum Information Theory
authors: Philippe Raynal
comments: PhD thesis - August 2006 - 135 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611133
abstract: In this thesis we study the problem of unambiguously discriminating two mixed quantum states. We first present reduction theorems for optimal unambiguous discrimination of two generic density matrices. We show that this problem can be reduced to that of two density matrices that have the same rank $r$ in a 2$r$-dimensional Hilbert space. These reduction theorems also allow us to reduce USD problems to simpler ones for which the solution might be known. As an application, we consider the unambiguous comparison of $n$ linearly independent pure states with a simple symmetry. Moreover, lower bounds on the optimal failure probability have been derived. For two mixed states they are given in terms of the fidelity. Here we give tighter bounds as well as necessary and sufficient conditions for two mixed states to reach these bounds. We also construct the corresponding optimal measurement. With this result, we provide analytical solutions for unambiguously discriminating a class of generic mixed states. This goes beyond known results which are all reducible to some pure state case. We however show that examples exist where the bounds cannot be reached. Next, we derive properties on the rank and the spectrum of an optimal USD measurement. This finally leads to a second class of exact solutions. Indeed we present the optimal failure probability as well as the optimal measurement for unambiguously discriminating any pair of geometrically uniform mixed states in four dimensions. This class of problems includes for example the discrimination of both the basis and the bit value mixed states in the BB84 QKD protocol with coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0611134
title: The One Dimensional Approachissimo Quantum Harmonic Oscillator: The Hilbert-Polya Hamiltonian for the Primes and the Zeros of the Riemann Function
authors: N. Garcia
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Number Theory (math.NT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611134
abstract: I have made an ample study of one dimensional quantum oscillators, ranging from logarithmic to exponential potentials. I have found that the eigenvalues of the hamiltonian of the oscillator with the limiting (approachissimo) harmonic potential (~ p(x)2) maps the zeros of the Riemann function height up in the Riemann line. This is the potential created by the field of J(x) that is the Riemann generator of the prime number counting function, p(x), that in turn can be defined by an integral transformation of the Riemann zeta function. This plays the role of the spring strength of the quantum limiting harmonic oscillator. The number theory meaning of this result is that the roots height up of the zeta function are the eigenvalues of a Hamiltonian whose potential is the number of primes squared up to a given x. Therefore this may prove the never published Hilbert-Polya conjecture. The conjecture is true but does not imply the truth of the Riemann hypothesis. We can have complex conjugated zeros off the Riemman line and map them with another hermitic operator and a general expression is given for that. The zeros off the line affect the fluctuation of the eigenvalues but not their mean values.

id: quant-ph/0611135
title: Entanglement of a microcanonical ensemble
authors: Tobias Verhulst, Jan Naudts
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 40, 2475-2483 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611135
abstract: We replace time-averaged entanglement by ensemble-averaged entanglement and derive a simple expression for the latter. We show how to calculate the ensemble average for a two-spin system and for the Jaynes-Cummings model. In both cases the time-dependent entanglement is known as well so that one can verify that the time average coincides with the ensemble average.

id: quant-ph/0611136
title: Nonlocal field correlations and dynamical Casimir-Polder forces between one excited- and two ground-state atoms
authors: R. Passante, F. Persico, L. Rizzuto
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure, sub. to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611136
abstract: The problem of nonlocality in the dynamical three-body Casimir-Polder interaction between an initially excited and two ground-state atoms is considered. It is shown that the nonlocal spatial correlations of the field emitted by the excited atom during the initial part of its spontaneous decay may become manifest in the three-body interaction. The observability of this new phenomenon is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0611137
title: Minimum-energy pulses for quantum logic cannot be shared
authors: Julio Gea-Banacloche, Masanao Ozawa
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A, Rapid Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611137
abstract: We show that if an electromagnetic energy pulse with average photon number <n> is used to carry out the same quantum logical operation on a set of N atoms, either simultaneously or sequentially, the overall error probability in the worst case scenario (i.e., maximized over all the possible initial atomic states) scales as N^2/<n>. This means that in order to keep the error probability bounded by N\epsilon, with \epsilon ~ 1/<n>, one needs to use N/\epsilon photons, or equivalently N separate "minimum-energy'' pulses: in this sense the pulses cannot, in general, be shared. The origin for this phenomenon is found in atom-field entanglement. These results may have important consequences for quantum logic and, in particular, for large-scale quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0611138
title: Atomic detection in microwave cavity experiments: a dynamical model
authors: R. Rossi Jr., M. C. Nemes, J. G. Peixoto de Faria
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611138
abstract: We construct a model for the detection of one atom maser in the context of cavity Quantum Electrodynamics (QED) used to study coherence properties of superpositions of electromagnetic modes. Analytic expressions for the atomic ionization are obtained, considering the imperfections of the measurement process due to the probabilistic nature of the interactions between the ionization field and the atoms. Limited efficiency and false counting rates are considered in a dynamical context, and consequent results on the information about the state of the cavity modes are obtained.

id: quant-ph/0611139
title: Fields of quantum reference frames based on different representations of rational numbers as states of qubit strings
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures; submitted to proceedings, 3rd Feynman Festival, University of Maryland, 2006
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 70 (2007) 012003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611139
abstract: In this paper fields of quantum reference frames based on gauge transformations of rational string states are described in a way that, hopefully, makes them more understandable than their description in an earlier paper. The approach taken here is based on three main points: (1) There are a large number of different quantum theory representations of natural numbers, integers, and rational numbers as states of qubit strings. (2) For each representation, Cauchy sequences of rational string states give a representation of the real (and complex) numbers. A reference frame is associated to each representation. (3) Each frame contains a representation of all mathematical and physical theories that have the representations of the real and complex numbers as a scalar base for the theories. These points and other aspects of the resulting fields are then discussed and justified in some detail. Also two different methods of relating the frame field to physics are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0611140
title: Percolation, renormalization, and quantum computing with non-deterministic gates
authors: K. Kieling, T. Rudolph, J. Eisert
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, discussion of strategies to deal with further imperfections extended, references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 130501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611140
abstract: We apply a notion of static renormalization to the preparation of entangled states for quantum computing, exploiting ideas from percolation theory. Such a strategy yields a novel way to cope with the randomness of non-deterministic quantum gates. This is most relevant in the context of optical architectures, where probabilistic gates are common, and cold atoms in optical lattices, where hole defects occur. We demonstrate how to efficiently construct cluster states without the need for rerouting, thereby avoiding a massive amount of conditional dynamics; we furthermore show that except for a single layer of gates during the preparation, all subsequent operations can be shifted to the final adapted single qubit measurements. Remarkably, cluster state preparation is achieved using essentially the same scaling in resources as if deterministic gates were available.

id: quant-ph/0611141
title: One qubit almost completely reveals the dynamics of two
authors: Thomas F. Jordan, Anil Shaji, E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 6 pages with new and updated material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611141
abstract: From the time dependence of states of one of them, the dynamics of two interacting qubits is determined to be one of two possibilities that differ only by a change of signs of parameters in the Hamiltonian. The only exception is a simple particular case where several parameters in the Hamiltonian are zero and one of the remaining nonzero parameters has no effect on the time dependence of states of the one qubit. The mean values that describe the initial state of the other qubit and of the correlations between the two qubits also are generally determined to within a change of signs by the time dependence of states of the one qubit, but with many more exceptions. An example demonstrates all the results. Feedback in the equations of motion that allows time dependence in a subsystem to determine the dynamics of the larger system can occur in both classical and quantum mechanics. The role of quantum mechanics here is just to identify qubits as the simplest objects to consider and specify the form that equations of motion for two interacting qubits can take.

id: quant-ph/0611142
title: Two-Setting Bell Inequalities for Many Qubits
authors: Kai Chen, Sergio Albeverio, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 050101(R) (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611142
abstract: We present a family of Bell inequalities involving only two measurement settings of each party for N>2 qubits. Our inequalities include all the standard ones with fewer than N qubits and thus gives a natural generalization. It is shown that all the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states violate the inequalities maximally, with an amount that grows exponentially as 2^{{(N-2)}/2}. The inequalities are also violated by some states that do satisfy all the standard Bell inequalities. Remarkably, our results yield in an efficient and simple way an implementation of nonlocality tests of many qubits favorably within reach of the well-established technology of linear optics.

id: quant-ph/0611143
title: Infinite Correlation in Measured Quantum Processes
authors: Karoline Wiesner, James P. Crutchfield
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611143
abstract: We show that quantum dynamical systems can exhibit infinite correlations in their behavior when repeatedly measured. We model quantum processes using quantum finite-state generators and take the stochastic language they generate as a representation of their behavior. We analyze two spin-1 quantum systems that differ only in how they are observed. The corresponding language generated has short-range correlation in one case and infinite correlation in the other.

id: quant-ph/0611144
title: Geometrical structure of entangled states and secant variety
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 7 pages
journal: Quantum Information Processing 7(1) (2008) 43-50
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611144
abstract: We show that the secant variety of the Segre variety gives useful information about the geometrical structure of an arbitrary multipartite quantum system. In particular, we investigate the relation between arbitrary bipartite and three-partite entangled states and this secant variety. We also discuss the geometry of an arbitrary general multipartite state.

id: quant-ph/0611145
title: Deterministic Quantum Key Distribution Using Gaussian-Modulated Squeezed States
authors: Guangqiang He, Jun Zhu, Guihua Zeng
comments: 7 pages, 4figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611145
abstract: A continuous variable ping-pong scheme, which is utilized to generate deterministically private key, is proposed. The proposed scheme is implemented physically by using Gaussian-modulated squeezed states. The deterministic way, i.e., no basis reconciliation between two parties, leads a two-times efficiency comparing to the standard quantum key distribution schemes. Especially, the separate control mode does not need in the proposed scheme so that it is simpler and more available than previous ping-pong schemes. The attacker may be detected easily through the fidelity of the transmitted signal, and may not be successful in the beam splitter attack strategy.

id: quant-ph/0611146
title: Voronoi Diagrams and a Numerical Estimation of a Quantum Channel Capacity
authors: Kimikazu Kato, Mayumi Oto, Hiroshi Imai, Keiko Imai
comments: Presented at 2nd Doctoral Workshop on Mathematical and Engineering Methods in Computer Science (MEMICS 2006)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611146
abstract: We give a new geometric interpretation of quantum pure states. Using Voronoi diagrams, we reinterpret the structure of the space of pure states as a subspace of the quantum state space. In addition to the known coincidence of some Voronoi diagrams for one-qubit pure states, we will show that even for mixed one-qubit states, as far as sites are given as pure states, the Voronoi diagram with respect to some distances -- the divergence, the Bures distance, and the Euclidean distance -- are all the same. As to higher level pure quantum states, for the divergence, the Fubini-Study distance, and the Bures distance, the coincidence of the diagrams still holds, while the coincidence of the diagrams with respect to the divergence and the Euclidean distance no longer holds. That fact has a significant meaning when we try to apply the method used for a numerical estimation of a one-qubit quantum channel capacity to a higher level system.

id: quant-ph/0611147
title: How often is the coordinate of a harmonic oscillator positive?
authors: Boris Tsirelson
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611147
abstract: The coordinate of a harmonic oscillator is measured at a time chosen at random among three equiprobable instants: now, after one third of the period, or after two thirds. The (total) probability that the outcome is positive depends on the state of the oscillator. In the classical case the probability varies between 1/3 and 2/3, but in the quantum case -- between 0.29 and 0.71.

id: quant-ph/0611148
title: Localization of atomic ensembles via superfluorescence
authors: M. Macovei, J. Evers, C. H. Keitel, M. S. Zubairy
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 033801 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611148
abstract: The sub-wavelength localization of an ensemble of atoms concentrated to a small volume in space is investigated. The localization relies on the interaction of the ensemble with a standing wave laser field. The light scattered in the interaction of standing wave field and atom ensemble depends on the position of the ensemble relative to the standing wave nodes. This relation can be described by a fluorescence intensity profile, which depends on the standing wave field parameters, the ensemble properties, and which is modified due to collective effects in the ensemble of nearby particles. We demonstrate that the intensity profile can be tailored to suit different localization setups. Finally, we apply these results to two localization schemes. First, we show how to localize an ensemble fixed at a certain position in the standing wave field. Second, we discuss localization of an ensemble passing through the standing wave field.

id: quant-ph/0611149
title: (1+1)-Dirac particle with position-dependent mass in complexified Lorentz scalar interactions: effectively PT-symmetric
authors: Omar Mustafa, S.Habib Mazharimousavi
comments: 11 pages, no figures, revised
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 47, 1112 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611149
abstract: The effect of the built-in supersymmetric quantum mechanical language on the spectrum of the (1+1)-Dirac equation, with position-dependent mass (PDM) and complexified Lorentz scalar interactions, is re-emphasized. The signature of the "quasi-parity" on the Dirac particles' spectra is also studied. A Dirac particle with PDM and complexified scalar interactions of the form S(z)=S(x-ib) (an inversely linear plus linear, leading to a PT-symmetric oscillator model), and S(x)=S_{r}(x)+iS_{i}(x) (a PT-symmetric Scarf II model) are considered. Moreover, a first-order intertwining differential operator and an $\eta$-weak-pseudo-Hermiticity generator are presented and a complexified PT-symmetric periodic-type model is used as an illustrative example.

id: quant-ph/0611150
title: Choice of a Metric for the Non-Hermitian Oscillator
authors: D.P.Musumbu, H.B.Geyer, W.D.Heiss
comments: to appear in J Phys A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611150
abstract: The harmonic oscillator Hamiltonian, when augmented by a non-Hermitian $\cal{PT}$-symmetric part, can be transformed into a Hermitian Hamiltonian. This is achieved by introducing a metric which, in general, renders other observables such as the usual momentum or position as non-Hermitian operators. The metric depends on one real parameter, the full range of which is investigated. The explicit functional dependence of the metric and each associated Hamiltonian is given. A specific choice of this parameter determines a specific combination of position and momentum as being an observable; this can be in particular either standard position or momentum, but not both simultaneously. Singularities of the metric are explored and their removability is investigated. The physical significance of these findings is discussed

id: quant-ph/0611151
title: On single-photon quantum key distribution in the presence of loss
authors: Marcos Curty, Tobias Moroder
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052336 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611151
abstract: We investigate two-way and one-way single-photon quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols in the presence of loss introduced by the quantum channel. Our analysis is based on a simple precondition for secure QKD in each case. In particular, the legitimate users need to prove that there exists no separable state (in the case of two-way QKD), or that there exists no quantum state having a symmetric extension (one-way QKD), that is compatible with the available measurements results. We show that both criteria can be formulated as a convex optimisation problem known as a semidefinite program, which can be efficiently solved. Moreover, we prove that the solution to the dual optimisation corresponds to the evaluation of an optimal witness operator that belongs to the minimal verification set of them for the given two-way (or one-way) QKD protocol. A positive expectation value of this optimal witness operator states that no secret key can be distilled from the available measurements results. We apply such analysis to several well-known single-photon QKD protocols under losses.

id: quant-ph/0611152
title: Casimir-Polder force density between an atom and a conducting wall
authors: R. Messina, R. Passante
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042113 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611152
abstract: In this paper we calculate the Casimir-Polder force density (force per unit area acting on the elements of the surface) on a metallic plate placed in front of a neutral atom. To obtain the force density we use the quantum operator associated to the electromagnetic stress tensor. We explicitly show that the integral of this force density over the plate reproduces the total force acting on the plate. This result shows that, although the force is obtained as a sum of surface element-atom contributions, the stress-tensor method includes also nonadditive components of Casimir-Polder forces in the evaluation of the force acting on a macroscopic object.

id: quant-ph/0611153
title: Security verification for continuous variable quantum key distribution
authors: Yibo Zhao
comments: withdrawed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611153
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author

id: quant-ph/0611154
title: Physical mechanism of superluminal traversal time: interference between multiple finite wave packets
authors: Xi Chen, Chun-Fang Li
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, Some comments and suggestions are appreciated
journal: EPL, 82 (2008) 30009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611154
abstract: The mechanism of superluminal traversal time through a potential well or potential barrier is investigated from the viewpoint of interference between multiple finite wave packets, due to the multiple reflections inside the well or barrier. In the case of potential-well traveling that is classically allowed, each of the successively transmitted constituents is delayed by a subluminal time. When the thickness of the well is much smaller in comparision with a characteristic length of the incident wave packet, the reshaped wave packet in transmission maintains the profile of the incident wave packet. In the case of potential-barrier tunneling that is classically forbidden, though each of the successively transmitted constituents is delayed by a time that is independent of the barrier thickness, the interference between multiple transmitted constituents explains the barrier-thickness dependence of the traversal time for thin barriers and its barrier-thickness independence for thick barriers. This manifests the nature of Hartman effect.

id: quant-ph/0611155
title: Sample dependence of the Casimir forces
authors: I. Pirozhenko, A. Lambrecht, V. B. Svetovoy
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures, uses iopart.sty
journal: NewJ.Phys.8:238,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611155
abstract: We have analyzed available optical data for Au in the mid-infrared range which is important for a precise prediction of the Casimir force. Significant variation of the data demonstrates genuine sample dependence of the dielectric function. We demonstrate that the Casimir force is largely determined by the material properties in the low frequency domain and argue that therefore the precise values of the Drude parameters are crucial for an accurate evaluation of the force. These parameters can be estimated by two different methods, either by fitting real and imaginary parts of the dielectric function at low frequencies, or via a Kramers-Kronig analysis based on the imaginary part of the dielectric function in the extended frequency range. Both methods lead to very similar results. We show that the variation of the Casimir force calculated with the use of different optical data can be as large as 5% and at any rate cannot be ignored. To have a reliable prediction of the force with a precision of 1%, one has to measure the optical properties of metallic films used for the force measurement.

id: quant-ph/0611156
title: The quantum FFT can be classically simulated
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Zeph Landau, Johann Makowsky
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. Added reference to similar results achieved independently by Yoran and Short (quant-ph/0611241)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611156
abstract: In this note we describe a simple and intriguing observation: the quantum Fourier transform (QFT) over $Z_q$, which is considered the most ``quantum'' part of Shor's algorithm, can in fact be simulated efficiently by classical computers. More precisely, we observe that the QFT can be performed by a circuit of poly-logarithmic path-width, if the circuit is allowed to apply not only unitary gates but also general linear gates. Recalling the results of Markov and Shi [MaSh] and Jozsa [Jo] which provided classical simulations of such circuits in time exponential in the tree-width, this implies the result stated in the title. Classical simulations of the FFT are of course meaningless when applied to classical input strings on which their result is already known; Our observation might be interesting only in the context in which the QFT is used as a subroutine and applied to more interesting superpositions. We discuss the reasons why this idea seems to fail to provide an efficient classical simulation of the entire factoring algorithm. In the course of proving our observation, we provide two alternative proofs of the results of [MaSh,Jo] which we use. One proof is very similar in spirit to that of [MaSh] but is more visual, and is based on a graph parameter which we call the ``bubble width'', tightly related to the path- and tree-width. The other proof is based on connections to the Jones polynomial; It is very short, if one is willing to rely on several known results.

id: quant-ph/0611157
title: On the role of entanglement and correlations in mixed-state quantum computation
authors: Animesh Datta, Guifre Vidal
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042310 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611157
abstract: In a quantum computation with pure states, the generation of large amounts of entanglement is known to be necessary for a speedup with respect to classical computations. However, examples of quantum computations with mixed states are known, such as the deterministic computation with one quantum qubit (DQC1) model [Knill and Laflamme, Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 5672 (1998)], in which entanglement is at most marginally present, and yet a computational speedup is believed to occur. Correlations, and not entanglement, have been identified as a necessary ingredient for mixed-state quantum computation speedups. Here we show that correlations, as measured through the operator Schmidt rank, are indeed present in large amounts in the DQC1 circuit. This provides evidence for the preclusion of efficient classical simulation of DQC1 by means of a whole class of classical simulation algorithms, thereby reinforcing the conjecture that DQC1 leads to a genuine quantum computational speedup.

id: quant-ph/0611158
title: Lower Bounds of Concurrence for Tripartite Quantum Systems
authors: Xiu-Hong Gao, Shao-Ming Fei, Ke Wu
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74 (Rapid Commun.)(2006)050303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611158
abstract: We derive an analytical lower bound for the concurrence of tripartite quantum mixed states. A functional relation is established relating concurrence and the generalized partial transpositions.

id: quant-ph/0611159
title: Coherent control of photon transmission : slowing light in coupled resonator waveguide doped with $¦«$ Atoms
authors: Lan Zhou, Jing Lu, C. P. Sun
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012313 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611159
abstract: In this paper, we propose and study a hybrid mechanism for coherent transmission of photons in the coupled resonator optical waveguide (CROW) by incorporating the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) effect into the controllable band gap structure of the CROW. Here, the configuration setup of system consists of a CROW with homogeneous couplings and the artificial atoms with $\Lambda$-type three levels doped in each cavity. The roles of three levels are completely considered based on a mean field approach where the collection of three-level atoms collectively behave as two-mode spin waves. We show that the dynamics of low excitations of atomic ensemble can be effectively described by an coupling boson model. The exactly solutions show that the light pulses can be stopped and stored coherently by adiabatically controlling the classical field.

id: quant-ph/0611160
title: Fault-tolerant Quantum Computation with Highly Verified Logical Cluster States
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Katsuji Yamamoto
comments: 4pages, 7figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611160
abstract: We investigate a scheme of fault-tolerant quantum computation based on the cluster model. Logical qubits are encoded by a suitable code such as the Steane's 7-qubit code. Cluster states of logical qubits are prepared by post-selection through verification at high fidelity level, where the unsuccessful ones are discarded without recovery operation. Then, gate operations are implemented by transversal measurements on the prepared logical cluster states. The noise threshold is improved significantly by making the high fidelity preparation and transversal measurement. It is estimated to be about 3% by a numerical simulation.

id: quant-ph/0611161
title: Geometric Phase of a qubit interacting with a squeezed-thermal bath
authors: Subhashish Banerjee, R. Srikanth
comments: Accepted for publication in Eur. Phys. J. D; slightly abridged version of v2; 10 pages, 12 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 46, 335 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611161
abstract: We study the geometric phase of an open two-level quantum system under the influence of a squeezed, thermal environment for both non-dissipative as well as dissipative system-environment interactions. In the non-dissipative case, squeezing is found to have a similar influence as temperature, of suppressing geometric phase, while in the dissipative case, squeezing tends to counteract the suppressive influence of temperature in certain regimes. Thus, an interesting feature that emerges from our work is the contrast in the interplay between squeezing and thermal effects in non-dissipative and dissipative interactions. This can be useful for the practical implementation of geometric quantum information processing. By interpreting the open quantum effects as noisy channels, we make the connection between geometric phase and quantum noise processes familiar from quantum information theory.

id: quant-ph/0611162
title: Nonexponential decoherence and momentum subdiffusion in a quantum L¨¦vy kicked rotator
authors: Henning Schomerus, Eric Lutz
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 260401 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611162
abstract: We investigate decoherence in the quantum kicked rotator (modelling cold atoms in a pulsed optical field) subjected to noise with power-law tail waiting-time distributions of variable exponent (Levy noise). We demonstrate the existence of a regime of nonexponential decoherence where the notion of a decoherence rate is ill-defined. In this regime, dynamical localization is never fully destroyed, indicating that the dynamics of the quantum system never reaches the classical limit. We show that this leads to quantum subdiffusion of the momentum, which should be observable in an experiment.

id: quant-ph/0611163
title: Ratcheting up energy by means of measurement
authors: L. S. Schulman, B. Gaveau
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 240405 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611163
abstract: The destruction of quantum coherence can pump energy into a system. For our examples this is paradoxical since the destroyed correlations are ordinarily considered negligible. Mathematically the explanation is straightforward and physically one can identify the degrees of freedom supplying this energy. Nevertheless, the energy input can be calculated without specific reference to those degrees of freedom.

id: quant-ph/0611164
title: Non-exponential decay via tunneling in tight-binding lattices and the optical Zeno effect
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 
journal: S. Longhi, Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 110402 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611164
abstract: An exactly-solvable model for the decay of a metastable state coupled to a semi-infinite tight-binding lattice, showing large deviations from exponential decay in the strong coupling regime, is presented. An optical realization of the lattice model, based on discrete diffraction in a semi-infinite array of tunneling-coupled optical waveguides, is proposed to test non-exponential decay and for the observation of an optical analog of the quantum Zeno effect.

id: quant-ph/0611165
title: Analysis of a quantum memory for photons based on controlled reversible inhomogeneous broadening
authors: Nicolas Sangouard, Christoph Simon, Mikael Afzelius, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures (Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032327 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611165
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of a quantum memory for photons based on controlled and reversible inhomogeneous broadening (CRIB). The explicit solution of the equations of motion is obtained in the weak excitation regime, making it possible to gain insight into the dependence of the memory efficiency on the optical depth, and on the width and shape of the atomic spectral distributions. We also study a simplified memory protocol which does not require any optical control fields.

id: quant-ph/0611166
title: Robust optimal quantum gates for Josephson charge qubits
authors: Simone Montangero, Tommaso Calarco, Rosario Fazio
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 170501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611166
abstract: Quantum optimal control theory allows to design accurate quantum gates. We employ it to design high-fidelity two-bit gates for Josephson charge qubits in the presence of both leakage and noise. Our protocol considerably increases the fidelity of the gate and, more important, it is quite robust in the disruptive presence of 1/f noise. The improvement in the gate performances discussed in this work (errors of the order of 10^{-3}-10^{-4} in realistic cases) allows to cross the fault tolerance threshold.

id: quant-ph/0611167
title: Continuous Variable Quantum Cryptography using Two-Way Quantum Communication
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Stefano Mancini, Seth Lloyd, Samuel L. Braunstein
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures, REVTeX
journal: Nature Physics 4, 726 - 730 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611167
abstract: Quantum cryptography has been recently extended to continuous variable systems, e.g., the bosonic modes of the electromagnetic field. In particular, several cryptographic protocols have been proposed and experimentally implemented using bosonic modes with Gaussian statistics. Such protocols have shown the possibility of reaching very high secret-key rates, even in the presence of strong losses in the quantum communication channel. Despite this robustness to loss, their security can be affected by more general attacks where extra Gaussian noise is introduced by the eavesdropper. In this general scenario we show a "hardware solution" for enhancing the security thresholds of these protocols. This is possible by extending them to a two-way quantum communication where subsequent uses of the quantum channel are suitably combined. In the resulting two-way schemes, one of the honest parties assists the secret encoding of the other with the chance of a non-trivial superadditive enhancement of the security thresholds. Such results enable the extension of quantum cryptography to more complex quantum communications.

id: quant-ph/0611168
title: Qubit portrait of qudit states and Bell inequalities
authors: V.N.Chernega, V.I.Man'ko
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures, to be published in J. Russ. Laser Res
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611168
abstract: A linear map of qudit tomogram onto qubit tomogram (qubit portrait) is proposed as a characteristics of the qudit state. Using the qubit portrait method the Bell inequalities for two qubits and two qutrits are discussed in framework of probability representation of quantum mechanics. Semigroup of stochastic matrices is associated with tomographic probability distributions of qubit and qutrit states. Bell-like inequalities are studied using the semigroup of stochastic matrices. The qudit-qubit map of tomographic probability distributions is discussed as ansatz to provide a necessary condition for separability of quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0611169
title: Quantum Formulation of Fractional Orbital Angular Momentum
authors: J. B. Goette, S. Franke-Arnold, R. Zambrini, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: 14 pages, 6 figure (figures are of low quality due to jpeg2ps conversion), submitted to J Mod Opt special issue for the Photon 06 conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611169
abstract: The quantum theory of rotation angles (S. M. Barnett and D. T. Pegg, Phys. Rev. A, 41, 3427-3425 (1990)) is generalised to non-integer values of the orbital angular momentum. This requires the introduction of an additional parameter, the orientation of a phase discontinuity associated with fractional values of the orbital angular momentum. We apply our formalism to the propagation of light modes with fractional orbital angular momentum in the paraxial and non-paraxial regime.

id: quant-ph/0611170
title: Entanglement generation in atoms immersed in a thermal bath of external quantum scalar fields with a boundary
authors: Jialin Zhang, Hongwei Yu
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures, to be published in PRA
journal: Phys.Rev. A75 (2007) 012101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611170
abstract: We examine the entanglement creation between two mutually independent two-level atoms immersed in a thermal bath of quantum scalar fields in the presence of a perfectly reflecting plane boundary. With the help of the master equation that describes the evolution in time of the atom subsystem obtained, in the weak-coupling limit, by tracing over environment (scalar fields) degrees of freedom, we find that the presence of the boundary may play a significant role in the entanglement creation in some circumstances and the new parameter, the distance of the atoms from the boundary, besides the bath temperature and the separation between the atoms, gives us more freedom in manipulating entanglement generation. Remarkably, the final remaining entanglement in the equilibrium state is independent of the presence of the boundary.

id: quant-ph/0611171
title: Selective entanglement breaking
authors: Yuma Kinoshita, Ryo Namiki, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611171
abstract: We discuss the cases where local decoherence selectively degrades one type of entanglement more than other types. A typical case is called state ordering change, in which two input states with different amounts of entanglement undergoes a local decoherence and the state with the larger entanglement results in an output state with less entanglement than the other output state. We are also interested in a special case where the state with the larger entanglement evolves to a separable state while the other output state is still entangled, which we call selective entanglement breaking. For three-level or larger systems, it is easy to find examples of the state ordering change and the selective entanglement breaking, but for two-level systems it is not trivial whether such situations exist. We present a new strategy to construct examples of two-qubit states exhibiting the selective entanglement breaking regardless of entanglement measure. We also give a more striking example of the selective entanglement breaking in which the less entangled input state has only an infinitesimal amount of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0611172
title: Quantum nonlocality of four-qubit entangled states
authors: Chunfeng Wu, Ye Yeo, L. C. Kwek, C. H. Oh
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611172
abstract: Quantum nonlocality of several four-qubit states is investigated by constructing a new Bell inequality. These include the Greenberger-Zeilinger-Horne (GHZ) state, W state, cluster state, and the state $|\chi>$ that has been recently proposed in [PRL, {\bf 96}, 060502 (2006)]. The Bell inequality is optimally violated by $|\chi>$ but not violated by the GHZ state. The cluster state also violates the Bell inequality though not optimally. The state $|\chi>$ can thus be discriminated from the cluster state by using the inequality. Different aspects of four-partite entanglement are also studied by considering the usefulness of a family of four-qubit mixed states as resources for two-qubit teleportation. Our results generalize those in [PRL, {\bf 72}, 797 (1994)].

id: quant-ph/0611173
title: Thermodynamics of bipartite systems: Application to light-matter interactions
authors: E. Boukobza D. J. Tannor
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure. PRA (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611173
abstract: Heat and work for quantum systems governed by dissipative master equations with a time-dependent driving field were introduced in the pioneering work of Alicki [J. Phys. A 12, L103 (1979)]. Alicki's work was in the Schroedinger picture; here we extend these definitions to the Heisenberg and interaction pictures. We show that in order to avoid consistency problems, the full time derivatives in the definitions for heat flux and power (work flux) should be replaced by partial time derivatives. We also present an alternative approach to the partitioning of the energy flux which differs from that of Alicki in that the instantaneous interaction energy with the external field is not included directly. We then proceed to generalize Alicki's definition of power by replacing the original system and its external driving field with a larger, bipartite system, governed by a time-independent Hamiltonian. Using the definition of heat flux and the generalized definition of power, we derive the first law of thermodynamics in differential form, both for the full bipartite system and the partially traced subsystems. Although the second law (Clausius formulation) is satisfied for the full bipartite system, we find that in general there is no rigorous formulation of the second law for the partially traced subsystem unless certain additional requirements are met. Once these requirements are satisfied, however, both the Carnot and the Clausius formulations of the second law are satisfied. We illustrate this thermodynamic analysis on both the simple Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM) and an extended dissipative Jaynes-Cummings model (ED-JCM), which is a model for a quantum amplifier.

id: quant-ph/0611174
title: Controlled Creation of Spatial Superposition States for Single Atoms
authors: K. Deasy, Th. Busch, Y. Niu, S. Gong, S. Jin, S. Nic Chormaic
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611174
abstract: We present a method for the controlled and robust generation of spatial superposition states of single atoms in micro-traps. Using a counter-intuitive positioning sequence for the individual potentials and appropriately chosen trapping frequencies, we show that it is possible to selectively create two different orthogonal superposition states, which can in turn be used for quantum information purposes.

id: quant-ph/0611175
title: Thermodynamic analysis of quantum light amplification
authors: E. Boukobza D. J. Tannor
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures. PRA (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611175
abstract: Thermodynamics of a three-level maser was studied in the pioneering work of Scovil and Schulz-DuBois [Phys. Rev. Lett. 2, 262 (1959)]. In this work we consider the same three-level model, but treat both the matter and light quantum mechanically. Specifically, we analyze an extended (three-level) dissipative Jaynes-Cummings model (ED-JCM) within the framework of a quantum heat engine, using novel formulas for heat flux and power in bipartite systems introduced in our previous work [E. Boukobza and D. J. Tannor, PRA (in press)]. Amplification of the selected cavity mode occurs even in this simple model, as seen by a positive steady state power. However, initial field coherence is lost, as seen by the decaying off-diagonal field density matrix elements, and by the Husimi-Kano Q function. We show that after an initial transient time the field's entropy rises linearly during the operation of the engine, which we attribute to the dissipative nature of the evolution and not to matter-field entanglement. We show that the second law of thermodynamics is satisfied in two formulations (Clausius, Carnot) and that the efficiency of the ED-JCM heat engine agrees with that defined intuitively by Scovil and Schulz-DuBois. Finally, we compare the steady state heat flux and power of the fully quantum model with the semiclassical counterpart of the ED-JCM, and derive the engine efficiency formula of Scovil and Schulz-DuBois analytically from fundamental thermodynamic fluxes.

id: quant-ph/0611176
title: Schroedinger and Hamilton-Jacobi equations
authors: Milos V. Lokajicek
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611176
abstract: Time-dependent Schroedinger equation represents the basis of any quantum-theoretical approach. The question concerning its proper content in comparison to the classical physics has not been, however, fully answered until now. It will be shown that there is one-to-one physical correspondence between basic solutions (represented always by one Hamiltonian eigenfunction only) and classical ones, as the non-zero quantum potential has not any physical sense, representing only the "numerical" difference between Hamilton principal function and the phase of corresponding wave function in the case of non-inertial motion. Possible interpretation of superposition solutions will be then discussed in the light of this fact. And also different interpretation alternatives of the quantum-mechanical model will be newly analyzed and new attitude to them will be reasoned.

id: quant-ph/0611177
title: Quantum Dynamics of Bound Entangled States
authors: Guo-Qiang Zhu, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611177
abstract: By using the partial transpose and realignment method,we study the time evolution of the bound entanglement under the bilinear-biquadratic Hamiltonian. For the initial Horodecki's bound entangled state, it keeps bound entangled for some time, while for the initial bound entangled states constructed from the unextendable product basis, they become free once the time evolution begins. The time evolution provides a new way to construct bound entangled states, and also gives a method to free bound entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0611178
title: Preparation and Determination of Spin-Polarized States in Multi-Zeeman-sublevel Atoms
authors: Bo Wang, Yanxu Han, Jintao Xiao, Xudong Yang, Chunhong Zhang, Hai Wang, Min Xiao, Kunchi Peng
comments: 17pages, 4figures, Submit to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611178
abstract: We demonstrate a simple technique to prepare and determine the desired internal quantum states in multi-Zeeman-sublevel atoms. By choosing appropriate coupling and pumping laser beams, atoms can be easily prepared in a desired Zeeman sublevel with high purity or in any chosen ground-state population distributions. The population distributions or state purities of such prepared atomic states can be determined by using a weak, circularly-polarized probe beam due to differences in transition strengths among different Zeeman sublevels. Preparing well-defined internal quantum states in multi-Zeeman-sublevel atoms (or spin-polarized quantum-state engineering) will be very important in demonstrating many interesting effects in quantum information processing with multi-level atomic systems.

id: quant-ph/0611179
title: Linear optics and quantum maps
authors: A. Aiello, G. Puentes, J. P. Woerdman
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611179
abstract: We present a theoretical analysis of the connection between classical polarization optics and quantum mechanics of two-level systems. First, we review the matrix formalism of classical polarization optics from a quantum information perspective. In this manner the passage from the Stokes-Jones-Mueller description of classical optical processes to the representation of one- and two-qubit quantum operations, becomes straightforward. Second, as a practical application of our classical-\emph{vs}-quantum formalism, we show how two-qubit maximally entangled mixed states (MEMS), can be generated by using polarization and spatial modes of photons generated via spontaneous parametric down conversion.

id: quant-ph/0611180
title: The Relation between Disentangled States and Algorithmic Information Theory
authors: Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611180
abstract: In this short communication it is proposed the general form of a n-qubit disentangled state as a irreducible sentence, in the sense explained by the algorithmic information theory, whose length increases in a non-polynomial way when the number of qubits increases.

id: quant-ph/0611181
title: Adiabatic frequency conversion of quantum optical information in atomic vapor
authors: Frank Vewinger, Juergen Appel, Eden Figueroa, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters 32, 2771 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611181
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a quantum communication protocol that enables frequency conversion and routing of quantum optical information in an adiabatic and thus robust way. The protocol is based on electromagnetically-induced transparency in systems with multiple excited levels: transfer and/or distribution of optical states between different signal modes is implemented by adiabatically changing the control fields. The proof-of-principle experiment is performed using the hyperfine levels of the rubidium D1 line.

id: quant-ph/0611182
title: Bhattacharyya inequality for quantum state estimation
authors: Yoshiyuki Tsuda
comments: 22 pages, no figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 793-810 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611182
abstract: Using higher-order derivative with respect to the parameter, we will give lower bounds for variance of unbiased estimators in quantum estimation problems. This is a quantum version of the Bhattacharyya inequality in the classical statistical estimation. Because of non-commutativity of operator multiplication, we obtain three different types of lower bounds; Type S, Type R and Type L. If the parameter is a real number, the Type S bound is useful. If the parameter is complex, the Type R and L bounds are useful. As an application, we will consider estimation of polynomials of the complex amplitude of the quantum Gaussian state. For the case where the amplitude lies in the real axis, a uniformly optimum estimator for the square of the amplitude will be derived using the Type S bound. It will be shown that there is no unbiased estimator uniformly optimum as a polynomial of annihilation and/or creation operators for the cube of the amplitude. For the case where the amplitude does not necessarily lie in the real axis, uniformly optimum estimators for holomorphic, antiholomorphic and real-valued polynomials of the amplitude will be derived. Those estimators for the holomorphic and real-valued cases attains the Type R bound, and those for the antiholomorphic and real-valued cases attains the Type L bound. This article clarifies what is the best method to measure energy of laser.

id: quant-ph/0611183
title: Exact Polynomial Eigensolutions of the Schrodinger Equation for the Pseudoharmonic Potential
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 10 pages
journal: Int. J. of Molecular Structure(THEOCHEM) 806, 155(2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611183
abstract: The polynomial solution of the Schrodinger equation for the Pseudoharmonic potential is found for any arbitrary angular momentum $l$. The exact bound-state energy eigenvalues and the corresponding eigen functions are analytically calculated. The energy states for several diatomic molecular systems are calculated numerically for various principal and angular quantum numbers. By a proper transformation, this problem is also solved very simply by using the known eigensolutions of anharmonic oscillator potential.

id: quant-ph/0611184
title: Comments on 'Teleportation of two quNit entanglement: Exploiting local resources'and 'Reply to Yang et al.'s comment'
authors: Jie Yang, Hao Yuan, Zhan-jun Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 1 table, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611184
abstract: This paper includes two comments. The first one is a comment on 'Teleportation of two quNit entanglement: Exploiting local resources'. Two different efficient methods are presented to modify some details of N. Ba An's protocol, so that teleportation of two quNit entanglement can be successfully achieved in terms of the revised N. Ba An's protocol. The second one is a comment on 'Reply to Yang et al.'s comment'.

id: quant-ph/0611185
title: Test of the isotopic and velocity selectivity of a lithium atom interferometer by magnetic dephasing
authors: Marion Jacquey, Alain Miffre, Matthias B¨¹chner, G¨¦rard Tr¨¦nec, Jacques Vigu¨¦
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611185
abstract: A magnetic field gradient applied to an atom interferometer induces a $M$-dependent phase shift which results in a series of decays and revivals of the fringe visibility. Using our lithium atom interferometer based on Bragg laser diffraction, we have measured the fringe visibility as a function of the applied gradient. We have thus tested the isotopic selectivity of the interferometer, the velocity selective character of Bragg diffraction for different diffraction orders as well as the effect of optical pumping of the incoming atoms. All these observations are qualitatively understood but a quantitative analysis requires a complete model of the interferometer.

id: quant-ph/0611186
title: Experimental Realization of Deutsch's Algorithm in a One-way Quantum Computer
authors: M. S. Tame, R. Prevedel, M. Paternostro, P. B?hi, M. S. Kim, A. Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 140501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611186
abstract: We report the first experimental demonstration of an all-optical one-way implementation of Deutsch's quantum algorithm on a four-qubit cluster state. All the possible configurations of a balanced or constant function acting on a two-qubit register are realized within the measurement-based model for quantum computation. The experimental results are in excellent agreement with the theoretical model, therefore demonstrating the successful performance of the algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0611187
title: Philosophical Aspects of Quantum Information Theory
authors: Christopher G Timpson
comments: LaTeX; 55pp; 3 figs. Forthcoming in Rickles (ed.) The Ashgate Companion to the New Philosophy of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611187
abstract: Quantum information theory represents a rich subject of discussion for those interested in the philosphical and foundational issues surrounding quantum mechanics for a simple reason: one can cast its central concerns in terms of a long-familiar question: How does the quantum world differ from the classical one? Moreover, deployment of the concepts of information and computation in novel contexts hints at new (or better) means of understanding quantum mechanics, and perhaps even invites re-assessment of traditional material conceptions of the basic nature of the physical world. In this paper I review some of these philosophical aspects of quantum information theory, begining with an elementary survey of the theory, seeking to highlight some of the principles and heuristics involved. We move on to a discussion of the nature and definition of quantum information and deploy the findings in discussing the puzzles surrounding teleportation. The final two sections discuss, respectively, what one might learn from the development of quantum computation (both about the nature of quantum systems and about the nature of computation) and consider the impact of quantum information theory on the traditional foundational questions of quantum mechanics (treating of the views of Zeilinger, Bub and Fuchs, amongst others).

id: quant-ph/0611188
title: Continuously decoupling single-qubit operations from a perturbing thermal bath of scalar bosons
authors: F. F. Fanchini, J. E. M. Hornos, R. d. J. Napolitano
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022329 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611188
abstract: We investigate the use of continuously-applied external fields to maximize the fidelity of quantum logic operations performed on a decohering qubit. Assuming a known error operator and an environment represented by a scalar boson field at a finite temperature, we show how decoherence during logical operations can be efficiently reduced by applying a superposition of two external vector fields: one rotating orthogonally to the direction of the other, which remains static. The required field directions, frequency of rotation and amplitudes to decouple noise dynamically are determined by the coupling constants and the desired logical operation. We illustrate these findings numerically for a Hadamard quantum gate and an environment with ohmic spectral density.

id: quant-ph/0611189
title: Optimal Control of High-Fidelity Quantum Gates in the Presence of Decoherence
authors: Matthew Grace, Constantin Brif, Herschel Rabitz, Ian Walmsley, Robert Kosut, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: This paper has been withdrawn as it has been superseded by postings arXiv:quant-ph/0702147 and arXiv:0712.2935
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611189
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn as it has been superseded by postings arXiv:quant-ph/0702147 and arXiv:0712.2935

id: quant-ph/0611190
title: Precision measurement with an optical Josephson junction
authors: H. T. Ng, K. Burnett, J. A. Dunningham
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 063607 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611190
abstract: We study a new type of Josephson device, the so-called "optical Josephson junction" as proposed in Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 95}, 170402 (2005). Two condensates are optically coupled through a waveguide by a pair of Bragg beams. This optical Josephson junction is analogous to the usual Josephson junction of two condensates weakly coupled via tunneling. We discuss the use of this optical Josephson junction, for making precision measurements.

id: quant-ph/0611191
title: Dynamical chaos versus quantum interference
authors: Valentin V. Sokolov, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati
comments: 15 pages, 1 fugure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611191
abstract: We discuss the dephasing induced by the internal classical chaotic motion in the absence of any external environment. To this end a new extension of fidelity for mixed states is introduced, which we name {\it allegiance}. Such quantity directly accounts for quantum interference and is measurable in a Ramsey interferometry experiment. We show that in the semiclassical limit the decay of the allegiance is exactly expressed, due to the dephasing, in terms of an appropriate classical correlation function. Our results are derived analytically for the case of a nonlinear driven oscillator and then numerically confirmed for the kicked rotor model.

id: quant-ph/0611192
title: Entanglement generation and protection by detuning modulation
authors: M. Paternostro, M. S. Tame, G. M. Palma, M. S. Kim
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052317 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611192
abstract: We introduce a protocol for steady-state entanglement generation and protection based on detuning modulation in the dissipative interaction between a two-qubit system and a bosonic mode. The protocol is a global-addressing scheme which only requires control over the system as a whole. We describe a postselection procedure to project the register state onto a subspace of maximally entangled states. We also outline how our proposal can be implemented in a circuit-quantum electrodynamics setup.

id: quant-ph/0611193
title: Relativistic invariant projectors on a complex spinor space and a rule of polarizations summation in a complex bispinor space
authors: H. V. Grushevskaya
comments: 11pages, talk given at the 5th International Conference "Boyai-Gauss-Lobachevsky: Methods of Non-Euclidean Geometry in Modern Physics", Minsk, Belarus,October 10-13, 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611193
abstract: Relativistic invariant projectors of states in a complex bispinor space on a complex spinor space are constructed. An expression for sections of bundle with connection on group SU(4) in an explicit form has been obtained. Within the framework of the proposed geometrical approach the rule of summation over polarizations of states in a complex bispinor space has been derived. It has been shown that states in a complex bispinor space always describe a pair of Dirac's particles.

id: quant-ph/0611194
title: Bopp operators and phase-space spin dynamics: Application to rotational quantum brownian motion
authors: D. Zueco, Ivan Calvo
comments: Some typos corrected. Published version
journal: J.Phys.A40:4635-4648,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611194
abstract: As already known for nonrelativistic spinless particles, Bopp operators give an elegant and simple way to compute the dynamics of quasiprobability distributions in the phase space formulation of Quantum Mechanics. In this work, we present a generalization of Bopp operators for spins and apply our results to the case of open spin systems. This approach allows to take the classical limit in a transparent way, recovering the corresponding Fokker-Planck equation.

id: quant-ph/0611195
title: A case concerning the improved transition probability
authors: Jian Tang, An Min Wang
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. This is an example of our serial studies: quant-ph/0611216, quant-ph/0611217, and quant-ph/0601051
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611195
abstract: As is well known, the existed perturbation theory can be applied to calculations of energy, state and transition probability in many quantum systems. However, there are different paths and methods to improve its calculation precision and efficiency in our view. According to an improved scheme of perturbation theory proposed by [An Min Wang, quant-ph/0611217], we reconsider the transition probability and perturbed energy for a Hydrogen atom in a constant magnetic field. We find the results obtained by using Wang's scheme are indeed more satisfying in the calculation precision and efficiency. Therefore, Wang's scheme can be thought of as a powerful tool in the perturbation calculation of quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0611196
title: Experimental entanglement verification and quantification via uncertainty relations
authors: Zhi-Wei Wang, Yun-Feng Huang, Xi-Feng Ren, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures and 2 tables
journal: Europhysics Letters, 78, 40002 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611196
abstract: We report on experimental studies on entanglement quantification and verification based on uncertainty relations for systems consisting of two qubits. The new proposed measure is shown to be invariant under local unitary transformations, by which entanglement quantification is implemented for two-qubit pure states. The nonlocal uncertainty relations for two-qubit pure states are also used for entanglement verification which serves as a basic proposition and promise to be a good choice for verification of multipartite entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0611197
title: Determinable Solutions for One-dimensional Quantum Potentials: Scattering, Quasi-bound and Bound State Problems
authors: Hwasung Lee, Y. J. Lee
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, Currected typos and clarified the discussion of double square well
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611197
abstract: We derive analytic expressions of the recursive solutions to the Schr\"{o}dinger's equation by means of a cutoff potential technique for one-dimensional piecewise constant potentials. These solutions provide a method for accurately determining the transmission probabilities as well as the wave function in both classically accessible region and inaccessible region for any barrier potentials. It is also shown that the energy eigenvalues and the wave functions of bound states can be obtained for potential-well structures by exploiting this method. Calculational results of illustrative examples are shown in order to verify this method for treating barrier and potential-well problems.

id: quant-ph/0611198
title: Casimir interaction between gas media of excited atoms
authors: Yury Sherkunov
comments: Bio-dielectrics: Theories, Mechanisms, and Applications. 10-12 April 2006, University of Leicester, UK To be published in Journal of Physics D: Applied Physics
journal: J.Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 40 (2007) 86-94
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611198
abstract: The retarded dispersion interaction (Casimir interaction) between two dilute dielectric media at high temperatures is considered. The excited atoms are taken into account. It is shown that the perturbation technique can not be applied to this problem due to the divergence of integrals. A non-perturbative approach based on kinetic Green functions is implemented. We consider interaction between two atoms (one of them is excited0 embedded in an absorbing dielectric medium. We take into account possible absorption of photons in the medium, which solves the problem of divergence. The force between two plane dilute dielectric media is calculated at pair interaction approximation. We show that the result of quantum electrodynamics differs from the Lifshitz formula for dilute gas media at high temperatures (if the number of excited atoms is significant). According to quantum electrodynamics, the interaction may be either attractive or repulsive depending on the temperature and the density numbers of the media.

id: quant-ph/0611199
title: Control of multiatom entanglement in a cavity
authors: A. Mandilara, V. M. Akulin, M. Kolar, G. Kurizki
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure. Finalized version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022327 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611199
abstract: We propose a general formalism for analytical description of multiatomic ensembles interacting with a single mode quantized cavity field under the assumption that most atoms remain un-excited on average. By combining the obtained formalism with the nilpotent technique for the description of multipartite entanglement we are able to overview in a unified fashion different probabilistic control scenarios of entanglement among atoms or examine atomic ensembles. We then apply the proposed control schemes to the creation of multiatom states useful for quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0611200
title: Gaussian Decoherence and Gaussian Echo from Spin Environments
authors: W.H. Zurek, F.M. Cucchietti, J.P. Paz
comments: Improved text and figures, to appear in the special issue of Acta Physica Polonica B celebrating the 100th anniversary of Smoluchowski's equation and his paper explaining Brownian motion (in this http URL)
journal: Acta Physica Polonica B, 38, No. 5 (2007), 1685
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611200
abstract: We examine an exactly solvable model of decoherence -- a spin-system interacting with a collection of environment spins. We show that in this simple model (introduced some time ago to illustrate environment--induced superselection) generic assumptions about the coupling strengths lead to a universal (Gaussian) suppression of coherence between pointer states. We explore the regime of validity of this result and discuss its relation to spectral features of the environment. We also consider its relevance to the experiments on the so-called Loschmidt echo (which measures, in effect, the fidelity between the initial and time-reversed or "echo" signal). In particular, we show that for partial reversals (e.g., when of only a part of the total Hamiltonian changes sign) fidelity will exhibit a Gaussian dependence on the time of reversal. In such cases echo may become independent of the details of the reversal procedure or the specifics of the coupling to the environment. This puzzling behavior was observed in several NMR experiments. Natural candidates for such two environments (one of which is easily reversed, while the other is ``irreversible'') are suggested for the experiment involving ferrocene.

id: quant-ph/0611201
title: Power of unentangled measurements on two antiparallel spins
authors: T. V¨¦rtesi
comments: Latex file, 18 pages, 1 figure; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032343 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611201
abstract: We consider a pair of antiparallel spins polarized in a random direction to encode quantum information. We wish to extract as much information as possible on the polarization direction attainable by an unentangled measurement, i.e., by a measurement, whose outcomes are associated with product states. We develop analytically the upper bound 0.7935 bits to the Shannon mutual information obtainable by an unentangled measurement, which is definitely less than the value 0.8664 bits attained by an entangled measurement. This proves our main result, that not every ensemble of product states can be optimally distinguished by an unentangled measurement, if the measure of distinguishability is defined in the sense of Shannon. We also present results from numerical calculations and discuss briefly the case of parallel spins.

id: quant-ph/0611202
title: Intrinsic Quantum Computation
authors: James P. Crutchfield, Karoline Wiesner
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, 1 table; updated with corrections; this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611202
abstract: We introduce ways to measure information storage in quantum systems, using a recently introduced computation-theoretic model that accounts for measurement effects. The first, the quantum excess entropy, quantifies the shared information between a quantum process's past and its future. The second, the quantum transient information, determines the difficulty with which an observer comes to know the internal state of a quantum process through measurements. We contrast these with von Neumann entropy and quantum entropy rate and provide a closed-form expression for the latter for the class of deterministic quantum processes.

id: quant-ph/0611203
title: Language Diversity of Measured Quantum Processes
authors: Karoline Wiesner, James P. Crutchfield
comments: 9 pages, 4 tables; this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611203
abstract: The behavior of a quantum system depends on how it is measured. How much of what is observed comes from the structure of the quantum system itself and how much from the observer's choice of measurement? We explore these questions by analyzing the \emph{language diversity} of quantum finite-state generators. One result is a new way to distinguish quantum devices from their classical (stochastic) counterparts. While the diversity of languages generated by these two computational classes is the same in the case of periodic processes, quantum systems generally generate a wider range of languages than classical systems.

id: quant-ph/0611204
title: Squeezed light for bandwidth limited atom optics experiments at the Rubidium D1 line
authors: G. H¨¦tet, O. Gl?ckl, K. A. Pilypas, C.C. Harb, B.C. Buchler, H.-A. Bachor, P.K. Lam
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Accepted for Journal of Physics B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611204
abstract: We report on the generation of more than 5 dB of vacuum squeezed light at the Rubidium D1 line (795 nm) using periodically poled KTiOPO$_{4}$ (PPKTP) in an optical parametric oscillator. We demonstrate squeezing at low sideband frequencies, making this source of non-classical light compatible with bandwidth limited atom optics experiments. When PPKTP is operated as a parametric amplifier, we show a noise reduction of 4 dB stably locked within the 150 kHz-500 kHz frequency range. This matches the bandwidth of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) in Rubidium hot vapour cells under the condition of large information delay.

id: quant-ph/0611205
title: Momentum entanglement and disentanglement between atom and photon
authors: Rui Guo, Hong Guo
comments: 6 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611205
abstract: With the quantum interference between two transition pathways, we demonstrate a novel scheme to coherently control the momentum entanglement between a single atom and a single photon. The unavoidable disentanglement is also studied from the first principle, which indicates that the stably entangled atom--photon system with superhigh degree of entanglement may be realized with this scheme under certain conditions.

id: quant-ph/0611206
title: Husimi operator and Husimi function for describing electron's probability distribution in uniform magnetic field derived by virtue of the entangled state representation
authors: Hong-yi Fan, Qin Guo
comments: 15pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611206
abstract: For the first time we introduce the Husimi operator Delta_h(gamma,varepsilon;kappa) for studying Husimi distribution in phase space(gamma,varepsilon) for electron's states in uniform magnetic field, where kappa is the Gaussian spatial width parameter. Using the Wigner operator in the entangled state |lambda> representation [Hong-Yi Fan, Phys. Lett. A 301 (2002)153; A 126 (1987) 145) we find that Delta_h(gamma,varepsilon;kappa) is just a pure squeezed coherent state density operator |gamma,varepsilon>_kappa kappa<gamma,varepsilon|, which brings convenience for studying and calculating the Husimi distribution. We in many ways demonstrate that the Husimi distributions are Gaussian-broadened version of the Wigner distributions. Throughout our calculation we have fully employed the technique of integration within an ordered product of operators.

id: quant-ph/0611207
title: Reply to Yang et al.'s comment
authors: Nguyen Ba An
comments: 1 page, No figures, RevTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611207
abstract: This is to reply to a recent comment by Yang, Yuan and Zhang on ``Teleportation of two-quNit entanglement: Exploiting local resorces''.

id: quant-ph/0611208
title: Non-Markovian generalization of the Lindblad theory of open quantum systems
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, replaced by published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022103 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611208
abstract: A systematic approach to the non-Markovian quantum dynamics of open systems is given by the projection operator techniques of nonequilibrium statistical mechanics. Combining these methods with concepts from quantum information theory and from the theory of positive maps, we derive a class of correlated projection superoperators that take into account in an efficient way statistical correlations between the open system and its environment. The result is used to develop a generalization of the Lindblad theory to the regime of highly non-Markovian quantum processes in structured environments.

id: quant-ph/0611209
title: Exponential separations for one-way quantum communication complexity, with applications to cryptography
authors: Dmitry Gavinsky, Julia Kempe, Iordanis Kerenidis, Ran Raz, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 16 pages, improved version, supersedes quant-ph/0607173 and quant-ph/0607174 although some proofs are different
journal: Proc. 39th STOC, p. 516-525 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611209
abstract: We give an exponential separation between one-way quantum and classical communication protocols for a partial Boolean function (a variant of the Boolean Hidden Matching Problem of Bar-Yossef et al.) Earlier such an exponential separation was known only for a relational problem. The communication problem corresponds to a \emph{strong extractor} that fails against a small amount of \emph{quantum} information about its random source. Our proof uses the Fourier coefficients inequality of Kahn, Kalai, and Linial. We also give a number of applications of this separation. In particular, we show that there are privacy amplification schemes that are secure against classical adversaries but not against quantum adversaries; and we give the first example of a key-expansion scheme in the model of bounded-storage cryptography that is secure against classical memory-bounded adversaries but not against quantum ones.

id: quant-ph/0611210
title: Two electron entanglement in quasi-one dimensional system: Role of resonances
authors: Alexander L¨®pez, Otto Rend¨®n, V{\'?}ctor M. Villalba, Ernesto Medina
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611210
abstract: We analyze the role of resonances in two-fermion entanglement production for a quasi one-dimensional two channel scattering problem. We solve exactly for the problem of a two-fermion antisymmetric product state scattering off a double delta well potential. It is shown that the two-particle concurrence of the post-selected state has an oscillatory behavior where the concurrence vanishes at the values of momenta for virtual bound states in the double well. These concurrence zeros are interpreted in terms of the uncertainty in the knowledge of the state of the one particle subspace reduced one particle density matrix. Our results suggest manipulation of fermion entanglement production through the resonance structure of quantum dots.

id: quant-ph/0611211
title: How Stands Collapse I
authors: Philip Pearle
comments: 20 pages, to be published in Journal of Physics A: Math-Gen
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611211
abstract: In this volume in honor of GianCarlo Ghirardi, I discuss my involvement with ideas of dynamical collapse of the state vector. 10 problems are introduced, 9 of which were seen following my initial work. 4 of these problems had a resolution in GianCarlo Ghirardi, Alberto Rimini and Tullio Weber's Spontaneous Localization (SL) model (which added 1 more problem). This stimulated a (somewhat different) resolution of these 5 problems in the Continuous Spontaneous Localization (CSL) model, in which I combined my initial work with SL. In an upcoming volume in honor of Abner Shimony I shall discuss the status of the 5 remaining post-CSL problems.

id: quant-ph/0611212
title: How Stands Collapse II
authors: Philip Pearle
comments: 37 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611212
abstract: I review ten problems associated with the dynamical wave function collapse program, which were described in the first of these two papers. Five of these, the \textit{interaction, preferred basis, trigger, symmetry} and \textit{superluminal} problems, were discussed as resolved there. In this volume in honor of Abner Shimony, I discuss the five remaining problems, \textit{tails, conservation law, experimental, relativity, legitimization}. Particular emphasis is given to the tails problem, first raised by Abner. The discussion of legitimization contains a new argument, that the energy density of the fluctuating field which causes collapse should exert a gravitational force. This force can be repulsive, since this energy density can be negative. Speculative illustrations of cosmological implications are offered.

id: quant-ph/0611213
title: Quantum Query Algorithms for Certain Problems and Generalization of Algorithm Designing Techniques
authors: Alina Dubrovska Vasilieva, Taisia Mischenko-Slatenkova
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611213
abstract: Quantum algorithms can be analyzed in a query model to compute Boolean functions where input is given in a black box, but the aim is to compute function value for arbitrary input using as few queries as possible. In this paper we concentrate on quantum query algorithm designing tasks. The main aim of research was to find new efficient algorithms and develop general algorithm designing techniques. We present several exact quantum query algorithms for certain problems that are better than classical counterparts. Next we introduce algorithm transformation methods that allow significant enlarging of sets of exactly computable functions. Finally, we propose algorithm constructing methods applicable for algorithms with specific properties that allow constructing algorithms for more complex functions preserving acceptable error probability and number of queries.

id: quant-ph/0611214
title: Local unitary versus local Clifford equivalence of stabilizer and graph states
authors: Bei Zeng, Hyeyoun Chung, Andrew W. Cross, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: Revised version according to referee's comments. To appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611214
abstract: The equivalence of stabilizer states under local transformations is of fundamental interest in understanding properties and uses of entanglement. Two stabilizer states are equivalent under the usual stochastic local operations and classical communication criterion if and only if they are equivalent under local unitary (LU) operations. More surprisingly, under certain conditions, two LU equivalent stabilizer states are also equivalent under local Clifford (LC) operations, as was shown by Van den Nest et al. [Phys. Rev. \textbf{A71}, 062323]. Here, we broaden the class of stabilizer states for which LU equivalence implies LC equivalence ($LU\Leftrightarrow LC$) to include all stabilizer states represented by graphs with neither cycles of length 3 nor 4. To compare our result with Van den Nest et al.'s, we show that any stabilizer state of distance $\delta=2$ is beyond their criterion. We then further prove that $LU\Leftrightarrow LC$ holds for a more general class of stabilizer states of $\delta=2$. We also explicitly construct graphs representing $\delta>2$ stabilizer states which are beyond their criterion: we identify all 58 graphs with up to 11 vertices and construct graphs with $2^m-1$ ($m\geq 4$) vertices using quantum error correcting codes which have non-Clifford transversal gates.

id: quant-ph/0611215
title: Controllability of open quantum systems with Kraus-map dynamics
authors: Rong Wu, Alexander Pechen, Constantin Brif, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 16 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, 5681 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611215
abstract: This paper presents a constructive proof of complete kinematic state controllability of finite-dimensional open quantum systems whose dynamics are represented by Kraus maps. For any pair of states (pure or mixed) on the Hilbert space of the system, we explicitly show how to construct a Kraus map that transforms one state into another. Moreover, we prove by construction the existence of a Kraus map that transforms all initial states into a predefined target state (such a process may be used, for example, in quantum information dilution). Thus, in sharp contrast to unitary control, Kraus-map dynamics allows for the design of controls which are robust to variations in the initial state of the system. The general formalism is illustrated with examples of state-to-state Kraus transformations in a two-level system. In particular, we construct a family of non-unitary Kraus maps, which transform one pure state into another. The problem of dynamic state controllability of open quantum systems (i.e., controllability of state-to-state transformations, given a set of available dynamical resources such as coherent controls, incoherent interactions with the environment, and measurements) is also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0611216
title: Quantum mechanics in general quantum systems (I): Exact solution
authors: An Min Wang
comments: 21 pages, no figure. The first paper in our serial studies. Its earlier version is quant-ph/0602055
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611216
abstract: Starting from our idea of combining the Feynman path integral spirit and the Dyson series kernel, we find an explicit and general form of time evolution operator that is a $c$-number function and a power series of perturbation including all order approximations in the unperturbed Hamiltonian representation. Based on it, we obtain an exact solution of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation in general quantum systems independent of time. Comparison of our exact solution with the existed perturbation theory makes some features and significance of our exact solution clear. The conclusions expressly indicate that our exact solution is obviously consistent with the usual time-independent perturbation theory at any order approximation, it explicitly calculates out the expanding coefficients of the unperturbed state in the non-perturbation method, and it fully solves the recurrence equation of the expansion coefficients of final state in the unperturbed Hamiltonian representation from a view of time-dependent perturbation theory. At the same time, the exact solution of the von Neumann equation is also given. Our results can be thought of as theoretical developments of quantum dynamics, and are helpful for understanding the dynamical behavior and related subjects of general quantum systems in both theory and application. Our exact solution, together with its sequence studies on perturbation theory [An Min Wang, quant-ph/0611217] and open system dynamics [An Min Wang, quant-ph/0601051] can be used to establish the foundation of theoretical formulism of quantum mechanics in general quantum systems. Further applications of our exact solution to quantum theory can be expected.

id: quant-ph/0611217
title: Quantum mechanics in general quantum systems (II): Perturbation theory
authors: An Min Wang
comments: 51 pages, no figure. The second paper in our serial studies. Its earlier version is quant-ph/0602055
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611217
abstract: We propose an improved scheme of perturbation theory based on our exact solution [An Min Wang, quant-ph/0611216] in general quantum systems independent of time. Our elementary start-point is to introduce the perturbing parameter as late as possible. Our main skills are Hamiltonian redivision so as to overcome a flaw of the usual perturbation theory, and the perturbing Hamiltonian matrix product decomposition in order to separate the contraction and anti-contraction terms. Our calculational technology is the limit process for eliminating apparent divergences. Our central idea is ``dynamical rearrangement and summation" for the sake of the partial contributions from the high order even all order approximations absorbed in our perturbed solution. Consequently, we obtain the improved forms of the zeroth, first, second and third order perturbed solutions absorbing the partial contributions from the high order even all order approximations of perturbation. Then we deduce the improved transition probability. In special, we propose the revised Fermi's golden rule. Moreover, we apply our scheme to obtain the improved forms of perturbed energy and perturbed state. In addition, we study an easy understanding example of two-state system to illustrate our scheme and show its advantages. All of this implies the physical reasons and evidences why our improved scheme of perturbation theory are actually calculable, operationally efficient, conclusively more accurate. Our improved scheme is the further development and interesting application of our exact solution, and it has been successfully used to study on open system dynamics [An Min Wang, quant-ph/0601051].

id: quant-ph/0611218
title: Quantum simulation of spin ordering with nuclear spins in a solid state lattice
authors: Georgios Roumpos, Cyrus P. Master, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 11 pages, 3 figues; Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 094415 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611218
abstract: An experiment demonstrating the quantum simulation of a spin-lattice Hamiltonian is proposed. Dipolar interactions between nuclear spins in a solid state lattice can be modulated by rapid radio-frequency pulses. In this way, the effective Hamiltonian of the system can be brought to the form of an antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model with long range interactions. Using a semiconducting material with strong optical properties such as InP, cooling of nuclear spins could be achieved by means of optical pumping. An additional cooling stage is provided by adiabatic demagnetization in the rotating frame (ADRF) down to a nuclear spin temperature at which we expect a phase transition from a paramagnetic to antiferromagnetic phase. This phase transition could be observed by probing the magnetic susceptibility of the spin-lattice. Our calculations suggest that employing current optical pumping technology, observation of this phase transition is within experimental reach.

id: quant-ph/0611219
title: On experimental procedures for entanglement verification
authors: S.J. van Enk, N. Lutkenhaus, H.J. Kimble
comments: 15 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052318 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611219
abstract: We give an overview of different types of entanglement that can be generated in experiments, as well as of various protocols that can be used to verify or quantify entanglement. We propose several criteria that, we argue, should be applied to experimental entanglement verification procedures. Explicit examples demonstrate that not following these criteria will tend to result in overestimating the amount of entanglement generated in an experiment or in infering entanglement when there is none. We distinguish protocols meant to refute or eliminate hidden-variable models from those meant to verify entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0611220
title: Complete "Born's rule" from "environment-assisted invariance" in terms of pure-state twin unitaries
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 25 pages, Latex2e and Revtex4
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. and Theor. 40, 5949 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611220
abstract: Zurek's derivation of the Born rule from envariance (environment-assisted invariance) is tightened up, somewhat generalized, and extended to encompass all possibilities. By this, besides Zurek's most important work, also the works of 5 other commentators of the derivation are taken into account, and selected excerpts commented upon. All this is done after a detailed theory of twin unitaries, which are the other face of envariance.

id: quant-ph/0611221
title: Self ordering and superradiant backscattering of a gaseous beam in a ring cavity with counter propagating pump
authors: C. Maes, J. Asboth, H. Ritsch
comments: 18 pages 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611221
abstract: We study the threshold conditions of spatial self organization combined with collective coherent optical backscattering of a thermal gaseous beam moving in a high Q ring cavity with counter propagating pump. We restrict ourselves to the limit of large detuning between the particles optical resonances and the light field, where spontaneous emission is negligible and the particles can be treated as polarizable point masses. Using a linear stability analysis in the accelerated rest frame of the particles we derive an analytic bounds for the selforganization as a function of particle number,average velocity, temperature and resonator parameters. We check our results by a numerical iteration procedure as well as by direct simulations of the N-particle dynamics. Due to momentum conservation the backscattered intensity determines the average force on the cloud, which gives the conditions for stopping and cooling a fast molecular beam.

id: quant-ph/0611222
title: Lindblad rate equations
authors: Adrian A. Budini
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 053815 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611222
abstract: In this paper we derive an extra class of non-Markovian master equations where the system state is written as a sum of auxiliary matrixes whose evolution involve Lindblad contributions with local coupling between all of them, resembling the structure of a classical rate equation. The system dynamics may develops strong non-local effects such as the dependence of the stationary properties with the system initialization. These equations are derived from alternative microscopic interactions, such as complex environments described in a generalized Born-Markov approximation and tripartite system-environment interactions, where extra unobserved degrees of freedom mediates the entanglement between the system and a Markovian reservoir. Conditions that guarantees the completely positive condition of the solution map are found. Quantum stochastic processes that recover the system dynamics in average are formulated. We exemplify our results by analyzing the dynamical action of non-trivial structured dephasing and depolarizing reservoirs over a single qubit.

id: quant-ph/0611223
title: Linear entropy as an entanglement measure in two-fermion systems
authors: Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone, Andrea Bertoni
comments: 16 pages. Added references in section 1 Corrected typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611223
abstract: We describe an efficient theoretical criterion, suitable for indistinguishable particles to quantify the quantum correlations of any pure two-fermion state, based on the Slater rank concept. It represents the natural generalization of the linear entropy used to treat quantum entanglement in systems of non-identical particles. Such a criterion is here applied to an electron-electron scattering in a two-dimensional system in order to perform a quantitative evaluation of the entanglement dynamics for various spin configurations and to compare the linear entropy with alternative approaches. Our numerical results show the dependence of the entanglement evolution upon the initial state of the system and its spin components. The differences with previous analyses accomplished by using the von Neumann entropy are discussed. The evaluation of the entanglement dynamics in terms of the linear entropy results to be much less demanding from the computational point of view, not requiring the diagonalization of the density matrix.

id: quant-ph/0611224
title: Compatibility conditions from multipartite entanglement measures
authors: Jian-Ming Cai, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Shun Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052324 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611224
abstract: We consider an arbitrary d_{1}\otimes d_{2}\otimes ... \otimes d_{N} composite quantum system and find necessary conditions for general m-party subsystem states to be the reduced states of a common N-party state. These conditions will lead to various monogamy inequalities for bipartite quantum entanglement and partial disorder in multipartite states. Our results are tightly connected with the measures of multipartite entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0611225
title: Simple scheme for implementing the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm in thermal cavity
authors: Wen-Xing Yang, Zhe-Xuan Gong
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 155-161
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611225
abstract: We present a simple scheme to implement the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm based on two-atom interaction in a thermal cavity. The photon-number-dependent parts in the evolution operator are canceled with the strong resonant classical field added. As a result, our scheme is immune to thermal field, and does not require the cavity to remain in the vacuum state throughout the procedure. Besides, large detuning between the atoms and the cavity is not necessary neither, leading to potential speed up of quantum operation. Finally, we show by numerical simulation that the proposed scheme is equal to demonstrate the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm with high fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0611226
title: Entanglement of random vectors
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, F105-F111 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611226
abstract: We analytically calculate the average value of i-th largest Schmidt coefficient for random pure quantum states. Schmidt coefficients, i.e., eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix, are expressed in the limit of large Hilbert space size and for arbitrary bipartite splitting as an implicit function of index i.

id: quant-ph/0611227
title: Physical propositions and quantum languages
authors: Claudio Garola
comments: 15 pages, no figure, standard LateX
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics (2008), 47: 90-103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611227
abstract: The word \textit{proposition} is used in physics with different meanings, which must be distinguished to avoid interpretational problems. We construct two languages $\mathcal{L}^{\ast}(x)$ and $\mathcal{L}(x)$ with classical set-theoretical semantics which allow us to illustrate those meanings and to show that the non-Boolean lattice of propositions of quantum logic (QL) can be obtained by selecting a subset of \textit{p-testable} propositions within the Boolean lattice of all propositions associated with sentences of $\mathcal{L}(x)$. Yet, the aforesaid semantics is incompatible with the standard interpretation of quantum mechanics (QM) because of known no-go theorems. But if one accepts our criticism of these theorems and the ensuing SR (semantic realism) interpretation of QM, the incompatibility disappears, and the classical and quantum notions of truth can coexist, since they refer to different metalinguistic concepts (\textit{truth} and \textit{verifiability according to QM}, respectively). Moreover one can construct a quantum language $\mathcal{L}_{TQ}(x)$ whose Lindenbaum-Tarski algebra is isomorphic to QL, the sentences of which state (testable) properties of individual samples of physical systems, while standard QL does not bear this interpretation.

id: quant-ph/0611228
title: Spectral theory of quantum memory and entanglement via Raman scattering of light by an atomic ensemble
authors: O.S. Mishina, D.V. Kupriyanov, J.H. Muller, E.S. Polzik
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures; added references; accepted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042326 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611228
abstract: We discuss theoretically quantum interface between light and a spin polarized ensemble of atoms with the spin >= 1 based on an off-resonant Raman scattering. We present the spectral theory of the light-atoms interaction and show how particular spectral modes of quantum light couple to spatial modes of the extended atomic ensemble. We show how this interaction can be used for quantum memory storage and retrieval and for deterministic entanglement protocols. The proposed protocols are attractive due to their simplicity since they involve just a single pass of light through atoms without the need for elaborate pulse shaping or quantum feedback. As a practically relevant example we consider the interaction of a light pulse with hyperfine components of D1 line of 87Rb. The quality of the proposed protocols is verified via analytical and numerical analysis.

id: quant-ph/0611229
title: Lower bounds on concurrence and separability conditions
authors: Julio I. de Vicente
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; minor changes, references added; final version: minor correction in proof of lemma 1, scope of theorem 2 clarified, to appear in PRA; mistake in proof of lemma 1 of published version corrected, results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052320 (2007); 77, 039903(E) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611229
abstract: We obtain analytical lower bounds on the concurrence of bipartite quantum systems in arbitrary dimensions related to the violation of separability conditions based on local uncertainty relations and on the Bloch representation of density matrices. We also illustrate how these results complement and improve those recently derived [K. Chen, S. Albeverio, and S.-M. Fei, Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 040504 (2005)] by considering the Peres-Horodecki and the computable cross norm or realignment criteria.

id: quant-ph/0611230
title: Tensor Product Structures, Entanglement, and Particle Scattering
authors: N.L. Harshman, S. Wickramsekara
comments: 7 pages, no figures; v.2 typo in references corrected, submitted to OSID as part of SMP38
journal: Open Syst.Info.Dyn.14:341-351,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611230
abstract: Particle systems admit a variety of tensor product structures (TPSs) depending on the complete system of commuting observables chosen for the analysis. Different notions of entanglement are associated with these different TPSs. Global symmetry transformations and dynamical transformations factor into products of local unitary operators with respect to certain TPSs and not with respect to others. Symmetry-invariant and dynamical-invariant TPSs and corresponding measures of entanglement are defined for particle scattering systems.

id: quant-ph/0611231
title: Approximate locality for quantum systems on graphs
authors: Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, corrected typo
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 140503 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611231
abstract: In this Letter we make progress on a longstanding open problem of Aaronson and Ambainis [Theory of Computing 1, 47 (2005)]: we show that if A is the adjacency matrix of a sufficiently sparse low-dimensional graph then the unitary operator e^{itA} can be approximated by a unitary operator U(t) whose sparsity pattern is exactly that of a low-dimensional graph which gets more dense as |t| increases. Secondly, we show that if U is a sparse unitary operator with a gap \Delta in its spectrum, then there exists an approximate logarithm H of U which is also sparse. The sparsity pattern of H gets more dense as 1/\Delta increases. These two results can be interpreted as a way to convert between local continuous-time and local discrete-time processes. As an example we show that the discrete-time coined quantum walk can be realised as an approximately local continuous-time quantum walk. Finally, we use our construction to provide a definition for a fractional quantum fourier transform.

id: quant-ph/0611232
title: Photonic crystal fibre source of photon pairs for quantum information processing
authors: Jeremie Fulconis, Olivier Alibart, Jeremy L. O'Brien, William J. Wadsworth, John G. Rarity
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 120501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611232
abstract: We demonstrate two key components for optical quantum information processing: a bright source of heralded single photons; and a bright source of entangled photon pairs. A pair of pump photons produces a correlated pair of photons at widely spaced wavelengths (583 nm and 900 nm), via a $\chi^{(3)}$ four-wave mixing process. We demonstrate a non-classical interference between heralded photons from independent sources with a visibility of 95%, and an entangled photon pair source, with a fidelity of 89% with a Bell state.

id: quant-ph/0611233
title: Conditional Density Operators and the Subjectivity of Quantum Operations
authors: M. S. Leifer
comments: 10 Pages, Work presented at "Foundations of Probability and Physics-4", Vaxjo University, June 4-9 2006
journal: G. Adenier, C. A. Fuchs and A. Yu. Khrennikov (eds.), Foundations of Probability and Physics - 4, AIP Conference Proceedings vol. 889, (AIP 2007), pp. 172-186
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611233
abstract: Assuming that quantum states, including pure states, represent subjective degrees of belief rather than objective properties of systems, the question of what other elements of the quantum formalism must also be taken as subjective is addressed. In particular, we ask this of the dynamical aspects of the formalism, such as Hamiltonians and unitary operators. Whilst some operations, such as the update maps corresponding to a complete projective measurement, must be subjective, the situation is not so clear in other cases. Here, it is argued that all trace preserving completely positive maps, including unitary operators, should be regarded as subjective, in the same sense as a classical conditional probability distribution. The argument is based on a reworking of the Choi-Jamiolkowski isomorphism in terms of "conditional" density operators and trace preserving completely positive maps, which mimics the relationship between conditional probabilities and stochastic maps in classical probability.

id: quant-ph/0611234
title: Toward a general theory of quantum games
authors: Gus Gutoski, John Watrous
comments: 23 pages, 12pt font, single-column compilation of STOC 2007 final version
journal: Proceedings of STOC 2007, pages 565-574
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611234
abstract: We study properties of quantum strategies, which are complete specifications of a given party's actions in any multiple-round interaction involving the exchange of quantum information with one or more other parties. In particular, we focus on a representation of quantum strategies that generalizes the Choi-Jamio{\l}kowski representation of quantum operations. This new representation associates with each strategy a positive semidefinite operator acting only on the tensor product of its input and output spaces. Various facts about such representations are established, and two applications are discussed: the first is a new and conceptually simple proof of Kitaev's lower bound for strong coin-flipping, and the second is a proof of the exact characterization QRG = EXP of the class of problems having quantum refereed games.

id: quant-ph/0611235
title: Complete physical simulation of the entangling-probe attack on the BB84 protocol
authors: Taehyun Kim, Ingo Stork genannt Wersborg, Franco N. C. Wong, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611235
abstract: We have used deterministic single-photon two qubit (SPTQ) quantum logic to implement the most powerful individual-photon attack against the Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) quantum key distribution protocol. Our measurement results, including physical source and gate errors, are in good agreement with theoretical predictions for the Renyi information obtained by Eve as a function of the errors she imparts to Alice and Bob's sifted key bits. The current experiment is a physical simulation of a true attack, because Eve has access to Bob's physical receiver module. This experiment illustrates the utility of an efficient deterministic quantum logic for performing realistic physical simulations of quantum information processing functions.

id: quant-ph/0611236
title: First measurements of the index of refraction of gases for lithium atomic waves
authors: Marion Jacquey, Matthias B¨¹chner, G¨¦rard Tr¨¦nec, Jacques Vigu¨¦
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611236
abstract: We report here the first measurements of the index of refraction of gases for lithium waves. Using an atom interferometer, we have measured the real and imaginary part of the index of refraction $n$ for argon, krypton and xenon, as a function of the gas density for several velocities of the lithium beam. The linear dependence of $(n-1)$ with the gas density is well verified. The total collision cross-section deduced from the imaginary part is in very good agreement with traditional measurements of this quantity. Finally, as predicted by theory, the real and imaginary parts of $(n-1)$ and their ratio $\rho$ exhibit glory oscillations.

id: quant-ph/0611237
title: Entanglement without nonlocality
authors: Clare Hewitt-Horsman, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 9 pages. Expanded introduction and sections on physical entanglement and locality
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 062319 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611237
abstract: We consider the characterization of entanglement from the perspective of a Heisenberg formalism. We derive an original two-party generalized separability criteria, and from this describe a novel physical understanding of entanglement. We find that entanglement may be considered as fundamentally a local effect, and therefore as a separable computational resource from nonlocality. We show how entanglement differs from correlation physically, and explore the implications of this new conception of entanglement for the notion of classicality. We find that this understanding of entanglement extends naturally to multipartite cases.

id: quant-ph/0611238
title: Analytical solutions for two-level systems with damping
authors: Christian Brouder
comments: 4 pages
journal: Journal of Physics Condensed Matter 40, 31 (2007) 9455
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611238
abstract: A method is proposed to transform any analytic solution of the Bloch equation into an analytic solution of the Landau-Lifshitz-Gilbert equation. This allows for the analytical description of the dynamics of a two level system with damping. This method shows that damping turns the linear Schr\"{o}dinger equation of a two-level system into a nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger equation. As applications, it is shown that damping has a relatively mild influence on self-induced transparency but destroys dynamical localization.

id: quant-ph/0611239
title: Path integrals and wavepacket evolution for damped mechanical systems
authors: Dharmesh Jain, A. Das, Sayan Kar
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: AJP 75 (2007) 259
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611239
abstract: Damped mechanical systems with various forms of damping are quantized using the path integral formalism. In particular, we obtain the path integral kernel for the linearly damped harmonic oscillator and a particle in a uniform gravitational field with linearly or quadratically damped motion. In each case, we study the evolution of Gaussian wavepackets and discuss the characteristic features that help us distinguish between different types of damping. For quadratic damping, we show that the action and equation of motion of such a system has a connection with the zero dimensional version of a currently popular scalar field theory. Furthermore we demonstrate that the equation of motion (for quadratic damping) can be identified as a geodesic equation in a fictitious two-dimensional space.

id: quant-ph/0611240
title: Ultracold atoms in radio-frequency-dressed potentials beyond the rotating wave approximation
authors: S. Hofferberth, B. Fischer, T. Schumm, J. Schmiedmayer, I. Lesanovsky
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 013401 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611240
abstract: We study dressed Bose-Einstein condensates in an atom chip radio-frequency trap. We show that in this system sufficiently strong dressing can be achieved to cause the widely used rotating wave approximation (RWA) to break down. We present a full calculation of the atom - field coupling which shows that the non-RWA contributions quantitatively alter the shape of the emerging dressed adiabatic potentials. The non-RWA contributions furthermore lead to additional allowed transitions between dressed levels. We use RF spectroscopy of Bose-Einstein condensates trapped in the dressed state potentials to directly observe the transition from the RWA to the beyond-RWA regime.

id: quant-ph/0611241
title: Efficient classical simulation of the approximate quantum Fourier transform
authors: Nadav Yoran, Anthony J. Short
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042321 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611241
abstract: We present a method for classically simulating quantum circuits based on the tensor contraction model of Markov and Shi (quant-ph/0511069). Using this method we are able to classically simulate the approximate quantum Fourier transform in polynomial time. Moreover, our approach allows us to formulate a condition for the composability of simulable quantum circuits. We use this condition to show that any circuit composed of a constant number of approximate quantum Fourier transform circuits and log-depth circuits with limited interaction range can also be efficiently simulated.

id: quant-ph/0611242
title: Decoherence induced by interacting quantum spin baths
authors: Davide Rossini, Tommaso Calarco, Vittorio Giovannetti, Simone Montangero, Rosario Fazio
comments: 18 pages, 20 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032333 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611242
abstract: We study decoherence induced on a two-level system coupled to a one-dimensional quantum spin chain. We consider the cases where the dynamics of the chain is determined by the Ising, XY, or Heisenberg exchange Hamiltonian. This model of quantum baths can be of fundamental importance for the understanding of decoherence in open quantum systems, since it can be experimentally engineered by using atoms in optical lattices. As an example, here we show how to implement a pure dephasing model for a qubit system coupled to an interacting spin bath. We provide results that go beyond the case of a central spin coupled uniformly to all the spins of the bath, in particular showing what happens when the bath enters different phases, or becomes critical; we also study the dependence of the coherence loss on the number of bath spins to which the system is coupled and we describe a coupling-independent regime in which decoherence exhibits universal features, irrespective of the system-environment coupling strength. Finally, we establish a relation between decoherence and entanglement inside the bath. For the Ising and the XY models we are able to give an exact expression for the decay of coherences, while for the Heisenberg bath we resort to the numerical time-dependent Density Matrix Renormalization Group.

id: quant-ph/0611243
title: Generalized Lifshitz formula for a cylindrical plasma sheet in front of a plane beyond proximity force approximation
authors: M.Bordag
comments: 35 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D75:065003,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611243
abstract: We calculate the first correction beyond proximity force approximation for a cylindrical graphene sheet in interaction with a flat graphene sheet or a dielectric half space.

id: quant-ph/0611244
title: Diluted maximum-likelihood algorithm for quantum tomography
authors: Jaroslav Rehacek, Zdenek Hradil, E. Knill, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: v2: Convergence proof added
journal: Physical Review A 75, 042108 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611244
abstract: We propose a refined iterative likelihood-maximization algorithm for reconstructing a quantum state from a set of tomographic measurements. The algorithm is characterized by a very high convergence rate and features a simple adaptive procedure that ensures likelihood increase in every iteration and convergence to the maximum-likelihood state. We apply the algorithm to homodyne tomography of optical states and quantum tomography of entangled spin states of trapped ions and investigate its convergence properties.

id: quant-ph/0611245
title: What About Quantum Theory? Bayes and the Born Interpretation
authors: Frank J. Tipler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611245
abstract: I show that probabilities in quantum mechanics are a measure of belief in the presence of human ignorance, just like all other probabilities. The Born interpretation of the square of modulus of the wave function arises from the interaction of a quantum system with an observer, and probabilities will not arise unless the observer is unable to access all the information available in the system's wave function. Quantum mechanics generally does not permit all the information to be obtained, even in principle, just as in relativity information from outside the past light cone cannot be obtained. But probabilities do not imply indeterminism. Instead, quantum mechanics is more deterministic than classical mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0611246
title: Universal Quantum Computation in a Neutral Atom Decoherence Free Subspace
authors: E. Brion, L. H. Pedersen, K. Molmer, S. Chutia, M. Saffman
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032328 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611246
abstract: In this paper, we propose a way to achieve protected universal computation in a neutral atom quantum computer subject to collective dephasing. Our proposal relies on the existence of a Decoherence Free Subspace (DFS), resulting from symmetry properties of the errors. After briefly describing the physical system and the error model considered, we show how to encode information into the DFS and build a complete set of safe universal gates. Finally, we provide numerical simulations for the fidelity of the different gates in the presence of time-dependent phase errors and discuss their performance and practical feasibility.

id: quant-ph/0611247
title: One-step preparation of cluster states in quantum dot molecules
authors: Guo-Ping Guo, Hui Zhang, Tao Tu, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 050301(R) 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611247
abstract: Cluster states, a special type of highly entangled states, are a universal resource for measurement-based quantum computation. Here, we propose an efficient one-step generation scheme for cluster states in semiconductor quantum dot molecules, where qubits are encoded on singlet and triplet state of two coupled quantum dots. By applying a collective electrical field or simultaneously adjusting interdot bias voltages of all double-dot molecule, we get a switchable Ising-like interaction between any two adjacent quantum molecule qubits. The initialization, the single qubit measurement, and the experimental parameters are discussed, which shows the large cluster state preparation and one-way quantum computation implementable in semiconductor quantum dots with the present techniques.

id: quant-ph/0611248
title: Entanglement, avoided crossings and quantum chaos in an Ising model with a tilted magnetic field
authors: J. Karthik, Auditya Sharma, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: Corrections in two figure captions and one new reference. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022304 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611248
abstract: We study a one-dimensional Ising model with a magnetic field and show that tilting the field induces a transition to quantum chaos. We explore the stationary states of this Hamiltonian to show the intimate connection between entanglement and avoided crossings. In general entanglement gets exchanged between the states undergoing an avoided crossing with an overall enhancement of multipartite entanglement at the closest point of approach, simultaneously accompanied by diminishing two-body entanglement as measured by concurrence. We find that both for stationary as well as nonstationary states, nonintegrability leads to a destruction of two-body correlations and distributes entanglement more globally.

id: quant-ph/0611249
title: High fidelity transfer of an arbitrary quantum state between harmonic oscillators
authors: K. Jahne, B. Yurke, U. Gavish
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 010301(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611249
abstract: It is shown that by switching a specific time-dependent interaction between a harmonic oscillator and a transmission line (a waveguide, an optical fiber, etc.) the quantum state of the oscillator can be transferred into that of another oscillator coupled to the distant other end of the line, with a fidelity that is independent of the initial state of both oscillators. For a transfer time $T$, the fidelity approaches 1 exponentially in $\gamma T$ where $\gamma$ is a characteristic damping rate. Hence, a good fidelity is achieved even for a transfer time of a few damping times. Some implementations are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0611250
title: What is "system": the information-theoretic arguments
authors: M. Dugic, J. Jeknic-Dugic
comments: 13 pages, no figures
journal: Int J Theor Phys (2008) 47: 805-813
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611250
abstract: The problem of "what is 'system'?" is in the very foundations of modern quantum mechanics. Here, we point out the interest in this topic in the information-theoretic context. E.g., we point out the possibility to manipulate a pair of mutually non-interacting, non-entangled systems to employ entanglement of the newly defined '(sub)systems' consisting the one and the same composite system. Given the different divisions of a composite system into "subsystems", the Hamiltonian of the system may perform in general non-equivalent quantum computations. Redefinition of "subsystems" of a composite system may be regarded as a method for avoiding decoherence in the quantum hardware. In principle, all the notions refer to a composite system as simple as the hydrogen atom.

id: quant-ph/0611251
title: A Nano-Quantum Photonic Model for Justification of Dispersion in Single Crystal Film of NPP
authors: Hassan Kaatuzian, AliAkbar Wahedy Zarch
comments: 15 pages must be reduced to 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611251
abstract: In this paper, we present a nano-quantum photonic model for justification of normal dispersion in a thin crystal film of NPP. In this method, we assume a laser beam consists of a flow of energetic particles. By precise analyzing of photon interaction with pi-electron system of benzene ring in NPP crystal, we will attain refractive index (RI) in any wavelength and compare the results with experimental data.

id: quant-ph/0611252
title: Local control of remote entanglement
authors: Peter Stelmachovic, Marian Rosko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611252
abstract: We address the problem of the generation of entanglement. We focus on the control of entanglement shared by two non-interacting parties $A$ and $C$ via interaction with a third party $B$. We show that, for certain physical models, it is possible to have an asymptotically complete control of the entanglement shared by $A$ and $C$ by changing parameters of the Hamiltonian local at site $B$. We present an example where different models (propositions) of physical situation, that lead to different descriptions of the system $B$, result into different amount entanglement produced. In the end we discuss limits of the procedure.

id: quant-ph/0611253
title: Bounds on action of local quantum channels
authors: Peter Stelmachovic, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) p. 6051- 6064
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611253
abstract: We derive an upper bound on the action of a direct product of two quantum maps (channels) acting on multi-partite quantum states. We assume that the individual channels $\Lambda_j$ affect single-particle states so, that for an arbitrary input $\rho_j$, the distance $D_j (\Lambda_j [ \rho_j ], \rho_j)$ between the input $\rho_j$ and the output $\Lambda_j [ \rho_j ]$ of the channel is less than $\epsilon$. Given this assumption we show that for an arbitrary {\em separable} two-partite state $\rho_{12}$ the distance between the input $\rho_{12}$ and the output $\Lambda_1\otimes\Lambda_2[\rho_{12} ]$ fulfills the bound $D_{12} (\Lambda_1 \otimes \Lambda_2 [ \rho_{12} ], \rho_{12}) \leq \sqrt{2+ 2 \sqrt{(1-1/d_1)(1-1/d_2)}} \epsilon$ where $d_1$ and $d_2$ are dimensions of first and second quantum system respectively. On the contrary, entangled states are transformed in such a way, that the bound on the action of the local channels is $D_{12} (\Lambda_1 \otimes \Lambda_2 [ \rho_{12} ], \rho_{12}) \leq 2 \sqrt{2 - 1/d} \: \epsilon$, where $d$ is the dimension of the smaller of the two quantum systems passing through the channels. Our results show that the fundamental distinction between the set of separable and the set of entangled states results into two different bounds which in turn can be exploited for a discrimination between the two sets of states. We generalize our results to multi-partite channels.

id: quant-ph/0611254
title: Laser-noise-induced correlations and anti-correlations in Electromagnetically Induced Transparency
authors: L. S. Cruz, D. Felinto, J. G. Aguirre G¨®mez, M. Martinelli\inst{1}, P. Valente, A. Lezama, P. Nussenzveig
comments: Accepted for publication in EPJ D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611254
abstract: High degrees of intensity correlation between two independent lasers were observed after propagation through a rubidium vapor cell in which they generate Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT). As the optical field intensities are increased, the correlation changes sign (becoming anti-correlation). The experiment was performed in a room temperature rubidium cell, using two diode lasers tuned to the $^{85}$Rb $D_2$ line ($\lambda = 780$nm). The cross-correlation spectral function for the pump and probe fields is numerically obtained by modeling the temporal dynamics of both field phases as diffusing processes. We explored the dependence of the atomic response on the atom-field Rabi frequencies, optical detuning and Doppler width. The results show that resonant phase-noise to amplitude-noise conversion is at the origin of the observed signal and the change in sign for the correlation coefficient can be explained as a consequence of the competition between EIT and Raman resonance processes.

id: quant-ph/0611255
title: Resonance phenomena in Macroscopic Quantum Tunneling: the small viscosity limit
authors: Yu.N.Ovchinnikov, S.Rombetto, B.Ruggiero, V.Corato, P.Silvestrini
comments: 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611255
abstract: We present a new theoretical approach to describe the quantum behavior of a macroscopic system interacting with an external irradiation field, close to the resonant condition. Here we consider the extremely underdamped regime for a system described by a double well potential. The theory includes both: transitions from one well to the other and relaxation processes. We simulate resonant phenomena in a rf-SQUID, whose parameters lie in the range typically used in the experiments. The dependence of the transition probability W on the external drive of the system $\phi_x$ shows three resonance peaks. One peak is connected with the resonant tunneling and the two others with the resonant pumping. The relative position of the two peaks correlated to the resonant pumping depends on the pumping frequency $\nu$ and on the system parameters. The preliminary measurements on our devices show a low dissipation level and assure that they are good candidates in order to realize new experiments on the resonant phenomena in the presence of an external microwave irradiation of proper frequency.

id: quant-ph/0611256
title: Manipulating Multi-qudit Entanglement Witnesses by Using Linear Programming
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, G. Najarbashi, H. Habibian
comments: 29 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611256
abstract: A new class of entanglement witnesses (EWs) called reduction type entanglement witnesses is introduced, which can detect some multi-qudit entangeled states including PPT ones with Hilbert space of dimension $d_{_{1}}\otimes d_{_{2}}\otimes...\otimes d_{_{n}}$. The novelty of this work comes from the fact that the feasible regions turn out to be convex polygons, hence the manipulation of these EWs reduces to linear programming which can be solved \emph{exactly} by using simplex method. The decomposability and non-decomposability of these EWs are studied and it is shown that it has a close connection with eigenvalues and optimality of EWs. Also using the Jamio\l kowski isomorphism, the corresponding possible positive maps, including the generalized reduction maps of Ref. \cite{Hall1}, are obtained.

id: quant-ph/0611257
title: Relation between phase space coverage and entanglement for spin-1/2 systems
authors: Stefan Schenk, Gert-Ludwig Ingold
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX format
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022328 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611257
abstract: For systems of two and three spins 1/2 it is known that the second moment of the Husimi function can be related to entanglement properties of the corresponding states. Here, we generalize this relation to an arbitrary number of spins in a pure state. It is shown that the second moment of the Husimi function can be expressed in terms of the lengths of the concurrence vectors for all possible partitions of the N-spin system in two subsystems. This relation implies that the phase space distribution of an entangled state is less localized than that of a non-entangled state. As an example, the second moment of the Husimi function is analyzed for an Ising chain subject to a magnetic field perpendicular to the chain axis.

id: quant-ph/0611258
title: Generando entrelazamiento en cadenas XY - (Generating entanglement in XY chains)
authors: C. T. Schmiegelow
comments: 68 pages, Language: Spanish, Undergraduate Thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611258
abstract: Se estudia en este trabajo la capacidad de generar entrelazamiento de una cadena de espines con acoplamiento de Heisenberg XY y un campo magnetico uniforme a partir de un estado inicial en el que los espines estan completamente alineados. Se encuentra que la capacidad de generar estados entrelazados no muestra un comportamiento monotono con el campo presentando, en cambio, plateaus y resonancias. Tambien se muestra que, a pesar de que la anisotropia es necesaria para que se generen estados entrelazados, una mayor anisotropia no implica necesariamente mejores condiciones para generar entrelazamiento que sirva para usarse en una computadora cuantica. Inclusive, se observa que, se genera una cantidad finita de entrelazamiento en el limite de pequena anisotropia. (The maximum entanglement reached by an initially fully aligned state evolving in a XY Heisenberg spin chain placed in a uniform transverse magnetic field is studied. It is shown that the capacity to create entangled states (both of one qubit with the rest of the chain and pairwise between two adjacent qubits) is not a monotonous function of the magnetic field: it presents plateaus and resonances. It is also shown that, though anisotropy in the interaction is necessary for entanglement generation, the best conditions for generating entanglement that may be suitable for use in quantum computation is not that of biggest anisotropy. Moreover finite amounts of entanglement are generated in the small anisotropy limit.)

id: quant-ph/0611259
title: Chameleon effect, the range of values hypothesis and reproducing the EPR-Bohm correlations
authors: Luigi Accardi, Andrei Khrennikov
comments: To be published in Proceedings of International Conference Foudations of Probability and Physics-4, June 2006, Vaxjo, Sweden
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. -- February 21, 2007 -- Volume 889, pp. 21-29 FOUNDATIONS OF PROBABILITY AND PHYSICS - 4, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611259
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of assumptions that J. Bell used to show that local realism contradicts QM. We find that Bell's viewpoint on realism is nonphysical, because it implicitly assume that observed physical variables coincides with ontic variables (i.e., these variables before measurement). The real physical process of measurement is a process of dynamical interaction between a system and a measurement device. Therefore one should check the adequacy of QM not to ``Bell's realism,'' but to adaptive realism (chameleon realism). Dropping Bell's assumption we are able to construct a natural representation of the EPR-Bohm correlations in the local (adaptive) realistic approach.

id: quant-ph/0611260
title: Symmetric Informationally Complete Measurements of Arbitrary Rank
authors: D.M. Appleby
comments: Contribution to proceedings of International Conference on Quantum Optics, Minsk, 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611260
abstract: There has been much interest in so-called SIC-POVMs: rank 1 symmetric informationally complete positive operator valued measures. In this paper we discuss the larger class of POVMs which are symmetric and informationally complete but not necessarily rank 1. This class of POVMs is of some independent interest. In particular it includes a POVM which is closely related to the discrete Wigner function. However, it is interesting mainly because of the light it casts on the problem of constructing rank 1 symmetric informationally complete POVMs. In this connection we derive an extremal condition alternative to the one derived by Renes et al.

id: quant-ph/0611261
title: Concerning Dice and Divinity
authors: D.M.Appleby
comments: Contribution to proceedings of Foundations of Probability and Physics, Vaxjo, 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611261
abstract: Einstein initially objected to the probabilistic aspect of quantum mechanics - the idea that God is playing at dice. Later he changed his ground, and focussed instead on the point that the Copenhagen Interpretation leads to what Einstein saw as the abandonment of physical realism. We argue here that Einstein's initial intuition was perfectly sound, and that it is precisely the fact that quantum mechanics is a fundamentally probabilistic theory which is at the root of all the controversies regarding its interpretation. Probability is an intrinsically logical concept. This means that the quantum state has an essentially logical significance. It is extremely difficult to reconcile that fact with Einstein's belief, that it is the task of physics to give us a vision of the world apprehended sub specie aeternitatis. Quantum mechanics thus presents us with a simple choice: either to follow Einstein in looking for a theory which is not probabilistic at the fundamental level, or else to accept that physics does not in fact put us in the position of God looking down on things from above. There is a widespread fear that the latter alternative must inevitably lead to a greatly impoverished, positivistic view of physical theory. It appears to us, however, that the truth is just the opposite. The Einsteinian vision is much less attractive than it seems at first sight. In particular, it is closely connected with philosophical reductionism.

id: quant-ph/0611262
title: Reversible and irreversible dynamics of a qubit interacting with a small environment
authors: Giuliano Benenti, G. Massimo Palma
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052110 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611262
abstract: We analyze the dynamics of a system qubit interacting by means a sequence of pairwise collisions with an environment consisting of just two qubits. We show that the density operator of the qubits approaches a common time averaged equilibrium state, characterized by large fluctuations, only for a random sequence of collisions. For a regular sequence of collisions the qubitstates of the system and of the reservoir undergo instantaneous periodic oscillations and do not relax to a common state. Furthermore we show that pure bipartite entanglement is developed only when at least two qubits are initially in the same purestate while otherwise also genuine multipartite entanglement builds up.

id: quant-ph/0611263
title: An environment-mediated quantum deleter
authors: R. Srikanth, Subhashish Banerjee
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 397, 295 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611263
abstract: Environment-induced decoherence presents a great challenge to realizing a quantum computer. We point out the somewhat surprising fact that decoherence can be useful, indeed necessary, for practical quantum computation, in particular, for the effective erasure of quantum memory in order to initialize the state of the quantum computer. The essential point behind the deleter is that the environment, by means of a dissipative interaction, furnishes a contractive map towards a pure state. We present a specific example of an amplitude damping channel provided by a two-level system's interaction with its environment in the weak Born-Markov approximation. This is contrasted with a purely dephasing, non-dissipative channel provided by a two-level system's interaction with its environment by means of a quantum nondemolition interaction. We point out that currently used state preparation techniques, for example using optical pumping, essentially perform as quantum deleters.

id: quant-ph/0611264
title: Statistics dependence of the entanglement entropy
authors: M. Cramer, J. Eisert, M.B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure (essentially identical with published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 220603 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611264
abstract: The entanglement entropy of a distinguished region of a quantum many-body system reflects the entanglement present in its pure ground state. In this work, we establish scaling laws for this entanglement for critical quasi-free fermionic and bosonic lattice systems, without resorting to numerical means. We consider the geometrical setting of D-dimensional half-spaces which allows us to exploit a connection to the one-dimensional case. Intriguingly, we find a difference in the scaling properties depending on whether the system is bosonic - where an area-law is first proven to hold - or fermionic, extending previous findings for cubic regions. For bosonic systems with nearest neighbor interaction we prove the conjectured area-law by computing the logarithmic negativity analytically. We identify a length scale associated with entanglement, different from the correlation length. For fermions we determine the logarithmic correction to the area-law, which depends on the topology of the Fermi surface. We find that Lifshitz quantum phase transitions are accompanied with a non-analyticity in the prefactor of the leading order term.

id: quant-ph/0611265
title: Quantum Optical Random Walk: Quantization Rules and Quantum Simulation of Asymptotics
authors: Demosthenes Ellinas, Ioannis Smyrnakis
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611265
abstract: Rules for quantizing the walker+coin parts of a classical random walk are provided by treating them as interacting quantum systems. A quantum optical random walk (QORW), is introduced by means of a new rule that treats quantum or classical noise affecting the coin's state, as sources of quantization. The long term asymptotic statistics of QORW walker's position that shows enhanced diffusion rates as compared to classical case, is exactly solved. A quantum optical cavity implementation of the walk provides the framework for quantum simulation of its asymptotic statistics. The simulation utilizes interacting two-level atoms and/or laser randomly pulsating fields with fluctuating parameters.

id: quant-ph/0611266
title: Entanglement evolution for excitons of two separate quantum dots in a cavity driven by magnetic field
authors: Jun Jing, Z. G. L¨¹, H. R. Ma
comments: 12 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611266
abstract: The time evolution of entanglement for excitons in two quantum dots embedded in a single mode cavity is studied in a ``spin-boson'' regime. It is found that although with the dissipation from the boson mode, the excitons in the two quantum dots can be entangled by only modulating their energy bias $\epsilon$ under the influence of external driving magnetic field. Initially, the two excitons are prepared in a pure separate state. When the time-dependent magnetic field is switched on, a highly entangled state is produced and maintained even in a very long time interval. The mechanism may be used to control the quantum devices in practical applications.

id: quant-ph/0611267
title: Suppression of decoherence by bath ordering
authors: Jun Jing, H.R. Ma
comments: 32 pages, Chinese Physics (accepted)
journal: Chinese Physics 2007/16(06)/1489-16
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611267
abstract: The dynamics of two coupled spins-1/2 coupled to a spin-bath is studied as an extended model of the Tessieri-Wilkie Hamiltonian \cite{TWmodel}. The pair of spins served as an open subsystem were prepared in one of the Bell states and the bath consisted of some spins-1/2 is in a thermal equilibrium state from the very beginning. It is found that with the increasing the coupling strength of the bath spins, the bath forms a resonant antiferromagnetic order. The polarization correlation between the two spins of the subsystem and the concurrence are recovered in some extent to the isolated subsystem. This suppression of the subsystem decoherence may be used to control the quantum devices in practical applications.

id: quant-ph/0611268
title: Single photon state generation from a continuous-wave non-degenerate optical parametric oscillator
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 023806 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611268
abstract: We present a theoretical treatment of conditional preparation of one-photon states from a continuous-wave non-degenerate optical parametric oscillator. We obtain an analytical expression for the output state Wigner function, and we maximize the one-photon state fidelity by varying the temporal mode function of the output state. We show that a higher production rate of high fidelity Fock states is obtained if we condition the outcome on dark intervals around trigger photo detection events.

id: quant-ph/0611269
title: Polynomial scheme for time evolution of open and closed quantum systems
authors: Jun Jing, H.R. Ma
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures, Phys.Rev.E (accepted)
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW E 75, 016701 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611269
abstract: Based on the generation function of Laguerre polynomials, We proposed a new Laguerre polynomial expansion scheme in the calculation of evolution of time dependent Schr\"odinger equation. Theoretical analysis and numerical test show that the method is equally as good as Chebyshev polynomial expansion method in efficiency and accuracy, with extra merits that no scaling to Hamiltonian is needed and wider suitability.

id: quant-ph/0611270
title: Level crossing and quantum phase transition of the XY model
authors: Jun Jing, H.R. Ma
comments: 16 pages, 22 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611270
abstract: The ground state of a one-dimensional spin-1/2 chain with periodical boundary condition in the Heisenberg XY model is investigated. We consider the spatial correlation and concurrence between any nearest-neighbor pair of spins under the conditions of different coupling strength, anisotropic parameter and magnitude of a transverse field. Quantum phase transitions due to the competition between coupling and alignment which cause the abrupt changes of the correlation and concurrence are observed. The transition are direct results of the level crossing.

id: quant-ph/0611271
title: Entanglement entropy and the simulation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Jose I. Latorre
comments: 9 pages. Contribution to the Proceedings of the IRGAC conference held at Barcelona, July 2006
journal: J.Phys.A40:6689-6697,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611271
abstract: The relation between entanglement entropy and the computational difficulty of classically simulating Quantum Mechanics is briefly reviewed. Matrix product states are proven to provide an efficient representation of one-dimensional quantum systems. Further applications of the techniques based on matrix product states, some of their spin-off and their recent generalizations to scale invariant theories and higher dimensions systems are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0611272
title: Improving information/disturbance and estimation/distortion trade-offs with non universal protocols
authors: Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures; published version
journal: J. Phys. A 40, 7945 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611272
abstract: We analyze in details a conditional measurement scheme based on linear optical components, feed-forward loop and homodyne detection. The scheme may be used to achieve two different tasks. On the one hand it allows the extraction of information with minimum disturbance about a set of coherent states. On the other hand, it represents a nondemolitive measurement scheme for the annihilation operator, i.e. an indirect measurement of the Q-function. We investigate the information/disturbance trade-off for state inference and introduce the estimation/distortion trade-off to assess estimation of the Q-function. For coherent states chosen from a Gaussian set we evaluate both information/disturbance and estimation/distortion trade-offs and found that non universal protocols may be optimized in order to achieve better performances than universal ones. For Fock number states we prove that universal protocols do not exist and evaluate the estimation/distortion trade-off for a thermal distribution.

id: quant-ph/0611273
title: A direct approach to fault-tolerance in measurement-based quantum computation via teleportation
authors: Marcus Silva, Vincent Danos, Elham Kashefi, Harold Ollivier
comments: (v1) 5 pages, 2 figures (v2) Changed style file, 10 pages, 2 figures. New title. Added references to work by Fujii and Yamamoto (quant-ph/0611160), as well as prior work by R. Raussendorf and collaborators on topological codes. Minor revisions throughout. Submitted version
journal: New J. Phys. 9 192 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611273
abstract: We discuss a simple variant of the one-way quantum computing model [R. Raussendorf and H.-J. Briegel, PRL 86, 5188, 2001], called the Pauli measurement model, where measurements are restricted to be along the eigenbases of the Pauli X and Y operators, while auxiliary qubits can be prepared both in the $\ket{+_{\pi\over 4}}:={1/\sqrt{2}}(\ket{0}+e^{i{\pi\over 4}}\ket{1})$ state, and the usual $\ket{+}:={1/ \sqrt{2}}(\ket{0}+\ket{1})$ state. We prove the universality of this quantum computation model, and establish a standardization procedure which permits all entanglement and state preparation to be performed at the beginning of computation. This leads us to develop a direct approach to fault-tolerance by simple transformations of the entanglement graph and preparation operations, while error correction is performed naturally via syndrome-extracting teleportations.

id: quant-ph/0611274
title: Quantum Brownian motion for periodic coupling to an Ohmic bath
authors: J. Piilo, S. Maniscalco, K.-A. Suominen
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. V2: Minor modifications according to the referee's suggestions and title modified
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032105 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611274
abstract: We show theoretically how the periodic coupling between an engineered reservoir and a quantum Brownian particle leads to the formation of a dynamical steady state which is characterized by an effective temperature above the temperature of the environment. The average steady state energy of the system has a higher value than expected from the environmental properties. The system experiences repeatedly a non-Markovian behavior -- as a consequence the corresponding effective decay for long evolution times is always on average stronger than the Markovian one. We also highlight the consequences of the scheme to the Zeno--anti-Zeno crossover which depends, in addition to the periodicity $\tau$, also on the total evolution time of the system.

id: quant-ph/0611275
title: Quantum Thermodynamic Cycles and quantum heat engines
authors: H.T. Quan, Yu-xi Liu, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures, 4 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. E 76. 031105 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611275
abstract: In order to describe quantum heat engines, here we systematically study isothermal and isochoric processes for quantum thermodynamic cycles. Based on these results the quantum versions of both the Carnot heat engine and the Otto heat engine are defined without ambiguities. We also study the properties of quantum Carnot and Otto heat engines in comparison with their classical counterparts. Relations and mappings between these two quantum heat engines are also investigated by considering their respective quantum thermodynamic processes. In addition, we discuss the role of Maxwell's demon in quantum thermodynamic cycles. We find that there is no violation of the second law, even in the existence of such a demon, when the demon is included correctly as part of the working substance of the heat engine.

id: quant-ph/0611276
title: Efficient Dynamic Nuclear Polarization at High Magnetic Fields
authors: Gavin W. Morley, Johan van Tol, Arzhang Ardavan, Kyriakos Porfyrakis, Jinying Zhang, G. Andrew D. Briggs
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.98:220501,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611276
abstract: By applying a new technique for dynamic nuclear polarization involving simultaneous excitation of electronic and nuclear transitions, we have enhanced the nuclear polarization of the nitrogen nuclei in 15N@C60 by a factor of 1000 at a fixed temperature of 3 K and a magnetic field of 8.6 T, more than twice the maximum enhancement reported to date. This methodology will allow the initialization of the nuclear qubit in schemes exploiting N@C60 molecules as components of a quantum information processing device.

id: quant-ph/0611277
title: Efficiency in Quantum Key Distribution Protocols with Entangled Gaussian States
authors: C. Rod¨®, O. Romero-Isart, K. Eckert, A. Sanpera
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures, OSID style, published version
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 14, 69 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611277
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) refers to specific quantum strategies which permit the secure distribution of a secret key between two parties that wish to communicate secretly. Quantum cryptography has proven unconditionally secure in ideal scenarios and has been successfully implemented using quantum states with finite (discrete) as well as infinite (continuous) degrees of freedom. Here, we analyze the efficiency of QKD protocols that use as a resource entangled gaussian states and gaussian operations only. In this framework, it has already been shown that QKD is possible (M. Navascu\'es et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 010502 (2005)) but the issue of its efficiency has not been considered. We propose a figure of merit (the efficiency $E$) to quantify the number of classical correlated bits that can be used to distill a key from a sample of $N$ entangled states. We relate the efficiency of the protocol to the entanglement and purity of the states shared between the parties.

id: quant-ph/0611278
title: Constructing Operator Valued Probability Measures in Phase Space
authors: Demosthenes Ellinas
comments: 6pages, no figures, to appear in Proceedings of Foundations of Probability and Physics, held at Vaxjo University, Sweden, June 4-9, 2006. Published by the American Institute of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611278
abstract: Probability measures (quasi probability mass), given in the form of integrals of Wigner function over areas of the underlying phase space, give rise to operator valued probability measures (OVM). General construction methods of OVMs, are investigated in terms of geometric positive trace increasing maps (PTI), for general 1D domains, as well as 2D shapes e.g. circles, disks. Spectral properties of OVMs and operational implementations of their constructing PITs are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0611279
title: Cartoon Computation: Quantum-like computing without quantum mechanics
authors: Diederik Aerts, Marek Czachor
comments: version accepted in J. Phys.A (Letter to the Editor)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) F259-F266
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611279
abstract: We present a computational framework based on geometric structures. No quantum mechanics is involved, and yet the algorithms perform tasks analogous to quantum computation. Tensor products and entangled states are not needed -- they are replaced by sets of basic shapes. To test the formalism we solve in geometric terms the Deutsch-Jozsa problem, historically the first example that demonstrated the potential power of quantum computation. Each step of the algorithm has a clear geometric interpetation and allows for a cartoon representation.

id: quant-ph/0611280
title: Complex magnetic monopoles and geometric phases around diabolic and exceptional points
authors: A. I. Nesterov, F. Aceves de la Cruz
comments: REVTeX 4, 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611280
abstract: We study the geometric phase (GP)in presence of diabolic (DP) and exceptional (EP) points. While the GP associated with the DP is the flux of the Dirac monopole, the GP related to the EP, being complex one, is described by the flux of complex magnetic monopole. For open systems, in week-coupling limit, the leading environment-induced contribution to the real part of complex GP is given by a quadrupole term, and to its imaginary part by a dipolelike field. We find that the GP has a finite gap at the DP and infinite one at the EP.

id: quant-ph/0611281
title: Decoherence Control in Open Quantum System via Classical Feedback
authors: Narayan Ganesan, Tzyh Jong Tarn
comments: 17 pages, 4 Figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611281
abstract: In this work we propose a novel strategy using techniques from systems theory to completely eliminate decoherence and also provide conditions under which it can be done so. A novel construction employing an auxiliary system, the bait, which is instrumental to decoupling the system from the environment is presented. Our approach to decoherence control in contrast to other approaches in the literature involves the bilinear input affine model of quantum control system which lends itself to various techniques from classical control theory, but with non-trivial modifications to the quantum regime. The elegance of this approach yields interesting results on open loop decouplability and Decoherence Free Subspaces(DFS). Additionally, the feedback control of decoherence may be related to disturbance decoupling for classical input affine systems, which entails careful application of the methods by avoiding all the quantum mechanical pitfalls. In the process of calculating a suitable feedback the system has to be restructured due to its tensorial nature of interaction with the environment, which is unique to quantum systems. The results are qualitatively different and superior to the ones obtained via master equations. Finally, a methodology to synthesize feedback parameters itself is given, that technology permitting, could be implemented for practical 2-qubit systems to perform decoherence free Quantum Computing.

id: quant-ph/0611282
title: Covariance matrices and the separability problem
authors: O. G¨¹hne, P. Hyllus, O. Gittsovich, J. Eisert
comments: 4 pages, no figures; v3: final version to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 130504 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611282
abstract: We propose a unifying approach to the separability problem using covariance matrices of locally measurable observables. From a practical point of view, our approach leads to strong entanglement criteria that allow to detect the entanglement of many bound entangled states in higher dimensions and which are at the same time necessary and sufficient for two qubits. From a fundamental perspective, our approach leads to insights into the relations between several known entanglement criteria -- such as the computable cross norm and local uncertainty criteria -- as well as their limitations.

id: quant-ph/0611283
title: Comment on "The Free Will Theorem"
authors: Roderich Tumulka
comments: 10 pages LaTeX, no figures; v2 minor improvements
journal: Found. Phys. 37 (2007) 186-197
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611283
abstract: In a recent paper [quant-ph/0604079], Conway and Kochen claim to have established that theories of the GRW type, i.e., of spontaneous wave function collapse, cannot be made relativistic. On the other hand, relativistic GRW-type theories have already been presented, in my recent paper [quant-ph/0406094] and by Dowker and Henson [J. Statist. Phys. 115: 1327 (2004), quant-ph/0209051]. Here, I elucidate why these are not excluded by the arguments of Conway and Kochen.

id: quant-ph/0611284
title: Finding flows in the one-way measurement model
authors: Niel de Beaudrap
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures: somewhat condensed and updated version, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022328 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611284
abstract: The one-way measurement model is a framework for universal quantum computation, in which algorithms are partially described by a graph G of entanglement relations on a collection of qubits. A sufficient condition for an algorithm to perform a unitary embedding between two Hilbert spaces is for the graph G, together with input/output vertices I, O \subset V(G), to have a flow in the sense introduced by Danos and Kashefi [quant-ph/0506062]. For the special case of |I| = |O|, using a graph-theoretic characterization, I show that such flows are unique when they exist. This leads to an efficient algorithm for finding flows, by a reduction to solved problems in graph theory.

id: quant-ph/0611285
title: Distribution of bipartite entanglement for random pure states
authors: Olivier Giraud
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611285
abstract: We calculate analytic expressions for the distribution of bipartite entanglement for pure random quantum states. All moments of the purity distribution are derived and an asymptotic expansion for the purity distribution itself is deduced. An approximate expression for moments and distribution of Meyer-Wallach entanglement for random pure states is then obtained.

id: quant-ph/0611286
title: Intrinsic unsharpness and approximate repeatability of quantum measurements
authors: C. Carmeli, T. Heinonen, A. Toigo
comments: Proposition 22 has been modified and some minor corrections has been made
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 1303-1323.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611286
abstract: The intrinsic unsharpness of a quantum observable is studied by introducing the notion of resolution width. This quantification of accuracy is shown to be closely connected with the possibility of making approximately repeatable measurements. As a case study, the intrinsic unsharpness and approximate repeatability of position and momentum measurements are examined in detail.

id: quant-ph/0611287
title: From the Mendeleev periodic table to particle physics and back to the periodic table
authors: M.R. Kibler
comments: 15 pages; accepted for publication in Foundations of Chemistry (special issue to commemorate the one hundredth anniversary of the death of Mendeleev who died in 1907); version 2: 16 pages; some sentences added; acknowledgment and references added; misprints corrected
journal: Foundations of Chemistry 9 (2007) 221-234
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611287
abstract: We briefly describe in this paper the passage from Mendeleev's chemistry (1869) to atomic physics (in the 1900's), nuclear physics (in the 1932's) and particle physics (from 1953 to 2006). We show how the consideration of symmetries, largely used in physics since the end of the 1920's, gave rise to a new format of the periodic table in the 1970's. More specifically, this paper is concerned with the application of the group SO(4,2)xSU(2) to the periodic table of chemical elements. It is shown how the Madelung rule of the atomic shell model can be used for setting up a periodic table that can be further rationalized via the group SO(4,2)xSU(2) and some of its subgroups. Qualitative results are obtained from this nonstandard table.

id: quant-ph/0611288
title: Comment on "Position-dependent effective mass Dirac equations with PT- symmetric and non - PT- symmetric potentials" [J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 11877--11887]
authors: Omar Mustafa, S.Habib Mazharimousavi
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure. To appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, 863 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611288
abstract: Jia and Dutra (J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 11877) have considered the one-dimensional non-Hermitian complexified potentials with real spectra in the context of position-dependent mass in Dirac equation. In their second example, a smooth step shape mass distribution is considered and a non-Hermitian non - PT- symmetric Lorentz vector potential is obtained. They have mapped this problem into an exactly solvable Rosen-Morse Schrodinger model and claimed that the energy spectrum is real. The energy spectrum they have reported is pure imaginary or at best forms an empty set. Their claim on the reality of the energy spectrum is fragile, therefore.

id: quant-ph/0611289
title: The Converse Part of The Theorem for Quantum Hoeffding Bound
authors: Hiroshi Nagaoka
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611289
abstract: We prove the converse part of the theorem for quantum Hoeffding bound on the asymptotics of quantum hypothesis testing, essentially based on an argument developed by Nussbaum and Szkola in proving the converse part of the quantum Chernoff bound. Our result complements Hayashi's proof of the direct (achievability) part of the theorem, so that the quantum Hoeffding bound has now been established.

id: quant-ph/0611290
title: Teleportation of arbitrary $n$-qudit state with multipartite entanglement
authors: Zhan-jun Zhang
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611290
abstract: We propose a protocol ${\cal D}_n$ for faithfully teleporting an arbitrary $n$-qudit state with the tensor product state (TPS) of $n$ generalized Bell states (GBSs) as the quantum channel. We also put forward explicit protocol ${\cal D}'_n$ and ${\cal D}''_n$ for faithfully teleporting an arbitrary $n$-qudit state with two classes of $2n$-qudit GESs as the quantum channel, where the GESs are a kind of genuine entangled states we construct and can not be reducible to the TPS of $n$ GBSs.

id: quant-ph/0611291
title: Strong electromagnetically induced transparency in atomic media with large residual Doppler broadening
authors: Luis E. E. de Araujo, Silvania A. Carvalho, Luciano S. Soares, Antonio A. Soares, Armando Mirage, Daniel Pereira, Flavio C. Cruz
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611291
abstract: Electromagnetically induced transparency and coherent population trapping were observed in a hot (1000 K) calcium vapor embedded into an electrical gas discharge. Unexpectedly large transparencies (of up to 70%) were observed under very unfavorable conditions: probe wavelength shorter than the coupling wavelength, and coupling Rabi frequency significantly smaller than the residual Doppler linewidth of the two photon transition. We developed a theoretical model that shows that the observed results are due to the combined effects of a strong probe beam and a small open character of the atomic system. Coherent population trapping also manifests itself as a change in the impedance of the gas discharge, and the phenomenon can be probed with high sensitivity via the optogalvanic effect.

id: quant-ph/0611292
title: Full separability criterion for tripartite quantum systems
authors: Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song
comments: 5 pages. To be published in Europ. J. D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D. 42, 147 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611292
abstract: In this paper, an intuitive approach is employed to generalize the full separability criterion of tripartite quantum states of qubits to the higher-dimensional systems (Phys. Rev. A \textbf{72}, 022333 (2005)). A distinct characteristic of the present generalization is that less restrictive conditions are needed to characterize the properties of full separability. Furthermore, the formulation for pure states can be conveniently extended to the case of mixed states by utilizing the kronecker product approximate technique. As applications, we give the analytic approximation of the criterion for weakly mixed tripartite quantum states and investigate the full separability of some weakly mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0611293
title: Decohering histories and open quantum systems
authors: Eric D. Chisolm
comments: References added and discussion slightly modified in Section 3
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 196, 012025 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611293
abstract: I briefly review the ''decohering histories'' or ''consistent histories'' formulation of quantum theory, due to Griffiths, Omnes, and Gell-Mann and Hartle (and the subject of my graduate work with George Sudarshan). I also sift through the many meanings that have been attached to decohering histories, with an emphasis on the most basic one: Decoherence of appropriate histories is needed to establish that quantum mechanics has the correct classical limit. Then I will describe efforts to find physical mechanisms that do this. Since most work has focused on density matrix versions of decoherence, I'll consider the relation between the two formulations, which historically has not been straightforward. Finally, I'll suggest a line of research that would use recent results by Sudarshan to illuminate this aspect of the classical limit of quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0611294
title: Quantum Lower Bounds by Entropy Numbers
authors: Stefan Heinrich
comments: Submitted to J. Complexity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611294
abstract: We use entropy numbers in combination with the polynomial method to derive a new general lower bound for the n-th minimal error in the quantum setting of information-based complexity. As an application, we improve some lower bounds on quantum approximation of embeddings between finite dimensional L_p spaces and of Sobolev embeddings.

id: quant-ph/0611295
title: Cloning and Broadcasting in Generic Probabilistic Theories
authors: Howard Barnum, Jonathan Barrett, Matthew Leifer, Alexander Wilce
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0611295
abstract: We prove generic versions of the no-cloning and no-broadcasting theorems, applicable to essentially {\em any} non-classical finite-dimensional probabilistic model that satisfies a no-signaling criterion. This includes quantum theory as well as models supporting ``super-quantum'' correlations that violate the Bell inequalities to a larger extent than quantum theory. The proof of our no-broadcasting theorem is significantly more natural and more self-contained than others we have seen: we show that a set of states is broadcastable if, and only if, it is contained in a simplex whose vertices are cloneable, and therefore distinguishable by a single measurement. This necessary and sufficient condition generalizes the quantum requirement that a broadcastable set of states commute.

id: cond-mat/0611015
title: Lifshitz-type formulas for graphene and single-wall carbon nanotubes: van der Waals and Casimir interations
authors: M. Bordag, B. Geyer, G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M. Mostepanenko
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables; to appear in Phys. Rev. B; misprints in Eqs.(33) and (34) are corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. B, vol. 74, N20, p.205431-(1-9) (2006).
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611015
abstract: Lifshitz-type formulas are obtained for the van der Waals and Casimir interaction between graphene and a material plate, graphene and an atom or a molecule, and between a single-wall carbon nanotube and a plate. The reflection properties of electromagnetic oscillations on graphene are governed by the specific boundary conditions imposed on the infinitely thin positively charged plasma sheet, carrying a continuous fluid with some mass and charge density. The obtained formulas are applied to graphene interacting with Au and Si plates, to hydrogen atoms and molecules interacting with graphene, and to single-wall carbon nanotubes interacting with Au and Si plates. The generalizations to more complicated carbon nanostructures are discussed.

id: cond-mat/0611028
title: Modification of scattering lengths via magnetic dipole-dipole interactions
authors: I.E. Mazets, G. Kurizki
comments: revtex, 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611028
abstract: We propose a new mechanism for tuning an atomic s-wave scattering length. The effect is caused by virtual transitions between different Zeeman sublevels via magnetic dipole-dipole interactions. These transitions give rise to an effective potential, which, in contrast to standard magnetic interactions, has an isotropic component and thus affects s-wave collisions. Our numerical analysis shows that for chromium-50 the scattering length can be modified up to 15 %.

id: cond-mat/0611043
title: Bose-Einstein condensates and quantum non-locality
authors: Franck Lalo?
comments: contribution to the workshop "Beyond que quantum", at the Lorentz Institute (Leiden, Netherlands) in may 2006
journal: Beyond the quantum, World Scientific (Ed.) (2007) 35
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611043
abstract: The EPR argument points to the existence of additional variables that are necessary to complete standard quantum theory. It was dismissed by Bohr because it attributes physical reality to isolated microscopic systems, independently of the macroscopic measurement apparatus. Here, we transpose the EPR argument to macroscopic systems, assuming that they are in spatially extended Fock spin states and subject to spin measurements in remote regions of space. Bohr's refutation of the EPR argument does not seem to apply in this case, since the difference of scale between the microscopic measured system and the macroscopic measuring apparatus can no longer be invoked.

id: cond-mat/0611091
title: Entanglement in extended Hubbard models and quantum phase transitions
authors: Alberto Anfossi, Paolo Giorda, Arianna Montorsi
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 165106 (2007)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611091
abstract: The role of two-point and multipartite entanglement at quantum phase transitions (QPTs) in correlated electron systems is investigated. We consider a bond-charge extended Hubbard model exactly solvable in one dimension which displays various QPTs, with two (qubit) as well as more (qudit) on-site degrees of freedom involved. The analysis is carried out by means of appropriate measures of bipartite/multipartite quantum correlations. It is found that all transitions ascribed to two-point correlations are characterized by an entanglement range which diverges at the transition points. The exponent coincides with that of the correlation length at the transitions. We introduce the correlation ratio, namely, the ratio of quantum mutual information and single-site entanglement. We show that at T=0, it captures the relative role of two-point and multipartite quantum correlations at transition points, generalizing to qudit systems the entanglement ratio. Moreover, a finite value of quantum mutual information between infinitely distant sites is seen to quantify the presence of off-diagonal long-range order induced by multipartite entanglement.

id: cond-mat/0611285
title: Note on "Collective Excitations of a Degenerate Gas at the BEC-BCS Crossover", Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 203201 (2004)
authors: A. Altmeyer, S. Riedl, C. Kohstall, M.J. Wright, J. Hecker Denschlag, R. Grimm
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure, minor changes in v2
journal: Physical Review Letters 98 (2007) 103602
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611285
abstract: We present a reinterpretation of our previous results on the radial compression mode of a degenerate quantum gas in the BEC-BCS crossover in [1]. We show that our former data are consistent with other experimental and theoretical work, when the ellipticity of the optical trapping potential in [1] is properly taken into account.

id: cond-mat/0611354
title: Gauge effects on phase transitions in superconductors
authors: D. V. Shopova, T. E. Tsvetkov, D. I. Uzunov
comments: 37 pages, 4 figs; J. Phys. Studies (2006; in press)
journal: J.Phys.Stud.10:330-350,2006
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611354
abstract: Classic and recent results for gauge effects on the properties of the normal-to-superconducting phase transition in bulk and thin film superconductors are reviewed. Similar problems in the description of other natural systems (liquid crystals, quantum field theory, early universe) are also discussed. The relatively strong gauge effects on the fluctuations of the ordering field at low spatial dimensionality D and, in particular, in thin (quasi-2D) films are considered in details. A special attention is paid to the fluctuations of the gauge field. It is shown that the mechanism in which these gauge fluctuations affect on the order of the phase transition and other phase transition properties varies with the variation of the spatial dimensionality D. The problem for the experimental confirmation of the theoretical predictions about the order of the phase transitions in gauge systems is discussed.

id: cond-mat/0611376
title: The angular momentum of a magnetically trapped atomic condensate
authors: P. Zhang, H. H. Jen, C. P. Sun, L. You
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 030403 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611376
abstract: For an atomic condensate in an axially symmetric magnetic trap, the sum of the axial components of the orbital angular momentum and the hyperfine spin is conserved. Inside an Ioffe-Pritchard trap (IPT) whose magnetic field (B-field) is not axially symmetric, the difference of the two becomes surprisingly conserved. In this paper we investigate the relationship between the values of the sum/difference angular momentums for an atomic condensate inside a magnetic trap and the associated gauge potential induced by the adiabatic approximation. Our result provides significant new insight into the vorticity of magnetically trapped atomic quantum gases.

id: cond-mat/0611431
title: New critical behavior in unconventional ferromagnetic superconductors
authors: Dimo I. Uzunov
comments: 12 pages, 6 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74 (2006) 134514
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611431
abstract: New critical behavior in unconventional superconductors and superfluids is established and described by the Wilson-Fisher renormalization-group method. For certain ordering symmetries a new type of fluctuation-driven first order phase transitions at finite and zero temperature are predicted. The results can be applied to a wide class of ferromagnetic superconducting and superfluid systems, in particular, to itinerant ferromagnets as UGe2 and URhGe.

id: cond-mat/0611445
title: Simulation of some quantum gates, with decoherence
authors: V.Corato, P. Silvestrini, A. Gorlich, P. Korcyl, J. Wosiek, L. Stodolsky
comments: 26 pages, 15 figures, Some clarification added on decoherence treatment, many small errors corrected, symbols on some figures enlarged, refs added. No change in content
journal: Phys.Rev.B75:184507,2007
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611445
abstract: Methods and results for numerical simulations of one and two interacting rf-Squid systems suitable for adiabatic quantum gates are presented. These are based on high accuracy numerical solutions to the static and time dependent Schroedinger equation for the full Squid Hamiltonian in one and two variables. Among the points examined in the static analysis is the range of validity of the effective two-state or ``spin 1/2'' picture. A range of parameters is determined where the picture holds to good accuracy as the energy levels undergo gate manipulations. Some general points are presented concerning the relations between device parameters and ``good'' quantum mechanical state spaces. The time dependent simulations allow the examination of suitable conditions for adiabatic behavior, and permits the introduction of a random noise to simulate the effects of decoherence. A formula is derived and tested relating the random noise to the decoherence rate. Sensitivity to device and operating parameters for the logical gates NOT and CNOT are examined, with particular attention to values of the tunnel parameter beta slightly above one. It appears that with values of beta close to one, a quantum CNOT gate is possible even with rather short decoherence times. Many of the methods and results will apply to coupled double-potential well systems in general.

id: cond-mat/0611454
title: A note on the high temperature expansion of the density matrix for the isotropic Heisenberg chain
authors: Zengo Tsuboi
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Physica A
journal: Physica A377:95-101,2007
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611454
abstract: G\"ohmann, Kl\"umper and Seel derived the multiple integral formula of the density matrix of the $XXZ$ Heisenberg chain at finite temperatures. We have applied the high temperature expansion (HTE) method to isotropic case of their formula in a finite magnetic field and obtained coefficients for several short-range correlation functions. For example, we have succeeded to obtain the coefficients of the HTE of the 3rd neighbor correlation function $<\sigma_{j}^{z}\sigma_{j+3}^{z}>$ for zero magnetic field up to the order of 25. These results expand our previous results on the emptiness formation probability [Z.Tsuboi, M.Shiroishi, J. Phys.A: Math. Gen. 38(2005) L363; cond-mat/0502569] to more general correlation functions.

id: cond-mat/0611487
title: Time modulation of atom sources
authors: A. del Campo, J. G. Muga, M. Moshinsky
comments: 13 pages, 8+1 figures, references added, minor corrections
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 40, 975 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611487
abstract: Sudden turn-on of a matter-wave source leads to characteristic oscillations of the probability density which are the hallmark feature of diffraction in time. The apodization of matter waves relies on the use of smooth aperture functions which suppress such oscillations. The analytical dynamics arising with different aperture functions are discussed systematically for switching-on processes, and for single and many-pulse formation procedures. The possibility and time scale of a revival of the diffraction-in-time pattern is also analysed. Similar modulations in time of the pulsed output coupling in atom-lasers are responsible for the dynamical evolution and characteristics of the beam profile. For multiple pulses, different phase schemes and regimes are described and compared. Strongly overlapping pulses lead to a saturated, constant beam profile in time and space, up to the revival phenomenon.

id: cond-mat/0611505
title: Quantum non-demolition measurement of a superconducting two-level system
authors: A. Lupascu, S. Saito, T. Picot, P. C. de Groot, C. J. P. M. Harmans, J. E. Mooij
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 3, 119 (2007)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611505
abstract: In quantum mechanics, the process of measurement is a subtle interplay between extraction of information and disturbance of the state of the quantum system. A quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement minimizes this disturbance by using a particular system - detector interaction which preserves the eigenstates of a suitable operator of the quantum system. This leads to an ideal projective measurement. We present experiments in which we perform two consecutive measurements on a quantum two -level system, a superconducting flux qubit, by probing the hysteretic behaviour of a coupled nonlinear resonator. The large correlation between the results of the two measurements demonstrates the QND nature of the readout method. The fact that a QND measurement is possible for superconducting qubits strengthens the notion that these fabricated mesoscopic systems are to be regarded as fundamental quantum objects. Our results are also relevant for quantum information processing, where projective measurements are used for protocols like state preparation and error correction.

id: cond-mat/0611512
title: A class of permanent magnetic lattices for ultracold atoms
authors: Saeed Ghanbari, Tien D Kieu, Peter Hannaford
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611512
abstract: We report on a class of configurations of permanent magnets on an atom chip for producing 1D and 2D periodic arrays of magnetic microtraps with non-zero potential minima and variable barrier height for trapping and manipulating ultracold atoms and quantum degenerate gases. We present analytical expressions for the relevant physical quantities and compare them with our numerical results and with some previous numerical calculations. In one of the configurations of permanent magnets, we show how it is possible by changing the angle between the crossed periodic arrays of magnets to go from a 1D array of 2D microtraps to a 2D array of 3D microtraps and thus to continuously vary the barrier heights between the microtraps. This suggests the possibility of performing a type of `mechanical' BEC to Mott insulator quantum phase transition in a magnetic lattice. We also discuss a configuration of magnets which could realize a two-qubit quantum gate in a magnetic lattice.

id: cond-mat/0611522
title: Variational study of hard-core bosons in a 2-D optical lattice using Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS)
authors: V. Murg, F. Verstraete, J. I. Cirac
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 033605 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611522
abstract: We have studied the system of hard-core bosons on a 2-D optical lattice using a variational algorithm based on projected entangled-pair states (PEPS). We have investigated the ground state properties of the system as well as the responses of the system to sudden changes in the parameters. We have compared our results to mean field results based on a Gutzwiller ansatz.

id: cond-mat/0611547
title: Exact results for spin dynamics and fractionization in the Kitaev Model
authors: G. Baskaran, Saptarshi Mandal, R. Shankar
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Typose corrected, figure made better, clarifying statements and references added
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611547
abstract: We present certain exact analytical results for dynamical spin correlation functions in the Kitaev Model. It is the first result of its kind in non-trivial quantum spin models. The result is also novel: in spite of presence of gapless propagating Majorana fermion excitations, dynamical two spin correlation functions are identically zero beyond nearest neighbor separation, showing existence of a gapless but short range spin liquid. An unusual, \emph{all energy scale fractionization}of a spin -flip quanta, into two infinitely massive $\pi$-fluxes and a dynamical Majorana fermion, is shown to occur. As the Kitaev Model exemplifies topological quantum computation, our result presents new insights into qubit dynamics and generation of topological excitations.

id: cond-mat/0611561
title: Free fermion antibunching in a degenerate atomic Fermi gas released from an optical lattice
authors: T. Rom, Th. Best, D. van Oosten, U. Schneider, S. Foelling, B. Paredes, I. Bloch
comments: (Nature, in press)
journal: Nature, Vol 444, 733-736 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611561
abstract: Noise in a quantum system is fundamentally governed by the statistics and the many-body state of the underlying particles. Whereas for bosonic particles the correlated noise observed for e.g. photons or bosonic neutral atoms can still be explained within a classical field description with fluctuating phases, the anticorrelations in the detection of fermionic particles have no classical analogue. The observation of such fermionic antibunching is so far scarce and has been confined to electrons and neutrons. Here we report on the first direct observation of antibunching of neutral fermionic atoms. Through an analysis of the atomic shot noise in a set of standard absorption images, of a gas of fermionic 40K atoms released from an optical lattice, we find reduced correlations for distances related to the original spacing of the trapped atoms. The detection of such quantum statistical correlations has allowed us to characterise the ordering and temperature of the Fermi gas in the lattice. Moreover, our findings are an important step towards revealing fundamental fermionic many-body quantum phases in periodic potentials, which are at the focus of current research.

id: cond-mat/0611687
title: Tensor renormalization group approach to 2D classical lattice models
authors: Michael Levin, Cody P. Nave
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 120601 (2007)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611687
abstract: We describe a simple real space renormalization group technique for two dimensional classical lattice models. The approach is similar in spirit to block spin methods, but at the same time it is fundamentally based on the theory of quantum entanglement. In this sense, the technique can be thought of as a classical analogue of DMRG. We demonstrate the method - which we call the tensor renormalization group method - by computing the magnetization of the triangular lattice Ising model.

id: cond-mat/0611689
title: Probing $n$-Spin Correlations in Optical Lattices
authors: Chuanwei Zhang, V. W. Scarola, S. Das Sarma
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 76, 023605 (2007)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611689
abstract: We propose a technique to measure multi-spin correlation functions of arbitrary range as determined by the ground states of spinful cold atoms in optical lattices. We show that an observation of the atomic version of the Stokes parameters, using focused lasers and microwave pulsing, can be related to $n$-spin correlators. We discuss the possibility of detecting not only ground state static spin correlations, but also time-dependent spin wave dynamics as a demonstrative example using our proposed technique.

id: cond-mat/0611727
title: Quantum fidelity and quantum phase transitions in matrix product states
authors: M. Cozzini, R. Ionicioiu, P. Zanardi
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611727
abstract: Matrix product states, a key ingredient of numerical algorithms widely employed in the simulation of quantum spin chains, provide an intriguing tool for quantum phase transition engineering. At critical values of the control parameters on which their constituent matrices depend, singularities in the expectation values of certain observables can appear, in spite of the analyticity of the ground state energy. For this class of generalized quantum phase transitions we test the validity of the recently introduced fidelity approach, where the overlap modulus of ground states corresponding to slightly different parameters is considered. We discuss several examples, successfully identifying all the present transitions. We also study the finite size scaling of fidelity derivatives, pointing out its relevance in extracting critical exponents.

id: gr-qc/0611037
title: Cosmological constant, semiclassical gravity, and foundations of quantum mechanics
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0611037
abstract: The old cosmological-constant (CC) problem indicates an inconsistency of the usual formulation of semiclassical gravity. The usual formulation of semiclassical gravity also seems to be inconsistent with the conventional interpretation of quantum mechanics based on the discontinuous wave-function collapse. By reformulating semiclassical gravity in terms of Bohmian deterministic particle trajectories, the resulting semiclassical theory avoids both the old CC problem and the discontinuous collapse problem of the usual semiclassical theory. The relevance to the new CC problem and to particle creation by classical gravitational fields is also discussed.

id: gr-qc/0611062
title: Backreaction and Unruh effect: New insights from exact solutions of uniformly accelerated detectors
authors: Shih-Yuin Lin, B. L. Hu
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, no alteration of the main findings and claims but includes at the prompting of the referees discussions
journal: Phys.Rev.D76:064008,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0611062
abstract: Using nonperturbative results obtained recently for an uniformly accelerated Unruh-DeWitt detector, we discover new features in the dynamical evolution of the detector's internal degree of freedom, and identified the Unruh effect derived originally from time-dependent perturbation theory as operative in the ultra-weak coupling and ultra-high acceleration limits. The mutual interaction between the detector and the field engenders entanglement between them, and tracing out the field leads to a mixed state of the detector even for a detector at rest in Minkowski vacuum. Our findings based on this exact solution shows clearly the differences from the ordinary result where the quantum field's backreaction is ignored in that the detector no longer behaves like a perfect thermometer. From a calculation of the evolution of the reduced density matrix of the detector, we find that the transition probability from the initial ground state over an infinitely long duration of interaction derived from time-dependent perturbation theory is existent in the exact solution only in transient under special limiting conditions corresponding to the Markovian regime. Furthermore, the detector at late times never sees an exact Boltzmann distribution over the energy eigenstates of the free detector, thus in the non-Markovian regime covering a wider range of parameters the Unruh temperature cannot be identified inside the detector.

id: gr-qc/0611135
title: Quantum causal histories in the light of quantum information
authors: Etera R. Livine, Daniel R. Terno
comments: 9 pages, 8 eps figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D75:084001,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0611135
abstract: We use techniques of quantum information theory to analyze the quantum causal histories approach to quantum gravity. We show that while it is consistent to introduce closed timelike curves (CTCs), they cannot generically carry independent degrees of freedom. Moreover, if the effective dynamics of the chronology-respecting part of the system is linear, it should be completely decoupled from the CTCs. In the absence of a CTC not all causal structures admit the introduction of quantum mechanics. It is possible for those and only for those causal structures that can be represented as quantum computational networks. The dynamics of the subsystems should not be unitary or even completely positive. However, we show that other commonly maid assumptions ensure the complete positivity of the reduced dynamics.

id: gr-qc/0611148
title: Fundamental spatiotemporal decoherence: a key to solving the conceptual problems of black holes, cosmology and quantum mechanics
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Rafael Porto, Jorge Pullin
comments: 6 pages, Honorable Mention GRF 2006, published version
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.D15:2181-2186,2006
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0611148
abstract: Unitarity is a pillar of quantum theory. Nevertheless, it is also a source of several of its conceptual problems. We note that in a world where measurements are relational, as is the case in gravitation, quantum mechanics exhibits a fundamental level of loss of coherence. This can be the key to solving, among others, the puzzles posed by the black hole information paradox, the formation of inhomogeneities in cosmology and the measurement problem in quantum mechanics.

id: hep-ph/0611037
title: Landau-Zener problem in a three-level neutrino system with non-linear time dependence
authors: P. Ker?nen, J. Maalampi, M. Myyryl?inen, J. Riittinen
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures. To be published in Physical Review D
journal: Phys.Rev.D75:033006,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0611037
abstract: We consider the level-crossing problem in a three-level system with non-linearly time-varying Hamiltonian (time-dependence $t^{-3}$). We study the validity of the so-called independent crossing approximation in the Landau-Zener model by making comparison with results obtained numerically in density matrix approach. We also demonstrate the failure of the so-called "nearest zero" approximation of the Landau-Zener level-crossing probability integral.

id: hep-ph/0611202
title: Time-to-Space Conversion in Neutrino Oscillations
authors: Mikhail I. Shirokov, Vadim A. Naumov
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: ConceptsPhys.4:121-138,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0611202
abstract: We study the neutrino oscillation problem in the framework of the wave packet formalism. The neutrino state is described by a packet located initially in a region S (source) and detected in another region D at a distance R from S. We examine how the oscillation probability as a function of variable R can be derived from he oscillation probability as a function of time t, the latter being found by using the Schrodinger equation. We justify the known prescription "t --> R/c" without referring to a specific form of the neutrino wave packet and only assuming the finiteness of its support. The effect of the oscillation damping at large R is revealed. For an illustration, an explicit expression for the damping factor is obtained using Gaussian packet.

id: hep-th/0611034
title: The Stabilized Poincare-Heisenberg algebra: a Clifford algebra viewpoint
authors: N. G. Gresnigt, P. F. Renaud, P. H. Butler
comments: 14 pages
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.D16:1519-1529,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0611034
abstract: The stabilized Poincare-Heisenberg algebra (SPHA) is the Lie algebra of quantum relativistic kinematics generated by fifteen generators. It is obtained from imposing stability conditions after attempting to combine the Lie algebras of quantum mechanics and relativity which by themselves are stable, however not when combined. In this paper we show how the sixteen dimensional Clifford algebra CL(1,3) can be used to generate the SPHA. The Clifford algebra path to the SPHA avoids the traditional stability considerations, relying instead on the fact that CL(1,3) is a semi-simple algebra and therefore stable. It is therefore conceptually easier and more straightforward to work with a Clifford algebra. The Clifford algebra path suggests the next evolutionary step toward a theory of physics at the interface of GR and QM might be to depart from working in space-time and instead to work in space-time-momentum.

id: hep-th/0611057
title: Exact evaluation of density matrix elements for the Heisenberg chain
authors: Jun Sato, Masahiro Shiroishi, Minoru Takahashi
comments: 33 pages, 4 eps figures, 3 authors
journal: J.Stat.Mech.0612:P12017,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0611057
abstract: We have obtained all the density matrix elements on six lattice sites for the spin-1/2 Heisenberg chain via the algebraic method based on the quantum Knizhnik-Zamolodchikov equations. Several interesting correlation functions, such as chiral correlation functions, dimer-dimer correlation functions, etc... have been analytically evaluated. Furthermore we have calculated all the eigenvalues of the density matrix and analyze the eigenvalue-distribution. As a result the exact von Neumann entropy for the reduced density matrix on six lattice sites has been obtained.

id: hep-th/0611070
title: Relativistic confinement of neutral fermions with a trigonometric tangent potential
authors: Luis B. Castro, Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 12 pages
journal: J.Phys.A40:263-270,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0611070
abstract: The problem of neutral fermions subject to a pseudoscalar potential is investigated. Apart from the solutions for $E=\pm mc^{2}$, the problem is mapped into the Sturm-Liouville equation. The case of a singular trigonometric tangent potential ($\sim \mathrm{tan} \gamma x$) is exactly solved and the complete set of solutions is discussed in some detail. It is revealed that this intrinsically relativistic and true confining potential is able to localize fermions into a region of space arbitrarily small without the menace of particle-antiparticle production.

id: hep-th/0611098
title: The arrow of time, black holes, and quantum mixing of large N Yang-Mills theories
authors: Guido Festuccia, Hong Liu
comments: 50 pages 3 figures uses harvmac
journal: JHEP0712:027,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0611098
abstract: Quantum gravity in an AdS spacetime is described by an SU(N) Yang-Mills theory on a sphere, a bounded many-body system. We argue that in the high temperature phase the theory is intrinsically non-perturbative in the large N limit. At any nonzero value of the 't Hooft coupling $\lambda$, an exponentially large (in N^2) number of free theory states of wide energy range (of order N) mix under the interaction. As a result the planar perturbation theory breaks down. We argue that an arrow of time emerges and the dual string configuration should be interpreted as a stringy black hole.

id: hep-th/0611137
title: Twist and teleportation analogy of the black hole final state
authors: Doyeol Ahn, M. S. Kim
comments: version_2
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:064025,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0611137
abstract: Mathematical connection between the quantum teleportation, the most unique feature of quantum information processing, and the black hole final state is studied taking into account the non trivial spacetime geometry. We use the twist operatation for the generalized entanglement measurement and the final state boundary conditions to obtain transfer theorems for the black hole evaporation. This would enable us to put together the universal quantum teleportation and the black hole evaporation in the unified mathematical footing. For a renormalized post selected final state of outgoing Hawking radiation, we found that the measure of mixedness is preserved only in the special case of final-state boundary condition in the micro-canonical form, which resmebles perfect teleportation channel.

id: hep-th/0611152
title: Black Hole evaporation in a thermalized final-state projection model
authors: A. Fabbri, A. Perez
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.D75:064009,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0611152
abstract: We propose a modified version of the Horowitz-Maldacena final-state boundary condition based upon a matter-radiation thermalization hypothesis on the Black Hole interior, which translates into a particular entangled state with thermal Schmidt coefficients. We investigate the consequences of this proposal for matter entering the horizon, as described by a Canonical density matrix characterized by the matter temperature $T$. The emitted radiation is explicitly calculated and is shown to follow a thermal spectrum with an effective temperature $T_{eff}$. We analyse the evaporation process in the quasi-static approximation, highlighting important differences in the late stages with respect to the usual semiclassical evolution, and calculate the fidelity of the emitted Hawking radiation relative to the infalling matter.

id: hep-th/0611161
title: Confinement of spin-0 and spin-1/2 particles in a mixed vector-scalar coupling with unequal shapes for the potentials
authors: Luis B. Castro, Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Scripta75:170-173,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0611161
abstract: The Klein-Gordon and the Dirac equations with vector and scalar potentials are investigated under a more general condition, $V_{v}=V_{s} + \mathrm{const.}$ These isospectral problems are solved in a case of squared trigonometric potential functions and bound states for either particles or antiparticles are found. The eigenvalues and eigenfuntions are discussed in some detail. It is revealed that a spin-0 particle is better localized than a spin-1/2 particle when they have the same mass and are subject to the same potentials.

id: hep-th/0611162
title: Bounded solutions of fermions in the background of mixed vector-scalar P?schl-Teller-like potentials
authors: L.B. Castro, A.S. de Castro, M.B. Hott
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Europhys.Lett.77:20009,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0611162
abstract: The problem of a fermion subject to a convenient mixing of vector and scalar potentials in a two-dimensional space-time is mapped into a Sturm-Liouville problem. For a specific case which gives rise to an exactly solvable effective modified P\"{o}schl-Teller potential in the Sturm-Liouville problem, bound-state solutions are found. The behaviour of the upper and lower components of the Dirac spinor is discussed in detail and some unusual results are revealed. The Dirac delta potential as a limit of the modified P% \"{o}schl-Teller potential is also discussed. The problem is also shown to be mapped into that of massless fermions subject to classical topological scalar and pseudoscalar potentials.

id: hep-th/0611176
title: Boundary one-point function, Casimir energy and boundary state formalism in D+1 dimensional QFT
authors: Z. Bajnok, L. Palla, G. Takacs
comments: 32 pages, 1 eps figures
journal: Nucl.Phys.B772:290-322,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0611176
abstract: We consider quantum field theories with boundary on a codimension one hyperplane. Using 1+1 dimensional examples, we clarify the relation between three parameters characterising one-point functions, finite size corrections to the ground state energy and the singularity structure of scattering amplitudes, respectively. We then develop the formalism of boundary states in general D+1 spacetime dimensions and relate the cluster expansion of the boundary state to the correlation functions using reduction formulae. This allows us to derive the cluster expansion in terms of the boundary scattering amplitudes, and to give a derivation of the conjectured relations between the parameters in 1+1 dimensions, and their generalization to D+1 dimensions. We use these results to express the large volume asymptotics of the Casimir effect in terms of the one-point functions or alternatively the singularity structure of the one-particle reflection factor, and for the case of vanishing one-particle couplings we give a complete proof of our previous result for the leading behaviour.

id: hep-th/0611310
title: Electromagnetic Casimir densities induced by a conducting cylindrical shell in the cosmic string spacetime
authors: E.R. Bezerra de Mello, V.B. Bezerra, A.A. Saharian
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, discussion and references added, accepted for publication in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys.Lett.B645:245-254,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0611310
abstract: We investigate the renormalized vacuum expectation values of the field square and the energy-momentum tensor for the electromagnetic field inside and outside of a conducting cylindrical shell in the cosmic string spacetime. By using the generalized Abel-Plana formula, the vacuum expectation values are presented in the form of the sum of boundary-free and boundary-induced parts. The asymptotic behavior of the vacuum expectation values of the field square, energy density and stresses are investigated in various limiting cases.

id: hep-th/0611340
title: Towards a universal set of topologically protected gates for quantum computation with Pfaffian qubits
authors: Lachezar S. Georgiev
comments: 57 pages, 26 EPS figures, Latex2e with elsart class package; v2: one remark added and some misprints corrected
journal: Nucl.Phys.B789:552-590,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0611340
abstract: We review the topological quantum computation scheme of Das Sarma et al. from the perspective of the conformal field theory for the two-dimensional critical Ising model. This scheme originally used the monodromy properties of the non-Abelian excitations in the Pfaffian quantum Hall state to construct elementary qubits and execute logical NOT on them. We extend the scheme of Das Sarma et al. by exploiting the explicit braiding transformations for the Pfaffian wave functions containing 4 and 6 quasiholes to implement, for the first time in this context, the single-qubit Hadamard and phase gates and the two-qubit Controlled-NOT gate over Pfaffian qubits in a topologically protected way. In more detail, we explicitly construct the unitary representations of the braid groups B_4, B_6 and B_8 and use the elementary braid matrices to implement one-, two- and three-qubit gates. We also propose to construct a topologically protected Toffoli gate, in terms of a braid-group based Controlled-Controlled-Z gate precursor. Finally we discuss some difficulties arising in the embedding of the Clifford gates and address several important questions about topological quantum computation in general.

id: math-ph/0611008
title: Optimized basis expansion as an extremely accurate technique for solving time-independent Schr?dinger equation
authors: P. Pedram, M. Mirzaei, S.S. Gousheh
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Journal of Theoretical and Applied Physics 7 (2013) 34
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0611008
abstract: We use the optimized trigonometric finite basis method to find energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the time-independent Schrodinger equation with high accuracy. We apply this method to the quartic anharmonic oscillator and the harmonic oscillator perturbed by a trigonometric anharmonic term as not exactly solvable cases and obtain the nearly exact solutions.

id: math-ph/0611025
title: The Casimir Effect for Parallel Plates Revisited
authors: N.A. Kawakami, M.C. Nemes, W.F. Wreszinski
comments: 25 pages, no figures, latex
journal: J.Math.Phys.48:102302,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0611025
abstract: The Casimir effect for a massless scalar field with Dirichlet and periodic boundary conditions (b.c.) on infinite parallel plates is revisited in the local quantum field theory (lqft) framework introduced by B.Kay. The model displays a number of more realistic features than the ones he treated. In addition to local observables, as the energy density, we propose to consider intensive variables, such as the energy per unit area $\epsilon$, as fundamental observables. Adopting this view, lqft rejects Dirichlet (the same result may be proved for Neumann or mixed) b.c., and accepts periodic b.c.: in the former case $\epsilon$ diverges, in the latter it is finite, as is shown by an expression for the local energy density obtained from lqft through the use of the Poisson summation formula. Another way to see this uses methods from the Euler summation formula: in the proof of regularization independence of the energy per unit area, a regularization-dependent surface term arises upon use of Dirichlet b.c. but not periodic b.c.. For the conformally invariant scalar quantum field, this surface term is absent, due to the condition of zero trace of the energy momentum tensor, as remarked by B.De Witt. The latter property does not hold in tha application to the dark energy problem in Cosmology, in which we argue that periodic b.c. might play a distinguished role.

id: math-ph/0611036
title: A globally diagonalizable alpha^2-dynamo operator, SUSY QM and the Dirac equation
authors: Uwe Guenther, Boris F. Samsonov, Frank Stefani
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: J.Phys.A40:F169,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0611036
abstract: A new class of semi-analytically solvable MHD alpha^2-dynamos is found based on a global diagonalization of the matrix part of the dynamo differential operator. Close parallels to SUSY QM are used to relate these models to the Dirac equation and to extract non-numerical information about the dynamo spectrum.

id: math-ph/0611057
title: Dividing Quantum Channels
authors: Michael M. Wolf, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: welcome (23 pages); references and comments added
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 279, 147 (2008)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0611057
abstract: We investigate the possibility of dividing quantum channels into concatenations of other channels, thereby studying the semigroup structure of the set of completely-positive trace-preserving maps. We show the existence of 'indivisible' channels which can not be written as non-trivial products of other channels and study the set of 'infinitesimal divisible' channels which are elements of continuous completely positive evolutions. For qubit channels we obtain a complete characterization of the sets of indivisible and infinitesimal divisible channels. Moreover, we identify those channels which are solutions of time-dependent master equations for both positive and completely positive evolutions. For arbitrary finite dimension we prove a representation theorem for elements of continuous completely positive evolutions based on new results on determinants of quantum channels and Markovian approximations.

id: math-ph/0611067
title: Self-rotating wave approximation via symmetric ordering of ladder operators
authors: Jonas Larson, Hector Moya-Cessa
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0611067
abstract: We show how some Hamiltonians may be approximated using rotating wave approximation methods. In order to achieve this we use the algebra of boson ladder operators, and transformation formulas between normal and symmetric ordering of the operators. The method presented is studied in two special cases; the Morse and the Mathiue models. The connection with regular perturbation theory is given and the validity of the approximation is discussed.

id: math-ph/0611082
title: A matrix-valued Berezin-Toeplitz quantization
authors: S. Twareque Ali, Miroslav Engli?
comments: 15 pages, no pictures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0611082
abstract: We generalize some earlier results on a Berezin-Toeplitz type of quantization on Hilbert spaces built over certain matrix domains. In the present, wider setting, the theory could be applied to systems possessing several kinematic and internal degrees of freedom. Our analysis leads to an identification of those observables, in this general context, which admit a semi-classical limit and those for which no such limit exists. It turns out that the latter class of observables involve the internal degrees of freedom in an intrinsic way. Mathematically, the theory, being a generalization of the standard Berezin-Toeplitz quantization, points the way to applying such a quantization technique to possibly non-commutative spaces, to the extent that points in phase space are now replaced by $N\times N$ matrices.

id: math-ph/0611085
title: A classification of generalized quantum statistics associated with the exceptional Lie (super)algebras
authors: N.I. Stoilova, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 22 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48, 043504 (2007)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0611085
abstract: Generalized quantum statistics (GQS) associated to a Lie algebra or Lie superalgebra extends the notion of para-Bose or para-Fermi statistics. Such GQS have been classified for all classical simple Lie algebras and basic classical Lie superalgebras. In the current paper we finalize this classification for all exceptional Lie algebras and superalgebras. Since the definition of GQS is closely related to a certain Z-grading of the Lie (super)algebra G, our classification reproduces some known Z-gradings of exceptional Lie algebras. For exceptional Lie superalgebras such a classification of Z-gradings has not been given before.

id: nlin/0611003
title: Solitons of the Resonant Nonlinear Schrodinger Equation with Nontrivial Boundary Conditions and Hirota Bilinear Method
authors: Jyh-Hao Lee, Oktay K. Pashaev
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure, talk presented in Workshop `Nonlinear Physics IV: Theory and Experiment`, 22-30 June 2006, Gallipoli, Italy
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0611003
abstract: Physically relevant soliton solutions of the resonant nonlinear Schrodinger (RNLS) equation with nontrivial boundary conditions, recently proposed for description of uniaxial waves in a cold collisionless plasma, are considered in the Hirota bilinear approach. By the Madelung representation, the model is transformed to the reaction-diffusion analog of the NLS equation for which the bilinear representation, soliton solutions and their mutual interactions are studied.

id: nlin/0611011
title: Stimulated Raman Transfer of SIT Solitons
authors: B.D. Clader, J.H. Eberly
comments: Submitted in honor of G.S. Agarwal. 11 pages 4 figues
journal: 
subjects: Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0611011
abstract: We treat theoretically the two-pulse plane-wave propagation problem associated with the stimulated Raman process. A strong pump pulse and a weak probe pulse interact self-consistently during mutual propagation through a medium in the three-level lambda configuration. We treat the pulse interaction fully coherently, but take initially incoherent mixed ground states to describe the medium. We present analytic pulse envelope solutions to the nonlinear evolution equations, and then test them numerically. We show that the entire process can be interpreted consistently as a three-regime evolution, in which the first and last regimes display behavior quantitatively the same as self-induced transparency. They are connected through a Raman transfer process in the intermediate regime.

id: nucl-ex/0611005
title: Numerical simulations on cleaning the neutron trap for measuring the neutron lifetime
authors: Vyacheslav N. Gorshkov, Gennady P. Berman
comments: 13 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-ex/0611005
abstract: We present the results of numerical simulations of the dynamical behavior of trajectories of ultra cold neutrons (UCN) in a magnetic trap. The main goal of our simulations was to optimize the trap parameters in order to minimize the characteristic times for removing from the trap those untrapped neutrons with relatively long escape times (cleaning the trap). Our results demonstrate that, by a proper choice of the trap parameters cleaning times can be reduced to 15 sec, or even less. Many other dynamical characteristics of the neutrons in the trap, including the conservation of the adiabatic invariant which characterizes the orientation of the magnetic moment along the local magnetic field, are also discussed.

id: physics/0611255
title: Time-resolved Fourier transform intracavity spectroscopy with a Cr2+:ZnSe laser
authors: Nathalie Picqu¨¦, Fatou Gueye, Guy Guelachvili, Evgeni Sorokin, Irina T. Sorokina
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters 34 (15/12/2005) 3410-3412
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0611255
abstract: Intracavity laser absorption spectroscopy (ICLAS) with an evacuated Cr2+: ZnSe laser is performed with a high-resolution time-resolved Fourier transform interferometer with a minimum detectable absorption coefficient equal to 4 10-9 cm-1 Hz-1/2 in the 2.5$\mu$m region. This represents the extreme limit presently reached in the infrared by ICLAS with Doppler limited resolution. The broad gain band of the crystal allows a spectral coverage at most equal to 125 nm, wide enough to see entire vibration bands. Weak CO2 bands observed up to now only in the Venus atmosphere are recorded for the first time in a laboratory. H2O detection limit down to 0.9 ppbv is also demonstrated.

id: nlin/0611007
title: Change in the adiabatic invariant in a nonlinear two-mode model of Feshbach resonance passage
authors: A.P. Itin, A.A. Vasiliev, S. Watanabe, G.Krishna
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physica D 232, 108 (2007)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0611007
abstract: Mean-field approach has recently been used to model coupled atom-molecular Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) and coupled Fermi-Bose condensates near Feshbach resonance. Sweeping of magnetic field across the resonance gives a new (nonlinear) version of Landau-Zener problem. We investigate the structure of the corresponding classical phase space and calculate change in the action which corresponds to finite-rate efficiency of the sweep. We consider the case of non-zero initial action, which corresponds to some finite initial molecular fraction.

id: gr-qc/0611004
title: Universal Bound on Dynamical Relaxation Times and Black-Hole Quasinormal Ringing
authors: Shahar Hod
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.D75:064013,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0611004
abstract: From information theory and thermodynamic considerations a universal bound on the relaxation time $\tau$ of a perturbed system is inferred, $\tau \geq \hbar/\pi T$, where $T$ is the system's temperature. We prove that black holes comply with the bound; in fact they actually {\it saturate} it. Thus, when judged by their relaxation properties, black holes are the most extreme objects in nature, having the maximum relaxation rate which is allowed by quantum theory.

id: cond-mat/0611296
title: Crossover of phase qubit dynamics in presence of negative-result weak measurement
authors: Rusko Ruskov, Ari Mizel, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 5 pages, 4 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 220501(R) (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611296
abstract: Coherent dynamics of a superconducting phase qubit is considered in the presence of both unitary evolution due to microwave driving and continuous non-unitary collapse due to negative-result measurement. In the case of a relatively weak driving, the qubit dynamics is dominated by the non-unitary evolution, and the qubit state tends to an asymptotically stable point on the Bloch sphere. This dynamics can be clearly distinguished from conventional decoherence by tracking the state purity and the measurement invariant (``murity''). When the microwave driving strength exceeds certain critical value, the dynamics changes to non-decaying oscillations: any initial state returns exactly to itself periodically in spite of non-unitary dynamics. The predictions can be verified using a modification of a recent experiment.

id: cond-mat/0611759
title: Using a qubit to measure photon number statistics of a driven, thermal oscillator
authors: A. A. Clerk, D. Wahyu Utami
comments: 11 pages; 2 figures added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042302 (2007).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611759
abstract: We demonstrate theoretically how photon number statistics of a driven, damped oscillator at finite temperature can be extracted by measuring the dephasing spectrum of a two-level system dispersively coupled to the oscillator; we thus extend the work of Dykman (1987) and Gambetta et al. (2006). We carefully consider the fidelity of this scheme-- to what extent does the measurement reflect the initial number statistics of the mode? We also derive analytic results for the dephasing of a qubit by a driven, thermal mode, and compare results obtained at different levels of approximation. Our results have relevance both to experiments in circuit cavity QED, as well as to nano-electromechanical systems.

id: cond-mat/0611688
title: Decoherence of Macroscopic States at Finite Temperatures
authors: Carlos L. Benavides, Claudia M. Ojeda
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0611688
abstract: We study the macroscopic superposition of light coherent states of the type Schrodinger cat states; analizying, in particular, the role of the temperature in the decoherence processes, characteristic of the superposition of macroscopic states. The method we use here is based on the Master equation formalism, introducing an original approach. We use a modified Mandel function that is well adapted to the problem. This work is motivated by the experiments proposed by S. Haroche and collaborators in the 90's. In these experiments two Rydberg atoms were sent to a cavity in which a coherent state had been previously injected, monitoring the decay of quantum states due to dissipation. We find Haroche and collaborator's result at zero temperature and we predict the behavior of the field states in the cavity at finite temperatures.

