id: quant-ph/0612001
title: Using Disentangled States and Algorithmic Information Theory to Construct a Not P Problem
authors: Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612001
abstract: In this work, are used Chaitin number Omega and the fact that the general decomposition of an N-way disentangled state is an irreducible sentence whose number of coefficients grows in a non-polynomial way with N, to construct a problem that can never be solved in P.

id: quant-ph/0612002
title: Algebraic Quantum Mechanics and Pregeometry
authors: D.J. Bohm, P.G. Davies, B.J. Hiley
comments: This paper was originally written in 1981 and published as a supplement to my Ph.D. thesis. (Davies, P., (1981) The Weyl Algebra and an Algebraic Mechanics. Ph.D thesis, Birkbeck College, University of London.) It is believed to be one of the "lost papers" of David Bohm as it was is not listed among his completed works and is set forth here for historical completeness
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612002
abstract: We discuss the relation between the q-number approach to quantum mechanics suggested by Dirac and the notion of "pregeometry" introduced by Wheeler. By associating the q-numbers with the elements of an algebra and regarding the primitive idempotents as "generalized points" we suggest an approach that may make it possible to dispense with an a priori given space manifold. In this approach the algebra itself would carry the symmetries of translation, rotation, etc. Our suggestion is illustrated in a preliminary way by using a particular generalized Clifford Algebra proposed originally by Weyl, which approaches the ordinary Heisenberg algebra in a suitable limit. We thus obtain a certain insight into how quantum mechanics may be regarded as a purely algebraic theory, provided that we further introduce a new set of "neighbourhood operators", which remove an important kind of arbitrariness that has thus far been present in the attempt to treat quantum mechanics solely in terms of a Heisenberg algebra.

id: quant-ph/0612003
title: Displacement Echoes: Classical Decay and Quantum Freeze
authors: Cyril Petitjean, Diego V. Bevilaqua, Eric J. Heller, Philippe Jacquod
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 164101 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612003
abstract: Motivated by neutron scattering experiments, we investigate the decay of the fidelity with which a wave packet is reconstructed by a perfect time-reversal operation performed after a phase space displacement. In the semiclassical limit, we show that the decay rate is generically given by the Lyapunov exponent of the classical dynamics. For small displacements, we additionally show that, following a short-time Lyapunov decay, the decay freezes well above the ergodic value because of quantum effects. Our analytical results are corroborated by numerical simulations.

id: quant-ph/0612004
title: Error-detection-based quantum fault tolerance against discrete Pauli noise
authors: Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 195 pages, Ph.D. thesis, University of California, Berkeley
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612004
abstract: A quantum computer -- i.e., a computer capable of manipulating data in quantum superposition -- would find applications including factoring, quantum simulation and tests of basic quantum theory. Since quantum superpositions are fragile, the major hurdle in building such a computer is overcoming noise. Developed over the last couple of years, new schemes for achieving fault tolerance based on error detection, rather than error correction, appear to tolerate as much as 3-6% noise per gate -- an order of magnitude better than previous procedures. But proof techniques could not show that these promising fault-tolerance schemes tolerated any noise at all. With an analysis based on decomposing complicated probability distributions into mixtures of simpler ones, we rigorously prove the existence of constant tolerable noise rates ("noise thresholds") for error-detection-based schemes. Numerical calculations indicate that the actual noise threshold this method yields is lower-bounded by 0.1% noise per gate.

id: quant-ph/0612005
title: Quantum complimentarity, erasers and photons
authors: A. F. Kracklauer
comments: 6 pages, RevTeX, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612005
abstract: Optical experiments designed to explore quantum complementarity are reanalyzed. It is argued that, for each, a classical explanation is not only possible, but more coherent and less contrived. The final conclusion is that these experiments actually constitute support for criticism of the photon paradigm of electric charged particle interaction. They offer little or nothing to say about quantum complementarity once the photon concept is not imposed by mandate.

id: quant-ph/0612006
title: Four-Photon Interference with Asymmetric Beam Splitters
authors: B. H. Liu, F. W. Sun, Y. X. Gong, Y. F. Huang, G. C. Guo, Z. Y. Ou
comments: 
journal: Opt. Lett. 32, 1320 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612006
abstract: Two experiments of four-photon interference are performed with two pairs of photons from parametric down-conversion with the help of asymmetric beam splitters. The first experiment is a generalization of the Hong-Ou-Mandel interference effect to two pairs of photons while the second one utilizes this effect to demonstrate a four-photon de Broglie wavelength of $\lambda/4$ by projection measurement.

id: quant-ph/0612007
title: Effect of Crystal Quality on HCP-BCC Phase Transition in Solid 4He
authors: Nikolay Mikhin, Andrey Polev, Eduard Rudavskii, Yegor Vekhov
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612007
abstract: The kinetics of HCP-BCC structure phase transition is studied by precise pressure measurement technique in 4He crystals of different quality. An anomalous pressure behavior in bad quality crystals under constant volume conditions is detected just after HCP-BCC structure phase transition. A sharp pressure drop of 0.2 bar was observed at constant temperature. The subsequent pressure kinetics is a non-monotonic temperature function. The effect observed can be explained if we suppose that microscopic liquid droplets appear on the HCP-BCC interphase region in bad quality crystals. After the interphase region disappearance, these droplets are crystallized with pressure reduction. It is shown that this effect is absent in high quality thermal-treated crystals.

id: quant-ph/0612008
title: Mixed-state fidelity and quantum criticality at finite temperature
authors: Paolo Zanardi, H. T. Quan, Xiaoguang Wang, C. P. Sun
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032109 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612008
abstract: We extend to finite temperature the fidelity approach to quantum phase transitions (QPTs). This is done by resorting to the notion of mixed-state fidelity that allows one to compare two density matrices corresponding to two different thermal states. By exploiting the same concept we also propose a finite-temperature generalization of the Loschmidt echo. Explicit analytical expressions of these quantities are given for a class of quasi-free fermionic Hamiltonians. A numerical analysis is performed as well showing that the associated QPTs show their signatures in a finite range of temperatures.

id: quant-ph/0612009
title: Comment on "Dirac Quantization of Pais-Uhlenbeck Fourth Order Oscillator"
authors: Katarzyna Bolonek, Piotr Kosinski
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612009
abstract: The structure of Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillator in the equal-frequency limit has been recently studied by Mannheim and Davidson [Phys.Rev. A71 (2005), 042110]. It appears that taking this limit, as presented in the above paper, is quite subtle and the resulting structure of space of states - involved. In order to clarify the situation we present here the proper way of taking the equal-frequency limit, first under the assumption that the scalar product in the space of states is positive defined. We discuss also the case of indefinite metric space of states. We show that, irrespective of the way the limit is defined, the limiting theory can be hardly viewed as satisfactory.

id: quant-ph/0612010
title: Information gain in quantum continual measurements
authors: Albert Barchielli, Giancarlo Lupieri
comments: 
journal: Quantum Stochastic and Information (World Scientific, Singapore, 2008) pp. 325-345
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612010
abstract: Inspired by works on information transmission through quantum channels, we propose the use of a couple of mutual entropies to quantify the efficiency of continual measurement schemes in extracting information on the measured quantum system. Properties of these measures of information are studied and bounds on them are derived.

id: quant-ph/0612011
title: Boundary effect of a partition in a quantum well
authors: Tamas Fulop, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: LaTeX (with iopart.cls, iopart10.clo and iopart12.clo), 28 pages, 17 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 4585-4608
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612011
abstract: The paper wishes to demonstrate that, in quantum systems with boundaries, different boundary conditions can lead to remarkably different physical behaviour. Our seemingly innocent setting is a one dimensional potential well that is divided into two halves by a thin separating wall. The two half wells are populated by the same type and number of particles and are kept at the same temperature. The only difference is in the boundary condition imposed at the two sides of the separating wall, which is the Dirichlet condition from the left and the Neumann condition from the right. The resulting different energy spectra cause a difference in the quantum statistically emerging pressure on the two sides. The net force acting on the separating wall proves to be nonzero at any temperature and, after a weak decrease in the low temperature domain, to increase and diverge with a square-root-of-temperature asymptotics for high temperatures. These observations hold for both bosonic and fermionic type particles, but with quantitative differences. We work out several analytic approximations to explain these differences and the various aspects of the found unexpectedly complex picture.

id: quant-ph/0612012
title: On the impossibility of extracting classical randomness using a quantum computer
authors: Yevgeniy Dodis, Renato Renner
comments: 14 pages, latex
journal: Proceedings of the 33rd International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming (ICALP), July 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612012
abstract: In this work we initiate the question of whether quantum devices can provide us with an almost perfect source of classical randomness, and more generally, suffice for classical cryptographic tasks, such as encryption. Indeed, it is well known that classical computers are insufficient for either one of these tasks when all they have access to is a realistic imperfect source of randomness. On the other hand, quantum physics is inherently probabilistic which suggests that perhaps quantum computers can provide a reasonable way to overcome the above mentioned impossibility results. However, we show that this is not the case in a realistic setting where observations (measurements) are subject to noise.

id: quant-ph/0612013
title: Local Distinguishability of Any Three Quantum States
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Jonathan Walgate
comments: 4 Pages, v2 - second corollory corrected, reference added; v3- abstract expanded, proofs elaborated, reference added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 072002.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612013
abstract: We prove that any three linearly independent pure quantum states can always be locally distinguished with nonzero probability regardless of their dimension, entanglement, or multipartite structure. Almost always, all three states can be unambiguously identified. The only exceptional case, where one state is locally knowable but the other two are not, is found among multi-qubit states.

id: quant-ph/0612014
title: A Tight High-Order Entropic Quantum Uncertainty Relation With Applications
authors: Ivan B. Damgaard, Serge Fehr, Renato Renner, Louis Salvail, Christian Schaffner
comments: 21 pages; editorial changes, additional application
journal: full version of CRYPTO 2007, LNCS 4622
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612014
abstract: We derive a new entropic quantum uncertainty relation involving min-entropy. The relation is tight and can be applied in various quantum-cryptographic settings. Protocols for quantum 1-out-of-2 Oblivious Transfer and quantum Bit Commitment are presented and the uncertainty relation is used to prove the security of these protocols in the bounded quantum-storage model according to new strong security definitions. As another application, we consider the realistic setting of Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) against quantum-memory-bounded eavesdroppers. The uncertainty relation allows to prove the security of QKD protocols in this setting while tolerating considerably higher error rates compared to the standard model with unbounded adversaries. For instance, for the six-state protocol with one-way communication, a bit-flip error rate of up to 17% can be tolerated (compared to 13% in the standard model). Our uncertainty relation also yields a lower bound on the min-entropy key uncertainty against known-plaintext attacks when quantum ciphers are composed. Previously, the key uncertainty of these ciphers was only known with respect to Shannon entropy.

id: quant-ph/0612015
title: A derivation of Bell's inequalities in Wigner form from the fundamental assumption of statistical mechanics
authors: Ian T. Durham
comments: 6 pages, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612015
abstract: Bell's inequalities in the form given by Wigner are derived from the so-called fundamental assumption of statistical mechanics. I then demonstrate the possible relationship between these inequalities and the second law, particularly if assuming the Pauli exclusion principle dictates the expected outcomes.

id: quant-ph/0612016
title: Improving the security of secure direct communication based on secret transmitting order of particles
authors: Xi-Han Li, Fu-Guo Deng, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 054302 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612016
abstract: We analyzed the security of the secure direct communication protocol based on secret transmitting order of particles recently proposed by Zhu, Xia, Fan, and Zhang [Phys. Rev. A 73, 022338 (2006)], and found that this scheme is insecure if an eavesdropper, say Eve, wants to steal the secret message with Trojan horse attack strategies. The vital loophole in this scheme is that the two authorized users check the security of their quantum channel only once. Eve can insert another spy photon, an invisible photon or a delay one in each photon which the sender Alice sends to the receiver Bob, and capture the spy photon when it returns from Bob to Alice. After the authorized users check the security, Eve can obtain the secret message according to the information about the transmitting order published by Bob. Finally, we present a possible improvement of this protocol.

id: quant-ph/0612017
title: Multiparty Quantum Remote Secret Conference
authors: Xi-Han Li, Chun-Yan Li, Fu-Guo Deng, Ping Zhou, Yu-Jie Liang, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 24 (2007) 23-26
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612017
abstract: We present two schemes for multiparty quantum remote secret conference in which each legitimate conferee can read out securely the secret message announced by another one, but a vicious eavesdropper can get nothing about it. The first one is based on the same key shared efficiently and securely by all the parties with Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states, and each conferee sends his secret message to the others with one-time pad crypto-system. The other one is based on quantum encryption with a quantum key, a sequence of GHZ states shared among all the conferees and used repeatedly after confirming their security. Both these schemes are optimal as their intrinsic efficiency for qubits approaches the maximal value.

id: quant-ph/0612018
title: Circular quantum secret sharing
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Hong-Yu Zhou andGui Lu Long
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 14089-14099
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612018
abstract: A circular quantum secret sharing protocol is proposed, which is useful and efficient when one of the parties of secret sharing is remote to the others who are in adjacent, especially the parties are more than three. We describe the process of this protocol and discuss its security when the quantum information carrying is polarized single photons running circularly. It will be shown that entanglement is not necessary for quantum secret sharing. Moreover, the theoretic efficiency is improved to approach 100% as almost all the instances can be used for generating the private key, and each photon can carry one bit of information without quantum storage. It is straightforwardly to utilize this topological structure to complete quantum secret sharing with multi-level two-particle entanglement in high capacity securely.

id: quant-ph/0612019
title: Simultaneous quantum state teleportation via the locked entanglement channel
authors: Mei-Yu Wang, Feng-Li Yan, Ting gao, You-Cheng Li
comments: 3 pages, no figure
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 6, No. 1 (2008) 201-207
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612019
abstract: We present a simultaneous quantum state teleportation scheme, in which receivers can not recover their quantum state separately. When they want to recover their respective quantum state, they must perform an unlocking operator together.

id: quant-ph/0612020
title: Maximal violation of the CGLMP inequality for infinite dimensional states
authors: S. Zohren, R. D. Gill
comments: Introduction shortened, small changes, including new results for dimension of Hilbert space bigger than number of outcomes; 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 120406 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612020
abstract: We present a much simplified version of the CGLMP inequality for the 2 x 2 x d Bell scenario. Numerical maximization of the violation of this inequality over all states and measurements suggests that the optimal state is far from maximally entangled, while the best measurements are the same as conjectured best measurements for the maximally entangled state. For very large values of d the inequality seems to reach its minimal value given by the probability constraints. This gives numerical evidence for a tight quantum Bell inequality (or generalized Csirelson inequality) for the 2 x 2 x inf scenario.

id: quant-ph/0612021
title: Efficient classical simulation of the semi-classical Quantum Fourier Transform
authors: Daniel E. Browne
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Comments welcome
journal: New J. Phys. 9 146 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612021
abstract: A number of elegant approaches have been developed for the identification of quantum circuits which can be efficiently simulated on a classical computer. Recently, these methods have been employed to demonstrate the classical simulability of the quantum Fourier transform (QFT). In this note, we show that one can demonstrate a number of simulability results for QFT circuits in a straightforward manner using Griffiths and Niu's semi-classical QFT construction [Phys. Rev. Lett. 76, 3228 (1996)]. We then discuss the consequences of these results in the context of Shor's factorisation algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0612022
title: Deformation Quantization of Confined Systems
authors: Nuno Costa Dias, Joao Nuno Prata
comments: 6 pages, Latex file, Presented by N.C. Dias at the Workshop on Advances in Foundations of Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Information with atoms and photons, 2-5 May 2006, Turin, Italy
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, 5 (2007) 257.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612022
abstract: The Weyl-Wigner formulation of quantum confined systems poses several interesting problems. The energy stargenvalue equation, as well as the dynamical equation does not display the expected solutions. In this paper we review some previous results in the subject and add some new contributions. We reformulate the confined energy eigenvalue equation by adding to the Hamiltonian a new (distributional) boundary potential. The new Hamiltonian is proved to be globally defined and self-adjoint. Moreover, it yields the correct Weyl-Wigner formulation of the confined system.

id: quant-ph/0612023
title: The universe as an eigenstate: spacetime paths and decoherence
authors: Ed Seidewitz
comments: 25 pages; RevTex 4; Presented to the 2006 Conference of the International Association for Relativistic Dynamics; v3: Corrected minor errors
journal: Found.Phys.37:572,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612023
abstract: This paper describes how the entire universe might be considered an eigenstate determined by classical limiting conditions within it. This description is in the context of an approach in which the path of each relativistic particle in spacetime represents a fine-grained history for that particle, and a path integral represents a coarse-grained history as a superposition of paths meeting some criteria. Since spacetime paths are parametrized by an invariant parameter, not time, histories based on such paths do not evolve in time but are rather histories of all spacetime. Measurements can then be represented by orthogonal states that correlate with specific points in such coarse-grained histories, causing them to decohere, allowing a consistent probability interpretation. This conception is applied here to the analysis of the two slit experiment, scattering and, ultimately, the universe as a whole. The decoherence of cosmological states of the universe then provides the eigenstates from which our "real" universe can be selected by the measurements carried out within it.

id: quant-ph/0612024
title: Nonclassicality and decoherence of photon-subtracted squeezed states
authors: Asoka Biswas, G. S. Agarwal
comments: Figures are in GIF format separately, submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032104 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612024
abstract: We discuss nonclassical properties of single-photon subtracted squeezed vacuum states in terms of the sub-Poissonian statistics and the negativity of the Wigner function. We derive a compact expression for the Wigner function from which we find the region of phase space where Wigner function is negative. We find an upper bound on the squeezing parameter for the state to exhibit sub-Poissonian statistics. We then study the effect of decoherence on the single-photon subtracted squeezed states. We present results for two different models of decoherence, viz. amplitude decay model and the phase diffusion model. In each case we give analytical results for the time evolution of the state. We discuss the loss of nonclassicality as a result of decoherence. We show through the study of their phase-space properties how these states decay to vacuum due to the decay of photons. We show that phase damping leads to very slow decoherence than the photon-number decay.

id: quant-ph/0612025
title: The sixth Hilbert's problem and the principles of quantum informatics
authors: Yu.I. Bogdanov
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612025
abstract: By the example of a Fourier transform, the possibilities of Hilbert space geometry applications for statistical model construction are analyzed. In accordance with Bohr's complementarity principle, mutually-complementary coordinate and momentum representations are presented. It was demonstrated that the characteristic function of coordinate distribution may be considered as a convolution of the psi-function in momentum representation and vice versa. The naturalness of coordinate and momentum operators introduction is demonstrated. A probabilistic interpretation of Hilbert space geometry is given. Cauchy-Bunyakowsky (Cauchy-Schwartz), Cramer-Rao and uncertainty inequalities are considered in the same framework. The principal postulates of quantum informatics as a natural science are presented. It is demonstrated that quantum informatics serves as a theoretic basis for both probability theory and quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0612026
title: Cooling in a Bistable Optical Cavity
authors: Mark Y. Vilensky, Yehiam Prior, Ilya Sh. Averbukh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612026
abstract: We propose a generic approach to nonresonant laser cooling of atoms/molecules in a bistable optical cavity. The method exemplifies a photonic version of Sisyphus cooling, in which the matter-dressed cavity extracts energy from the particles and discharges it to the external field as a result of sudden transitions between two stable states.

id: quant-ph/0612027
title: Approximate resonance states in the semigroup decomposition of resonance evolution
authors: Y. Strauss, L.P. Horwitz, A. Volovick
comments: LaTex 22 pages 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612027
abstract: The semigroup decomposition formalism makes use of the functional model for $C_{.0}$ class contractive semigroups for the description of the time evolution of resonances. For a given scattering problem the formalism allows for the association of a definite Hilbert space state with a scattering resonance. This state defines a decomposition of matrix elements of the evolution into a term evolving according to a semigroup law and a background term. We discuss the case of multiple resonances and give a bound on the size of the background term. As an example we treat a simple problem of scattering from a square barrier potential on the half-line.

id: quant-ph/0612028
title: Multiphoton communication in lossy channels with photon-number entangled states
authors: Vladyslav C. Usenko, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 8 pages, 19 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 043812 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612028
abstract: We address binary and quaternary communication channels based on correlated multiphoton two-mode states of radiation in the presence of losses. The protocol are based on photon number correlations and realized upon choosing a shared set of thresholds to convert the outcome of a joint photon number measurement into a symbol from a discrete alphabet. In particular, we focus on channels build using feasible photon-number entangled states (PNES) as two-mode coherently-correlated (TMC) or twin-beam (TWB) states and compare their performances with that of channels built using feasible classically correlated (separable) states. We found that PNES provide larger channel capacity in the presence of loss, and that TWB-based channels may transmit a larger amount of information than TMC-based ones at fixed energy and overall loss. Optimized bit discrimination thresholds, as well as the corresponding maximized mutual information, are explicitly evaluated as a function of the beam intensity and the loss parameter. The propagation of TMC and TWB in lossy channels is analyzed and the joint photon number distribution is evaluated, showing that the beam statistics, either sub-Poissonian for TMC or super-Poissonian for TWB, is not altered by losses. Although entanglement is not strictly needed to establish the channels, which are based on photon-number correlations owned also by separable mixed states, purity of the support state is relevant to increase security. The joint requirement of correlation and purity individuates PNES as a suitable choice to build effective channels. The effects of losses on channel security are briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0612029
title: Entanglement in phase space
authors: A. M. Ozorio de Almeida
comments: to be published in the series Lecture Notes in Physics, Theoretical Foundations of Quantum Information, edited by A. Buchleitner and C. Viviescas
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612029
abstract: Classical surfaces in phase space correspond to quantum states in Hilbert space. Subsystems specify factor spaces of the Hilbert space. An entangled state corresponds semiclassically to a surface that cannot be decomposed into a product of lower dimensional surfaces. Such a classical factorization never exists for ergodic eigenstates of a chaotic Hamiltonian. The space of quantum operators corresponds to a double phase space. The various representations of the density operator then result from alternative choices of allowed coordinate planes. In the case of the Wigner function and its Fourier transform, the chord function, or the quantum characteristic function, this is a phase space on its own. The reduced Wigner function, representing the partial trace of a density operator over a subsystem is the projection of the original Wigner function; the reduced chord function is obtained as a section. The purity of the reduced density operator, the square of its trace, is a measure of entanglement, obtained by integrating either the square of the reduced Wigner function, or the square-modulus of the reduced chord function. Bell inequalities for general parity measurements can be violated even for classical looking states with positive Wigner functions that have evolved classically from product states. These include the original EPR state. Entanglement with an unknown environment results in decoherence. An example is that of the centre of mass of a large number of independent particles, entangled with internal variables. In this case, the Central Limit Theorem for Wigner functions leads to some aspects of Markovian evolution for the reduced system.

id: quant-ph/0612030
title: Coupled oscillators and Feynman's three papers
authors: Y. S. Kim
comments: 31 pages, 6 figures, based on the concluding talk at the 3rd Feynman Festival (Collage Park, Maryland, U.S.A., August 2006), minor corrections
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.70:012010,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612030
abstract: According to Richard Feynman, the adventure of our science of physics is a perpetual attempt to recognize that the different aspects of nature are really different aspects of the same thing. It is therefore interesting to combine some, if not all, of Feynman's papers into one. The first of his three papers is on the ``rest of the universe'' contained in his 1972 book on statistical mechanics. The second idea is Feynman's parton picture which he presented in 1969 at the Stony Brook conference on high-energy physics. The third idea is contained in the 1971 paper he published with his students, where they show that the hadronic spectra on Regge trajectories are manifestations of harmonic-oscillator degeneracies. In this report, we formulate these three ideas using the mathematics of two coupled oscillators. It is shown that the idea of entanglement is contained in his rest of the universe, and can be extended to a space-time entanglement. It is shown also that his parton model and the static quark model can be combined into one Lorentz-covariant entity. Furthermore, Einstein's special relativity, based on the Lorentz group, can also be formulated within the mathematical framework of two coupled oscillators.

id: quant-ph/0612031
title: Quantum jumps of light recording the birth and death of a photon in a cavity
authors: S¨¦bastien Gleyzes, Stefan Kuhr, Christine Guerlin, Julien Bernu, Samuel Del¨¦glise, Ulrich Busk Hoff, Michel Brune, Jean-Michel Raimond, Serge Haroche
comments: 
journal: Nature 446 (15/03/2007) 297
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612031
abstract: A microscopic system under continuous observation exhibits at random times sudden jumps between its states. The detection of this essential quantum feature requires a quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement repeated many times during the system evolution. Quantum jumps of trapped massive particles (electrons, ions or molecules) have been observed, which is not the case of the jumps of light quanta. Usual photodetectors absorb light and are thus unable to detect the same photon twice. They must be replaced by a transparent counter 'seeing' photons without destroying them3. Moreover, the light has to be stored over a duration much longer than the QND detection time. We have fulfilled these challenging conditions and observed photon number quantum jumps. Microwave photons are stored in a superconducting cavity for times in the second range. They are repeatedly probed by a stream of non-absorbing atoms. An atom interferometer measures the atomic dipole phase shift induced by the non-resonant cavity field, so that the final atom state reveals directly the presence of a single photon in the cavity. Sequences of hundreds of atoms highly correlated in the same state, are interrupted by sudden state-switchings. These telegraphic signals record, for the first time, the birth, life and death of individual photons. Applying a similar QND procedure to mesoscopic fields with tens of photons opens new perspectives for the exploration of the quantum to classical boundary.

id: quant-ph/0612032
title: A New Look at the Quantum Mechanics of the Harmonic Oscillator
authors: H.A. Kastrup
comments: 100 pages (Latex); v2: abstract simplified, remarks and references added
journal: AnnalenPhys.16:439-528,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612032
abstract: Classically the Harmonic Oscillator (HO) is the generic example for the use of angle and action variables phi in R mod 2 pi and I > 0. But the symplectic transformation (\phi,I) to (q,p) is singular for (q,p) = (0,0). Globally {(q,p)} has the structure of the plane R^2, but {(phi,I)} that of the punctured plane R^2 -(0,0). This implies qualitative differences for the QM of the two phase spaces: The quantizing group for the plane R^2 consists of the (centrally extended) translations generated by {q,p,1}, but the corresponding group for {(phi,I)} is SO(1,2) = Sp(2,R)/Z_2, (Sp(2,R): symplectic group of the plane), with Lie algebra basis {h_0 = I, h_1 = I cos phi, h_2 = - I sin phi}. In the QM for the (phi,I)-model the three h_j correspond to self-adjoint generators K_j, j=0,1,2, of irreducible unitary representations (positive discrete series) for SO(1,2) or one of its infinitely many covering groups, the Bargmann index k > 0 of which determines the ground state energy E (k, n=0) = hbar omega k of the (phi,I)-Hamiltonian H(K). For an m-fold covering the lowest possible value is k=1/m, which can be made arbitrarily small! The operators Q and P, now expressed as functions of the K_j, keep their usual properties, but the richer structure of the K_j quantum model of the HO is ``erased'' when passing to the simpler Q,P model! The (phi,I)-variant of the HO implies many experimental tests: Mulliken-type experiments for isotopic diatomic molecules, experiments with harmonic traps for atoms, ions and BE-condensates, with the (Landau) levels of charged particles in magnetic fields, with the propagation of light in vacuum, passing through electric or magnetic fields. Finally it leads to a new theoretical estimate for the quantum vacuum energy of fields and its relation to the cosmological constant.

id: quant-ph/0612033
title: Approche intrins¨¨que des fluctuations quantiques en m¨¦canique stochastique (An intrinsic approach of the quantum fluctuations in stochastic mechanics)
authors: Michel Fliess
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612033
abstract: This note is answering an old questioning about the F\'{e}nyes-Nelson stochastic mechanics. The Brownian nature of the quantum fluctuations, which are associated to this mechanics, is deduced from Feynman's interpretation of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle via infinitesimal random walks stemming from nonstandard analysis. It is therefore no more necessary to combine those fluctuations with a background field, which has never been well understood. Most of the technical details are contained in an extended english abstract.

id: quant-ph/0612034
title: Distinguishing Arbitrary Multipartite Basis Unambiguously Using Local Operations and Classical Communication
authors: Runyao Duan, Yuan Feng, Zhengfeng Ji, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 4 pages (and a bit more, in RevTex4), no figures. A typographical error in Ref. [16] was corrected. Main results unchanged. Thanks to Dr. S. Bandyopadhyay
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 230502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612034
abstract: We show that an arbitrary basis of a multipartite quantum state space consisting of $K$ distant parties such that the $k$th party has local dimension $d_k$ always contains at least $N=\sum_{k=1}^K (d_k-1)+1$ members that are unambiguously distinguishable using local operations and classical communication (LOCC). We further show this lower bound is optimal by analytically constructing a special product basis having only $N$ members unambiguously distinguishable by LOCC. Interestingly, such a special product basis not only gives a stronger form of the weird phenomenon ``nonlocality without entanglement", but also implies the existence of locally distinguishable entangled basis.

id: quant-ph/0612035
title: A Meaner King uses Biased Bases
authors: M. Reimpell, R. F. Werner
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062334 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612035
abstract: The mean king problem is a quantum mechanical retrodiction problem, in which Alice has to name the outcome of an ideal measurement on a d-dimensional quantum system, made in one of (d+1) orthonormal bases, unknown to Alice at the time of the measurement. Alice has to make this retrodiction on the basis of the classical outcomes of a suitable control measurement including an entangled copy. We show that the existence of a strategy for Alice is equivalent to the existence of an overall joint probability distribution for (d+1) random variables, whose marginal pair distributions are fixed as the transition probability matrices of the given bases. In particular, for d=2 the problem is decided by John Bell's classic inequality for three dichotomic variables. For mutually unbiased bases in any dimension Alice has a strategy, but for randomly chosen bases the probability for that goes rapidly to zero with increasing d.

id: quant-ph/0612036
title: "Physical quantity" and " Physical reality" in Quantum Mechanics: an epistemological path
authors: David Vernette, Michele Caponigro
comments: 3 pages, will be submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612036
abstract: We reconsider briefly the relation between "physical quantity" and "physical reality in the light of recent interpretations of Quantum Mechanics. We argue, that these interpretations are conditioned from the epistemological relation between these two fundamental concepts. In detail, the choice as ontic level of the concept affect, the relative interpretation. We note, for instance, that the informational view of quantum mechanics (primacy of the subjectivity) is due mainly to the evidence of the "random" physical quantities as ontic element. We will analyze four positions: Einstein, Rovelli, d'Espagnat and Zeilinger.

id: quant-ph/0612037
title: Generalized Phase Space Representation of Operators
authors: John R. Klauder, Bo-Sture K. Skagerstam
comments: latex, 8 pages, expanded version accepted by J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612037
abstract: Introducing asymmetry into the Weyl representation of operators leads to a variety of phase space representations and new symbols. Specific generalizations of the Husimi and the Glauber-Sudarshan symbols are explicitly derived

id: quant-ph/0612038
title: Quantum Brownian motion and the second law of thermodynamics
authors: ILki Kim, Guenter Mahler
comments: Accepted for publication in EPJ B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612038
abstract: We consider a single harmonic oscillator coupled to a bath at zero temperature. As is well known, the oscillator then has a higher average energy than that given by its ground state. Here we show analytically that for a damping model with arbitrarily discrete distribution of bath modes and damping models with continuous distributions of bath modes with cut-off frequencies, this excess energy is less than the work needed to couple the system to the bath, therefore, the quantum second law is not violated. On the other hand, the second law may be violated for bath modes without cut-off frequencies, which are, however, physically unrealistic models.

id: quant-ph/0612039
title: Oscillation dynamics of multi-well condensates
authors: S. Mossmann, C. Jung
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612039
abstract: We propose a new approach to the macroscopic dynamics of three-well Bose-Einstein condensates, giving particular emphasis to self-trapping and Josephson oscillations. Although these effects have been studied quite thoroughly in the mean-field approximation, a full quantum description is desirable, since it avoids pathologies due to the nonlinear character of the mean-field equations. Using superpositions of quantum eigenstates, we construct various oscillation and trapping scenarios.

id: quant-ph/0612040
title: Quasiprobability methods for multimode conditional optical gates
authors: G.J.Milburn
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. JOSA B Special Issue "Optical Quantum Information Science"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612040
abstract: We present a method for computing the action of conditional linear optical transformations, conditioned on photon counting, for arbitrary signal states. The method is based on the Q-function, a quasi probability distribution for anti normally ordered moments. We treat an arbitrary number of signal and ancilla modes. The ancilla modes are prepared in an arbitrary product number state. We construct the conditional, non unitary, signal transformations for an arbitrary photon number count on each of the ancilla modes.

id: quant-ph/0612041
title: Entanglement in the interaction between two quantum oscillator systems
authors: ILki Kim, Gerald J. Iafrate
comments: 
journal: Foundations of Physics Letters, Volume 17, pp. 507-534 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612041
abstract: The fundamental quantum dynamics of two interacting oscillator systems are studied in two different scenarios. In one case, both oscillators are assumed to be linear, whereas in the second case, one oscillator is linear and the other is a non-linear, angular-momentum oscillator; the second case is, of course, more complex in terms of energy transfer and dynamics. These two scenarios have been the subject of much interest over the years, especially in developing an understanding of modern concepts in quantum optics and quantum electronics. In this work, however, these two scenarios are utilized to consider and discuss the salient features of quantum behaviors resulting from the interactive nature of the two oscillators, i.e., coherence, entanglement, spontaneous emission, etc., and to apply a measure of entanglement in analyzing the nature of the interacting systems. ... For the coupled linear and angular-momentum oscillator system in the fully quantum-mechanical description, we consider special examples of two, three, four-level angular momentum systems, demonstrating the explicit appearances of entanglement. We also show that this entanglement persists even as the coupled angular momentum oscillator is taken to the limit of a large number of levels, a limit which would go over to the classical picture for an uncoupled angular momentum oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0612042
title: Quantum dynamics of the dissipative two-state system coupled with a sub-Ohmic bath
authors: Zhiguo L¨¹, Hang Zheng
comments: 26pages,13figures,submitted to Phys. Rev. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612042
abstract: The decoherence of a two-state system coupled with a sub-Ohmic bath is investigated theoretically by means of the perturbation approach based on a unitary transformation. It is shown that the decoherence depends strongly and sensitively on the structure of environment. Nonadiabatic effect is treated through the introduction of a function $\xi_k$ which depends on the boson frequency and renormalized tunneling. The results are as follows:(1) the non-equilibrium correlation function $P(t)$, the dynamical susceptibility $\chi''(\omega)$ and the equilibrium correlation function $C(t)$ are analytically obtained for $s\leq 1$; (2) the phase diagram of thermodynamic transition shows the delocalized-localized transition point $\alpha_l$ which agrees with exact results and numerical data from the Numerical Renormalization Group; (3) the dynamical transition point $\alpha_c$ between coherent and incoherent phase is explicitly given for the first time. A crossover from the coherent oscillation to incoherent relaxation appears with increasing coupling (for $\alpha > \alpha_c $, the coherent dynamics disappear); (4) the Shiba's relation and sum rule are exactly satisfied when $\alpha \leq \alpha_c $; (5) an underdamping-overdamping transition point $\alpha_c^{*}$ exists in the function $S(\omega)$. Consequently, the dynamical phase diagrams in both ohmic and sub-Ohmic case are mapped out. For $\Delta \ll \omega_c$, the critical couplings ($\alpha_l, \alpha_c$ and $\alpha_c^{*}$) are proportional to $\Delta^{1-s}$.

id: quant-ph/0612043
title: On quantum corrections to classical solutions via generalized zeta-function
authors: Anatoly Zaitsev, Sergey Leble
comments: 10 pages, "Operator equations in quantum optics", Antwerpen, 7-8 April 2006. this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612043
abstract: A general algebraic method of quantum corrections evaluations is presented. Quantum corrections to a few classical solutions of Landau-Ginzburg model (phi-in-quadro) are calculated in arbitrary dimensions. The Green function for heat equation with soliton potential is constructed by Darboux transformation. The generalized zeta-function is used to evaluate the functional integral and corrections to mass in quasiclassical approximation. Some natural generalizations for matrix equations are discussed in conclusion.

id: quant-ph/0612044
title: Bell-type inequalities for cold heteronuclear molecules
authors: Perola Milman, Arne Keller, Eric Charron, Osman Atabek
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612044
abstract: We introduce Bell-type inequalities allowing for non-locality and entanglement tests with two cold heteronuclear molecules. The proposed inequalities are based on correlations between each molecule spatial orientation, an observable which can be experimentally measured with present day technology. Orientation measurements are performed on each subsystem at diferent times. These times play the role of the polarizer angles in Bell tests realized with photons. We discuss the experimental implementations of the proposed tests, which could also be adapted to other high dimensional quantum angular momenta systems.

id: quant-ph/0612045
title: Accumulation of entanglement in a continuous variable memory
authors: M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim, G. M. Palma
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 140504 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612045
abstract: We study the accumulation of entanglement in a memory device built out of two continuous variable (CV) systems. We address the case of a qubit mediating an indirect joint interaction between the CV systems. We show that, in striking contrast with respect to registers built out of bidimensional Hilbert spaces, entanglement superior to a single ebit can be efficiently accumulated in the memory, even though no entangled resource is used. We study the protocol in an immediately implementable setup, assessing the effects of the main imperfections.

id: quant-ph/0612046
title: Electrically addressing a single self-assembled quantum dot
authors: D. J. P. Ellis, A. J. Bennett, P. Atkinson, D. A. Ritchie, A. J. Shields
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 133509 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612046
abstract: We report on the use of an aperture in an aluminum oxide layer to restrict current injection into a single self-assembled InAs quantum dot, from an ensemble of such dots within a large mesa. The insulating aperture is formed through the wet-oxidation of a layer of AlAs. Under photoluminescence we observe that only one quantum dot in the ensemble exhibits a Stark shift, and that the same single dot is visible under electroluminescence. Autocorrelation measurements performed on the electroluminescence confirm that we are observing emission from a single quantum dot.

id: quant-ph/0612047
title: Control of fine-structure splitting of individual InAs quantum dots by rapid thermal annealing
authors: D. J. P. Ellis, R. M. Stevenson, R. J. Young, P. Atkinson, D. A. Ritchie, A. J. Shields
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. Accepted for publication in Applied Physics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612047
abstract: Degeneracy of the bright single exciton spin state is a prerequisite for the production of triggered polarization-entangled photon pairs from the biexciton decay of a quantum dot. Normally, however, the exciton spin states are split due to in-plane asymmetries. Here we demonstrate that the exciton splitting of an individual dot can be tuned through zero by thermal annealing. Repeated annealing blueshifts the exciton emission line of the dot, accompanied by a reduction and inversion in polarization splitting. Annealing is also demonstrated to control the detuning between the exciton and biexciton transitions in any selected dot.

id: quant-ph/0612048
title: Nilpotent polynomials approach to four-qubit entanglement
authors: A. Mandilara, L. Viola
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure. Finalised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612048
abstract: We apply the general formalism of nilpotent polynomials [Mandilara et al, Phys. Rev. A 74, 022331 (2006)] to the problem of pure-state multipartite entanglement classification in four qubits. In addition to establishing contact with existing results, we explicitly show how the nilpotent formalism naturally suggests constructions of entanglement measures invariant under the required unitary or invertible class of local operations. A candidate measure of fourpartite entanglement is also suggested, and its behavior numerically tested on random pure states.

id: quant-ph/0612049
title: Constrained bounds on measures of entanglement
authors: Animesh Datta, Steven T. Flammia, Anil Shaji, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 28 pages, 12 figures. v2 simplified and generalized derivation of main results; errors corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062117 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612049
abstract: Entanglement measures constructed from two positive, but not completely positive maps on density operators are used as constraints in placing bounds on the entanglement of formation, the tangle, and the concurrence of 4 x N mixed states. The maps are the partial transpose map and the $\Phi$-map introduced by Breuer [H.-P. Breuer, Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 080501 (2006)]. The norm-based entanglement measures constructed from these two maps, called negativity and $\Phi$-negativity, respectively, lead to two sets of bounds on the entanglement of formation, the tangle, and the concurrence. We compare these bounds and identify the sets of 4 x N density operators for which the bounds from one constraint are better than the bounds from the other. In the process, we present a new derivation of the already known bound on the concurrence based on the negativity. We compute new bounds on the three measures of entanglement using both the constraints simultaneously. We demonstrate how such doubly constrained bounds can be constructed. We discuss extensions of our results to bipartite states of higher dimensions and with more than two constraints.

id: quant-ph/0612050
title: The operational meaning of quantum conditional information
authors: Igor Devetak, Jon Yard
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612050
abstract: With a statistical view towards information and noise, information theory derives ultimate limitations on information processing tasks. These limits are generally expressed in terms of entropic measures of information and correlations. Here we answer the quantum information-theoretic question: ``How correlated are two quantum systems from the perspective of a third?" by solving the following `quantum state redistribution' problem. Given an arbitrary quantum state of three systems, where Alice holds two and Bob holds one, what is the cost, in terms of quantum communication and entanglement, for Alice to give one of her parts to Bob? The communication cost gives the first operational interpretation to quantum conditional mutual information. The optimal procedure is self-dual under time reversal and is perfectly composable. This generalizes known protocols such as the state merging and fully quantum Slepian-Wolf protocols, from which almost every known protocol in quantum Shannon theory can be derived.

id: quant-ph/0612051
title: A Quantum Logic of Down Below
authors: P.D. Bruza, D. Widdows, John Woods
comments: Pre-final draft of a chapter to appear in K. Engesser, D. Gabbay and D. Lehmann (eds) Handbook of Quantum Logic, Qunatum Structure and Quantum Computation. Vol 2. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612051
abstract: This chapter is offered as a contribution to the logic of down below. We attempt to demonstrate that the nature of human agency necessitates that there actually be such a logic. The ensuing sections develop the suggestion that cognition down below has a structure strikingly similar to the physical structure of quantum states. In its general form, this is not an idea that originates with the present authors. It is known that there exist mathematical models from the cognitive science of cognition down below that have certain formal similarities to quantum mechanics. We want to take this idea seriously. We will propose that the subspaces of von Neumann-Birkhoff lattices are too crisp for modelling requisite cognitive aspects in relation to subsymbolic logic. Instead, we adopt an approach which relies on projections into nonorthogonal density states. The projection operator is motivated from cues which probe human memory.

id: quant-ph/0612052
title: Deciding whether a quantum state has secret correlations is an NP-complete problem
authors: Jae-Weon Lee, DoYong Kwon, Jaewan Kim
comments: 3 pages, revtex, no fig, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612052
abstract: From the NP-hardness of the quantum separability problem and the relation between bipartite entanglement and the secret key correlations, it is shown that the problem deciding whether a given quantum state has secret correlations in it or not is in NP-complete.

id: quant-ph/0612053
title: Comments on "Best conventional solutions to the King's problem"
authors: Gen Kimura, Hajime Tanaka, Masanao Ozawa
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 1 EPS figure
journal: Z. Naturforsch. 62a, 152-156 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612053
abstract: Conventional solutions to the (Mean) King's problem without using entanglement have been investigated by Aravind [P. K. Aravind, ``Best conventional solutions to the King's problem'', Z. Naturforsch. 58a, 682 (2003)]. We report that the upper bound for the success probability claimed there is not valid in general, and give a condition for the claim to be justified.

id: quant-ph/0612054
title: Quantization and noiseless measurements
authors: J. Kiukas, P. Lahti
comments: 15 pages, submitted to Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 2083-2091
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612054
abstract: In accordance with the fact that quantum measurements are described in terms of positive operator measures (POMs), we consider certain aspects of a quantization scheme in which a classical variable $f:\R^2\to \R$ is associated with a unique positive operator measure (POM) $E^f$, which is not necessarily projection valued. The motivation for such a scheme comes from the well-known fact that due to the noise in a quantum measurement, the resulting outcome distribution is given by a POM and cannot, in general, be described in terms of a traditional observable, a selfadjoint operator. Accordingly, we notice that the noiseless measurements are the ones which are determined by a selfadjoint operator. The POM $E^f$ in our quantization is defined through its moment operators, which are required to be of the form $\Gamma(f^k)$, $k\in \N$, with $\Gamma$ a fixed map from classical variables to Hilbert space operators. In particular, we consider the quantization of classical \emph{questions}, that is, functions $f:\R^2\to\R$ taking only values 0 and 1. We compare two concrete realizations of the map $\Gamma$ in view of their ability to produce noiseless measurements: one being the Weyl map, and the other defined by using phase space probability distributions.

id: quant-ph/0612055
title: An atom-photon pair laser
authors: Thomas Salzburger, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612055
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of an ultracold atomic gas in a deep optical lattice within an optical high-$Q$ resonator. The atoms are coherently illuminated with the cavity resonance tuned to a blue vibrational sideband, so that photon scattering to the resonator mode is accompanied by vibrational cooling of the atoms. This system exhibits a threshold above which pairwise stimulated generation of a cavity photon and an atom in the lowest vibrational band dominates spontaneous scattering and we find a combination of optical lasing with a buildup of a macroscopic population in the lowest lattice band. Including output coupling of ground-state atoms and replenishing of hot atoms into the cavity volume leads to a coherent, quantum correlated atom-photon pair source very analogous to twin light beam generation in a nondegenerate optical parametric oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0612056
title: Hopf Algebra Structure of a Model Quantum Field Theory
authors: A.I. Solomon, G.E.H. Duchamp, P. Blasiak, A. Horzela, K.A. Penson
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 11 references. Talk presented by first-named author at 26th International Colloquium on Group Theoretical Methods in Physics, New York, June 2006. See cs.OH/0609107 for follow-up talk delivered by second-named author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612056
abstract: Recent elegant work on the structure of Perturbative Quantum Field Theory (PQFT) has revealed an astonishing interplay between analysis(Riemann Zeta functions), topology (Knot theory), combinatorial graph theory (Feynman Diagrams) and algebra (Hopf structure). The difficulty inherent in the complexities of a fully-fledged field theory such as PQFT means that the essential beauty of the relationships between these areas can be somewhat obscured. Our intention is to display some, although not all, of these structures in the context of a simple zero-dimensional field theory; i.e. a quantum theory of non-commuting operators which do not depend on spacetime. The combinatorial properties of these boson creation and annihilation operators, which is our chosen example, may be described by graphs, analogous to the Feynman diagrams of PQFT, which we show possess a Hopf algebra structure. Our approach is based on the partition function for a boson gas. In a subsequent note in these Proceedings we sketch the relationship between the Hopf algebra of our simple model and that of the PQFT algebra.

id: quant-ph/0612057
title: Mesoscopic entanglement of atomic ensembles through non-resonant stimulated Raman scattering
authors: Wenhai Ji, Chunbai Wu, S.J. van Enk, M.G. Raymer
comments: 35 papges, 6 figures and 1 table, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 75, 052305 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612057
abstract: We propose a scheme of generating and verifying mesoscopic-level entanglement between two atomic ensembles using non-resonant stimulated Raman scattering. Entanglement can be generated by direct detection or balanced homodyne detection of the Stokes fields from the two cells, after they interfere on a beam splitter. The entanglement of the collective atomic fields can be transferred to the anti-Stokes fields in a readout process. By measuring the operator moments of the anti-Stokes fields, we can verify the presence of entanglement. We model the effects of practical factors such as Stokes field detector quantum efficiency and additive thermal noise in the entanglement generating process, and anti-Stokes field losses in the entanglement verification process, and find achievable regimes in which entanglement can be verified at the levels of tens to hundreds of atomic excitations in the ensembles.

id: quant-ph/0612058
title: Exposed-key weakness of $¦Á¦Ç$
authors: Charlene Ahn, Kevin Birnbaum
comments: 6 pg. Was originally written in May 2006 and has languished in getting-approved-land for 7 months, but we've tried to keep current with papers published since then. This version changed for publication
journal: Phys. Lett. A 370, 131 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612058
abstract: The $\alpha \eta$ protocol given by Barbosa \emph{et al.}, PRL 90, 227901 (2003) claims to be a secure way of encrypting messages using mesoscopic coherent states. We show that transmission under $\alpha \eta$ exposes information about the secret key to an eavesdropper, and we estimate the rate at which an eavesdropper can learn about the key. We also consider the consequences of using further randomization to protect the key and how our analysis applies to this case. We conclude that $\alpha \eta$ is not informationally secure.

id: quant-ph/0612059
title: Some thoughts on an information-theoretic motivated nonlinear Schrodinger equation
authors: Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: 8 pages. Presented at the Nonlinearity IV workshop held at Gallipoli, Italy, June 2006. To appear in proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612059
abstract: I begin by reviewing the arguments leading to a nonlinear generalisation of Schrodinger's equation within the context of the maximum uncertainty principle. Some exact and perturbative properties of that equation are then summarised: those results depend on a free regulating/interpolation parameter $\eta$. I discuss here how one may fix that parameter using energetics. Other issues discussed are, a linear theory with an external potential that reproduces some unusual exact solutions of the nonlinear equation, and possible symmetry enhancements in the nonlinear theory.

id: quant-ph/0612060
title: Sub-wavelength Coherent Imaging of a Pure-Phase Object with Thermal Light
authors: Minghui Zhang, Qing Wei, Xia Shen, Yongfeng Liu, Honglin Liu, Yanfeng Bai, Shensheng Han
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; Any comments pls. contact: je2ccc@gmail.com
journal: Phys. Lett. A 366, 569 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612060
abstract: We report, for the first time, the observation of sub-wavelength coherent image of a pure phase object with thermal light,which represents an accurate Fourier transform. We demonstrate that ghost-imaging scheme (GI) retrieves amplitude transmittance knowledge of objects rather than the transmitted intensities as the HBT-type imaging scheme does.

id: quant-ph/0612061
title: Loading N-Dimensional Vector into Quantum Registers from Classical Memory with O(logN) Steps
authors: Chao-Yang Pang
comments: 8 papges 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612061
abstract: Vector is the general format of input data of most algorithms. Designing unitary operation to load all information of vector into quantum registers of quantum CPU from classical memory is called quantum loading scheme (QLS). QLS assembles classical memory and quantum CPU as a whole computer, which will be important for further quantum computation. We present a QLS based on path interference with time complexity O(logN), while classical loading scheme has time complexity O(N), that is the efficiency bottleneck of classical computer.

id: quant-ph/0612062
title: Finite quantum environments as thermostats: an analysis based on the Hilbert space average method
authors: Jochen Gemmer, Mathias Michel
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612062
abstract: We consider discrete quantum systems coupled to finite environments which may possibly consist of only one particle in contrast to the standard baths which usually consist of continua of oscillators, spins, etc. We find that such finite environments may, nevertheless, act as thermostats, i.e., equilibrate the system though not necessarily in the way predicted by standard open system techniques. Thus, we apply a novel technique called the Hilbert space Average Method (HAM) and verify its results numerically.

id: quant-ph/0612063
title: On the Power of Entangled Quantum Provers
authors: Julia Kempe, Thomas Vidick
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612063
abstract: We show that the value of a general two-prover quantum game cannot be computed by a semi-definite program ofvpolynomial size (unless P=NP), a method that has been successful in more restricted quantum games. More precisely, we show that proof of membership in the NP-complete problem GAP-3D-Matching can be obtained by a 2-prover, 1-round quantum interactive proof system where the provers share entanglement, with perfect completeness and soundness s=1-2^(-O(n)), and such that the space of the verifier and the size of the messages are O(log n). This implies that QMIP^*_{log n,1,1-2^(-O(n))} \nsubseteq P unless P = NP and provides the first non-trivial lower bound on the power of entangled quantum provers, albeit with an exponentially small gap. The gap achievable by our proof system might in fact be larger, provided a certain conjecture on almost commuting versus nearly commuting projector matrices is true.

id: quant-ph/0612064
title: Concurrence of Lorentz-positive maps
authors: Roland Hildebrand
comments: 13 pages, 25 small figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612064
abstract: Let L_n be the n-dimensional Lorentz cone. A linear map M from R^m to R^n is called Lorentz-positive if M[L_m] is contained in L_n. We extend the notion of concurrence, which was initially introduced to quantify the entanglement of bipartite density matrices, to Lorentz-positive maps and provide an explicite formula for it. This allows us to obtain formulae for the concurrence of arbitrary positive operators taking 2 x 2 complex hermitian matrices as input and consequently of arbitrary bipartite density matrices of rank 2. Namely, let P: H(2) \to H(d) be a positive operator, and let \lambda_1,...,\lambda_4 be the generalized eigenvalues of the pencil \sigma_2(P(X)) - \lambda det X, in decreasing order, where \sigma_2 is the second symmetric function of the spectrum. Then the concurrence is given by the expression C(P;X) = 2\sqrt{\sigma_2(P(X)) - \lambda_2 det X}. As an application, we compute the concurrences of the density matrices of all graphs with 2 edges. Similar results apply for a function which we call I-fidelity, with the second largest generalized eigenvalue \lambda_2 replaced by the smallest eigenvalue \lambda_4.

id: quant-ph/0612065
title: Quantum mechanics without measurements
authors: Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Latex 22 pages, 3 figures in text using PSTricks
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612065
abstract: Many of the conceptual problems students have in understanding quantum mechanics arise from the way probabilities are introduced in standard (textbook) quantum theory through the use of measurements. Introducing consistent microscopic probabilities in quantum theory requires setting up appropriate sample spaces taking proper account of quantum incompatibility. When this is done the Schrodinger equation can be used to calculate probabilities independent of whether a system is or is not being measured, and the results usually ascribed to wave function collapse are obtained in a less misleading way through conditional probabilities. Toy models that include measurement apparatus as part of the total quantum system make this approach accessible to students. Some comments are made about teaching this material.

id: quant-ph/0612066
title: Improving the security of multiparty quantum secret sharing based on entanglement swapping against participant attack
authors: Song Lin, Fei Gao, Fen-Zhuo Guo, Qiao-Yan Wen, Fu-Chen Zhu
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612066
abstract: In a recent paper [Z. J. Zhang and Z. X. Man, Phys. Rev. A 72, 022303(2005)], a multiparty quantum secret sharing protocol based on entanglement swapping was presented. However, as we show, this protocol is insecure in the sense that an unauthorized agent group can recover the secret from the dealer. Hence, we propose an improved version of this protocol which can stand against this kind of attack.

id: quant-ph/0612067
title: Continuous photodetection model: quantum jump engineering and hints for experimental verification
authors: A. V. Dodonov, S. S. Mizrahi, V. V. Dodonov
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures. Contribution to the conference Quantum Optics III, Pucon - Chile, November 27-30, 2006
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 84, 012005 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612067
abstract: We examine some aspects of the continuous photodetection model for photocounting processes in cavities. First, we work out a microscopic model that describes the field-detector interaction and deduce a general expression for the Quantum Jump Superoperator (QJS), that shapes the detector's post-action on the field upon a detection. We show that in particular cases our model recovers the QJSs previously proposed ad hoc in the literature and point out that by adjusting the detector parameters one can engineer QJSs. Then we set up schemes for experimental verification of the model. By taking into account the ubiquitous non-idealities, we show that by measuring the lower photocounts moments and the mean waiting time one can check which QJS better describes the photocounting phenomenon.

id: quant-ph/0612068
title: Quantum mechanics in general quantum systems (IV): Green operator and path integral
authors: An Min Wang
comments: 6 pages, no figure. This is the fourth preprint in our serial studies. The previous three preprints are, respectively, quant-ph/0611216, quant-ph/0611217 and quant-ph/0601051
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612068
abstract: We first rewrite the perturbation expansion of the time evolution operator [An Min Wang, quant-ph/0611216] in a form as concise as possible. Then we derive out the perturbation expansion of the time-dependent complete Green operator and prove that it is just the Fourier transformation of the Dyson equation. Moreover, we obtain the perturbation expansion of the complete transition amplitude in the Feynman path integral formulism, and give an integral expression that relates the complete transition amplitude with the unperturbed transition amplitude. Further applications of these results can be expected and will be investigated in the near future.

id: quant-ph/0612069
title: Alternative perspective on photonic tunneling
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong, Bing He
comments: 24 pages, Revised version based on PRA75,013813(2007)
journal: Physical Review A 75, 013813 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612069
abstract: A relativistic quantum-mechanical description of guided waves is given, based on which we present an alternative way to describe and interpret the propagation of electromagnetic wave packets through an undersized waveguide. In particular, we show that the superluminal phenomenon of evanescent modes is actually a known conclusion in quantum field theory, and it preserves a quantum-mechanical causality.

id: quant-ph/0612070
title: Ghost Imaging: What is quantum, what is not
authors: Baris I. Erkmen, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612070
abstract: We provide a unified treatment of classical and quantum Gaussian-state sources that unambiguously identifies which features of ghost imaging are strictly quantum mechanical. We show that ghost-image formation is fundamentally classical, with the image being expressible in terms of the phase-insensitive and phase-sensitive cross correlations between the detected fields. We then consider ghost-imaging scenarios with either phase-insensitive or phase-sensitive sources, where the former are always classical but the latter may be classical or quantum mechanical. We show that if their auto-correlations are identical, then a quantum source provides resolution improvement in its near-field and field-of-view improvement in its far field when compared to a classical source.

id: quant-ph/0612071
title: Comment on "Quantum string seal is insecure"
authors: Guang Ping He
comments: 2 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 056301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612071
abstract: Recently an attack strategy was proposed by Chau [H. F. Chau, quant-ph/0602099 v3], which was claimed to be able to break all quantum string seal protocols, including the one proposed by He [G. P. He, Int. J. Quant. Inform. 4, 677 (2006)]. Here it will be shown that the information obtained in He's protocol by the attack is trivial. Thus Chau's conclusion that all quantum string seals are insecure is wrong. It will also be shown that some other claims in Chau's paper are inaccurate either.

id: quant-ph/0612072
title: Entanglement Distillation; A Discourse on Bound Entanglement in Quantum Information Theory
authors: Lieven Clarisse
comments: 192 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612072
abstract: PhD thesis (University of York). The thesis covers in a unified way the material presented in quant-ph/0403073, quant-ph/0502040, quant-ph/0504160, quant-ph/0510035, quant-ph/0512012 and quant-ph/0603283. It includes two large review chapters on entanglement and distillation.

id: quant-ph/0612073
title: Fault-tolerant linear optics quantum computation by error-detecting quantum state transfer
authors: Jaeyoon Cho
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042311 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612073
abstract: A scheme for linear optical implementation of fault-tolerant quantum computation is proposed, which is based on an error-detecting code. Each computational step is mediated by transfer of quantum information into an ancilla system embedding error-detection capability. Photons are assumed to be subjected to both photon loss and depolarization, and the threshold region of their strengths for scalable quantum computation is obtained, together with the amount of physical resources consumed. Compared to currently known results, the present scheme reduces the resource requirement, while yielding a comparable threshold region.

id: quant-ph/0612074
title: Quantum chaos with spin-chains in pulsed magnetic fields
authors: T. Boness, M.M.A. Stocklin, T.S. Monteiro
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. Submitted to PTP special issue for QMC2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612074
abstract: Recently it was found that the dynamics in a Heisenberg spin-chain subjected to a sequence of periodic pulses from an external, parabolic, magnetic field can have a close correspondence with the quantum kicked rotor (QKR). The QKR is a key paradigm of quantum chaos; it has as its classical limit the well-known Standard Map. It was found that a single spin excitation could be converted into a pair of non-dispersive, counter-propagating spin coherent states equivalent to the accelerator modes of the Standard Map. Here we consider how other types of quantum chaotic systems such as a double-kicked quantum rotor or a quantum rotor with a double-well potential might be realized with spin chains; we discuss the possibilities regarding manipulation of the one-magnon spin waves.

id: quant-ph/0612075
title: Experimental tests of hidden variable theories from dBB to Stochastic Electrodynamics
authors: Giorgio Brida, Marco Genovese, Marco Gramegna, Fabrizio Piacentini, Enrico Predazzi, Ivano Ruo-Berchera
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 67 (2007) 012047
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612075
abstract: In this paper we present some of our experimental results on testing hidden variable theories, which range from Bell inequalities measurements to a conclusive test of stochastic electrodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0612076
title: A Variant and Explanation of the Delayed Choice Experiment
authors: Vladan Pankovi?, Milan Predojevi?
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612076
abstract: In this work we suggest a variant of the remarkable Wheeler's delayed choice gedanken experiment. In our experiment, single photon described by a superposition state with two terms dynamically interacts with an atom. Preparation of the atom in any of two excited states can be realized practically in the last moment before interaction. For atom in the first excited state there is practically none dynamical interaction between atom and photon so that the interference effects on the photon can be detected later by a photo plate. For atom in the second excited state dynamical interaction between photon and atom causes certainly the stimulated emission of a new photon that moves coherently with the first photon. Both photons do a super-system described by an entangled quantum state. But in this case photo plate, that realizes simultaneously sub-systemic measurement at any photon, does not detect interference effects. We suggest a simple explanation of given as well as original variant of the delayed choice experiment in full agreement with standard quantum mechanical formalism.

id: quant-ph/0612077
title: A Re-evaluation of Shor's Algorithm
authors: John W. Cooper
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612077
abstract: Shor's algorithm is examined critically from the standpoint of it's eventual use to obtain the factors of large integers.

id: quant-ph/0612078
title: Monitoring approach to open quantum dynamics using scattering theory
authors: Klaus Hornberger
comments: 5 pages; published version
journal: EPL 77, 50007 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612078
abstract: It is shown how S-matrix theory and the concept of continuous quantum measurements can be combined to yield Markovian master equations which describe the environmental interaction non-perturbatively. The method is then applied to obtain the master equation for the effects of a gas on the internal dynamics of an immobile complex quantum system, such as a trapped molecule, in terms of the exact multi-channel scattering amplitudes.

id: quant-ph/0612079
title: Narrow entanglement beats
authors: L. Roa, R. Pozo-Gonzalez, M. Schaefer, P. Utreras-SM
comments: six pages and two figure included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612079
abstract: We study how the entanglement between two atoms can be created or modified even when they do not interact but when each of them interacts dispersively, i.e., weak and far from the resonance with a single mode of the field. Considering that regime we apply a method which makes use of a small nonlinear deformation of the usual SU(2) algebra in order to obtain the effective Hamiltonian describing correctly the dynamics for any initial states. In particular we study two cases: In the first one we consider each atom initially in a pure state and in the second case we assume that they start in a Werner state. We find that both atoms can reach, periodically, maximum entanglement if each of them starts in any eigenstate of the x-componet of the Pauli oprator, independent of the initial Fock state of the mode. Thus we find that a dispersive vacuum can generate entanglement between two two-level atoms. In the second case and when the field mode is initially in a coherent or thermal state, we find that in the high energy limit, in general, there is no entanglement between the two atoms however at well defined moments the initial entanglement is as suddenly recovered as removed. This time behavior looks like narrow beats separated by the so called entanglement dead valleys.

id: quant-ph/0612080
title: Loss-Induced Limits to Phase Measurement Precision with Maximally Entangled States
authors: Mark A. Rubin, Sumanth Kaushik
comments: Additional references included
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75 (2007) 053805
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612080
abstract: The presence of loss limits the precision of an approach to phase measurement using maximally entangled states, also referred to as NOON states. A calculation using a simple beam-splitter model of loss shows that, for all nonzero values L of the loss, phase measurement precision degrades with increasing number N of entangled photons for N sufficiently large. For L above a critical value of approximately 0.785, phase measurement precision degrades with increasing N for all values of N. For L near zero, phase measurement precision improves with increasing N down to a limiting precision of approximately 1.018 L radians, attained at N approximately equal to 2.218/L, and degrades as N increases beyond this value. Phase measurement precision with multiple measurements and a fixed total number of photons N_T is also examined. For L above a critical value of approximately 0.586, the ratio of phase measurement precision attainable with NOON states to that attainable by conventional methods using unentangled coherent states degrades with increasing N, the number of entangled photons employed in a single measurement, for all values of N. For L near zero this ratio is optimized by using approximately N=1.279/L entangled photons in each measurement, yielding a precision of approximately 1.340 sqrt(L/N_T) radians.

id: quant-ph/0612081
title: Detecting Hidden Differences via Permutation Symmetries
authors: R. B. A. Adamson, P. S. Turner, M. W. Mitchell, A. M. Steinberg
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612081
abstract: We present a method for describing and characterizing the state of N particles that may be distinguishable in principle but not in practice due to experimental limitations. The technique relies upon a careful treatment of the exchange symmetry of the state among experimentally accessible and experimentally inaccessible degrees of freedom. The approach we present allows a new formalisation of the notion of indistinguishability and can be implemented easily using currently available experimental techniques. Our work is of direct relevance to current experiments in quantum optics, for which we provide a specific implementation.

id: quant-ph/0612082
title: Photon storage in Lambda-type optically dense atomic media. I. Cavity model
authors: Alexey V. Gorshkov, Axel Andre, Mikhail D. Lukin, Anders S. Sorensen
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures. V2: significant changes in presentation, new references, higher resolution of figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 033804 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612082
abstract: In a recent paper [Gorshkov et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 123601 (2007)], we used a universal physical picture to optimize and demonstrate equivalence between a wide range of techniques for storage and retrieval of photon wave packets in Lambda-type atomic media in free space, including the adiabatic reduction of the photon group velocity, pulse-propagation control via off-resonant Raman techniques, and photon-echo-based techniques. In the present paper, we perform the same analysis for the cavity model. In particular, we show that the retrieval efficiency is equal to C/(1+C) independent of the retrieval technique, where C is the cooperativity parameter. We also derive the optimal strategy for storage and, in particular, demonstrate that at any detuning one can store, with the optimal efficiency of C/(1+C), any smooth input mode satisfying T C gamma >> 1 and a certain class of resonant input modes satisfying T C gamma ~ 1, where T is the duration of the input mode and 2 gamma is the transition linewidth. In the two subsequent papers of the series, we present the full analysis of the free-space model and discuss the effects of inhomogeneous broadening on photon storage.

id: quant-ph/0612083
title: Photon storage in Lambda-type optically dense atomic media. II. Free-space model
authors: Alexey V. Gorshkov, Axel Andre, Mikhail D. Lukin, Anders S. Sorensen
comments: 26 pages, 8 figures. V2: significant changes in presentation, new references, higher resolution of figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 033805 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612083
abstract: In a recent paper [Gorshkov et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 123601 (2007)], we presented a universal physical picture for describing a wide range of techniques for storage and retrieval of photon wave packets in Lambda-type atomic media in free space, including the adiabatic reduction of the photon group velocity, pulse-propagation control via off-resonant Raman techniques, and photon-echo based techniques. This universal picture produced an optimal control strategy for photon storage and retrieval applicable to all approaches and yielded identical maximum efficiencies for all of them. In the present paper, we present the full details of this analysis as well some of its extensions, including the discussion of the effects of non-degeneracy of the two lower levels of the Lambda system. The analysis in the present paper is based on the intuition obtained from the study of photon storage in the cavity model in the preceding paper [Gorshkov et al., Phys. Rev. A 76, 033804 (2007)].

id: quant-ph/0612084
title: Photon storage in Lambda-type optically dense atomic media. III. Effects of inhomogeneous broadening
authors: Alexey V. Gorshkov, Axel Andre, Mikhail D. Lukin, Anders S. Sorensen
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures. V2: minor changes in presentation, new references, higher resolution of figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 033806 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612084
abstract: In a recent paper [Gorshkov et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 123601 (2007)] and in the two preceding papers [Gorshkov et al., Phys. Rev. A 76, 033804 (2007); 76, 033805 (2007)], we used a universal physical picture to optimize and demonstrate equivalence between a wide range of techniques for storage and retrieval of photon wave packets in homogeneously broadened Lambda-type atomic media, including the adiabatic reduction of the photon group velocity, pulse-propagation control via off-resonant Raman techniques, and photon-echo-based techniques. In the present paper, we generalize this treatment to include inhomogeneous broadening. In particular, we consider the case of Doppler-broadened atoms and assume that there is a negligible difference between the Doppler shifts of the two optical transitions. In this situation, we show that, at high enough optical depth, all atoms contribute coherently to the storage process as if the medium were homogeneously broadened. We also discuss the effects of inhomogeneous broadening in solid state samples. In this context, we discuss the advantages and limitations of reversing the inhomogeneous broadening during the storage time, as well as suggest a way for achieving high efficiencies with a nonreversible inhomogeneous profile.

id: quant-ph/0612085
title: Randomized and Quantum Solution of Initial-Value Problems for Ordinary Differential Equations of Order k
authors: Marek Szczesny
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612085
abstract: We study possible advantages of randomized and quantum computing over deterministic computing for scalar initial-value problems for ordinary differential equations of order k. For systems of equations of the first order this question has been settled modulo some details in \cite{Kacewicz05}. A speed-up over deterministic computing shown in \cite{Kacewicz05} is related to the increased regularity of the solution with respect to that of the right-hand side function. For a scalar equation of order k (which can be transformed into a special system of the first order), the regularity of the solution is increased by k orders of magnitude. This leads to improved complexity bounds depending on k for linear information in the deterministic setting, see \cite{Szczesny05}. This may suggest that in the randomized and quantum settings a speed-up can also be achieved depending on k. We show in this paper that a speed-up dependent on k is not possible in the randomized and quantum settings. We establish lower complexity bounds, showing that the randomized and quantum complexities remain at the some level as for systems of the first order, no matter how large k is. Thus, the algorithms from \cite{Kacewicz05} remain (almost) optimal, even if we restrict ourselves to a subclass of systems arising from scalar equations of order k.

id: quant-ph/0612086
title: Continuous-time cross-phase modulation and quantum computation
authors: Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Mohsen Razavi
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures; values of C and D corrected in equation (45); new figures 3, 4, and 5
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612086
abstract: The weak nonlinear Kerr interaction between single photons and intense laser fields has been recently proposed as a basis for distributed optics-based solutions to few-qubit applications in quantum communication and computation. Here, we analyze the above Kerr interaction by employing a continuous-time multi-mode model for the input/output fields to/from the nonlinear medium. In contrast to previous single-mode treatments of this problem, our analysis takes into account the full temporal content of the free-field input beams as well as the non-instantaneous response of the medium. The main implication of this model, in which the cross-Kerr phase shift on one input is proportional to the photon flux of the other input, is the existence of phase noise terms at the output. We show that these phase noise terms will preclude satisfactory performance of the parity gate proposed by Munro, Nemoto, and Spiller [New J. Phys. 7, 137 (2005)].

id: quant-ph/0612087
title: Dense-coding quantum key distribution based on continuous-variable entanglement
authors: Xiaolong Su, Jietai Jing, Qing Pan, Changde Xie
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74,062305 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612087
abstract: We proposed a scheme of continuous-variable quantum key distribution, in which the bright Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entangled optical beams are utilized. The source of the entangled beams is placed inside the receiving station, where half of the entangled beams are transmitted with round trip and the other half are retained by the receiver. The amplitude and phase signals modulated on the signal beam by the sender are simultaneously extracted by the authorized receiver with the scheme of the dense-coding correlation measurement for continuous quantum variables, thus the channel capacity is significantly improved. Two kinds of possible eavesdropping are discussed. The mutual information and the secret key rates are calculated and compared with those of unidirectional transmission schemes.

id: quant-ph/0612088
title: Singularity of Berry Connections Inhibits the Accuracy of Adiabatic Approximation
authors: Jie Liu, Li-Bin Fu
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 370, 17(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612088
abstract: Adiabatic approximation for quantum evolution is investigated quantitatively with addressing its dependence on the Berry connections. We find that, in the adiabatic limit, the adiabatic fidelity may uniformly converge to unit or diverge manifesting the breakdown of adiabatic approximation, depending on the type of the singularity of the Berry connections as the functions of slowly-varying parameter $R$. When the Berry connections have a singularity of $1/R^\sigma$ type with $\sigma < 1$, the adiabatic fidelity converges to unit in a power-law; whereas when the singularity index $\sigma$ is larger than one, adiabatic approximation breaks down. Two-level models are used to substantiate our theory.

id: quant-ph/0612089
title: On the impossibility of a quantum sieve algorithm for graph isomorphism: unconditional results
authors: Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell, Piotr Sniady
comments: An earlier preprint, quant-ph/0609138, gave versions of these results which were conditional on a group-theoretic conjecture. This version provides unconditional results
journal: In: STOC '07: Proceedings of the thirty-ninth annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing, pages 536-545, New York, NY, USA, 2007. ACM Press
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612089
abstract: It is known that any quantum algorithm for Graph Isomorphism that works within the framework of the hidden subgroup problem (HSP) must perform highly entangled measurements across \Omega(n \log n) coset states. One of the only known models for how such a measurement could be carried out efficiently is Kuperberg's algorithm for the HSP in the dihedral group, in which quantum states are adaptively combined and measured according to the decomposition of tensor products into irreducible representations. This ``quantum sieve'' starts with coset states, and works its way down towards representations whose probabilities differ depending on, for example, whether the hidden subgroup is trivial or nontrivial. In this paper we show that no such approach can produce a polynomial-time quantum algorithm for Graph Isomorphism. Specifically, we consider the natural reduction of Graph Isomorphism to the HSP over the the wreath product S_n\wr Z_2. Using a recently proved bound on the irreducible characters of S_n, we show that no algorithm in this family can solve Graph Isomorphism in less than e^{\Omega(\sqrt{n})} time, no matter what adaptive rule it uses to select and combine quantum states. In particular, algorithms of this type can offer essentially no improvement over the best known classical algorithms, which run in time e^{O(\sqrt{n \log n})}.

id: quant-ph/0612090
title: Zitterbewegung at the level of quantum field theory
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong
comments: 10 pages, no figure, to be published in Chinese Physics
journal: Chin. Phys. B 17 (11), 4170 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612090
abstract: Traditionally, the zitterbewegung (ZB) of the Dirac electron has just been studied at the level of quantum mechanics. Seeing that the fact that an old interest in ZB has recently been rekindled by the investigations on spintronic, graphene, and superconducting systems, etc., in this paper we present a quantum-field-theory investigation on ZB and obtain the conclusion that, the ZB of an electron arises from the influence of virtual electron-positron pairs (or vacuum fluctuations) on the electron.

id: quant-ph/0612091
title: On the unitarity of higher-dervative and nonlocal theories
authors: Katarzyna Bolonek, Piotr Kosinski
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: J.Phys.A40:11561-11568,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612091
abstract: We consider two simple models of higher-derivative and nonlocal quantu systems.It is shown that, contrary to some claims found in literature, they can be made unitary.

id: quant-ph/0612092
title: Information/disturbance trade-off in single and sequential measurements on a qudit signal
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 7 pages, 4 figure. Proceedings of DICE06 (Piombino)
journal: J. Phys. CP 67, 012029 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612092
abstract: We address the trade-off between information gain and state disturbance in measurement performed on qudit systems and devise a class of optimal measurement schemes that saturate the ultimate bound imposed by quantum mechanics to estimation and transmission fidelities. The schemes are minimal, i.e. they involve a single additional probe qudit, and optimal, i.e. they provide the maximum amount of information compatible with a given level of disturbance. The performances of optimal single-user schemes in extracting information by sequential measurements in a N -user transmission line are also investigated, and the optimality is analyzed by explicit evaluation of fidelities. We found that the estimation fidelity does not depend on the number of users, neither for single-measure inference nor for collective one, whereas the transmission fidelity decreases with N . The resulting trade-off is no longer optimal and degrades with increasing N . We found that optimality can be restored by an effective preparation of the probe states and present explicitly calculations for the 2-user case.

id: quant-ph/0612093
title: Lorentz-covariant deformed algebra with minimal length
authors: C. Quesne, V.M. Tkachuk
comments: 8 pages, no figure, presented at XV International Colloquium on Integrable Systems and Quantum Symmetries (ISQS-15), Prague, June 15-17, 2006
journal: Czech.J.Phys.56:1269-1274,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612093
abstract: The $D$-dimensional two-parameter deformed algebra with minimal length introduced by Kempf is generalized to a Lorentz-covariant algebra describing a ($D+1$)-dimensional quantized space-time. For D=3, it includes Snyder algebra as a special case. The deformed Poincar\'e transformations leaving the algebra invariant are identified. Uncertainty relations are studied. In the case of D=1 and one nonvanishing parameter, the bound-state energy spectrum and wavefunctions of the Dirac oscillator are exactly obtained.

id: quant-ph/0612094
title: More on an exactly solvable position-dependent mass Schroedinger equation in two dimensions: Algebraic approach and extensions to three dimensions
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 23 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612094
abstract: An exactly solvable position-dependent mass Schr\"odinger equation in two dimensions, depicting a particle moving in a semi-infinite layer, is re-examined in the light of recent theories describing superintegrable two-dimensional systems with integrals of motion that are quadratic functions of the momenta. To get the energy spectrum a quadratic algebra approach is used together with a realization in terms of deformed parafermionic oscillator operators. In this process, the importance of supplementing algebraic considerations with a proper treatment of boundary conditions for selecting physical wavefunctions is stressed. Some new results for matrix elements are derived. Finally, the two-dimensional model is extended to two integrable and exactly solvable (but not superintegrable) models in three dimensions, depicting a particle in a semi-infinite parallelepipedal or cylindrical channel, respectively.

id: quant-ph/0612095
title: Dynamics of the Jayne-Cummings and Rabi models: old wine in new bottles
authors: Jonas Larson
comments: 16 pages, 17 figures; Replaced by published version; Accepted in Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612095
abstract: By using a wave packet approach, this paper reviews the Jaynes-Cummings model with and without the rotating wave approximation in a non-standard way. This gives new insight, not only of the two models themselves, but of the rotating wave approximation as well. Expressing the models by field quadrature operators, instead of the typically used boson ladder operators, wave packet simulations are presented. Several known phenomena of these systems, such as collapse-revivals, Rabi oscillation, squeezing and entanglement, are reviewed and explained in this new picture, either in an adiabatic or diabatic frame. The harmonic shape of the potential curves that the wave packets evolve on and the existence of a level crossing make these results interesting in a broader sense than only for models in quantum optics, especially in atomic and molecular physics.

id: quant-ph/0612096
title: Compatibility of representations of quantum systems
authors: Robert A. Van Wesep
comments: The main theorem of this article is very basic, but I have been unable to find any discussion of it or the issue it addresses in the existing literature. As I do not wish to present this as new if it is not, I would greatly appreciate any pertinent reference--even if only a published statement that it is "well known" or "folklore"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612096
abstract: There is a natural equivalence relation on representations of the states of a given quantum system in a Hilbert space, two representations being equivalent iff they are related by a unitary transformation. There are two equivalence classes, with members of opposite classes being related by a conjugate-unitary (anti-unitary) transformation. These two conjugacy classes are related in much the same way as are the two imaginary units of a complex field, and there is a priori no basis on which to prefer one over the other in any individual case. This is potentially problematic in that the choice of conjugacy class of a representation determines the sign of energy and other quantities defined as generators of continuous symmetries of the system in question, so that it would appear that principles like conservation of energy for a compound system may hold or fail depending on relative choices of conjugacy class of representations of its subsystems. We show that for any finite set of quantum systems there are exactly two ways of choosing conjugacy classes of representations consistent with the usual tensor-product construction for representing the compound system composed of these. Each is obtained from the other by reversing the conjugacy of all the representations at once. The relation of unitary equivalence for representations of a single system is therefore uniquely extendible to representations of all systems that can interact with it.

id: quant-ph/0612097
title: Stabilizer Quantum Error Correction with Qubus Computation
authors: Casey R. Myers, Marcus Silva, Kae Nemoto, William J. Munro
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012303 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612097
abstract: In this paper we investigate stabilizer quantum error correction codes using controlled phase rotations of strong coherent probe states. We explicitly describe two methods to measure the Pauli operators which generate the stabilizer group of a quantum code. First, we show how to measure a Pauli operator acting on physical qubits using a single coherent state with large average photon number, displacement operations, and photon detection. Second, we show how to measure the stabilizer operators fault-tolerantly by the deterministic preparation of coherent cat states along with one-bit teleportations between a qubit-like encoding of coherent states and physical qubits.

id: quant-ph/0612098
title: Multipartite entanglement characterization of a quantum phase transition
authors: G. Costantini, P. Facchi, G. Florio, S. Pascazio
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, final version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 8009-8018
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612098
abstract: A probability density characterization of multipartite entanglement is tested on the one-dimensional quantum Ising model in a transverse field. The average and second moment of the probability distribution are numerically shown to be good indicators of the quantum phase transition. We comment on multipartite entanglement generation at a quantum phase transition.

id: quant-ph/0612099
title: Entanglement quantification with Fisher information
authors: Akira kitagawa, Masahiro Takeoka, Masahide Sasaki, Anthony Chefles
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612099
abstract: We show that the Fisher information associated with entanglement-assisted coding has a monotonic relationship with the logarithmic negativity, an important entanglement measure, for certain classes of continuous variable (CV) quantum states of practical significance. These are the two-mode squeezed states and the non-Gaussian states obtained from them by photon subtraction. This monotonic correspondence can be expressed analytically in the case of pure states. Numerical analysis shows that this relationship holds to a very good approximation even in the mixed state case of the photon-subtracted squeezed states. The Fisher information is evaluated by the CV Bell measurement in the limit of weak signal modulation. Our results suggest that the logarithmic negativity of certain sets of non-Gaussian mixed states can be experimentally accessed without homodyne tomography, leading to significant simplification of the experimental procedure.

id: quant-ph/0612100
title: Preamplified photodetectors for high-fidelity postselecting optical devices
authors: John Jeffers
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures, typos corrected and Journal Ref Added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012335 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612100
abstract: The fidelity of postselecting devices based on direct photon number detection can be significantly improved by insertion of a phase-insensitive optical amplifier in front of the detector. The scheme is simple, and the cost to the probability of obtaining the appropriate detector outcome is low.

id: quant-ph/0612101
title: Sequential Generation of Matrix-Product States in Cavity QED
authors: C. Schoen, K. Hammerer, M.M. Wolf, J.I. Cirac, E. Solano
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032311 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612101
abstract: We study the sequential generation of entangled photonic and atomic multi-qubit states in the realm of cavity QED. We extend the work of C. Schoen et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 110503 (2005)], where it was shown that all states generated in a sequential manner can be classified efficiently in terms of matrix-product states. In particular, we consider two scenarios: photonic multi-qubit states sequentially generated at the cavity output of a single-photon source and atomic multi-qubit states generated by their sequential interaction with the same cavity mode.

id: quant-ph/0612102
title: Theoretical evidence for the superluminality of evanescent modes
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 75, 042105 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612102
abstract: Though both theoretical and experimental investigations have revealed the superluminal behavior of evanescent electromagnetic waves, there are many disputes about the physical meaning and validity of such superluminal phenomenon, which is due to the fact that the traditional investigations are based on the theory of tunneling time, and concerned with the problem of what the group velocity of evanescent waves means. In this paper, by studying the quantum probability amplitude for photons to propagate over a spacelike interval along an undersized waveguide, we present theoretical evidence for such superluminality.

id: quant-ph/0612103
title: Some remarks on the theorems of Gleason and Kochen-Specker
authors: Helena Granstrom
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612103
abstract: A Gleason-type theorem is proved for two restricted classes of informationally complete POVMs in the qubit case. A particular (incomplete) Kochen-Specker colouring, suggested by Appleby in dimension three, is generalized to arbitrary dimension. We investigate its effectivity as a function of dimension, using two different measures of this. In particular, we will derive a limit for the fraction of the sphere that can be satisfactorily coloured using the generalized Appleby construction as the number of dimensions approaches infinity. The second, and physically more relevant measure of effectivity, is to look at the fraction of possible ON-bases properly coloured. Using this measure, we will derive a 'lower bound for the upper bound' in three and four real dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0612104
title: Anisotropically high entanglement of biphotons generated in spontaneous parametric down conversion
authors: M.V. Fedorov, M.A. Efremov, P.A. Volkov, E.V. Moreva, S.S. Straupe, S.P. Kulik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612104
abstract: We show that the wave packet of a biphoton generated via spontaneous parametric down conversion is strongly anisotropic. Its anisotropic features manifest themselves very clearly in comparison of measurements performed in two different schemes: when the detector scanning plane is perpendicular or parallel to the plane containing the crystal optical axis and the laser axis. The first of these two schemes is traditional whereas the second one gives rise to such unexpected new results as anomalously strong narrowing of the biphoton wave packet measured in the coincidence scheme and very high degree of entanglement. The results are predicted theoretically and confirmed experimentally.

id: quant-ph/0612105
title: Numerical Bayesian state assignment for a three-level quantum system. I. Absolute-frequency data; constant and Gaussian-like priors
authors: A. M?nsson, P. G. L. Porta Mana, G. Bj?rk
comments: 23 pages, 14 figures. V2: Added an important note concerning cylindrical algebraic decomposition and thanks to P B Slater, corrected some typos, added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612105
abstract: This paper offers examples of concrete numerical applications of Bayesian quantum-state-assignment methods to a three-level quantum system. The statistical operator assigned on the evidence of various measurement data and kinds of prior knowledge is computed partly analytically, partly through numerical integration (in eight dimensions) on a computer. The measurement data consist in absolute frequencies of the outcomes of N identical von Neumann projective measurements performed on N identically prepared three-level systems. Various small values of N as well as the large-N limit are considered. Two kinds of prior knowledge are used: one represented by a plausibility distribution constant in respect of the convex structure of the set of statistical operators; the other represented by a Gaussian-like distribution centred on a pure statistical operator, and thus reflecting a situation in which one has useful prior knowledge about the likely preparation of the system. In a companion paper the case of measurement data consisting in average values, and an additional prior studied by Slater, are considered.

id: quant-ph/0612106
title: Error-resistant Single Qubit Gates with Trapped Ions
authors: N. Timoney, V. Elman, W. Neuhauser, Chr. Wunderlich
comments: 5 pages 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 77, 052334 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612106
abstract: Coherent operations constitutive for the implementation of single and multi-qubit quantum gates with trapped ions are demonstrated that are robust against variations in experimental parameters and intrinsically indeterministic system parameters. In particular, pulses developed using optimal control theory are demonstrated for the first time with trapped ions. Their performance as a function of error parameters is systematically investigated and compared to composite pulses.

id: quant-ph/0612107
title: How a Clebsch-Gordan Transform Helps to Solve the Heisenberg Hidden Subgroup Problem
authors: Dave Bacon
comments: 30 pages, uses qic.sty
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612107
abstract: It has recently been shown that quantum computers can efficiently solve the Heisenberg hidden subgroup problem, a problem whose classical query complexity is exponential. This quantum algorithm was discovered within the framework of using pretty-good measurements for obtaining optimal measurements in the hidden subgroup problem. Here we show how to solve the Heisenberg hidden subgroup problem using arguments based instead on the symmetry of certain hidden subgroup states. The symmetry we consider leads naturally to a unitary transform known as the Clebsch-Gordan transform over the Heisenberg group. This gives a new representation theoretic explanation for the pretty-good measurement derived algorithm for efficiently solving the Heisenberg hidden subgroup problem and provides evidence that Clebsch-Gordan transforms over finite groups are a new primitive in quantum algorithm design.

id: quant-ph/0612108
title: Nonlinear entanglement witnesses, covariance matrices and the geometry of separable states
authors: Otfried G¨¹hne, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, for the proceedings of DICE2006 in Piombino (Italy)
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 67, 012004 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612108
abstract: Entanglement witnesses provide a standard tool for the analysis of entanglement in experiments. We investigate possible nonlinear entanglement witnesses from several perspectives. First, we demonstrate that they can be used to show that the set of separable states has no facets. Second, we give a new derivation of nonlinear witnesses based on covariance matrices. Finally, we investigate extensions to the multipartite case.

id: quant-ph/0612109
title: About the Exact Role of Disturbance in Heisenberg's Uncertainty Relation
authors: Johan Wulleman
comments: 26 pages, 3 figures; available from this http URL . This paper goes together with another paper: J.Wulleman, Concepts of Physics 3, 211 (2006), available from this http URL
journal: Physics Essays 16 (2003) 413-427
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612109
abstract: It is generally accepted that the disturbance interpretation cannot explain Heisenberg's uncertainty relation DxDp=h. In this paper a clear distinction will be made between the notions of state preparation and measurement, noting that the disturbance that is referred to in Heisenberg's disturbance interpretation is usually caused by the measurement. The main goal of this paper is to examine and discuss to what extent disturbance during the state preparation plays a role in the interpretation of Heisenberg's uncertainty relation. This examination will be done in the context of a single-slit experiment. To conclude this paper a novel single-slit experiment will be proposed and discussed with which a clearer insight could be gained into the exact role of disturbance when a quantum system passes a single-slit.

id: quant-ph/0612110
title: Quantum fluctuations of Coulomb Potential as a Source of Flicker Noise. The Influence of Heat Bath
authors: Kirill A. Kazakov
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures. The published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 5277-5296
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612110
abstract: The power spectrum of finite-temperature quantum electromagnetic fluctuations produced by elementary charge carriers under the influence of external electric field is investigated. It is found that under the combined action of the photon heat bath and the external field, the low-frequency asymptotic of the power spectrum is modified both qualitatively and quantitatively. The new term in the power spectrum is inversely proportional to, but is odd in frequency. It comes from the connected part of the correlation function, and is related to the temperature and external field corrections to the photon and charge carrier propagators. In application to the case of a biased conducting sample, this term gives rise to a contribution to the voltage power spectrum which is proportional to the absolute system temperature, the charge carrier mobility, the bias voltage squared, and a factor describing dependence of the noise intensity on the sample geometry. It is verified that the derived expression is in agreement with the experimental data on 1/f-noise measurements in metal films.

id: quant-ph/0612111
title: Multi-impurity effects on the entanglement of anisotropic Heisenberg ring XXZ under a homogeneous magnetic field
authors: Gao Wen Bin, Yang Guo Hui, Zhou Ling
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612111
abstract: The effects of multi-impurity on the entanglement of anisotropic Heisenberg ring XXZ under a homogeneous magnetic field have been studied. The impurities make the equal pairwise entanglement in a ring compete with each other so that the pairwise entanglement exhibits oscillation. If the impurities are of larger couplings, both the critical temperature and pairwise entanglement can be improved

id: quant-ph/0612112
title: Secure self-calibrating quantum random bit generator
authors: M. Fiorentino, C. M. Santori, S. M. Spillane, W. J. Munro, R. G. Beausoleil
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032334 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612112
abstract: Random bit generators (RBGs) are key components of a variety of information processing applications ranging from simulations to cryptography. In particular, cryptographic systems require "strong" RBGs that produce high-entropy bit sequences, but traditional software pseudo-RBGs have very low entropy content and therefore are relatively weak for cryptography. Hardware RBGs yield entropy from chaotic or quantum physical systems and therefore are expected to exhibit high entropy, but in current implementations their exact entropy content is unknown. Here we report a quantum random bit generator (QRBG) that harvests entropy by measuring single-photon and entangled two-photon polarization states. We introduce and implement a quantum tomographic method to measure a lower bound on the "min-entropy" of the system, and we employ this value to distill a truly random bit sequence. This approach is secure: even if an attacker takes control of the source of optical states, a secure random sequence can be distilled.

id: quant-ph/0612113
title: A new construction for a QMA complete 3-local Hamiltonian
authors: Daniel Nagaj, Shay Mozes
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48, 072104 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612113
abstract: We present a new way of encoding a quantum computation into a 3-local Hamiltonian. Our construction is novel in that it does not include any terms that induce legal-illegal clock transitions. Therefore, the weights of the terms in the Hamiltonian do not scale with the size of the problem as in previous constructions. This improves the construction by Kempe and Regev, who were the first to prove that 3-local Hamiltonian is complete for the complexity class QMA, the quantum analogue of NP. Quantum k-SAT, a restricted version of the local Hamiltonian problem using only projector terms, was introduced by Bravyi as an analogue of the classical k-SAT problem. Bravyi proved that quantum 4-SAT is complete for the class QMA with one-sided error (QMA_1) and that quantum 2-SAT is in P. We give an encoding of a quantum circuit into a quantum 4-SAT Hamiltonian using only 3-local terms. As an intermediate step to this 3-local construction, we show that quantum 3-SAT for particles with dimensions 3x2x2 (a qutrit and two qubits) is QMA_1 complete. The complexity of quantum 3-SAT with qubits remains an open question.

id: quant-ph/0612114
title: Fake one-time pad cannot be used to improve the efficiency of quantum communication
authors: Fei Gao, Su-Juan Qin, Qiao-Yan Wen, Fu-Chen Zhu
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612114
abstract: Two misuses of one-time pad in improving the efficiency of quantum communication are pointed out. One happens when using some message bits to encrypt others, the other exists because the key bits are not truly random. Both of them result in the decrease of security. Therefore, one-time pad should be used carefully in designing quantum communication protocols.

id: quant-ph/0612115
title: Quantum dynamics of double-qubits in a spin star lattice with an XY interaction
authors: Jun Jing, Zhi-Guo L¨¹
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures, submitted to JPA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612115
abstract: The dynamics of two coupled spins-1/2 interacting with a spin-bath via the quantum Heisenberg XY coupling is studied. The pair of central spins served as a quantum open subsystem are initially prepared in two types of states: the product states and the Bell states. The bath, which consists of $N$ (in the thermodynamic limit $N\to\infty$) mutually coupled spins-1/2, is in a thermal state at the beginning. By the Holstein-Primakoff transformation, the model can be treated effectively as two spin qubits embedded in a single mode cavity. The time-evolution of the purity, z-component summation and the concurrence of the central spins can be determined by a Laguerre polynomial scheme. It is found that (i) at a low temperature, the uncoupled subsystem in a product state can be entangled due to the interaction with bath, which is tested by the Peres-Horodecki separability; however, at a high temperature, the bath produces a stronger destroy effect on the purity and entanglement of the subsystem; (ii) when the coupling strength between the two central spins is large, they are protected strongly against the bath; (iii) when the interaction between the subsystem and the bath is strong, the collapse of the two spin qubits from their initial entangled state is fast.

id: quant-ph/0612116
title: New experimental limit on Pauli Exclusion Principle violation by electrons (the VIP experiment)
authors: S. Bartalucci, S. Bertolucci, M. Bragadireanu, M. Cargnelli, M. Catitti, C. Curceanu, S. Di Matteo, J.-P. Egger, C. Guaraldo, M. Iliescu, T. Ishiwatari, M. Laubenstein, J. Marton, E. Milotti, D. Pietreanu, T. Ponta, D.L. Sirghi, F. Sirghi, L. Sperandio, O. Vazquez Doce, E. Widmann, J. Zmeskal
comments: submitted to Journal of Physics: Conference Series, by the Institute of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612116
abstract: The Pauli exclusion principle (PEP) represents one of the basic principles of modern physics and, even if there are no compelling reasons to doubt its validity, it still spurs a lively debate, because an intuitive, elementary explanation is still missing, and because of its unique stand among the basic symmetries of physics. A new limit on the probability that PEP is violated by electrons was estabilished by the VIP (VIolation of the Pauli exclusion principle) Collaboration, using the method of searching for PEP forbidden atomic transitions in copper. The preliminary value, ${1/2}\beta^{2} \textless 4.5\times 10^{-28}$, represents an improvement of about two orders of magnitude of the previous limit. The goal of VIP is to push this limit at the level of $10^{-30}$.

id: quant-ph/0612117
title: Entanglement of three-qubit geometry
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Anna C. T. Gustavsson, Lane P. Hughston
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Based on the talk presented at DICE 2006
journal: Journal of Physics: Conf. Ser. 67 (2007) 012044
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612117
abstract: Geometric quantum mechanics aims to express the physical properties of quantum systems in terms of geometrical features preferentially selected in the space of pure states. Geometric characterisations are given here for systems of one, two, and three spin-1/2 particles, drawing attention to the classification of quantum states into entanglement types.

id: quant-ph/0612118
title: Introduction to decoherence theory
authors: Klaus Hornberger
comments: 57 pages, 2 figures; some new material added and typos corrected. This corresponds to the published version
journal: K. Hornberger, Lect. Notes Phys. 768, 221-276 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612118
abstract: This is an introduction to the theory of decoherence with an emphasis on its microscopic origins and on a dynamic description. The text corresponds to a chapter soon to be published in: A. Buchleitner, C. Viviescas, and M. Tiersch (Eds.), Entanglement and Decoherence. Foundations and Modern Trends, Lecture Notes in Physics, Vol 768, Springer, Berlin (2009)

id: quant-ph/0612119
title: Fibre-optics implementation of asymmetric phase-covariant quantum cloner
authors: Lucie Bartuskova, Miloslav Dusek, Antonin Cernoch, Jan Soubusta, Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 120505 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612119
abstract: We present the experimental realization of optimal symmetric and asymmetric phase-covariant 1->2 cloning of qubit states using fiber optics. State of each qubit is encoded into a single photon which can propagate through two optical fibers. The operation of our device is based on one- and two-photon interference. We have demonstrated creation of two copies of any state of a qubit from the equator of the Bloch sphere. The measured fidelities of both copies are close to the theoretical values and they surpass the theoretical maximum obtainable with the universal cloner.

id: quant-ph/0612120
title: On quantum microcanonical equilibrium
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Daniel W. Hook, Lane P. Hughston
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. To appear in DICE 2006 conference proceedings
journal: Journal of Physics: Conf. Ser. 67 (2007) 012025
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612120
abstract: A quantum microcanonical postulate is proposed as a basis for the equilibrium properties of small quantum systems. Expressions for the corresponding density of states are derived, and are used to establish the existence of phase transitions for finite quantum systems. A grand microcanonical ensemble is introduced, which can be used to obtain new rigorous results in quantum statistical mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0612121
title: Security of decoy-state quantum key distribution with inexactly controlled source
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Jun Zhang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612121
abstract: We show the unconditional security of decoy-state method quantum cryptography with whatever intensity error pattern provided that the error is not too large. Our result immediately applies to the existing experimental data. Our result is not limitted to coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0612122
title: A q-Oscillator with 'Accidental' Degeneracy of Energy Levels
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, A.P. Rebesh
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures; v.2 misprints corrected, two references added, to appear in Mod.Phys.Lett.A
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A22:949-960,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612122
abstract: We study main features of the exotic case of q-deformed oscillators (so-called Tamm-Dancoff cutoff oscillator) and find some special properties: (i) degeneracy of the energy levels E_{n_1} = E_{n_1+1}, n_1\ge 1, at the {\em real value} q=\sqrt{\frac{n_1}{n_1+2}} of deformation parameter, as well as the occurrence of other degeneracies E_{n_1} = E_{n_1+k}, for k \ge 2, at the corresponding values of q which depend on both n_1 and k; (ii) the position and momentum operators X and P {\em commute on the state} |m> if q is fixed as q=\frac{m}{m+1}, that implies unusual uncertainty relation; (iii) two commuting copies of the creation, annihilation, and number operators of this q-oscillator generate the corresponding q-deformation of the {\em non-simple} Lie algebra su(2)\oplus u(1) whose nontrivial q-deformed commutation relation is: [ J_+, J_- ] = 2 J_0 q^{2J_3-1} where J_0\equiv \frac12 (N_1-N_2) and J_3\equiv \frac12 (N_1+N_2).

id: quant-ph/0612123
title: Impossibility of partial swapping of Quantum Information
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty
comments: Accepted for publication in IJQI
journal: IJQI,Volume: 5 No: 4 Year: 2007 pp. 605-609
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612123
abstract: It is a well known fact that a quantum state $|\psi(\theta,\phi)>$ are represented by a point on the Bloch sphere, characterized by two parameters $\theta$ and $\phi$. Here in this work, we find out another impossible operation in quantum information theory . We name this impossibility as 'Impossibility of partial swapping of quantum information '. By this we mean that if two unknown quantum states are given at the input port, there exists no physical process, consistent with the principles of quantum mechanics, by which we can partially swap either of the two parameters $\theta$ and $\phi$ between these two quantum states. In this work we provided the impossibility proofs for the qubits(i.e the quantum states taken from two dimensional Hilbert space) and this impossible operation can be shown to hold in higher dimension also.

id: quant-ph/0612124
title: High-Rate Entanglement Source via Two-Photon Emission from Semiconductor Quantum Wells
authors: Alex Hayat, Pavel Ginzburg, Meir Orenstein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612124
abstract: We propose a compact high-intensity room-temperature source of entangled photons based on the efficient second-order process of two-photon spontaneous emission from electrically-pumped semiconductor quantum wells in a photonic microcavity. Two-photon emission rate in room-temperature semiconductor devices is determined solely by the carrier density, regardless of the residual one-photon emission. The microcavity selects two-photon emission for a specific signal and idler wavelengths and at a preferred direction without modifying the overall rate. Pair-generation rate in GaAs/AlGaAs quantum well structure is estimated using a 14-band model to be 3 orders of magnitude higher than for traditional broadband parametric down-conversion sources.

id: quant-ph/0612125
title: Intrinsic Regularization in a Lorentz invariant non-orthogonal Euclidean Space
authors: Carmen Tornow
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612125
abstract: It is shown that the Lorentz transformations can be derived for a non-orthogonal Euclidean space. In this geometry one finds the same relations of special relativity as the ones known from the orthogonal Minkowski space. In order to illustrate the advantage of a non-orthogonal Euclidean metric the two-point Green's function at x = 0 for a self-interacting scalar field is calculated. In contrast to the Minkowski space the one loop mass correction derived from this function gives a convergent result due to an intrinsic regularization parameter called effective dimension. This parameter is an entropy related measure for the information loss caused by quantum fluctuations of the metric at energies higher than the Planckian limit.

id: quant-ph/0612126
title: Dynamics of a Quantum Reference Frame
authors: David Poulin, Jon Yard
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys 9, 156 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612126
abstract: We analyze a quantum mechanical gyroscope which is modeled as a large spin and used as a reference against which to measure the angular momenta of spin-1/2 particles. These measurements induce a back-action on the reference which is the central focus of our study. We begin by deriving explicit expressions for the quantum channel representing the back-action. Then, we analyze the dynamics incurred by the reference when it is used to sequentially measure particles drawn from a fixed ensemble. We prove that the reference thermalizes with the measured particles and find that generically, the thermal state is reached in time which scales linearly with the size of the reference. This contrasts a recent conclusion of Bartlett et al. that this takes a quadratic amount of time when the particles are completely unpolarized. We now understand their result in terms of a simple physical principle based on symmetries and conservation laws. Finally, we initiate the study of the non-equilibrium dynamics of the reference. Here we find that a reference in a coherent state will essentially remain in one when measuring polarized particles, while rotating itself to ultimately align with the polarization of the particles.

id: quant-ph/0612127
title: Violation of monogamy inequality for higher-dimensional objects
authors: Yong-Cheng Ou
comments: 2.5 pages,minor modifications are made
journal: 75, 034305(2007) Physical Review A
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612127
abstract: Bipartite quantum entanglement for qutrits and higher-dimensional objects is considered. We analyze the possibility of violation of monogamy inequality, introduced by Coffman, Kundu, and Wootters, for some systems composed of such objects. An explicit counterexample with a three-qutrit totally antisymmetric state is presented. Since three-tangle has been confirmed to be a natural measure of entanglement for qubit systems, our result shows that the three-tangle is no longer a legitimate measure of entanglement for states with three qutrits or higher dimensional objects.

id: quant-ph/0612128
title: Entangling two atoms in spatially separated cavities through both photon emission and absorption processes
authors: Peng Peng, Fu-li Li
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062320 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612128
abstract: We consider a system consisting of a $\Lambda$-type atom and a V-type atom, which are individually trapped in two spatially separated cavities that are connected by an optical fibre. We show that an extremely entangled state of the two atoms can be deterministically generated through both photon emission of the $\Lambda$-type atom and photon absorption of the V-type atom in an ideal situation. The influence of various decoherence processes such as spontaneous emission and photon loss on the fidelity of the entangled state is also investigated. We find that the effect of photon leakage out of the fibre on the fidelity can be greatly diminished in some special cases. As regards the effect of spontaneous emission and photon loss from the cavities, we find that the present scheme with a fidelity higher than 0.98 may be realized under current experiment conditions.

id: quant-ph/0612129
title: Photon number states generated from a continuous-wave light source
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, v2: shortened version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 043801 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612129
abstract: Conditional preparation of photon number states from a continuous-wave nondegenerate optical parametric oscillator is investigated. We derive the phase space Wigner function for the output state conditioned on photo detection events that are not necessarily simultaneous, and we maximize its overlap with the desired photon number state by choosing the optimal temporal output state mode function. We present a detailed numerical analysis for the case of two-photon state generation from a parametric oscillator driven with an arbitrary intensity below threshold, and in the low intensity limit, we present a formalism that yields the optimal output state mode function and fidelity for higher photon number states.

id: quant-ph/0612130
title: Passive Optical Network Approach to GigaHertz-Clocked Multiuser Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Veronica Fernandez, Robert J. Collins, Karen J. Gordon, Paul D. Townsend, Gerald S. Buller
comments: 9 pages, PDF only
journal: IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics, Volume 43 (2), (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612130
abstract: We present the application of quantum key distribution technologies to fiber-based broadband passive optical access networks. This application is based on our 850 nm wavelength gigahertz clock-rate single-receiver system, is compatible with existing telecommunications fiber and exploits a wavelength band not currently utilized in access networks. The developed quantum key distribution networks are capable of transmitting over distances consistent with the span of access links for metropolitan networks (10 km), at clock frequencies ranging up to 3 GHz.

id: quant-ph/0612131
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations of Dirac particles - quantum field theory approach
authors: Pawel Caban, Jakub Rembielinski
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures. Published version
journal: Phys.Rev.A74:042103,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612131
abstract: We calculate correlation function in the Einstein--Podolsky--Rosen type of experiment with massive relativistic Dirac particles in the framework of the quantum field theory formalism. We perform our calculations for states which are physically interesting and transforms covariantly under the full Lorentz group action, i.e. for pseudoscalar and vector state.

id: quant-ph/0612132
title: Experimental Realization of $1 \to 2$ Asymmetric Phase-Covariant Quantum Cloning
authors: Hongwei Chen, Xianyi Zhou, Dieter Suter, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612132
abstract: While exact cloning of an unknown quantum state is prohibited by the linearity of quantum mechanics, approximate cloning is possible and has been used, e.g., to derive limits on the security of quantum communication protocols. In the case of asymmetric cloning, the information from the input state is distributed asymmetrically between the different output states. Here, we consider asymmetric phase-covariant cloning, where the goal is to optimally transfer the phase information from a single input qubit to different output qubits. We construct an optimal quantum cloning machine for two qubits that does not require ancilla qubits and implement it on an NMR quantum information processor.

id: quant-ph/0612133
title: Entanglement and its applications in systems with many degrees of freedom
authors: Stein Olav Skr?vseth
comments: PhD thesis, 85 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612133
abstract: Entanglement are the non-local correlations permitted by quantum theory, believed to play a fundamental role in a quantum computer. We have investigated these correlations in a number of theoretical models for condensed matter systems. Such systems are likely candidates for quantum computing, and experimentally feasible for instance as superconducting qubits. At quantum critical points the ground state of these systems is very complicated, and the entanglement is usually larger than at non-critical points. This entanglement can be used to identify the critical points through what we denote the entanglement signature, even for very small systems. From another perspective, it seems that the entanglement is an essential tool to find an unknown ground state, since this gives rise to a simple decomposition of the state.

id: quant-ph/0612134
title: Slow-light solitons: influence of relaxation
authors: A.V. Rybin, I.P. Vadeiko, A. R. Bishop
comments: 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612134
abstract: We have applied the transformation of the slow light equations to Liouville theory that we developed in our previous work, to study the influence of relaxation on the soliton dynamics. We solved the problem of the soliton dynamics in the presence of relaxation and found that the spontaneous emission from the upper atomic level is strongly suppressed. Our solution proves that the spatial shape of the soliton is well preserved even if the relaxation time is much shorter than the soliton time length. This fact is of great importance for applications of the slow-light soliton concept in optical information processing. We also demonstrate that the relaxation plays a role of resistance to the soliton motion and slows the soliton down even if the controlling field is constant.

id: quant-ph/0612135
title: Tunable control of the bandwidth and frequency correlations of entangled photons
authors: M. Hendrych, M. Micuda, J. P. Torres
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612135
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally a new technique to control the bandwidth and the type of frequency correlations (correlation, anticorrelation, and even uncorrelation) of entangled photons generated by spontaneous parametric downconversion. The method is based on the control of the group velocities of the interacting waves. This technique can be applied in any nonlinear medium and frequency band of interest. It is also demonstrated that this technique helps enhance the quality of polarization entanglement even when femtosecond pulses are used as a pump.

id: quant-ph/0612136
title: Unified approach to QED in arbitrary linear media
authors: Christian Raabe, Stefan Scheel, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 22 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612136
abstract: We give a unified approach to macroscopic QED in arbitrary linearly responding media, based on the quite general, nonlocal form of the conductivity tensor as it can be introduced within the framework of linear response theory, and appropriately chosen sets of bosonic variables. The formalism generalizes the quantization schemes that have been developed previously for diverse classes of linear media. In particular, it turns out that the scheme developed for locally responding linear magnetodielectric media can be recovered from the general scheme as a limiting case for weakly spatially dispersive media. With regard to practical applications, we furthermore address the dielectric approximation for the conductivity tensor and the surface impedance method for the calculation of the Green tensor of the macroscopic Maxwell equations, the two central quantities of the theory.

id: quant-ph/0612137
title: Macroscopic tunneling, decoherence and noise-induced activation
authors: Fernando C. Lombardo, Diana Monteoliva, Paula I. Villar
comments: Contribution to the Proceedings of DICE'06
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.67:012027,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612137
abstract: We study the effects of the environment at zero temperature on tunneling in an open system described by a static double-well potential. We show that the evolution of the system in an initial Schrodinger cat state, can be summarized in terms of three main physical phenomena, namely decoherence, quantum tunneling and noise-induced activation. Using large-scale numerical simulations, we obtain a detailed picture of the main stages of the evolution and of the relevant dynamical processes

id: quant-ph/0612138
title: Ultrahigh finesse Fabry-Perot superconducting resonator
authors: Stefan Kuhr, S¨¦bastien Gleyzes, Christine Guerlin, Julien Bernu, Ulrich Busk Hoff, Samuel Del¨¦glise, Stefano Osnaghi, Michel Brune, Jean-Michel Raimond, Serge Haroche, E. Jacques, P. Bosland, B. Visentin
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters 90 (16/04/2007) 164101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612138
abstract: We have built a microwave Fabry-Perot resonator made of diamond-machined copper mirrors coated with superconducting niobium. Its damping time (Tc = 130 ms at 51 GHz and 0.8 K) corresponds to a &#64257;nesse of 4.6 x 109, the highest ever reached for a Fabry-Perot in any frequency range. This result opens novel perspectives for quantum information, decoherence and non-locality studies.

id: quant-ph/0612139
title: Topological Photon
authors: S C Tiwari
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: J.Math.Phys.49:032303,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612139
abstract: We associate intrinsic energy equal to $h\nu/2$ with the spin angular momentum of photon and propose a topological model based on orbifold in space and tifold in time as topological obstructions. The model is substantiated using vector wavefield disclinations. The physical photon is suggested to be a particle like topological photon and a propagating wave such that the energy $h\nu$ of photon is equally divided between spin energy and translational energy corresponding to linear momentum of $h\nu/c$. The enigma of wave-particle duality finds natural resolution and the proposed model gives new insights into the phenomena of interference and emission of radiation.

id: quant-ph/0612140
title: Quantum statistical properties of the Jaynes-Cummings model in the presence of a classical homogeneous gravitational field
authors: M.Mohammadi, M.H.Naderi, M.Soltanolkotabi
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612140
abstract: The temporal evolution of quantum statistical properties of an interacting atom-radiation field system in the presence of a classical homogeneous gravitational field is investigated within the framework of the Jaynes-Cummings model. To analyse the dynamical evolution of the atom-radiation system a quantum treatment of the internal and external dynamics of the atom is presented based on an alternative su(2) dynamical algebraic structure. By solving the Schr\"{o}dinger equation in the interaction picture, the evolving state of the system is found by which the influence of the gravitational field on the dynamical behavior of the atom-radiation system is explored. Assuming that initially the radiation field is prepared in a coherent state and the two-level atom is in a coherent superposition of the excited and ground states, the influence of gravity on the collapses and revivals of the atomic population inversion, atomic dipole squeezing, atomic momentum diffusion, photon counting statistics and quadrature squeezing of the radiation field is studied.

id: quant-ph/0612141
title: Violation of Bell's Inequality with Continuous Variables and Fractional Fourier Transforms
authors: S. P. Walborn, D. S. Tasca, M. P. Almeida, P. Pellat-Finet, C. H. Monken, P. H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612141
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn due to a crucial theoretical error.

id: quant-ph/0612142
title: The information theory and the collapse of a wavefunction at the measurement of a spin 1/2 projection
authors: Denys Bondar
comments: latex-2e, 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612142
abstract: From the point of view of the information theory, a model of the collapse phenomena at the measurement of a spin 1/2 projection is developed. This model phenomenologically includes an observer. The model allows not only to determine the state of a system after the measurement but also to compute the state of the observer. The state of the observer is equivalent to the operator of a spin projection which the observer will measure at the next measurement.

id: quant-ph/0612143
title: Influence of a classical homogeneous gravitational field on dissipative dynamics of the Jaynes-Cummings model with phase damping
authors: M.Mohammadi, M.H.Naderi, M.Soltanolkotabi
comments: 25 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612143
abstract: In this paper, we study the dissipative dynamics of the Jaynes-Cummings model with phase damping in the presence of a classical homogeneous gravitational field. The model consists of a moving two-level atom simultaneously exposed to the gravitational field and a single-mode traveling radiation field in the presence of the phase damping. We present a quantum treatment of the internal and external dynamics of the atom based on an alternative su(2) dynamical algebraic structure. By making use of the super-operator technique, we obtain the solution of the master equation for the density operator of the quantum system, under the Markovian approximation. Assuming that initially the radiation field is prepared in a Glauber coherent state and the two-level atom is in the excited state, we investigate the influence of gravity on the temporal evolution of collapses and revivals of the atomic population inversion, atomic dipole squeezing, atomic momentum diffusion, photon counting statistics and quadrature squeezing of the radiation field in the presence of phase damping.

id: quant-ph/0612144
title: Transfer of d-Level quantum states through spin chains by random swapping
authors: Abolfazl Bayat, Vahid Karimipour
comments: More discussion about the ground state has been added. Accepted in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022321 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612144
abstract: We generalize an already proposed protocol for quantum state transfer to spin chains of arbitrary spin. An arbitrary unknown $d-$ level state is transferred through a chain with rather good fidelity by the natural dynamics of the chain. We compare the performance of this protocol for various values of $d$. A by-product of our study is a much simpler method for picking up the state at the destination as compared with the one proposed previously. We also discuss entanglement distribution through such chains and show that the quality of entanglement transition increases with the number of levels $d$.

id: quant-ph/0612145
title: A Study on the Sudden Death of Entanglement
authors: H. T. Cui, K. Li, X. X. Yi
comments: Comments and criticism are welcome. Accepted by Phys. Lett. A
journal: Physics Letters A 365 (2007) 44?C48
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612145
abstract: The dynamics of entanglement and the phenomenon of entanglement sudden death (ESD) \cite{yu} are discussed in bipartite systems, measured by Wootters Concurrence. Our calculation shows that ESD appears whenever the system is open or closed and is dependent on the initial condition. The relation of the evolution of entanglement and energy transfer between the system and its surroundings is also studied.

id: quant-ph/0612146
title: Quantifying Superposition
authors: Johan Aberg
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612146
abstract: Measures are introduced to quantify the degree of superposition in mixed states with respect to orthogonal decompositions of the Hilbert space of a quantum system. These superposition measures can be regarded as analogues to entanglement measures, but can also be put in a more direct relation to the latter. By a second quantization of the system it is possible to induce superposition measures from entanglement measures. We consider the measures induced from relative entropy of entanglement and entanglement of formation. We furthermore introduce a class of measures with an operational interpretation in terms of interferometry. We consider the superposition measures under the action of subspace preserving and local subspace preserving channels. The theory is illustrated with models of an atom undergoing a relaxation process in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer.

id: quant-ph/0612147
title: Steering, Entanglement, Nonlocality, and the EPR Paradox
authors: H. M. Wiseman, S. J. Jones, A. C. Doherty
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. v3 updated version published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 140402 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612147
abstract: The concept of steering was introduced by Schrodinger in 1935 as a generalization of the EPR paradox for arbitrary pure bipartite entangled states and arbitrary measurements by one party. Until now, it has never been rigorously defined, so it has not been known (for example) what mixed states are steerable (that is, can be used to exhibit steering). We provide an operational definition, from which we prove (by considering Werner states and Isotropic states) that steerable states are a strict subset of the entangled states, and a strict superset of the states that can exhibit Bell-nonlocality. For arbitrary bipartite Gaussian states we derive a linear matrix inequality that decides the question of steerability via Gaussian measurements, and we relate this to the original EPR paradox.

id: quant-ph/0612148
title: Phase vortices from a Young's three-pinhole interferometer
authors: Gary Ruben, David M. Paganin
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, REVTeX4, Submitted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612148
abstract: An analysis is presented of the phase vortices generated in the far field, by an arbitrary arrangement of three monochromatic point sources of complex spherical waves. In contrast with the case of three interfering plane waves, in which an infinitely-extended vortex lattice is generated, the spherical sources generate a finite number of phase vortices. Analytical expressions for the vortex core locations are developed and shown to have a convenient representation in a discrete parameter space. Our analysis may be mapped onto the case of a coherently-illuminated Young's interferometer, in which the screen is punctured by three rather than two pinholes.

id: quant-ph/0612149
title: A sufficient and necessary condition for superdense coding of quantum states
authors: Daowen Qiu
comments: 14 pages
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, 2008, 6: 1115-1125.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612149
abstract: Recently, Harrow et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 187901 (2004)] gave a method for preparing an arbitrary quantum state with high success probability by physically transmitting some qubits, and by consuming a maximally entangled state, together with exhausting some shared random bits. In this paper, we discover that some states are impossible to be perfectly prepared by Alice and Bob initially sharing those entangled states that are superposed by the ground states, as the states to be prepared. In particular, we present a sufficient and necessary condition for the states being enabled to be exactly prepared with probability one, in terms of the initial entangled states (maybe nonmaximally) superposed by the ground states. In contrast, if the initially shared entanglement is maximal, then the probabilities for preparing these quantum states are smaller than one. Furthermore, the lower bound on the probability for preparing some states are derived.

id: quant-ph/0612150
title: Oscillation structures in the spontaneous emission rate of an atom in a medium with refractive index n between mirrors: a solvable model
authors: H. J. Zhao, M. L. Du
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612150
abstract: We study the multi-periodic oscillations in the spontaneous emission rate of an atom in a medium with refractive index n sandwiched between two parallel mirrors. The oscillations are not obvious in the analytical formula for the rate derived based on Fermi's golden rule but can be extracted using Fourier transforms by varying the system scale while holding the configuration. The oscillations are interpreted as interferences and correspond to various closed-orbits of the emitted photon going away from and returning to the atom. This system provides a rare example that the oscillations can be explicitly derived by following the emitted wave until it returns to the emitting atom. We demonstrate the summation over a large number of closed-orbits converges to the rate formula of golden rule.

id: quant-ph/0612151
title: Information dynamics in quantum theory
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski
comments: 11 pages
journal: Appl. Math. & Information Sciences 1, (2007), 1-12
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612151
abstract: Shannon entropy and Fisher information functionals are known to quantify certain information-theoretic properties of continuous probability distributions of various origins. We carry out a systematic study of these functionals, while assuming that the pertinent probability density has a quantum mechanical appearance $\rho \doteq |\psi |^2$, with $\psi \in L^2(R)$. Their behavior in time, due to the quantum Schr\"{o}dinger picture evolution-induced dynamics of $\rho (x,t)$ is investigated as well, with an emphasis on thermodynamical features of quantum motion.

id: quant-ph/0612152
title: Bound states in the continuum in a single-level Fano-Anderson model
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 5 figures (submitted for publication)
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 57, 45-51 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612152
abstract: Bound states in the continuum (BIC) are shown to exist in a single-level Fano-Anderson model with a colored interaction between the discrete state and a tight-binding continuum, which may describe mesoscopic electron or photon transport in a semi-infinite one-dimensional lattice. The existence of BIC is explained in the lattice realization as a boundary effect induced by lattice truncation.

id: quant-ph/0612153
title: A Mathematician's Viewpoint to Bell's theorem: In Memory of Walter Philipp
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: Foundations of probability and physics-- 4, G. Adenier, C. Fuchs and A. Khrennikov (eds), AIP Conference Proceedings, 889, Amer. Inst. Phys., Melville, NY, 2007, 7--20
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612153
abstract: In this paper dedicated to the memory of Walter Philipp, we formalize the rules of classical$\to$ quantum correspondence and perform a rigorous mathematical analysis of the assumptions in Bell's NO-GO arguments.

id: quant-ph/0612154
title: General linear-optical quantum state generation scheme: Applications to maximally path-entangled states
authors: N. M. VanMeter, P. Lougovski, D. B. Uskov, K. Kieling, J. Eisert, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 063808 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612154
abstract: We introduce schemes for linear-optical quantum state generation. A quantum state generator is a device that prepares a desired quantum state using product inputs from photon sources, linear-optical networks, and postselection using photon counters. We show that this device can be concisely described in terms of polynomial equations and unitary constraints. We illustrate the power of this language by applying the Grobner-basis technique along with the notion of vacuum extensions to solve the problem of how to construct a quantum state generator analytically for any desired state, and use methods of convex optimization to identify bounds to success probabilities. In particular, we disprove a conjecture concerning the preparation of the maximally path-entangled |n,0)+|0,n) (NOON) state by providing a counterexample using these methods, and we derive a new upper bound on the resources required for NOON-state generation.

id: quant-ph/0612155
title: A father protocol for quantum broadcast channels
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis, Patrick Hayden, Ke Li
comments: Typo in statement of Theorem 4 fixed
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 56(6)2946-2956, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612155
abstract: A new protocol for quantum broadcast channels based on the fully quantum Slepian-Wolf protocol is presented. The protocol yields an achievable rate region for entanglement-assisted transmission of quantum information through a quantum broadcast channel that can be considered the quantum analogue of Marton's region for classical broadcast channels. The protocol can be adapted to yield achievable rate regions for unassisted quantum communication and for entanglement-assisted classical communication; in the case of unassisted transmission, the region we obtain has no independent constraint on the sum rate, only on the individual transmission rates. Regularized versions of all three rate regions are provably optimal.

id: quant-ph/0612156
title: On the use of photonic N00N states for practical quantum interferometry
authors: G. Gilbert, M. Hamrick, Y.S. Weinstein
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 25, Issue 8, pp. 1336-1340, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612156
abstract: The performance of photonic $N00N$ states, propagating in an attenuating medium, is analyzed with respect to phase estimation. It is shown that, for $N00N$ states propagating through a lossy medium, the Heisenberg limit is never achieved. It is also shown that, for a given value of $N$, a signal comprised of an attenuated separable state of $N$ photons will actually produce a better phase estimate than will a signal comprised of an equally attenuated $N00N$ state, unless the transmittance of the medium is very high. This is a consequence of the need to utilize measurement operators appropriate to the different signal states. The result is that, for most practical applications in realistic scenarios with attenuation, the resolution of $N00N$ state-based phase estimation not only does not achieve the Heisenberg Limit, but is actually worse than the Standard Quantum Limit. It is demonstrated that this performance deficit becomes more pronounced as the number, $N$, of photons in the signal increases.

id: quant-ph/0612157
title: Continuous-Variable Quantum Cloning of Coherent states with Phase-Conjugate Input Modes Using Linear Optics
authors: Haixia Chen, Jing Zhang
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022306 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612157
abstract: We propose a scheme for continuous-variable quantum cloning of coherent states with phase-conjugate input modes using linear optics. The quantum cloning machine yields $M$ identical optimal clones from $N$ replicas of a coherent state and $N$ its replicas of phase conjugate. This scheme can be straightforwardly implemented with the setup accessible at present since its optical implementation only employs simple linear optical elements and homodyne detection. Compared with the original scheme for continuous variables quantum cloning with phase-conjugate input modes proposed by Cerf and Iblisdir [Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 247903 (2001)], which utilized a nondegenerate optical parametric amplifier, our scheme loses the output of phase-conjugate clones and is regarded as irreversible quantum cloning.

id: quant-ph/0612158
title: Attainable entanglement of unitary transformed thermal states in liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance with the chemical shift
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Shuji Mikami, Motoyuki Yoshida, Ichiro Ohba
comments: 9 pages, 1 figures. There were mistakes in the previous version. The main results don't change, but our motivation has to be reconsidered
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, (2007) 14263-14277.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612158
abstract: Recently, Yu, Brown, and Chuang [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 71}, 032341 (2005)] investigated the entanglement attainable from unitary transformed thermal states in liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). Their research gave an insight into the role of the entanglement in a liquid-state NMR quantum computer. Moreover, they attempted to reveal the role of mixed-state entanglement in quantum computing. However, they assumed that the Zeeman energy of each nuclear spin which corresponds to a qubit takes a common value for all; there is no chemical shift. In this paper, we research a model with the chemical shifts and analytically derive the physical parameter region where unitary transformed thermal states are entangled, by the positive partial transposition (PPT) criterion with respect to any bipartition. We examine the effect of the chemical shifts on the boundary between the separability and the nonseparability, and find it is negligible.

id: quant-ph/0612159
title: Weak Measurements and Counterfactual Computation
authors: Onur Hosten, Paul G. Kwiat
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612159
abstract: Vaidman, in a recent article adopts the method of 'quantum weak measurements in pre- and postselected ensembles' to ascertain whether or not the chained-Zeno counterfactual computation scheme proposed by Hosten et al. is counterfactual; which has been the topic of a debate on the definition of counterfactuality. We disagree with his conclusion, which brings up some interesting aspects of quantum weak measurements and some concerns about the way they are interpreted.

id: quant-ph/0612160
title: Alternative scheme for two-qubit conditional phase gate by adiabatic passage under dissipation
authors: Z. J. Deng, K. L. Gao, F. Mang
comments: to appear in J. Phys. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612160
abstract: We check a recent proposal [H. Goto and K. Ichimura Phys. Rev. A 70, 012305 (2004)] for controlled phase gate through adiabatic passage under the influence of spontaneous emission and the cavity decay. We show a modification of above proposal could be used to generate the necessary conditional phase gates in the two-qubit Grover search. Conditioned on no photon leakage either from the atomic excited state or from the cavity mode during the gating period, we numerically analyze the success probability and the fidelity of the two-qubit conditional phase gate by adiabatic passage. The comparison made between our proposed gating scheme and a previous one shows that Goto and Ichimura's scheme is an alternative and feasible way in the optical cavity regime for two-qubit gates and could be generalised in principle to multi-qubit gates.

id: quant-ph/0612161
title: Generation of N-qubit W state with rf-SQUID qubits by adiabatic passage
authors: Z.J. Deng, K.L. Gao, M. Feng
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612161
abstract: A simple scheme is presented to generate n-qubit W state with rf-superconducting quantum interference devices (rf-SQUIDs) in cavity QED through adiabatic passage. Because of the achievable strong coupling for rf-SQUID qubits embedded in cavity QED, we can get the desired state with high success probability. Furthermore, the scheme is insensitive to position inaccuracy of the rf-SQUIDs. The numerical simulation shows that, by using present experimental techniques, we can achieve our scheme with very high success probability, and the fidelity could be eventually unity with the help of dissipation.

id: quant-ph/0612162
title: Where the mathematical structure of Quantum Mechanics coms from
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: Work presented at the conference "Beyond the Quantum" held at the Lorentz Center in Leiden from May 29th through June 2nd 2006. Synthesis of quant-ph/0611094
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612162
abstract: The mathematical formulation of Quantum Mechanics is derived from purely operational axioms based on a general definition of "experiment" as a set of transformations. The main ingredient of the mathematical construction is the postulated existence of "faithful states" that allows one to calibrate the experimental apparatus. Such notion is at the basis of the operational definitions of the scalar product and of the "adjoint" of a transformation.

id: quant-ph/0612163
title: Uncoupling Which-Way Information from Interference: A Novel Interference Experiment using a Super-Focused Laser Beam
authors: Johan Wulleman
comments: 36 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Wulleman, Concepts of Physics 3 (2006) 211-261, available from http://merlin.fic.uni.lodz.pl/concepts/index.htm
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612163
abstract: The generally accepted view in quantum theory is that information about which way the quantum system traveled and interference visibility are complementary. In all which-way experiments, however, an intervention takes place in the interference process in order to determine which way the quantum system took. This intervention can imply the tagging of a which-way marker to a quantum system or, for instance, blocking off one of the paths in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer so that one indirectly knows that the quantum system took the other (open) path. It is, however, this intervention that destroys the interference. In this paper a novel two-slit which-way interference experiment will be discussed and proposed for implementation that provides maximum which-way information without intervening in the interference process so that simultaneously maximum interference visibility remains preserved. This, in fact, implies an uncoupling of which-way information from interference and consequently also entails violating the duality relation P^2+V^2<1. Basically, the purpose of the proposed experiment and of this paper is to scrutinize this duality relation. The experiment makes use of a super-focused laser beam that is launched into only one of the two slits of the two-slit interference experiment.

id: quant-ph/0612164
title: Non-Abelian generalization of off-diagonal geometric phases
authors: David Kult, Johan ?berg, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Additional material, journal reference added
journal: Europhys. Lett. 78, 60004 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612164
abstract: If a quantum system evolves in a noncyclic fashion the corresponding geometric phase or holonomy may not be fully defined. Off-diagonal geometric phases have been developed to deal with such cases. Here, we generalize these phases to the non-Abelian case, by introducing off-diagonal holonomies that involve evolution of more than one subspace of the underlying Hilbert space. Physical realizations of the off-diagonal holonomies in adiabatic evolution and interferometry are put forward.

id: quant-ph/0612165
title: Optimal control of a qubit coupled to a non-Markovian environment
authors: P. Rebentrost, I. Serban, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen, F.K. Wilhelm
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, improved pulse shapes
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:090401,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612165
abstract: A central challenge for implementing quantum computing in the solid state is decoupling the qubits from the intrinsic noise of the material. We investigate the implementation of quantum gates for a paradigmatic, non-Markovian model: A single qubit coupled to a two-level system that is exposed to a heat bath. We systematically search for optimal pulses using a generalization of the novel open systems Gradient Ascent Pulse Engineering (GRAPE) algorithm. We show and explain that next to the known optimal bias point of this model, there are optimal shapes which refocus unwanted terms in the Hamiltonian. We study the limitations of controls set by the decoherence properties. This can lead to a significant improvement of quantum operations in hostile environments.

id: quant-ph/0612166
title: Coherent States for generalized oscillator with finite-dimensional Hilbert space
authors: Vadim V. Borzov, Eugene V. Damaskinsky
comments: English translation of the article published in Russian
journal: ZNS POMI vol.335, 75-99 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612166
abstract: The construction of oscillator-like systems connected with the given set of orthogonal polynomials and coherent states for such systems developed by authors is extended to the case of the systems with finite-dimensional state space. As example we consider the generalized oscillator connected with Krawtchouk polynomials.

id: quant-ph/0612167
title: Entanglement Percolation in Quantum Networks
authors: Antonio Acin, J. Ignacio Cirac, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: Accepted for publication in Nature Physics. This is the original submitted version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612167
abstract: Quantum networks are composed of nodes which can send and receive quantum states by exchanging photons. Their goal is to facilitate quantum communication between any nodes, something which can be used to send secret messages in a secure way, and to communicate more efficiently than in classical networks. These goals can be achieved, for instance, via teleportation. Here we show that the design of efficient quantum communication protocols in quantum networks involves intriguing quantum phenomena, depending both on the way the nodes are displayed, and the entanglement between them. These phenomena can be employed to design protocols which overcome the exponential decrease of signals with the number of nodes. We relate the problem of establishing maximally entangled states between nodes to classical percolation in statistical mechanics, and demonstrate that quantum phase transitions can be used to optimize the operation of quantum networks.

id: quant-ph/0612168
title: Distribution of interference in random quantum algorithms
authors: Ludovic Arnaud, Daniel Braun
comments: 14 pages revtex, 11 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062314 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612168
abstract: We study the amount of interference in random quantum algorithms using a recently derived quantitative measure of interference. To this end we introduce two random circuit ensembles composed of random sequences of quantum gates from a universal set, mimicking quantum algorithms in the quantum circuit representation. We show numerically that these ensembles converge to the well--known circular unitary ensemble (CUE) for general complex quantum algorithms, and to the Haar orthogonal ensemble (HOE) for real quantum algorithms. We provide exact analytical formulas for the average and typical interference in the circular ensembles, and show that for sufficiently large numbers of qubits a random quantum algorithm uses with probability close to one an amount of interference approximately equal to the dimension of the Hilbert space. As a by-product, we offer a new way of efficiently constructing random operators from the Haar measures of CUE or HOE in a high dimensional Hilbert space using universal sets of quantum gates.

id: quant-ph/0612169
title: Gradient Echo Quantum Memory for Light using Two-level Atoms
authors: G. H¨¦tet, J. J. Longdell, A. L. Alexander, P. K. Lam, M. J. Sellars
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612169
abstract: We propose a quantum memory for light that is analogous to the NMR gradient echo. Our proposal is ideally perfectly efficient and provides simplifications to current 3-level quantum memory schemes based on controlled inhomogeneous broadening. Our scheme does not require auxiliary light fields. Instead the input optical pulse interacts only with two-level atoms that have linearly increasing Stark shifts. By simply reversing the sign of the atomic Stark shifts, the pulse is retrieved in the forward direction. We present analytical, numerical and experimental results of this scheme. We report experimental efficiencies of up to 15% and suggest simple realizable improvements to significantly increase the efficiency.

id: quant-ph/0612170
title: Coherent Communication with Continuous Quantum Variables
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Hari Krovi, Todd A. Brun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 75, 060303(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612170
abstract: The coherent bit (cobit) channel is a resource intermediate between classical and quantum communication. It produces coherent versions of teleportation and superdense coding. We extend the cobit channel to continuous variables by providing a definition of the coherent nat (conat) channel. We construct several coherent protocols that use both a position-quadrature and a momentum-quadrature conat channel with finite squeezing. Finally, we show that the quality of squeezing diminishes through successive compositions of coherent teleportation and superdense coding.

id: quant-ph/0612171
title: On the measurement probability of quantum phases
authors: Thomas Sch¨¹rmann
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure, completely revised, content unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612171
abstract: We consider the probability by which quantum phase measurements of a given precision can be done successfully. The least upper bound of this probability is derived and the associated optimal state vectors are determined. The probability bound represents an unique and continuous transition between macroscopic and microscopic measurement precisions.

id: quant-ph/0612172
title: Improving the entanglement transfer from continuous variable systems to localized qubits using non Gaussian states
authors: Federico Casagrande, Alfredo Lulli, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: revised version, 11 pages, 7 figures (few of them low-res)
journal: Phys. Rev A 75, 032336 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612172
abstract: We investigate the entanglement transfer from a bipartite continuous-variable (CV) system to a pair of localized qubits assuming that each CV mode couples to one qubit via the off-resonance Jaynes-Cummings interaction with different interaction times for the two subsystems. First, we consider the case of the CV system prepared in a Bell-like superposition and investigate the conditions for maximum entanglement transfer. Then we analyze the general case of two-mode CV states that can be represented by a Schmidt decomposition in the Fock number basis. This class includes both Gaussian and non Gaussian CV states, as for example twin-beam (TWB) and pair-coherent (TMC, also known as two-mode-coher ent) states respectively. Under resonance conditions, equal interaction times for both qubits and different initial preparations, we find that the entanglement transfer is more efficient for TMC than for TWB states. In the perspective of applications such as in cavity QED or with superconducting qubits, we analyze in details the effects of off-resonance interactions (detuning) and different interaction times for the two qubits, and discuss conditions to preserve the entanglement transfer.

id: quant-ph/0612173
title: Quantum kinematics on q-deformed quantum spaces I, Mathematical Framework
authors: Hartmut Wachter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612173
abstract: The aim of these two papers (I and II) is to try to give fundamental concepts of quantum kinematics to q-deformed quantum spaces. Paper I introduces the relevant mathematical concepts. A short review of the basic ideas of q-deformed analysis is given. These considerations are continued by introducing q-deformed analogs of Fourier transformations and delta functions. Their properties are discussed in detail. Furthermore, q-deformed versions of sesquilinear forms are defined, their basic properties are derived, and q-analogs of the Fourier-Plancherel identity are proved. In paper II these reasonings are applied to wave functions on position and momentum space.

id: quant-ph/0612174
title: Quantum kinematics on q-deformed quantum spaces II, Wave functions on position and momentum space
authors: Hartmut Wachter
comments: 72 pages, no figures, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612174
abstract: The aim of Part II of this paper is to try to describe wave functions on q-deformed versions of position and momentum space. This task is done within the framework developed in Part I of the paper. In order to make Part II self-contained the most important results of Part I are reviewed. Then it is shown that q-deformed exponentials and q-deformed delta functions play the role of momentum and position eigenfunctions, respectively. Their completeness and orthonormality relations are derived. For both bases of eigenfunctions matrix elements of position and momentum operators are calculated. A q-deformed version of the spectral decomposition of multiplication operators is discussed and q-analogs of Heaviside functions are proposed. Interpreting the results from the point of view provided by the concept of quasipoints gives the formalism a physical meaning. The definition of expectation values and the calculation of probability densities are explained in detail. Finally, it is outlined how the considerations so far carry over to antisymmetrized spaces.

id: quant-ph/0612175
title: Hyperspherical elliptic coordinates treatment of muon transfer from muonic hydrogen to atomic oxygen
authors: Arnaud Dupays, Bruno Lepetit, J. Alberto Beswick, Carlo Rizzo, Dimitar Bakalov
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 68, 062506 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612175
abstract: Quantum-mechanical calculations of muon transfer between muonic hydrogen and an oxygen nuclei for $s$ waves and collision energies in the range $10^{-3} - 10^3$ eV, are presented. Close-coupling time-independent Schr\"odinger equations, written in terms of hyperspherical elliptic coordinates were integrated along the hyper-radius to obtain the partial and total muon-transfer probabilities. The results show the expected Wigner-Bethe threshold behavior up to collision energies of the order of $10^{-2}$ eV and pronounced maxima at $10^2$ eV which can be interpreted in terms of crossings between potential energy curves corresponding to the entrance channel state $(\mu p)_{1s} + \mO$ and two product channels which asymptotically correlate to $p + (\mO\mu)_{n=5,6}$. The population of the final states with different orbital angular momenta is found to be essentially independent of energy in the range considered in this work. This can be attributed to a strong selection rule for the conservation of the quantum number associated to one of the elliptic hyperangles.

id: quant-ph/0612176
title: A photon loss tolerant Zeno CSIGN gate
authors: Casey R. Myers, Alexei Gilchrist
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612176
abstract: We model an optical implementation of a CSIGN gate that makes use of the Quantum Zeno effect [1,2] in the presence of photon loss. The raw operation of the gate is severely affected by this type of loss. However, we show that by using the same photon loss codes that have been proposed for linear optical quantum computation (LOQC), the performance is greatly enhanced and such gates can outperform LOQC equivalents. The technique can be applied to other types of nonlinearities, making the implementation of nonlinear optical gates much more attractive.

id: quant-ph/0612177
title: Nonlinear Inequalities and Entropy-Concurrence Plane
authors: Fabio A. Bovino
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612177
abstract: Nonlinear inequalities based on the quadratic Renyi entropy for mixed two-qubit states are characterized on the Entropy-Concurrence plane. This class of inequalities is stronger than Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequalities and, in particular, are violated "in toto" by the set of Type I Maximally-Entangled-Mixture States (MEMS I).

id: quant-ph/0612178
title: Quantum Logic of Semantic Space: An Exploratory Investigation of Context Effects in Practical Reasoning
authors: P.D. Bruza, R.J. Cole
comments: 23 pages, Invited chapter
journal: In S. Artemov, H. Barringer, A. S. d'Avila Garcez, L. C. Lamb and J. Woods (eds) "We Will Show Them: Essays in Honour of Dov Gabbay", vol 1, pp. 339-361, College Publications, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612178
abstract: This article is an exploratory account of the the non-monotonic behaviour of conceptual associations in the light of context. Computational approximations of conceptual space are furnished by semantic space models which are emerging from the fields of cognition and computational linguistics. Semantic space models not only provide a cognitively motivated basis to underpin human practical reasoning, but from a mathematical perspective, they are real-valued Hilbert spaces. This introduces the highly speculative prospect of formalizing aspects of human practical reasoning via quantum mechanics. This account focuses on how to formalize context effects in relation to concepts as well as keeping an eye on operational issues.

id: quant-ph/0612179
title: Multiple Qubits as Symplectic Polar Spaces of Order Two
authors: Metod Saniga, Michel Planat
comments: 2 pages, no figure
journal: Advanced Studies in Theoretical Physics 1 (2007) 1 - 4
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612179
abstract: It is surmised that the algebra of the Pauli operators on the Hilbert space of N-qubits is embodied in the geometry of the symplectic polar space of rank N and order two, W_{2N - 1}(2). The operators (discarding the identity) answer to the points of W_{2N - 1}(2), their partitionings into maximally commuting subsets correspond to spreads of the space, a maximally commuting subset has its representative in a maximal totally isotropic subspace of W_{2N - 1}(2) and, finally, "commuting" translates into "collinear" (or "perpendicular").

id: quant-ph/0612180
title: Designing spin-1 lattice models using polar molecules
authors: Gavin K. Brennen, Andrea Micheli, Peter Zoller
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 9, 138 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612180
abstract: We describe how to design a large class of always on spin-1 interactions between polar molecules trapped in an optical lattice. The spin degrees of freedom correspond to the hyperfine levels of a ro-vibrational ground state molecule. Interactions are induced using a microwave field to mix ground states in one hyperfine manifold with the spin entangled dipole-dipole coupled excited states. Using multiple fields anistropic models in one, two, or three dimensions, can be built with tunable spatial range. An illustrative example in one dimension is the generalized Haldane model, which at a specific parameter has a gapped valence bond solid ground state. The interaction strengths are large compared to decoherence rates and should allow for probing the rich phase structure of strongly correlated systems, including dimerized and gapped phases.

id: quant-ph/0612181
title: Scheme for the implementation of optimal cloning of arbitrary single particle atomic state into two photonic states
authors: Wei Song, Tao Qin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Commun.Theor.Phys. 49, 1515 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612181
abstract: We present a feasible scheme to implement the $1 \to 2$ optimal cloning of arbitrary single particle atomic state into two photonic states, which is important for applications in long distance quantum communication. Our scheme also realizes the tele-NOT gate of one atom to the other distant atom trapped in another cavity. The scheme is based on the adiabatic passage and the polarization measurement. It is robust against a number of practical noises such as the violation of the Lamb-Dicke condition, spontaneous emission and detection inefficiency.

id: quant-ph/0612182
title: Local-field correction to one- and two-atom van der Waals interactions
authors: Agnes Sambale, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch, Marin-Slodoban Tomas
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, corrections according to erratum
journal: Physical Review A 75 (4), 042109 (2007); Erratum: Physical Review A 76 (4), 029905(E) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612182
abstract: Based on macroscopic quantum electrodynamics in linearly and causally responding media, we study the local-field corrected van der Waals potentials and forces for unpolarized ground-state atoms placed within a magnetoelectric medium of arbitrary size and shape. We start from general expressions for the van der Waals potentials in terms of the (classical) Green tensor of the electromagnetic field and the atomic polarizability and incorporate the local-field correction by means of the real-cavity model. In this context, special emphasis is given to the decomposition of the Green tensor into a medium part multiplied by a global local-field correction factor and, in the single-atom case, a part that only depends on the cavity characteristics. The result is used to derive general formulas for the local-field corrected van der Waals potentials and forces. As an application, we calculate the van der Waals potential between two ground-state atoms placed within magnetoelectric bulk material.

id: quant-ph/0612183
title: Interference induced preparation of spinpolarized electrons in a three-terminal quantum ring
authors: Orsolya Kalman, Peter Foldi, Mihaly G. Benedict, F. M. Peeters
comments: 
journal: Physica E 40 (3), 567 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612183
abstract: We present an exact, analytic solution of the spin dependent quantum transport problem with spin-orbit interaction in a one-dimensional mesoscopic ring with one input and two output leads. We demonstrate that for appropriate parameters spatial interference in the ring leads to a behavior analogous to that of the Stern-Gerlach apparatus: different spin polarizations can be achieved in the two output channels from an originally totally unpolarized incoming spin state. It is shown that this requires an appropriate interference of states that carry oppositely directed currents. We find that spin polarization is possible for several geometries, including the case when the device is not symmetric with respect to the incoming lead. A clear connection is established between the Stern-Gerlach like property of the device and the relevant Aharonov-Casher phases in the loop geometry.

id: quant-ph/0612184
title: Normal Forms and Tensor Ranks of Pure States of Four Qubits
authors: Oleg Chterental, Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: 40 pages, 8 tables, 4 figures. Table 4 and the treatment of examples in section 4 have been corrected. The paper will appear, as an invited chapter, in the forthcoming book "Linear Algebra Research Advances" by Nova Science Publishers, Inc. Comments are welcome
journal: Linear Algebra Research Advances, G. D. Ling (Ed.), Chapter 4, pp. 133-167, Nova Science Publishers, New York, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612184
abstract: We examine the SLOCC classification of the (non-normalized) pure states of four qubits obtained by F. Verstraete et al. The rigorous proofs of their basic results are provided and necessary corrections implemented. We use Invariant Theory to solve the problem of equivalence of pure states under SLOCC transformations of determinant 1 and qubit permutations. As a byproduct, we produce a new set of generators for the invariants of the Weyl group of type F_4. We complete the determination of the tensor ranks of 4-qubit pure states initiated by J.-L. Brylinski. As a result we obtain a simple algorithm for computing these ranks. We obtain also a very simple classification of pure states of rank at most 3.

id: quant-ph/0612185
title: Approaches to Quantum Error Correction
authors: Julia Kempe
comments: 29 pages, 5 figures, survey written for Poincare seminar lecture 19 Nov. 2005. Bookchapter in "Quantum Decoherence", Poincare seminar 2005, Progress in Mathematical Physics series, Birhaeuser, p. 85--123, 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612185
abstract: The purpose of this little survey is to give a simple description of the main approaches to quantum error correction and quantum fault-tolerance. Our goal is to convey the necessary intuitions both for the problems and their solutions in this area. After characterising quantum errors we present several error-correction schemes and outline the elements of a full fledged fault-tolerant computation, which works error-free even though all of its components can be faulty. We also mention alternative approaches to error-correction, so called error-avoiding or decoherence-free schemes. Technical details and generalisations are kept to a minimum.

id: quant-ph/0612186
title: Graph states as ground states of many-body spin-1/2 Hamiltonians
authors: M. Van den Nest, K. Luttmer, W. D¨¹r, H. J. Briegel
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612186
abstract: We consider the problem whether graph states can be ground states of local interaction Hamiltonians. For Hamiltonians acting on n qubits that involve at most two-body interactions, we show that no n-qubit graph state can be the exact, non-degenerate ground state. We determine for any graph state the minimal d such that it is the non-degenerate ground state of a d-body interaction Hamiltonian, while we show for d'-body Hamiltonians H with d'<d that the resulting ground state can only be close to the graph state at the cost of H having a small energy gap relative to the total energy. When allowing for ancilla particles, we show how to utilize a gadget construction introduced in the context of the k-local Hamiltonian problem, to obtain n-qubit graph states as non-degenerate (quasi-)ground states of a two-body Hamiltonian acting on n'>n spins.

id: quant-ph/0612187
title: Perspectives on the quantum Zeno paradox
authors: W. M. Itano
comments: 8 pages. Proceedings of the Sudarshan Symposium, Univ. of Texas, November 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612187
abstract: As of October 2006, there were approximately 535 citations to the seminal 1977 paper of Misra and Sudarshan that pointed out the quantum Zeno paradox (more often called the quantum Zeno effect). In simple terms, the quantum Zeno effect refers to a slowing down of the evolution of a quantum state in the limit that the state is observed continuously. There has been much disagreement as to how the quantum Zeno effect should be defined and as to whether it is really a paradox, requiring new physics, or merely a consequence of "ordinary" quantum mechanics. The experiment of Itano, Heinzen, Bollinger, and Wineland, published in 1990, has been cited around 347 times and seems to be the one most often called a demonstration of the quantum Zeno effect. Given that there is disagreement as to what the quantum Zeno effect is, there naturally is disagreement as to whether that experiment demonstrated the quantum Zeno effect. Some differing perspectives regarding the quantum Zeno effect and what would constitute an experimental demonstration are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0612188
title: An all-optical trap for a gram-scale mirror
authors: T. Corbitt, Y. Chen, H. Mueller-Ebhardt, E. Innerhofer, D. Ottaway, H. Rehbein, D. Sigg, S. Whitcomb, C. Wipf, N. Mavalvala
comments: Major revision. Replacement is version that appears in Phy. Rev. Lett. 98, 150802 (2007)
journal: Physical Review Letters 98, 150802 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612188
abstract: We report on a stable optical trap suitable for a macroscopic mirror, wherein the dynamics of the mirror are fully dominated by radiation pressure. The technique employs two frequency-offset laser fields to simultaneously create a stiff optical restoring force and a viscous optical damping force. We show how these forces may be used to optically trap a free mass without introducing thermal noise; and we demonstrate the technique experimentally with a 1 gram mirror. The observed optical spring has an inferred Young's modulus of 1.2 TPa, 20% stiffer than diamond. The trap is intrinsically cold and reaches an effective temperature of 0.8 K, limited by technical noise in our apparatus.

id: quant-ph/0612189
title: Semiclassical limits to the linewidth of an atom laser
authors: Mattias Johnsson, Simon Haine, Joseph Hope, Nick Robins, Cristina Figl, Matthew Jeppesen, Julien Dugu¨¦, John Close
comments: 9 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612189
abstract: We investigate the linewidth of a quasi-continuous atom laser within a semiclassical framework. In the high flux regime, the lasing mode can exhibit a number of undesirable features such as density fluctuations. We show that the output therefore has a complicated structure that can be somewhat simplified using Raman outcoupling methods and energy-momentum selection rules. In the weak outcoupling limit, we find that the linewidth of an atom laser is instantaneously Fourier limited, but, due to the energy `chirp' associated with the draining of a condensate, the long-term linewidth of an atom laser is equivalent to the chemical potential of the condensate source. We show that correctly sweeping the outcoupling frequency can recover the Fourier-limited linewidth.

id: quant-ph/0612190
title: Pooling quantum states obtained by indirect measurements
authors: Robert W. Spekkens, H. M. Wiseman
comments: Corrected a mistake regarding the scope of our original result. This version to be published in Phys. Rev. A. 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042104 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612190
abstract: We consider the pooling of quantum states when Alice and Bob both have one part of a tripartite system and, on the basis of measurements on their respective parts, each infers a quantum state for the third part S. We denote the conditioned states which Alice and Bob assign to S by alpha and beta respectively, while the unconditioned state of S is rho. The state assigned by an overseer, who has all the data available to Alice and Bob, is omega. The pooler is told only alpha, beta, and rho. We show that for certain classes of tripartite states, this information is enough for her to reconstruct omega by the formula omega \propto alpha rho^{-1} beta. Specifically, we identify two classes of states for which this pooling formula works: (i) all pure states for which the rank of rho is equal to the product of the ranks of the states of Alice's and Bob's subsystems; (ii) all mixtures of tripartite product states that are mutually orthogonal on S.

id: quant-ph/0612191
title: Multimode quantum limits to the linewidth of an atom laser
authors: Mattias T. Johnsson, Joseph J. Hope
comments: 8 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612191
abstract: The linewidth of an atom laser can be limited by excitation of higher energy modes in the source Bose-Einstein condensate, energy shifts in that condensate due to the atomic interactions, or phase diffusion of the lasing mode due to those interactions. The first two are effects that can be described with a semiclassical model, and have been studied in detail for both pumped and unpumped atom lasers. The third is a purely quantum statistical effect, and has been studied only in zero dimensional models. We examine an unpumped atom laser in one dimension using a quantum field theory using stochastic methods based on the truncated Wigner approach. This allows spatial and statistical effects to be examined simultaneously, and the linewidth limit for unpumped atom lasers is quantified in various limits.

id: quant-ph/0612192
title: Loss of coherence and dressing in QED
authors: B. Bellomo, G. Compagno, F. Petruccione
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 052112 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612192
abstract: The dynamics of a free charged particle, initially described by a coherent wave packet, interacting with an environment, i.e. the electromagnetic field characterized by a temperature $T$, is studied. Using the dipole approximation the exact expressions for the evolution of the reduced density matrix both in momentum and configuration space and the vacuum and the thermal contribution to decoherence, are obtained. The time behaviour of the coherence lengths in the two representations are given. Through the analysis of the dynamic of the field structure associated to the particle the vacuum contribution is shown to be linked to the birth of correlations between the single momentum components of the particle wave packet and the virtual photons of the dressing cloud.

id: quant-ph/0612193
title: Realization of quantum mechanical weak values of observables using entangled photons
authors: G S Agarwal, P K Pathak
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032108 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612193
abstract: We present a scheme for realization of quantum mechanical weak values of observables using entangled photons produced in parametric down conversion. We consider the case when the signal and idler modes are respectively in a coherent state and vacuum. We use a low efficiency detector to detect the photons in the idler mode.This weak detection leads to a large displacement and fluctuations in the signal field's quantum state which can be studied by monitoring the photon number and quadrature distributions.

id: quant-ph/0612194
title: Geometric Phases and Critical Phenomena in a Chain of Interacting Spins
authors: M.E. Reuter, M.J. Hartmann, M.B. Plenio
comments: 7 Figures
journal: Proc. Roy. Soc. Lond. A 463, 1271 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612194
abstract: The geometric phase can act as a signature for critical regions of interacting spin chains in the limit where the corresponding circuit in parameter space is shrunk to a point and the number of spins is extended to infinity; for finite circuit radii or finite spin chain lengths, the geometric phase is always trivial (a multiple of 2pi). In this work, by contrast, two related signatures of criticality are proposed which obey finite-size scaling and which circumvent the need for assuming any unphysical limits. They are based on the notion of the Bargmann invariant whose phase may be regarded as a discretized version of Berry's phase. As circuits are considered which are composed of a discrete, finite set of vertices in parameter space, they are able to pass directly through a critical point, rather than having to circumnavigate it. The proposed mechanism is shown to provide a diagnostic tool for criticality in the case of a given non-solvable one-dimensional spin chain with nearest-neighbour interactions in the presence of an external magnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0612195
title: Dynamics of Josephson-junction qubits with exactly solvable time-dependent bias pulses
authors: V. V. Shamshutdinova, A. S. Kiyko, S. N. Shevchenko, B. F. Samsonov, A. N. Omelyanchouk
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures Author's translation from Russian to English
journal: Russ. Phys. J. 51 (2008) 578-586
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612195
abstract: The quantum dynamics of a two-state system (qubit) can be governed by means of external control parameters present in time-dependent bias pulses of special forms. We consider the class of biases for which the time evolution equation without a dissipation can be solved exactly. Concentrating for definiteness on the flux qubit we calculate the probability of the definite direction of the current in the loop and its time-averaged values as functions of the qubit's control parameters both analytically and solving numerically the equation of motion for the density matrix in the presence of relaxation and decoherence. It is shown that there exist such time-dependent biases that the definite current direction probability with no dissipation taken into account becomes a monotonously growing function of time tending to a value which may exceed 1/2. We also calculate the probability to find the system in the excited state and show the possibility of the inverse population in a properly driven two-state system provided the relaxation and dephasing rates are small enough.

id: quant-ph/0612196
title: A Bootstrapping Approach for Generating Maximally Path-Entangled Photon States
authors: Kishore T Kapale, Jonathan P Dowling
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. vol. 99, art. no. 053602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612196
abstract: We propose a bootstrapping approach to generation of maximally path-entangled states of photons, so called ``NOON states''. Strong atom-light interaction of cavity QED can be employed to generate NOON states with about 100 photons; which can then be used to boost the existing experimental Kerr nonlinearities based on quantum coherence effects to facilitate NOON generation with arbitrarily large number of photons all within the current experimental state of the art technology. We also offer an alternative scheme that uses an atom-cavity dispersive interaction to obtain sufficiently high Kerr-nonlinearity necessary for arbitrary NOON generation.

id: quant-ph/0612197
title: Experimental Demonstration of Continuous Variable Cloning with Phase-Conjugate Inputs
authors: Metin Sabuncu, Ulrik L. Andersen, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612197
abstract: We report the experimental demonstration of continuous variable cloning of phase conjugate coherent states as proposed by Cerf and Iblisdir (Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 247903 (2001)). In contrast to the proposal of Cerf and Iblisdir, the cloning transformation is accomplished using only linear optical components, homodyne detection and feedforward. Three clones are succesfully produced with fidelities about 89%.

id: quant-ph/0612198
title: Sub-shot-noise photon-number correlation in mesoscopic twin-beam of light
authors: Maria Bondani, Alessia Allevi, Guido Zambra, Matteo G. A. Paris, Alessandra Andreoni
comments: 5 pages, 5 (low-res) figures, to appear on PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 013833 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612198
abstract: We demonstrate sub-shot-noise photon-number correlations in a (temporal) multimode mesoscopic ($\sim 10^3$ detected photons) twin-beam produced by ps-pulsed spontaneous non-degenerate parametric downconversion. We have separately detected the signal and idler distributions of photons collected in twin coherence areas and found that the variance of the photon-count difference goes below the shot-noise limit by 3.25 dB. The number of temporal modes contained in the twin-beam, as well as the size of the twin coherence areas, depends on the pump intensity. Our scheme is based on spontaneous downconversion and thus does not suffer from limitations due to the finite gain of the parametric process. Twin-beams are also used to demonstrate the conditional preparation of a nonclassical (sub-Poissonian) state.

id: quant-ph/0612199
title: Linear-algebraic Lambda-calculus: higher-order, encodings and confluence
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Gilles Dowek
comments: 16 pages, revtex. v2: typos corrected. Explanatory pdf slides available at this http URL
journal: The 19th Int. Conf. on Rewriting Techniques and Applications, RTA 2008, Austria. Proceedings to appear in LNCS
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612199
abstract: We introduce a minimal language combining both higher-order computation and linear algebra. Roughly, this is nothing else than the Lambda-calculus together with the possibility to make linear combinations of terms a.t+b.u. We describe how to "execute" this language in terms of a few rewrite rules, and justify them through the two fundamental requirements that the language be a language of linear operators, and that it be higher-order. We mention the perspectives of this work in field of quantum computation, whose circuits we show can be easily encoded in the calculus. Finally we prove the confluence of the calculus, this is our main result. Keywords: quantum programming language, quantum control, quantum logic, probabilistic and quantitative analysis, rewriting techniques.

id: quant-ph/0612200
title: Coherent optical detection of highly excited Rydberg states using electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: A. K. Mohapatra, T. R. Jackson, C. S. Adams
comments: Comments removed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612200
abstract: We observe electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) on the 5s to 5p transition in a room temperature rubidium vapour cell by coupling the 5p state to a Rydberg state (ns or nd with n=26 to 124). We demonstrate that the narrow line-width of the EIT resonance (2 MHz) allows precise measurement of the d state fine structure splitting, and together with the sensitivity of the Rydberg state to electric fields, we are able to detect transient electric fields produced by the dynamics of charges within the cell. Coherent coupling of Rydberg states via EIT could also be used for cross-phase modulation and photon entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0612201
title: Decoherence-induced geometric phase in a multilevel atomic system
authors: Shubhrangshu Dasgupta, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 9 pages, 12 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 40, S127 (2007) (special issue on "Dynamical Control of Entanglement and Decoherence by Field-Matter Interactions")
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612201
abstract: We consider the STIRAP process in a three-level atom. Viewed as a closed system, no geometric phase is acquired. But in the presence of spontaneous emission and/or collisional relaxation we show numerically that a non-vanishing, purely real, geometric phase is acquired during STIRAP, whose magnitude grows with the decay rates. Rather than viewing this decoherence-induced geometric phase as a nuisance, it can be considered an example of "beneficial decoherence": the environment provides a mechanism for the generation of geometric phases which would otherwise require an extra experimental control knob.

id: quant-ph/0612202
title: On convergence to equilibrium in strongly coupled Bogoliubov's oscillator model
authors: V. Strokov
comments: 17 pages, no figures; proof of eq.(18) added, minor changes in Conclusion
journal: Infinite Dimensional Analysis, Quantum Probability and Related Topics, 2007, Vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 573-589
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612202
abstract: We examine classical Bogoliubov's model of a particle coupled to a heat bath which consists of infinitely many stochastic oscillators. Bogoliubov's result suggests that, in the stochastic limit, the model exhibits convergence to thermodynamical equilibrium. It has recently been shown that the system does attain the equilibrium if the coupling constant is small enough. We show that in the case of the large coupling constant the distribution function $\rho_{S}(q,p,t)\to 0$ pointwise as $t\to\infty$. This implies that if there is convergence to equilibrium, then the limit measure has no finite momenta. Besides, the probability to find the particle in any finite domain of phase space tends to zero. This is also true for domains in the coordinate space and in the momentum space.

id: quant-ph/0612203
title: Superseded version of the WKB approximation and explanation of emergence of classicality
authors: Wang Guowen
comments: LaTex2e, 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612203
abstract: Regarding the limit hbar-->0 as the classical limit of quantum mechanics seems to be silly because hbar is a definite constant of physics, but it was successfully used in the derivation of the WKB approximation. A superseded version of the WKB approximation is proposed in the classical limit alpha-->0 where alpha=m/M is the screening parameter of an object in which m is the mass of the effective screening layer and M the total mass. This version is applicable to not only approximate solution of Schrodinger equation of a quantum particle but also that of a nanoparticle. Moreover, the version shows that the quantization rules for nanoparticles can be achieved by substituting alpha times hbar for hbar in the Bohr-Sommerfeld quantization rules of the old quantum theory. Most importantly, the version helps clarify the essential difference between classical and quantum realities and understand the transition from quantum to classical mechanics as well as quantum mechanics itself.

id: quant-ph/0612204
title: Sequential Attack with Intensity Modulation on the Differential-Phase-Shift Quantum Key Distribution Protocol
authors: Toyohiro Tsurumaru
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062319 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612204
abstract: In this paper, we discuss the security of the differential-phase-shift quantum key distribution (DPSQKD) protocol by introducing an improved version of the so-called sequential attack, which was originally discussed by Waks et al. Our attack differs from the original form of the sequential attack in that the attacker Eve modulates not only the phases but also the amplitude in the superposition of the single-photon states which she sends to the receiver. Concentrating especially on the "discretized gaussian" intensity modulation, we show that our attack is more effective than the individual attack, which had been the best attack up to present. As a result of this, the recent experiment with communication distance of 100km reported by Diamanti et al. turns out to be insecure. Moreover it can be shown that in a practical experimental setup which is commonly used today, the communication distance achievable by the DPSQKD protocol is less than 95km.

id: quant-ph/0612205
title: Mixed Qubit Cannot Be Universally Broadcast
authors: Lin Chen, Yi-Xin Chen
comments: 5 pages, Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612205
abstract: We show that there does not exist any universal quantum cloning machine that can broadcast an arbitrary mixed qubit with a constant fidelity. Based on this result, we investigate the dependent quantum cloner in the sense that some parameter of the input qubit $\rho_s(\theta,\omega,\lambda)$ is regarded as constant in the fidelity. For the case of constant $\omega$, we establish the $1\to2$ optimal symmetric dependent cloner with a fidelity 1/2. It is also shown that the $1\to M$ optimal quantum cloning machine for pure qubits is also optimal for mixed qubits, when $\lambda$ is the unique parameter in the fidelity. For general $N\to M$ broadcasting of mixed qubits, the situation is very different.

id: quant-ph/0612206
title: Revisiting controlled quantum secure direct communication using a non-symmetric quantum channel with quantum superdense coding
authors: Jun Liu, Zhan-jun Zhang
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612206
abstract: Recently Xia and Song [Phys. Lett. A (In press)] have proposed a controlled quantum secure direct communication (CQSDC) protocol. They claimed that in their protocol only with the help of the controller Charlie, the receiver Alice can successfully extract the secret message from the sender Bob. In this letter, first we will show that within their protocol the controller Charlie's role can be excluded due to their unreasonable design. We then revise the Xia-Song CQSDC protocol such that its original advantages are retained and the CQSDC can be really realized.

id: quant-ph/0612207
title: Quantum Phase Transitions and Matrix Product States in Spin Ladders
authors: M. Asoudeh, V. Karimipour, A. Sadrolashrafi
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures, essential changes (i.e derivation of the Hamiltonian), Revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 224427 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612207
abstract: We investigate quantum phase transitions in ladders of spin 1/2 particles by engineering suitable matrix product states for these ladders. We take into account both discrete and continuous symmetries and provide general classes of such models. We also study the behavior of entanglement of different neighboring sites near the transition point and show that quantum phase transitions in these systems are accompanied by divergences in derivatives of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0612208
title: Quantum Key Distribution Using Quantum Faraday Rotators
authors: Taeseung Choi, Mahn-Soo Choi
comments: 7 pages, 7 EPS figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matt. 20, 275242 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612208
abstract: We propose a new quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol based on the fully quantum mechanical states of the Faraday rotators. The protocol is unconditionally secure against collective attacks for multi-photon source up to two photons on a noisy environment. It is also robust against impersonation attacks. The protocol may be implemented experimentally with the current spintronics technology on semiconductors.

id: quant-ph/0612209
title: On Arguments for Linear Quantum Dynamics
authors: M. Holman
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612209
abstract: Two recent arguments for linear dynamics in quantum theory are critically re-examined. Neither argument is found to be satisfactory as it stands, although an improved version of one of the arguments can in fact be given. This improved version turns out to be still not completely unproblematic, but it is argued that it contains only a single actual loophole, which is identical to a loophole that remains in experimental proofs of nonlocality of Bell-type. It is concluded that - within the context of the standard quantum kinematical framework and in agreement with what has been concluded by earlier authors - a nonlinear dynamics of density operators is inconsistent with relativistic causality. However, it is also stressed that this conclusion in itself has little implication for the nature of dynamics at the Hilbert space level - in particular, it does not force dynamics to be linear at this level - nor does it continue to be valid in contexts that go beyond the standard quantum kinematical framework. Despite their seeming triviality, these last two points have not always been appreciated in the literature. Finally, it is also pointed out that the argument for complete positivity, as given in conjunction with one of the two recent arguments for linear dynamics, in fact only establishes a condition that is weaker than complete positivity.

id: quant-ph/0612210
title: Collective multipole-like signatures of entanglement in symmetric N-qubit systems
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, R. Prabhu, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: REVTEX, 4 pages with 1 figure; To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012322 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612210
abstract: A cogent theory of collective multipole-like quantum correlations in symmetric multiqubit states is presented by employing SO(3) irreducible spherical tensor representation. An arbitrary bipartite division of this system leads to a family of inequalities to detect entanglement involving averages of these tensors expressed in terms of the total system angular momentum operator. Implications of this theory to the quantum nature of multipole-like correlations of all orders in the Dicke states are deduced. A selected set of examples illustrate these collective tests. Such tests detect entanglement in macroscopic atomic ensembles, where individual atoms are not accessible.

id: quant-ph/0612211
title: Fuzzy Propositional Logic Associated with Quantum Computational Gates
authors: Graciela Domenech, Hector Freytes
comments: 41 pages, no figures
journal: I. J. Th. Phys. 45 (2006) 228-261
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612211
abstract: We apply residuated structures associated with fuzzy logic to develop certain aspects of information processing in quantum computing from a logical perspective. For this purpose, we introduce an axiomatic system whose natural interpretation is the irreversible quantum Poincare structure.

id: quant-ph/0612212
title: Bell inequalities for two-photon experiments testable at low detection efficiency without assuming fair sampling
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 20 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612212
abstract: A family of local models containing two angles as hidden variables is defined for experiments measuring polarization correlation of optical photons. Searching for the best model of the family, that is giving predictions most close to quantum mechanics, allows deriving Bell-type inequalities which may be tested with relatively low detection efficiency.

id: quant-ph/0612213
title: Control of the geometric phase and pseudo-spin dynamics on coupled Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: E.I. Duzzioni, L. Sanz, S.S. Mizrahi, M.H.Y. Moussa
comments: 1 tex file and 11 figures in pdf format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612213
abstract: We describe the behavior of two coupled Bose-Einstein condensates in time-dependent (TD) trap potentials and TD Rabi (or tunneling) frequency, using the two-mode approach. Starting from Bloch states, we succeed to get analytical solutions for the TD Schroedinger equation and present a detailed analysis of the relative and geometric phases acquired by the wave function of the condensates, as well as their population imbalance. We also establish a connection between the geometric phases and constants of motion which characterize the dynamic of the system. Besides analyzing the affects of temporality on condensates that differs by hyperfine degrees of freedom (internal Josephson effect), we also do present a brief discussion of a one specie condensate in a double-well potential (external Josephson effect).

id: quant-ph/0612214
title: Manipulation of the quantum state by Majorana transition in spinor Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Lin Xia, Xu Xu, Fan Yang, Wei Xiong, Juntao Li, Qianli Ma, Xiaoji Zhou, Hong Guo, Xuzong Chen
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 043622 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612214
abstract: Manipulation of the quantum state by the Majorana transition in spinor BEC system has been realized by altering the rotation frequency of the magnetic field's direction. This kind of manipulation method has no limitation on the transition speed in principle and the system is well closed, which provides a new and superior tool to manipulate quantum states. Using this methord on pulsed atom laser, multicomponent spinor atom laser is generated. We demonstrate that the experiment results are agreed with the theoretical predication.

id: quant-ph/0612215
title: Positive Nonlinear Dynamical Group Uniting Quantum Mechanics and Thermodynamics
authors: Gian Paolo Beretta
comments: Latex 15 pages, submitted for the Proceedings of the Conference 'Particles and Fields: Classical and Quantum' held in honor of professor George Sudarshan in Jaca, Spain, September 18-21, 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612215
abstract: We discuss and motivate the form of the generator of a nonlinear quantum dynamical group 'designed' so as to accomplish a unification of quantum mechanics (QM) and thermodynamics. We call this nonrelativistic theory Quantum Thermodynamics (QT). Its conceptual foundations differ from those of (von Neumann) quantum statistical mechanics (QSM) and (Jaynes) quantum information theory (QIT), but for thermodynamic equilibrium (TE) states it reduces to the same mathematics, and for zero entropy states it reduces to standard unitary QM. The nonlinear dynamical group of QT is construed so that the second law emerges as a theorem of existence and uniqueness of a stable equilibrium state for each set of mean values of the energy and the number of constituents. It implements two fundamental ansatzs. The first is that in addition to the standard QM states described by idempotent density operators (zero entropy), a strictly isolated system admits also states that must be described by non-idempotent density operators (nonzero entropy). The second is that for such additional states the law of causal evolution is determined by the simultaneous action of a Schroedinger-von Neumann-type Hamiltonian generator and a nonlinear dissipative generator which conserves the mean values of the energy and the number of constituents, and (in forward time) drives any density operator, no matter how far from TE, in the 'direction' of steepest entropy ascent (maximal entropy increase). The equation of motion can be solved not only in forward time, to describe relaxation towards TE, but also backwards in time, to reconstruct the 'ancestral' or primordial lowest entropy state or limit cycle from which the system originates.

id: quant-ph/0612216
title: In praise of measurement
authors: N. David Mermin
comments: Based on talk given at the QUPON/QIPC 2005 conference in Vienna, May, 2005. 24 pages, 21 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol. 5, No. 4, 239-260, August, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612216
abstract: The role of measurement in quantum computation is examined in the light of John Bell's critique of the how the term ``measurement'' is used in quantum mechanics. I argue that within the field of quantum computer science the concept of measurement is precisely defined, unproblematic, amd forms the foundation of the entire subject.

id: quant-ph/0612217
title: Quantum Mechanics from the Hamilton-Jacobi Point of View
authors: Alexander Jurisch
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612217
abstract: In this article, we develop quantum mechanics upon the framework of the quantum mechanical Hamilton-Jacobi theory. We will show, that the Schroedinger point of view and the Hamilton-Jacobi point of view are fully equivalent in their description of physical systems, but differ in their descriptive manner. As a main result, a wave function in Hamilton-Jacobi theory can be decomposed into travelling waves in any point in space, not only asymptotically. The well known WKB-theory will be a special result of the more general theory, we will develop below. By the example of the linear potential and the harmonic oscillator, we will discuss quantum mechanics from the Hamilton-Jacobi point of view. Soft boundary value problems as the connection problem can be solved exactely. Quantizised energies and Maslov-indices can be calculated directely without orthonormalizing wave-functions. Also, we will focus on trajectory themes, which, in contrast to the Schroedinger point of view, follow naturally from the quantum mechanical action function.

id: quant-ph/0612218
title: Universality and optimality of programmable quantum processors
authors: Mario Ziman, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 9 pages
journal: Acta Phys.Hung. B 26, 277-291 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612218
abstract: We analyze and compare the optimality of approximate and probabilistic universal programmable quantum processors. We define several characteristics how to quantify the optimality and we study in detail performance of three types of programmable quantum processors based on (1) the C-NOT gate, (2) the SWAP operation, and (3) the model of the quantum information distributor - the QID processor. We show under which conditions the measurement assisted QID processor is optimal. We also investigate optimality of the so-called U-processors and we also compare the optimal approximative implementation of U(1) qubit rotations with the known probabilistic implementation as introduced by Vidal, Masanes and Cirac [ {\em Phys. Rev. Lett.} {\bf 88}, 047905 (2002)].

id: quant-ph/0612219
title: Entanglement may enhance the channel capacity in arbitrary dimensions
authors: E. Karpov, D. Daems, N. J. Cerf
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Open Sys. & Information Dyn. 13, 363 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612219
abstract: We consider explicitly two examples of d-dimensional quantum channels with correlated noise and show that, in agreement with previous results on Pauli qubit channels, there are situations where maximally entangled input states achieve higher values of the output mutual information than product states. We obtain a strong dependence of this effect on the nature of the noise correlations as well as on the parity of the space dimension, and conjecture that when entanglement gives an advantage in terms of mutual information, maximally entangled states achieve the channel capacity.

id: quant-ph/0612220
title: Semi-classical Scar functions in phase space
authors: Alejandro M.F. Rivas
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures. Submited to Journal Of Physics A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612220
abstract: We develop a semi-classical approximation for the scar function in the Weyl-Wigner representation in the neighborhood of a classically unstable periodic orbit of chaotic two dimensional systems. The prediction of hyperbolic fringes, asymptotic to the stable and unstable manifolds, is verified computationally for a (linear) cat map, after the theory is adapted to a discrete phase space appropriate to a quantized torus. Characteristic fringe patterns can be distinguished even for quasi-energies where the fixed point is not Bohr-quantized. Also the patterns are highly localized in the neighborhood of the periodic orbit and along its stable and unstable manifolds without any long distance patterns that appears for the case of the spectral Wigner function.

id: quant-ph/0612221
title: Two Party Non-Local Games
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, B.S.Choudhury
comments: Accepted in International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: IJTP, Volume 47, Number 12 / December, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612221
abstract: In this work we have introduced two party games with respective winning conditions. One cannot win these games deterministically in the classical world if they are not allowed to communicate at any stage of the game. Interestingly we find out that in quantum world, these winning conditions can be achieved if the players share an entangled state. We also introduced a game which is impossible to win if the players are not allowed to communicate in classical world (both probabilistically and deterministically), yet there exists a perfect quantum strategy by following which, one can attain the winning condition of the game.

id: quant-ph/0612222
title: Entanglement in the dispersive interaction of trapped ions with a quantized field
authors: F. L. Semi?o, K. Furuya
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, corrected typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042315 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612222
abstract: The mode-mode entanglement between trapped ions and cavity fields is investigated in the dispersive regime. We show how a simple initial preparation of Gaussian coherent states and a postselection may be used to generate motional non-local mesoscopic states (NLMS) involving ions in different traps. We also present a study of the entanglement induced by dynamical Stark-shifts considering a cluster of N-trapped ions. In this case, all entanglement is due to the dependence of the Stark-shifts on the ions' state of motion manifested as a cross-Kerr interaction between each ion and the field.

id: quant-ph/0612223
title: Effects of environmental parameters to total, quantum and classical correlations
authors: Wen-Ling Chan, Jun-Peng Cao, Dong Yang, Shi-Jian Gu
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 12143 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612223
abstract: We quantify the total, quantum, and classical correlations with entropic measures, and quantitatively compare these correlations in a quantum system, as exemplified by a Heisenberg dimer which is subjected to the change of environmental parameters: temperature and nonuniform external field. Our results show that the quantum correlation may exceed the classical correlation at some nonzero temperatures, though the former is rather fragile than the later under thermal fluctuation. The effect of the external field to the classical correlation is quite different from the quantum correlation.

id: quant-ph/0612224
title: Consistent Quantum-Classical Interaction and Solution of the Measurement Problem in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Tulsi Dass
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612224
abstract: Supmech, an algebraic scheme of mechanics integrating noncommutative symplectic geometry and noncommutative probability, subsumes quantum and classical mechanics and permits consistent treatment of interaction of quantum and classical systems. Quantum measurements are treated in this framework; the von Neumann reduction rule (generally postulated) is derived and interpreted in physical terms.

id: quant-ph/0612225
title: Bound entangled states with nonzero distillable key rate
authors: Dong Pyo Chi, Jeong Woon Choi, Jeong San Kim, Taewan Kim, Soojoon Lee
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, typos corrected, accepted for publication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612225
abstract: In this paper, we present sufficient conditions for states to have positive distillable key rate. Exploiting the conditions, we show that the bound entangled states given by Horodecki et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 160502 (2005), quant-ph/0506203] have nonzero distillable key rate, and finally exhibit a new class of bound entangled states with positive distillable key rate, but with negative Devetak-Winter lower bound of distillable key rate for the ccq states of their privacy squeezed versions.

id: quant-ph/0612226
title: Scopes and Limits of Modality in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Graciela Domenech, Hector Freytes, Christian de Ronde
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: Annalen der Physik 15 (2006) 853-860
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612226
abstract: We develop an algebraic frame for the simultaneous treatment of actual and possible properties of quantum systems. We show that, in spite of the fact that the language is enriched with the addition of a modal operator to the orthomodular structure, contextuality remains a central feature of quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0612227
title: A Topological Study of Contextuality and Modality in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Graciela Domenech, Hector Freytes, Christian de Ronde
comments: 10 pages, no figures, submitted to I. J. Th. Phys
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics 47 (2008) 168-174
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612227
abstract: Kochen-Specker theorem rules out the non-contextual assignment of values to physical magnitudes. Here we enrich the usual orthomodular structure of quantum mechanical propositions with modal operators. This enlargement allows to refer consistently to actual and possible properties of the system. By means of a topological argument, more precisely in terms of the existence of sections of sheaves, we give an extended version of Kochen-Specker theorem over this new structure. This allows us to prove that contextuality remains a central feature even in the enriched propositional system.

id: quant-ph/0612228
title: Nuclear Spins in a Nanoscale Device for Quantum Information Processing
authors: S. K. Ozdemir, A. Miranowicz, T. Ota, G. Yusa, N. Imoto, Y. Hirayama
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: e-J. Surf. Sci. Nanotech 4, 669-673 (2006).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612228
abstract: Coherent oscillations between any two levels from four nuclear spin states of I=3/2 have been demonstrated in a nanometre-scale NMR semiconductor device, where nuclear spins are all-electrically controlled. Using this device, we discuss quantum logic operations on two fictitious qubits of the I=3/2 system, and propose a quantum state tomography scheme based on the measurement of longitudinal magnetization, $M_z$.

id: quant-ph/0612229
title: Decoherence vs entanglement in coined quantum walks
authors: Olivier Maloyer, Viv Kendon
comments: 11 pages, 6 embedded eps figures; v2 improved layout and discussion
journal: New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 87
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0612229
abstract: Quantum versions of random walks on the line and cycle show a quadratic improvement in their spreading rate and mixing times respectively. The addition of decoherence to the quantum walk produces a more uniform distribution on the line, and even faster mixing on the cycle by removing the need for time-averaging to obtain a uniform distribution. We calculate numerically the entanglement between the coin and the position of the quantum walker and show that the optimal decoherence rates are such that all the entanglement is just removed by the time the final measurement is made.

id: astro-ph/0612067
title: Decoherence from Isocurvature Perturbations in Inflation
authors: Tomislav Prokopec, Gerasimos I. Rigopoulos
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. Substantial revision and extension covering a wider range of mass ratios, both numerically and analytically. Discussion extended and improved. The main thesis of the paper has remained unchanged. To appear in JCAP
journal: JCAP 0711:029,2007
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0612067
abstract: We discuss the possible role of isocurvature perturbations for the quantum decoherence of the curvature perturbation during inflation. We point out that if the inflaton trajectory in field space is curved, the adiabatic mode is generically coupled to the isocurvature mode and thus tracing out the latter can cause the curvature perturbation to decohere. We explicitly investigate this suggestion in a model of inflation with two decoupled massive fields and find that decoherence is effective for a wide range of mass ratios. In particular, we calculate the entanglement entropy for this model and show that it grows after horizon exit, providing a quantitative measure for decoherence.

id: cond-mat/0612011
title: Mapping of Coulomb gases and sine-Gordon models to statistics of random surfaces
authors: Adilet Imambekov, Vladimir Gritsev, Eugene Demler
comments: final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 063606 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612011
abstract: We introduce a new class of sine-Gordon models, for which interaction term is present in a region different from the domain over which quadratic part is defined. We develop a novel non-perturbative approach for calculating partition functions of such models, which relies on mapping them to statistical properties of random surfaces. As a specific application of our method, we consider the problem of calculating the amplitude of interference fringes in experiments with two independent low dimensional Bose gases. We calculate full distribution functions of interference amplitude for 1D and 2D gases with nonzero temperatures.

id: cond-mat/0612032
title: Nonadditive entropy reconciles the area law in quantum systems with classical thermodynamics
authors: Filippo Caruso, Constantino Tsallis
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures. New version accepted for publication on PRE (2008)
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612032
abstract: The Boltzmann-Gibbs-von Neumann entropy of a large part (of linear size L) of some (much larger) d-dimensional quantum systems follows the so-called area law (as for black holes), i.e., it is proportional to $L^{d-1}$. Here we show, for d=1,2, that the (nonadditive) entropy S_q satisfies, for a special value of $q \neq 1$, the classical thermodynamical prescription for the entropy to be extensive, i.e., $S_q \propto L^d$. Therefore, we reconcile with classical thermodynamics the area law widespread in quantum systems. Recently, a similar behavior was exhibited, by M. Gell-Mann, Y. Sato and one of us (C.T.), in mathematical models with scale-invariant correlations. Finally, we find that the system critical features are marked by a maximum of the special entropic index q.

id: cond-mat/0612038
title: Quantum information processing with circuit quantum electrodynamics
authors: Alexandre Blais, Jay Gambetta, A. Wallraff, D. I. Schuster, S. M. Girvin, M. H. Devoret, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032329 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612038
abstract: We theoretically study single and two-qubit dynamics in the circuit QED architecture. We focus on the current experimental design [Wallraff et al., Nature 431, 162 (2004); Schuster et al., Nature 445, 515 (2007)] in which superconducting charge qubits are capacitively coupled to a single high-Q superconducting coplanar resonator. In this system, logical gates are realized by driving the resonator with microwave fields. Advantages of this architecture are that it allows for multi-qubit gates between non-nearest qubits and for the realization of gates in parallel, opening the possibility of fault-tolerant quantum computation with superconduting circuits. In this paper, we focus on one and two-qubit gates that do not require moving away from the charge-degeneracy `sweet spot'. This is advantageous as it helps to increase the qubit dephasing time and does not require modification of the original circuit QED. However these gates can, in some cases, be slower than those that do not use this constraint. Five types of two-qubit gates are discussed, these include gates based on virtual photons, real excitation of the resonator and a gate based on the geometric phase. We also point out the importance of selection rules when working at the charge degeneracy point.

id: cond-mat/0612043
title: Microscopic origin of critical current fluctuations in large, small and ultra-small area Josephson junctions
authors: Lara Faoro, Lev B. Ioffe
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612043
abstract: We analyze data on the critical current and normal state resistance noise in Josephson junctions and argue that the noise in the critical current is due to a mechanism that is absent in the normal state. We estimate the noise produced by conventional Two Level Systems (TLSs) in the insulating barrier and find that it agrees both in magnitude and in temperature dependence with the resistance fluctuations in the normal state but it is not sufficient to explain the critical current noise observed in large superconducting contacts. We propose a novel microscopic mechanism for the noise in the superconducting state in which the noise is due to electron tunneling between weak Kondo states at subgap energies. We argue that the noise produced by this mechanism gives temperature, area dependence and intensity that agree with the data.

id: cond-mat/0612046
title: Nonequilibrium thermal entanglement
authors: Luis Quiroga, Ferney J. Rodriguez, Maria E. Ramirez, Roberto Paris
comments: 5 pages and 5 figures(eps). Minor changes. Accepted version to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612046
abstract: Results on heat current, entropy production rate and entanglement are reported for a quantum system coupled to two different temperature heat reservoirs. By applying a temperature gradient, different quantum states can be found with exactly the same amount of entanglement but different purity degrees and heat currents. Furthermore, a nonequilibrium enhancement-suppression transition behavior of the entanglement is identified.

id: cond-mat/0612049
title: Non-Markovian reduced dynamics and entanglement evolution of two coupled spins in a quantum spin environment
authors: Xiao-Zhong Yuan, Hsi-Sheng Goan, Ka-Di Zhu
comments: 9 pages (two-coulumn), 6 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 045331 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612049
abstract: The exact quantum dynamics of the reduced density matrix of two coupled spin qubits in a quantum Heisenberg XY spin star environment in the thermodynamic limit at arbitrarily finite temperatures is obtained using a novel operator technique. In this approach, the transformed Hamiltonian becomes effectively Jaynes-Cumming like and thus the analysis is also relevant to cavity quantum electrodynamics. This special operator technique is mathematically simple and physically clear, and allows us to treat systems and environments that could all be strongly coupled mutually and internally. To study their entanglement evolution, the concurrence of the reduced density matrix of the two coupled central spins is also obtained exactly. It is shown that the dynamics of the entanglement depends on the initial state of the system and the coupling strength between the two coupled central spins, the thermal temperature of the spin environment and the interaction between the constituents of the spin environment. We also investigate the effect of detuning which in our model can be controlled by the strength of a locally applied external magnetic field. It is found that the detuning has a significant effect on the entanglement generation between the two spin qubits.

id: cond-mat/0612057
title: Entanglement-induced electron coherence in a mesoscopic ring with two magnetic impurities
authors: F. Ciccarello, G. M. Palma, M. Zarcone
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 205415 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612057
abstract: We investigate the Aharonov-Bohm (AB) interference pattern in the electron transmission through a mesoscopic ring in which two identical non-interacting magnetic impurities are embedded. Adopting a quantum waveguide theory, we derive the exact transmission probability amplitudes and study the influence of maximally entangled states of the impurity spins on the electron transmittivity interference pattern. For suitable electron wave vectors, we show that the amplitude of AB oscillations in the absence of impurities is in fact not reduced within a wide range of the electron-impurity coupling constant when the maximally entangled singlet state is prepared. Such state is thus able to inhibit the usual electron decoherence due to scattering by magnetic impurities. We also show how this maximally entangled state of the impurity spins can be generated via electron scattering.

id: cond-mat/0612093
title: External field control of donor electron exchange at the Si/SiO2 interface
authors: M. J. Calderon, Belita Koiller, S. Das Sarma
comments: 11 pages, 15 figures. Changes in Eq. 24 plus minor typos
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 125311 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612093
abstract: We analyze several important issues for the single- and two-qubit operations in Si quantum computer architectures involving P donors close to a SiO2 interface. For a single donor, we investigate the donor-bound electron manipulation (i.e. 1-qubit operation) between the donor and the interface by electric and magnetic fields. We establish conditions to keep a donor-bound state at the interface in the absence of local surface gates, and estimate the maximum planar density of donors allowed to avoid the formation of a 2-dimensional electron gas at the interface. We also calculate the times involved in single electron shuttling between the donor and the interface. For a donor pair, we find that under certain conditions the exchange coupling (i.e. 2-qubit operation) between the respective electron pair at the interface may be of the same order of magnitude as the coupling in GaAs-based two-electron double quantum dots where coherent spin manipulation and control has been recently demonstrated (for example for donors ~10 nm below the interface and \~40 nm apart, J~10^{-4} meV), opening the perspective for similar experiments to be performed in Si.

id: cond-mat/0612111
title: Quantum Critical Point and Entanglement in a Matrix Product Ground State
authors: Amit Tribedi, Indrani Bose
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612111
abstract: In this paper, we study the entanglement properties of a spin-1 model the exact ground state of which is given by a Matrix Product state. The model exhibits a critical point transition at a parameter value a=0. The longitudinal and transverse correlation lengths are known to diverge as a tends to zero. We use three different entanglement measures S(i) (the one-site von Neumann entropy), S(i,j) (the two-body entanglement) and G(2,n) (the generalized global entanglement) to determine the entanglement content of the MP ground state as the parameter a is varied. The entanglement length, associated with S(i,j), is found to diverge in the vicinity of the quantum critical point a=0. The first derivative of the entanglement measure E (=S(i), S(i,j)) w.r.t. the parameter a also diverges. The first derivative of G(2,n) w.r.t. a does not diverge as a tends to zero but attains a maximum value at a=0. At the QCP itself all the three entanglement measures become zero. We further show that multipartite correlations are involved in the QPT at a=0.

id: cond-mat/0612226
title: Orthogonally-Driven Superconducting Qubit in Circuit QED
authors: M. J. Storcz, M. Mariantoni, H. Christ, A. Emmert, A. Marx, W. D. Oliver, R. Gross, F. K. Wilhelm, E. Solano
comments: 4 pages and 1 figure, minor changes, added references and improved figured, submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612226
abstract: We consider a superconducting charge qubit coupled to distinct orthogonal electromagnetic field modes belonging to a coplanar wave guide and a microstrip transmission line resonators. This architecture allows the simultaneous implementation of a Jaynes-Cummings and anti-Jaynes-Cummings dynamics, a resonant method for generating mesoscopic qubit-field superpositions and for field-state reconstruction. Furthermore, we utilize this setup to propose a field measurement technique that is, in principle, robust to qubit dephasing and field relaxation due to a fast pre-measurement.

id: cond-mat/0612263
title: Dissipative dynamics of atomic Hubbard models coupled to a phonon bath: Dark state cooling of atoms within a Bloch band of an optical lattice
authors: A. Griessner, A. J. Daley, S. R. Clark, D. Jaksch, P. Zoller
comments: 18 Pages, 16 Figures, ReVTeX 4
journal: New J. Phys 9, 44 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612263
abstract: We analyse a laser assisted sympathetic cooling scheme for atoms within the lowest Bloch band of an optical lattice. This scheme borrows ideas from sub-recoil laser cooling, implementing them in a new context in which the atoms in the lattice are coupled to a BEC reservoir. In this scheme, excitation of atoms between Bloch bands replaces the internal structure of atoms in normal laser cooling, and spontaneous emission of photons is replaced by creation of excitations in the BEC reservoir. We analyse the cooling process for many bosons and fermions, and obtain possible temperatures corresponding to a small fraction of the Bloch band width within our model. This system can be seen as a novel realisation of a many-body open quantum system.

id: cond-mat/0612288
title: Quantum chaos in the mesoscopic device for the Josephson flux qubit
authors: Ezequiel N. Pozzo, Daniel Dominguez, Maria Jose Sanchez
comments: Final version, to be published in Phys. Rev. B. References added, introduction and conclusions improved
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612288
abstract: We show that the three-junction SQUID device designed for the Josephson flux qubit can be used to study quantum chaos when operated at high energies. In the parameter region where the system is classically chaotic we analyze the spectral statistics. The nearest neighbor distributions $P(s)$ are well fitted by the Berry Robnik theory employing as free parameters the pure classical measures of the chaotic and regular regions of phase space in the different energy regions. The phase space representation of the wave functions is obtained via the Husimi distributions and the localization of the states on classical structures is analyzed.

id: cond-mat/0612293
title: Spin-orbit induced spin-qubit control in nanowires
authors: Christian Flindt, Anders S. Sorensen, Karsten Flensberg
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, Contribution to ICN+T2006, Basel, Switzerland, July-August, 2006
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 61, 302 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612293
abstract: We elaborate on a number of issues concerning our recent proposal for spin-qubit manipulation in nanowires using the spin-orbit coupling. We discuss the experimental status and describe in further detail the scheme for single-qubit rotations. We present a derivation of the effective two-qubit coupling which can be extended to higher orders in the Coulomb interaction. The analytic expression for the coupling strength is shown to agree with numerics.

id: cond-mat/0612302
title: Edge Transport in 2D Cold Atom Optical Lattices
authors: V.W. Scarola, S. Das Sarma
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 210403 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612302
abstract: We theoretically study the observable response of edge currents in two dimensional cold atom optical lattices. As an example we use Gutzwiller mean-field theory to relate persistent edge currents surrounding a Mott insulator in a slowly rotating trapped Bose-Hubbard system to time of flight measurements. We briefly discuss an application, the detection of Chern number using edge currents of a topologically ordered optical lattice insulator.

id: cond-mat/0612318
title: Deformed Fokker-Planck Equations
authors: Choon-Lin Ho, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys.118:667-674,2007
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612318
abstract: Based on the well-known relation between Fokker-Planck equations and Schroedinger equations of quantum mechanics (QM), we propose new deformed Fokker-Planck (FP) equations associated with the Schroedinger equations of "discrete" QM. The latter is a natural discretization of QM and its Schroedinger equations are difference instead of differential equations. Exactly solvable FP equations are obtained corresponding to exactly solvable "discrete" QM, whose eigenfunctions include various deformations of the classical orthogonal polynomials.

id: cond-mat/0612341
title: Interacting anyons in topological quantum liquids: The golden chain
authors: Adrian Feiguin, Simon Trebst, Andreas W. W. Ludwig, Matthias Troyer, Alexei Kitaev, Zhenghan Wang, Michael H. Freedman
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 160409 (2007).
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612341
abstract: We discuss generalizations of quantum spin Hamiltonians using anyonic degrees of freedom. The simplest model for interacting anyons energetically favors neighboring anyons to fuse into the trivial (`identity') channel, similar to the quantum Heisenberg model favoring neighboring spins to form spin singlets. Numerical simulations of a chain of Fibonacci anyons show that the model is critical with a dynamical critical exponent z=1, and described by a two-dimensional conformal field theory with central charge c=7/10. An exact mapping of the anyonic chain onto the two-dimensional tricritical Ising model is given using the restricted-solid-on-solid (RSOS) representation of the Temperley-Lieb algebra. The gaplessness of the chain is shown to have topological origin.

id: cond-mat/0612452
title: Generation of Spin Entanglement in Nonequilibrium Quantum Dots
authors: Stefan Legel, J¨¹rgen K?nig, Guido Burkard, Gerd Sch?n
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, replaced with version to be published in PRB
journal: Physical Review B 76, 085335 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612452
abstract: We propose schemes for generating spatially-separated spin entanglement in systems of two quantum dots with onsite Coulomb repulsion weakly coupled to a joint electron reservoir. An enhanced probability for the formation of spin entanglement is found in nonequilibrium situations with one extra electron on each dot, either in the transient state after rapid changes of the gate voltage, or in the steady state with applied bias voltage. In both cases so-called Werner states with spin singlet fidelity exceeding 1/2 are generated, which indicates entanglement.

id: cond-mat/0612503
title: Infinite-Randomness Fixed Points for Chains of Non-Abelian Quasiparticles
authors: N.E. Bonesteel, Kun Yang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 140405 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612503
abstract: One-dimensional chains of non-Abelian quasiparticles described by $SU(2)_k$ Chern-Simons-Witten theory can enter random singlet phases analogous to that of a random chain of ordinary spin-1/2 particles (corresponding to $k \to \infty$). For $k=2$ this phase provides a random singlet description of the infinite randomness fixed point of the critical transverse field Ising model. The entanglement entropy of a region of size $L$ in these phases scales as $S_L \simeq \frac{\ln d}{3} \log_2 L$ for large $L$, where $d$ is the quantum dimension of the particles.

id: cond-mat/0612590
title: Ground-State Fidelity and Bipartite Entanglement in the Bose-Hubbard Model
authors: Pierfrancesco Buonsante, Alessandro Vezzani
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures (endfloats used due to problems with figures and latex. Sorry about that); final version, similar to the published one
journal: Physical Review Letters 98, 110601 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612590
abstract: We analyze the quantum phase transition in the Bose-Hubbard model borrowing two tools from quantum-information theory, i.e. the ground-state fidelity and entanglement measures. We consider systems at unitary filling comprising up to 50 sites and show for the first time that a finite-size scaling analysis of these quantities provides excellent estimates for the quantum critical point.We conclude that fidelity is particularly suited for revealing a quantum phase transition and pinning down the critical point thereof, while the success of entanglement measures depends on the mechanisms governing the transition.

id: cond-mat/0612700
title: Quantum optical interface for gate-controlled spintronic devices
authors: Hans-Andreas Engel, Jacob M. Taylor, Mikhail D. Lukin, Atac Imamoglu
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0612700
abstract: We describe an opto-electronic structure in which charge and spin degrees of freedom in electrical gate-defined quantum dots can be coherently coupled to light. This is achieved via electron-electron interaction or via electron tunneling into a proximal self-assembled quantum dot. We illustrate potential applications of this approach by considering several quantum control techniques, including optical read-out of gate-controlled semiconductor quantum bits and controlled generation of entangled photon-spin pairs.

id: gr-qc/0612025
title: Newtonian Quantum Gravity
authors: Johan Hansson
comments: 
journal: Phys. Essays 23:53,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0612025
abstract: A Newtonian approach to quantum gravity is studied. At least for weak gravitational fields it should be a valid approximation. Such an approach could be used to point out problems and prospects inherent in a more exact theory of quantum gravity, yet to be discovered. Newtonian quantum gravity, e.g., shows promise for prohibiting black holes altogether (which would eliminate singularities and also solve the black hole information paradox), breaks the equivalence principle of general relativity, and supports non-local interactions (quantum entanglement). Its predictions should also be testable at length scales well above the "Planck scale", by high-precision experiments feasible even with existing technology. As an illustration of the theory, it turns out that the solar system, superficially, perfectly well can be described as a quantum gravitational system, provided that the $l$ quantum number has its maximum value, $n-1$. This results exactly in Kepler's third law. If also the $m$ quantum number has its maximum value ($\pm l$) the probability density has a very narrow torus-like form, centered around the classical planetary orbits. However, as the probability density is independent of the azimuthal angle $\phi$ there is, from quantum gravity arguments, no reason for planets to be located in any unique place along the orbit (or even \textit{in} an orbit for $m \neq \pm l$). This is, in essence, a reflection of the "measurement problem" inherent in all quantum descriptions.

id: hep-ph/0612092
title: Sterile neutrino production via active-sterile oscillations: the quantum Zeno effect
authors: D. Boyanovsky, C. M. Ho
comments: version to appear in JHEP
journal: JHEP 0707:030,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0612092
abstract: We study several aspects of the kinetic approach to sterile neutrino production via active-sterile mixing. We obtain the neutrino propagator in the medium including self-energy corrections up to $\mathcal{O}(G^2_F)$, from which we extract the dispersion relations and damping rates of the propagating modes. The dispersion relations are the usual ones in terms of the index of refraction in the medium, and the damping rates are $\Gamma_1(k) = \Gamma_{aa}(k) \cos^2\theta_m(k); \Gamma_2(k) = \Gamma_{aa}(k) \sin^2\theta_m(k)$ where $\Gamma_{aa}(k)\propto G^2_F k T^4$ is the active neutrino scattering rate and $\theta_m(k)$ is the mixing angle in the medium. We provide a generalization of the transition probability in the \emph{medium from expectation values in the density matrix}: $ P_{a\to s}(t) = \frac{\sin^22\theta_m}{4}[e^{-\Gamma_1t} + e^{-\Gamma_2 t}-2e^{-{1/2}(\Gamma_1+\Gamma_2)t} \cos\big(\Delta E t\big)] $ and study the conditions for its quantum Zeno suppression directly in real time. We find the general conditions for quantum Zeno suppression, which for $m_s\sim \textrm{keV}$ sterile neutrinos with $\sin2\theta \lesssim 10^{-3}$ \emph{may only be} fulfilled near an MSW resonance. We discuss the implications for sterile neutrino production and argue that in the early Universe the wide separation of relaxation scales far away from MSW resonances suggests the breakdown of the current kinetic approach.

id: hep-ph/0612234
title: Casimir forces and non-Newtonian gravitation
authors: Roberto Onofrio
comments: Also available at this http URL
journal: New J.Phys.8:237,2006
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0612234
abstract: The search for non-relativistic deviations from Newtonian gravitation can lead to new phenomena signalling the unification of gravity with the other fundamental interactions. Various recent theoretical frameworks indicate a possible window for non-Newtonian forces with gravitational coupling strength in the micrometre range. The major expected background in the same range is attributable to the Casimir force or variants of it if dielectric materials, rather than conducting ones, are considered. Here we review the measurements of the Casimir force performed so far in the micrometre range and how they determine constraints on non-Newtonian gravitation, also discussing the dominant sources of false signals. We also propose a geometry-independent parameterization of all data in terms of the measurement of the constant c. Any Casimir force measurement should lead, once all corrections are taken into account, to a determination of the constant c which, in order to assess the accuracy of the measurement, can be compared with its more precise value known through microscopic measurements. Although the last decade of experiments has resulted in solid demonstrations of the Casimir force, the situation is not conclusive with respect to being able to discover new physics. Future experiments and novel phenomenological analysis will be necessary to discover non-Newtonian forces or to push the window for their possible existence into regions of the parameter space which theoretically appear unnatural.

id: hep-th/0612036
title: Black hole entropy and quantum information
authors: M. J. Duff, S. Ferrara
comments: Minor Improvements. 22 pages latex
journal: Lect.NotesPhys.755:93-114,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0612036
abstract: We review some recently established connections between the mathematics of black hole entropy in string theory and that of multipartite entanglement in quantum information theory. In the case of N=2 black holes and the entanglement of three qubits, the quartic [SL(2)]^3 invariant, Cayley's hyperdeterminant, provides both the black hole entropy and the measure of tripartite entanglement. In the case of N=8 black holes and the entanglement of seven qubits, the quartic E_7 invariant of Cartan provides both the black hole entropy and the measure of a particular tripartite entanglement encoded in the Fano plane.

id: hep-th/0612067
title: Quantum Entanglement of Baby Universes
authors: Mina Aganagic, Takuya Okuda, Hirosi Ooguri
comments: 42 pages; v.2 typos corrected
journal: Nucl.Phys.B778:36-68,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0612067
abstract: We study quantum entanglements of baby universes which appear in non-perturbative corrections to the OSV formula for the entropy of extremal black holes in Type IIA string theory compactified on the local Calabi-Yau manifold defined as a rank 2 vector bundle over an arbitrary genus G Riemann surface. This generalizes the result for G=1 in hep-th/0504221. Non-perturbative terms can be organized into a sum over contributions from baby universes, and the total wave-function is their coherent superposition in the third quantized Hilbert space. We find that half of the universes preserve one set of supercharges while the other half preserve a different set, making the total universe stable but non-BPS. The parent universe generates baby universes by brane/anti-brane pair creation, and baby universes are correlated by conservation of non-normalizable D-brane charges under the process. There are no other source of entanglement of baby universes, and all possible states are superposed with the equal weight.

id: hep-th/0612076
title: Probabilities in the general boundary formulation
authors: Robert Oeckl
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX + jpconf, contribution to proceedings of DICE2006, Piombino, Italy, September 2006; v2: typos corrected (including title) and references updated
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.67:012049,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0612076
abstract: We give an introductory account of the general boundary formulation of quantum theory. We refine its probability interpretation and emphasize a conceptual and historical perspective. We give motivations from quantum gravity and illustrate them with a scenario for describing gravitons in quantum gravity.

id: hep-th/0612093
title: The disappearing $Q$ operator
authors: H. F. Jones, R. J. Rivers
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D75:025023,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0612093
abstract: In the Schroedinger formulation of non-Hermitian quantum theories a positive-definite metric operator $\eta\equiv e^{-Q}$ must be introduced in order to ensure their probabilistic interpretation. This operator also gives an equivalent Hermitian theory, by means of a similarity transformation. If, however, quantum mechanics is formulated in terms of functional integrals, we show that the $Q$ operator makes only a subliminal appearance and is not needed for the calculation of expectation values. Instead, the relation to the Hermitian theory is encoded via the external source $j(t)$. These points are illustrated and amplified for two non-Hermitian quantum theories: the Swanson model, a non-Hermitian transform of the simple harmonic oscillator, and the wrong-sign quartic oscillator, which has been shown to be equivalent to a conventional asymmetric quartic oscillator.

id: hep-th/0612115
title: How to Quantize Forces(?): An Academic Essay How the Strings Could Enter Classical Mechanics
authors: Denis Kochan
comments: 13 pages, 3 pictures, comments are welcome
journal: J.Geom.Phys.60:219-229,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0612115
abstract: Geometrical formulation of classical mechanics with forces that are not necessarily potential-generated is presented. It is shown that a natural geometrical "playground" for a mechanical system of point particles lacking Lagrangian and/or Hamiltonian description is an odd dimensional line element contact bundle. Time evolution is governed by certain canonical two-form $\Omega$ (an analog of $dp/\dq-dH/\dt$), which is constructed purely from forces and the metric tensor entering the kinetic energy of the system. Attempt to "dissipative quantization" in terms of the two-form $\Omega$ is proposed. The Feynman's path integral over histories of the system is rearranged to a "world-sheet" functional integral. The "umbilical string" surfaces entering the theory connect the classical trajectory of the system and the given Feynman history. In the special case of potential-generated forces, "world-sheet" approach precisely reduces to the standard quantum mechanics. However, a transition probability amplitude expressed in terms of "string functional integral" is applicable (at least academically) when a general dissipative environment is discussed.

id: hep-th/0612245
title: Weyl-Wigner-Moyal Formalism for Fermi Classical Systems
authors: I. Galaviz, H. Garcia-Compean, M. Przanowski, F.J. Turrubiates
comments: 25+1 pages, no figures, revtex4 file
journal: Annals Phys.323:267-290,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0612245
abstract: The Weyl-Wigner-Moyal formalism of fermionic classical systems with a finite number of degrees of freedom is considered. This correspondence is studied by computing the relevant Stratonovich-Weyl quantizer. The Moyal $\star$-product, Wigner functions and normal ordering are obtained for generic fermionic systems. Finally, this formalism is used to perform the deformation quantization of the Fermi oscillator and the supersymmetric quantum mechanics.

id: hep-th/0612299
title: Local and Global Casimir Energies in a Green's Function Approach
authors: K. A. Milton, I. Cavero-Pelaez, K. Kirsten
comments: 19 pages, uses ws-procs975x65.cls, invited contribution to Proceedings of Marcel Grossmann 11
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0612299
abstract: The effects of quantum fluctuations in fields confined by background configurations may be simply and transparently computed using the Green's function approach pioneered by Schwinger. Not only can total energies and surface forces be computed in this way, but local energy densities, and in general, all components of the vacuum expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor may be calculated. For simple geometries this approach may be carried out exactly, which yields insight into what happens in less tractable situations. In this talk I will concentrate on the example of a scalar field in a circular cylindrical delta-function background. This situation is quite similar to that of a spherical delta-function background. The local energy density in these cases diverges as the surface of the background is approached, but these divergences are integrable. The total energy is finite in strong coupling, but in weak coupling a divergence occurs in third order. This universal feature is shown to reflect a divergence in the energy associated with the surface, the integrated local energy density within the shell itself, which surface energy should be removable by a process of renormalization.

id: math-ph/0612020
title: Quantum stochastic models with hydrodynamical behaviour
authors: Geoffrey Sewell
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0612020
abstract: We construct a class of quantum stochastic models of reservoir driven many-particle systems that are the natural counterparts of certain extensively studied classical ones, which have been shown to exhibit good hydrodynamical behaviour. Our treatment of these models achieves two main aims. The first is to show that they enjoy the hydrodynamical properties of their classical counterparts. The second is to show that they satisfy the key assumptions of the general quantum macrostatistical scheme, presented in earlier works by the author, which served to expose certain generic large scale features of nonequilibrium steady states, e.g. the long range of the hydrodynamical correlations that they carry. In this way we establish the viability of that scheme.

id: math-ph/0612029
title: Supersymmetric transformations for coupled channels with threshold differences
authors: Boris F Samsonov, Jean-Marc Sparenberg, Daniel Baye
comments: 17 pages, 3 explicit examples and figures added
journal: J.Phys.A40:4225-4240,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0612029
abstract: The asymptotic behaviour of the superpotential of general SUSY transformations for a coupled-channel Hamiltonian with different thresholds is analyzed. It is shown that asymptotically the superpotential can tend to a diagonal matrix with an arbitrary number of positive and negative entries depending on the choice of the factorization solution. The transformation of the Jost matrix is generalized to "non-conservative" SUSY transformations introduced in Sparenberg et al (2006 J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 L639). Applied to the zero initial potential the method permits to construct superpartners with a nontrivially coupled Jost-matrix. Illustrations are given for two- and three-channel cases.

id: math-ph/0612056
title: A Modified Version of the Waxman Algorithm
authors: W. A. Berger, H. G. Miller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0612056
abstract: The iterative algorithm recently proposed by Waxman for solving eigenvalue problems, which relies on the method of moments, has been modified to improve its convergence considerably without sacrificing its benefits or elegance. The suggested modification is based on methods to calculate low-lying eigenpairs of large bounded hermitian operators or matrices.

id: math-ph/0612074
title: Universal joint-measurement uncertainty relation for error bars
authors: Paul Busch, David B. Pearson
comments: Version 2 has minor corrections and a new reference
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48 (2007) 082103/1-10
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0612074
abstract: We formulate and prove a new, universally valid uncertainty relation for the necessary errors bar widths in any approximate joint measurement of position and momentum.

id: math-ph/0612087
title: Localization on a quantum graph with a random potential on the edges
authors: Pavel Exner, Mario Helm, Peter Stollmann
comments: LaTeX2e, 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0612087
abstract: We prove spectral and dynamical localization on a cubic-lattice quantum graph with a random potential. We use multiscale analysis and show how to obtain the necessary estimates in analogy to the well-studied case of random Schroedinger operators.

id: math/0612765
title: Bounds on certain Higher-Dimensional Exponential Sums via the Self-Reducibility of the Weil Representation
authors: Shamgar Gurevich, Ronny Hadani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Representation Theory (math.RT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0612765
abstract: We describe a new method to bound certain higher-dimensional exponential sums which are associated with tori in symplectic groups over finite fields. Our method is based on the self-reducibility property of the Weil representation. As a result, we obtain a sharp form of the Hecke quantum unique ergodicity theorem for generic linear symplectomorphisms of the 2N-dimensional torus.

id: physics/0612003
title: Acetylene weak bands at 2.5 $¦Ì$m from intracavity Cr2+:ZnSe laser absorption observed with time-resolved Fourier transform spectroscopy
authors: V¨¦ronique Girard, Robert Farrenq, Evgeni Sorokin, Irina T. Sorokina, Guy Guelachvili, Nathalie Picqu¨¦
comments: 
journal: Chemical Physics Letters 419 (2006) 584-588
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0612003
abstract: The spectral dynamics of a mid-infrared multimode Cr^2+:ZnSe laser located in a vacuum sealed chamber containing acetylene at low pressure is analyzed by a stepping-mode high-resolution time-resolved Fourier transform interferometer. Doppler-limited absorption spectra of C_2H_2 in natural isotopic abundance are recorded around 4000 cm^-1 with kilometric absorption path lengths and sensitivities better than 3 10^-8 cm-1. Two cold bands are newly identified and assigned to the n_1+n_4^1 and n_3+n_5^1 transitions of ^12C^13CH_2. The n_1+n_5^1 band of ^12C_2HD and fourteen ^12C_2H_2 bands are observed, among which for the first time n_2+2n_4^2+n_5^-1.

id: physics/0612143
title: Dynamical interferences to probe short-pulse photoassociation of Rb atoms and stabilization of Rb_2 dimers
authors: Jordi Mur-Petit, Eliane Luc-Koenig, Fran?oise Masnou-Seeuws
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. v2: major changes in introduction, discussion clarified. v3: minor corrections. v4: matches published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 061404(R) (2007)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0612143
abstract: We analyze the formation of Rb_2 molecules with short photoassociation pulses applied to a cold Rb-85 sample. A pump laser pulse couples a continuum level of the ground electronic state X ^1\Sigma_{g}^+ with bound levels in the 0_{u}^+ (5S+5P_{1/2}) and 0_{u}^+ (5S+5P_{3/2}) vibrational series. The nonadiabatic coupling between the two excited channels induces time-dependent beatings in the populations. We propose to take advantage of these oscillations to design further laser pulses that probe the photoassociation process via photoionization or that optimize the stabilization in deep levels of the ground state.

id: math-ph/0612061
title: p-Adic Fractional Differentiation Operator with Point Interactions
authors: S. Kuzhel, S. Torba
comments: 12 pages
journal: Methods Funct. Anal. Topology 13 (2007), no. 2, 169-180
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0612061
abstract: Finite rank point perturbations of the $p$-adic fractional differentiation operator $D^{\alpha}$ are studied. The main attention is paid to the description of operator realizations (in $L_2(\mathbb{Q}_p)$) of the heuristic expression $D^{\alpha}+\sum_{i,j=1}^{n}b_{ij}<\delta_{x_j}, \cdot>\delta_{x_i}$ in a form that is maximally adapted for the preservation of physically meaningful relations to the parameters $b_{ij}$ of the singular potential.

