id: quant-ph/0701001
title: Can quantum-mechanical description of physical reality be considered incomplete?
authors: Gilles Brassard, Andre Allan Methot
comments: 12 pages, no figures, dedicated to the memory of Asher Peres
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 45-54, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701001
abstract: In loving memory of Asher Peres, we discuss a most important and influential paper written in 1935 by his thesis supervisor and mentor Nathan Rosen, together with Albert Einstein and Boris Podolsky. In that paper, the trio known as EPR questioned the completeness of quantum mechanics. The authors argued that the then-new theory should not be considered final because they believed it incapable of describing physical reality. The epic battle between Einstein and Bohr intensified following the latter's response later the same year. Three decades elapsed before John S. Bell gave a devastating proof that the EPR argument was fatally flawed. The modest purpose of our paper is to give a critical analysis of the original EPR paper and point out its logical shortcomings in a way that could have been done 70 years ago, with no need to wait for Bell's theorem. We also present an overview of Bohr's response in the interest of showing how it failed to address the gist of the EPR argument.

id: quant-ph/0701002
title: Can EPR correlations be driven by an effective wormhole?
authors: E. Sergio Santini
comments: Talk given at the Eleventh Marcel Grossmann Meeting, Berlin, Germany, 23-29 July 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701002
abstract: We consider the two-particle wave function of an EPR system given by a two dimensional relativistic scalar field model. The Bohm-de Broglie interpretation is applied and the quantum potential is viewed as modifying the Minkowski geometry. In such a way singularities appear in the metric, opening the possibility, following Holland, of interpreting the EPR correlations as originated by a wormhole effective geometry, through which physical signals can propagate.

id: quant-ph/0701003
title: Separable quantum states do not have stronger correlations than local realism. A comment on quant-ph/0611126 of Z. Chen
authors: M. Seevinck
comments: Welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701003
abstract: Chen (quant-ph/0611126) has recently claimed ``exponential violation of local realism by separable states", in the sense that multi-partite separable quantum states are supposed to give rise to correlations and fluctuations that violate a Bell-type inequality that Chen takes to be satisfied by local realism. However, this can not be true since all predictions (including all correlations and fluctuations) that separable quantum states give rise to have a local realistic description and thus satisfy all Bell-type inequalities, and this holds for all number of parties. Since Chen claims otherwise by presenting a new inequality, claimed to be a Bell-type one, which separable states supposedly can violate, there must be a flaw in the argumentation. I will expose this flaw, not merely for clarification of this issue, but perhaps even more importantly since it re-teaches us an old lesson John Bell taught us over 40 years ago. I will argue that this lesson provides us with a new morale especially relevant to modern research in Bell-type inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0701004
title: The geometry of quantum computation
authors: Mark R. Dowling, Michael A. Nielsen
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701004
abstract: Determining the quantum circuit complexity of a unitary operation is closely related to the problem of finding minimal length paths in a particular curved geometry [Nielsen et al, Science 311, 1133-1135 (2006)]. This paper investigates many of the basic geometric objects associated to this space, including the Levi-Civita connection, the geodesic equation, the curvature, and the Jacobi equation. We show that the optimal Hamiltonian evolution for synthesis of a desired unitary necessarily obeys a simple universal geodesic equation. As a consequence, once the initial value of the Hamiltonian is set, subsequent changes to the Hamiltonian are completely determined by the geodesic equation. We develop many analytic solutions to the geodesic equation, and a set of invariants that completely determine the geodesics. We investigate the problem of finding minimal geodesics through a desired unitary, U, and develop a procedure which allows us to deform the (known) geodesics of a simple and well understood metric to the geodesics of the metric of interest in quantum computation. This deformation procedure is illustrated using some three-qubit numerical examples. We study the computational complexity of evaluating distances on Riemmanian manifolds, and show that no efficient classical algorithm for this problem exists, subject to the assumption that good pseudorandom generators exist. Finally, we develop a canonical extension procedure for unitary operations which allows ancilla qubits to be incorporated into the geometric approach to quantum computing.

id: quant-ph/0701005
title: Negativity as a distance from a separable state
authors: M. Khasin, R. Kosloff, D. Steinitz
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052325 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701005
abstract: The computable measure of the mixed-state entanglement, the negativity, is shown to admit a clear geometrical interpretation, when applied to Schmidt-correlated (SC) states: the negativity of a SC state equals a distance of the state from a pertinent separable state. As a consequence, a SC state is separable if and only if its negativity vanishes. Another remarkable consequence is that the negativity of a SC can be estimated "at a glance" on the density matrix. These results are generalized to mixtures of SC states, which emerge in certain quantum-dynamical settings.

id: quant-ph/0701006
title: Quasi-hermitian Quantum Mechanics in Phase Space
authors: Thomas Curtright, Andrzej Veitia
comments: Accepted by Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: J.Math.Phys.48:102112,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701006
abstract: We investigate quasi-hermitian quantum mechanics in phase space using standard deformation quantization methods: Groenewold star products and Wigner transforms. We focus on imaginary Liouville theory as a representative example where exact results are easily obtained. We emphasize spatially periodic solutions, compute various distribution functions and phase-space metrics, and explore the relationships between them.

id: quant-ph/0701007
title: Deterministic generation of large cluster states using non-deterministic collective measurements based on quantum Zeno effect
authors: Xiang-bin Wang, J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062339 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701007
abstract: We propose a method to generate large cluster states without using conditional (e.g., CNOT, C-phase) gates. Indeed, an arbitrarily large cluster state can be generated and expanded almost deterministically by single-qubit rotations and a special non-deterministic collective detection. If the rotation of each step is sufficiently small, the quantum Zeno effect will guarantee that the state is projected into the intended subspace after each measurement, and an almost-perfect cluster state can be produced. We also propose a possible implementation of this approach using superconducting flux qubits.

id: quant-ph/0701008
title: Theory of Dicke narrowing in coherent population trapping
authors: O. Firstenberg, M. Shuker, A. Ben-Kish, D. R. Fredkin, N. Davidson, A. Ron
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures; Introduction revised
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 013818 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701008
abstract: The Doppler effect is one of the dominant broadening mechanisms in thermal vapor spectroscopy. For two-photon transitions one would naively expect the Doppler effect to cause a residual broadening, proportional to the wave-vector difference. In coherent population trapping (CPT), which is a narrow-band phenomenon, such broadening was not observed experimentally. This has been commonly attributed to frequent velocity-changing collisions, known to narrow Doppler-broadened one-photon absorption lines (Dicke narrowing). Here we show theoretically that such a narrowing mechanism indeed exists for CPT resonances. The narrowing factor is the ratio between the atom's mean free path and the wavelength associated with the wave-vector difference of the two radiation fields. A possible experiment to verify the theory is suggested.

id: quant-ph/0701009
title: Monogamy and ground-state entanglement in highly connected systems
authors: Alessandro Ferraro, Artur Garcia-Saez, Antonio Acin
comments: 7 pages, 11 figures. Considerably extended version, with new numerical and analytical results
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052321 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701009
abstract: We consider the ground-state entanglement in highly connected many-body systems, consisting of harmonic oscillators and spin-1/2 systems. Varying their degree of connectivity, we investigate the interplay between the enhancement of entanglement, due to connections, and its frustration, due to monogamy constraints. Remarkably, we see that in many situations the degree of entanglement in a highly connected system is essentially of the same order as in a low connected one. We also identify instances in which the entanglement decreases as the degree of connectivity increases.

id: quant-ph/0701010
title: Limitations on the principle of stationary phase when it is applied to tunneling analysis
authors: Alex E. Bernardini
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A74 (2006) 062111
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701010
abstract: Using a recently developed procedure - multiple wave packet decomposition - here we study the phase time formulation for tunneling/reflecting particles colliding with a potential barrier. To partially overcome the analytical difficulties which frequently arise when the stationary phase method is employed for deriving phase (tunneling) time expressions, we present a theoretical exercise involving a symmetrical collision between two identical wave packets and an one-dimensional rectangular potential barrier. Summing the amplitudes of the reflected and transmitted waves - using a method we call multiple peak decomposition - is shown to allow reconstruction of the scattered wave packets in a way which allows the stationary phase principle to be recovered.

id: quant-ph/0701011
title: Negative Differential Resistance of Electrons in Graphene Barrier
authors: Daniela Dragoman, Mircea Dragoman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701011
abstract: The graphene is a native two-dimensional crystal material consisting of a single sheet of carbon atoms. In this unique one-atom-thick material, the electron transport is ballistic and is described by a quantum relativistic-like Dirac equation rather than by the Schrodinger equation. As a result, a graphene barrier behaves very differently compared to a common semiconductor barrier. We show that a single graphene barrier acts as a switch with a very high on-off ratio and displays a significant differential negative resistance, which promotes graphene as a key material in nanoelectronics.

id: quant-ph/0701012
title: Metamaterials for Ballistic Electrons
authors: Daniela Dragoman, Mircea Dragoman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701012
abstract: The paper presents a metamaterial for ballistic electrons, which consists of a quantum barrier formed in a semiconductor with negative effective electron mass. This barrier is the analogue of a metamaterial for electromagnetic waves in media with negative electrical permittivity and magnetic permeability. Besides applications similar to those of optical metamaterials, a nanosized slab of a metamaterial for ballistic electrons, sandwiched between quantum wells of positive effective mass materials, reveals unexpected conduction properties, e.g. single or multiple room temperature negative differential conductance regions at very low voltages and with considerable peak-to-valley ratios, while the traversal time of ballistic electrons can be tuned to larger or smaller values than in the absence of the metamaterial slab. Thus, slow and fast electrons, analogous to slow and fast light, occur in metamaterials for ballistic electrons.

id: quant-ph/0701013
title: Witnessing Macroscopic Entanglement in a Staggered Magnetic Field
authors: Jenny Hide, Wonmin Son, Ian Lawrie, Vlatko Vedral
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review A, minor changes from previous version. 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022319 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701013
abstract: We investigate macroscopic entanglement in an infinite XX spin-1/2 chain with staggered magnetic field, B_l=B+e^{-i\pi l}b. Using single-site entropy and by constructing an entanglement witness, we search for the existence of entanglement when the system is at absolute zero, as well as in thermal equilibrium. Although the role of the alternating magnetic field b is, in general, to suppress entanglement as do B and T, we find that when T=0, introducing b allows the existence of entanglement even when the uniform magnetic field B is arbitrarily large. We find that the region and the amount of entanglement in the spin chain can be enhanced by a staggered magnetic field.

id: quant-ph/0701014
title: Dynamical Reduction Models: present status and future developments
authors: A. Bassi
comments: 12 pages. Contribution to the Proceedings of the "Third International Workshop DICE2006", Castello di Piombino (Tuscany), September 11-15, 2006. Minor changes made
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.67:012013,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701014
abstract: We review the major achievements of the dynamical reduction program, showing why and how it provides a unified, consistent description of physical phenomena, from the microscopic quantum domain to the macroscopic classical one. We discuss the difficulties in generalizing the existing models in order to comprise also relativistic quantum field theories. We point out possible future lines of research, ranging from mathematical physics to phenomenology.

id: quant-ph/0701015
title: Classical States and Their Quantum Correspondence
authors: I. Hen, A. Kalev
comments: 8 pages. We have taken a different path in showing that the classical--quantum correspondence still holds under time evolution
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701015
abstract: We point out a correspondence between classical and quantum states, by showing that for every classical distribution over phase--space, one can construct a corresponding quantum state, such that in the classical limit of $\hbar\to 0$ the latter converges to the former with respect to all measurable quantities.

id: quant-ph/0701016
title: Reply to Comments of Bassi, Ghirardi, and Tumulka on the Free Will Theorem
authors: John Conway, Simon Kochen
comments: We sharpen our theorem by replacing axiom FIN by a weaker axiom MIN to answer the above authors' objections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701016
abstract: We show that the authors in the title have erred in claiming that our axiom FIN is false by conflating it with Bell locality. We also argue that the predictions of quantum mechanics, and in particular EPR, are fully Lorentz invariant, whereas the Free Will Theorem shows that theories with a mechanism of reduction, such as GRW, cannot be made fully invariant.

id: quant-ph/0701017
title: High-speed linear optics quantum computing using active feed-forward
authors: Robert Prevedel, Philip Walther, Felix Tiefenbacher, Pascal B?hi, Rainer Kaltenbaek, Thomas Jennewein, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature 445, 65-69 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701017
abstract: As information carriers in quantum computing, photonic qubits have the advantage of undergoing negligible decoherence. However, the absence of any significant photon-photon interaction is problematic for the realization of non-trivial two-qubit gates. One solution is to introduce an effective nonlinearity by measurements resulting in probabilistic gate operations. In one-way quantum computation, the random quantum measurement error can be overcome by applying a feed-forward technique, such that the future measurement basis depends on earlier measurement results. This technique is crucial for achieving deterministic quantum computation once a cluster state (the highly entangled multiparticle state on which one-way quantum computation is based) is prepared. Here we realize a concatenated scheme of measurement and active feed-forward in a one-way quantum computing experiment. We demonstrate that, for a perfect cluster state and no photon loss, our quantum computation scheme would operate with good fidelity and that our feed-forward components function with very high speed and low error for detected photons. With present technology, the individual computational step (in our case the individual feed-forward cycle) can be operated in less than 150 ns using electro-optical modulators. This is an important result for the future development of one-way quantum computers, whose large-scale implementation will depend on advances in the production and detection of the required highly entangled cluster states.

id: quant-ph/0701018
title: Control momentum entanglement with atomic spontaneously generated coherence
authors: Rui Guo, Hong Guo
comments: 6 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701018
abstract: With atomic spontaneously generated coherence (SGC), we propose a novel scheme to coherently control the atom--photon momentum entanglement through atomic internal coherence. A novel phenomena of ``phase entanglement in momentum'' is proposed, and we found, under certain conditions, that super--high degree of momentum entanglement can be produced with this scheme.

id: quant-ph/0701019
title: Quantum gravity computers: On the theory of computation with indefinite causal structure
authors: Lucien Hardy
comments: 24 pages. For proceedings of "Quantum Reality, Relativistic Causality, and Closing the Epistemic Circle: An International Conference in Honour of Abner Shimony"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701019
abstract: A quantum gravity computer is one for which the particular effects of quantum gravity are relevant. In general relativity, causal structure is non-fixed. In quantum theory non-fixed quantities are subject to quantum uncertainty. It is therefore likely that, in a theory of quantum gravity, we will have indefinite causal structure. This means that there will be no matter of fact as to whether a particular interval is timelike or not. We study the implications of this for the theory of computation. Classical and quantum computations consist in ivolving the state of the computer through a sequence of time steps. This will, most likely, not be possible for a quantum gravity computer because the notion of a time step makes no sense if we have indefinite causal structure. We show that it is possible to set up a model for computation even in the absence of definite causal structure by using a certain framework (the causaloid formalism) that was developed for the purpose of correlating data taken in this type of situation. Corresponding to a physical theory is a causaloid, Lambda (this is a mathematical object containing information about the causal connections between different spacetime regions). A computer is given by the pair {Lambda, S} where S is a set of gates. Working within the causaloid formalism, we explore the question of whether universal quantum gravity computers are possible. We also examine whether a quantum gravity computer might be more powerful than a quantum (or classical) computer. In particular, we ask whether indefinite causal structure can be used as a computational resource.

id: quant-ph/0701020
title: Quantum Quasi-Cyclic LDPC Codes
authors: Manabu Hagiwara, Hideki Imai
comments: 18 pages, 1 figures, published in proc. of ISIT 2007, (2007 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701020
abstract: In this paper, a construction of a pair of "regular" quasi-cyclic LDPC codes as ingredient codes for a quantum error-correcting code is proposed. That is, we find quantum regular LDPC codes with various weight distributions. Furthermore our proposed codes have lots of variations for length, code rate. These codes are obtained by a descrete mathematical characterization for model matrices of quasi-cyclic LDPC codes. Our proposed codes achieve a bounded distance decoding (BDD) bound, or known as VG bound, and achieve a lower bound of the code length.

id: quant-ph/0701021
title: Nonclassicality of quantum excitation of classical coherent field in photon loss channel
authors: Shang-Bin Li, Xu-Bo Zou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, RevTex4, submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 045801 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701021
abstract: We investigate the nonclassicality of photon-added coherent states in the photon loss channel by exploring the entanglement potential and negative Wigner distribution. The total negative probability defined by the absolute value of the integral of the Wigner function over the negative distribution region reduces with the increase of decay time. The total negative probability and the entanglement potential of pure photon-added coherent states exhibit the similar dependence on the beam intensity. The reduce of the total negative probability is consistent with the behavior of entanglement potential for the dissipative single-photon-added coherent state at short decay times.

id: quant-ph/0701022
title: Some new results concerning the QFT vacuum in the Heisenberg picture
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 7 pages, typos corrected
journal: Apeiron15:567,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701022
abstract: In has been recently shown [1] that in Dirac's hole theory the vacuum state is not the minimum energy state but that there exist quantum states with less energy than that of the vacuum state. In this paper we extend this discussion to quantum field theory (QFT) and consider the question of whether or not the vacuum in QFT is the state of minimum energy. It will be shown that for a "simple" field theory, consisting of a quantized fermion field interacting with a classical electric field in 1-1D space-time, there exist quauntum states with less energy than that of the vacuum state.

id: quant-ph/0701023
title: Quantum jumps of saturation level rigidity and anomalous oscillations of level number variance in the semiclassical spectrum of a modified Kepler problem
authors: J. M. A. S. P. Wickramasinghe, B. Goodman, R. A. Serota
comments: 18 pages, 3 color figures inline
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701023
abstract: We discover quantum Hall like jumps in the saturation spectral rigidity in the semiclassical spectrum of a modified Kepler problem as a function of the interval center. These jumps correspond to integer decreases of the radial winding numbers in classical periodic motion. We also discover and explain single harmonic dominated oscillations of the level number variance with the width of the energy interval. The level number variance becomes effectively zero for the interval widths defined by the frequency of the shortest periodic orbit. This signifies that there are virtually no variations from sample to sample in the number of levels on such intervals.

id: quant-ph/0701024
title: Quantum Imaging with Incoherent Photons
authors: C. Thiel, T. Bastin, J. Martin, E. Solano, J. von Zanthier, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, improved presentation. Accepted in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 133603 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701024
abstract: We propose a technique to obtain sub-wavelength resolution in quantum imaging with potentially 100% contrast using incoherent light. Our method requires neither path-entangled number states nor multi-photon absorption. The scheme makes use of N photons spontaneously emitted by N atoms and registered by N detectors. It is shown that for coincident detection at particular detector positions a resolution of \lambda / N can be achieved.

id: quant-ph/0701025
title: Probabilistic reversing operation with fidelity and purity gain for macroscopic quantum superposition
authors: Hiroaki Terashima, Masahito Ueda
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A75 (2007) 052323
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701025
abstract: It is shown that a large class of weak disturbances on macroscopic quantum superpositions can be canceled by a probabilistic reversing operation on the system. We illustrate this for spin systems undergoing an Ising-type interaction with the environment and demonstrate that both the fidelity to the original state and the purity of the amended state can simultaneously be increased by the reversing operation. A possible experimental scheme to implement our scheme is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0701026
title: Truncated states obtained by iteration
authors: W. B. Cardoso, N. G. de Almeida
comments: 10 pages, 22 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. Vol. 25, No. 2 (2008) 517
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701026
abstract: Quantum states of the electromagnetic field are of considerable importance, finding potential application in various areas of physics, as diverse as solid state physics, quantum communication and cosmology. In this paper we introduce the concept of truncated states obtained via iterative processes (TSI) and study its statistical features, making an analogy with dynamical systems theory (DST). As a specific example, we have studied TSI for the doubling and the logistic functions, which are standard functions in studying chaos. TSI for both the doubling and logistic functions exhibit certain similar patterns when their statistical features are compared from the point of view of DST. A general method to engineer TSI in the running-wave domain is employed, which includes the errors due to the nonidealities of detectors and photocounts.

id: quant-ph/0701027
title: Violation of the principle of Complementarity, and its implications
authors: Shahriar S. Afshar
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures, SPIE conference 5866, "THE NATURE OF LIGHT: WHAT IS A PHOTON?", August 2005
journal: Proc. SPIE 5866 (2005) 229-244
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701027
abstract: Bohr's principle of complementarity predicts that in a welcher weg ("which-way") experiment, obtaining fully visible interference pattern should lead to the destruction of the path knowledge. Here I report a failure for this prediction in an optical interferometry experiment. Coherent laser light is passed through a dual pinhole and allowed to go through a converging lens, which forms well-resolved images of the respective pinholes, providing complete path knowledge. A series of thin wires are then placed at previously measured positions corresponding to the dark fringes of the interference pattern upstream of the lens. No reduction in the resolution and total radiant flux of either image is found in direct disagreement with the predictions of the principle of complementarity. In this paper, a critique of the current measurement theory is offered, and a novel nonperturbative technique for ensemble properties is introduced. Also, another version of this experiment without an imaging lens is suggested, and some of the implications of the violation of complementarity for another suggested experiment to investigate the nature of the photon and its "empty wave" is briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0701028
title: First order quantum phase transitions in the XX spin chain
authors: Feng Pan, Nan Ma, Xin Guan, J. P. Draayer
comments: 5 pages and 1 figure, LaTeX. More typos corrected; more refs added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701028
abstract: Quantum phase transitional behavior of a finite periodic XX spin-1/2 chain with nearest neighbor interaction in a uniform transverse field is studied based on the simple exact solutions. It is found that there are [N/2] level-crossing points in the ground state, where N is the periodic number of the system and [x] stands for the integer part of x, when the interaction strength and magnitude of the magnetic field satisfy certain conditions. The quantum phase transitions are of the first order due to the level-crossing. The ground state in the thermodynamic limit will be divided into three distinguishable quantum phases.

id: quant-ph/0701029
title: Characterizing the complete hierarchy of correlations in an $n$-party system
authors: D.L. Zhou, L. You
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701029
abstract: A characterization of the complete correlation structure in an $n$-party system is proposed in terms of a series of $(k,n)$ threshold classical secret sharing protocols ($2\le k\le n$). The total correlation is shown to be the sum of independent correlations of 2-, 3-,$...$, $n$-parties. Our result unifies several earlier scattered works, and shines new light at the important topic of multi-party quantum entanglement. As an application, we explicitly construct the hierarchy of correlations in an $n$-qubit graph state.

id: quant-ph/0701030
title: The states of W-class as shared resources for perfect teleportation and superdense coding
authors: Lvzhou Li, Daowen Qiu
comments: 10 pages, critical comments and suggestions are welcome
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 10871-10885.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701030
abstract: As we know, the states of triqubit systems have two important classes: GHZ-class and W-class. In this paper, the states of W-class are considered for teleportation and superdense coding, and are generalized to multi-particle systems. First we describe two transformations of the shared resources for teleportation and superdense coding, which allow many new protocols from some known ones for that. As an application of these transformations, we obtain a sufficient and necessary condition for a state of W-class being suitable for perfect teleportation and superdense coding. As another application, we find that state $|W>_{123}={1/2}(|100>_{123}+|010>_{123}+\sqrt{2}|001>_{123})$ can be used to transmit three classical bits by sending two qubits, which was considered to be impossible by P. Agrawal and A. Pati [Phys. Rev. A to be published]. We generalize the states of W-class to multi-qubit systems and multi-particle systems with higher dimension. We propose two protocols for teleportation and superdense coding by using W-states of multi-qubit systems that generalize the protocols by using $|W>_{123}$ proposed by P. Agrawal and A. Pati. We obtain an optimal way to partition some W-states of multi-qubit systems into two subsystems, such that the entanglement between them achieves maximum value.

id: quant-ph/0701031
title: Variation on a theme by GHZM
authors: P.K.Aravind
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, PDF only
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701031
abstract: In the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-Mermin (GHZM) proof of Bell's theorem, a source periodically emits an entangled state of three particles whose properties are analyzed by three distant observers and used to prove Bell's nonlocality theorem. This paper analyzes a somewhat different gedanken experiment involving only two observers that nevertheless makes indirect use of the GHZ states to prove Bell's theorem. The relationship of the GHZM proof to the present one is discussed, and it is pointed out that the latter provides an interesting new view of the connection between the "two theorems of John Bell".

id: quant-ph/0701032
title: SLOCC invariant and semi-invariants for SLOCC classification of four-qubits
authors: D. Li, X. Li, H. Huang, X. Li
comments: 22 pages, no figures, 9 tables, submit the paper to a journal
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052311 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701032
abstract: We show there are at least 28 distinct true SLOCC entanglement classes for four-qubits by means of SLOCC invariant and semi-invariants and derive the number of the degenerated SLOCC classes for n-qubits.

id: quant-ph/0701033
title: Graph identification by quantum walks
authors: J.B. Wang, B.L. Douglas
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701033
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors; replaced by arXiv:0705.2531v2 [quant-ph].

id: quant-ph/0701034
title: Localization of coherent exciton transport in phase space
authors: Oliver Muelken, Veronika Bierbaum, Alexander Blumen
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures. slight revision of the text and addition of a new figure. to be published in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 75, 031121 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701034
abstract: We study numerically the dynamics of excitons on discrete rings in the presence of static disorder. Based on continuous-time quantum walks we compute the time evolution of the Wigner function (WF) both for pure diagonal (site) disorder, as well as for diagonal and off-diagonal (site and transfer) disorder. In both cases, large disorder leads to localization and destroys the characteristic phase space patterns of the WF found in the absence of disorder.

id: quant-ph/0701035
title: Comments on quant-ph/0609176
authors: XiaoDi Wu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701035
abstract: In this note, we show the mistake which has been made in quant-ph/0609176. Further more, we provide a sketch of proof to show the impossibility of the effort of such kind toward improving the efficiency of Grover's Algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0701036
title: Feedback Control of Non-linear Quantum Systems: a Rule of Thumb
authors: Kurt Jacobs, Austin P. Lund
comments: 4 pages, revtex4, 1 eps figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 020501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701036
abstract: We show that in the regime in which feedback control is most effective -- when measurements are relatively efficient, and feedback is relatively strong -- then, in the absence of any sharp inhomogeneity in the noise, it is always best to measure in a basis that does not commute with the system density matrix than one that does. That is, it is optimal to make measurements that disturb the state one is attempting to stabilize.

id: quant-ph/0701037
title: Quantum Convolutional Codes Derived From Reed-Solomon and Reed-Muller Codes
authors: Salah A. Aly, Andreas Klappenecker, Pradeep Kiran Sarvepalli
comments: 5 pages; updated parameters of classical (whence quantum) RM convolutional codes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701037
abstract: Convolutional stabilizer codes promise to make quantum communication more reliable with attractive online encoding and decoding algorithms. This paper introduces a new approach to convolutional stabilizer codes based on direct limit constructions. Two families of quantum convolutional codes are derived from generalized Reed-Solomon codes and from Reed- Muller codes. A Singleton bound for pure convolutional stabilizer codes is given.

id: quant-ph/0701038
title: Theory of chaotic atomic transport in an optical lattice
authors: V.Yu. Argonov, S.V. Prants
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: V.Yu. Argonov and S.V. Prants. Theory of chaotic atomic transport in an optical lattice. Phys. Rev. A. V.75 (2007) art. no. 063428.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701038
abstract: A semiclassical theory of chaotic atomic transport in a one-dimensional nondissipative optical lattice is developed. Using the basic equations of motion for the Bloch and translational atomic variables, we derive a stochastic map for the synchronized component of the atomic dipole moment that determines the center-of-mass motion. We find the analytical relations between the atomic and lattice parameters under which atoms typically alternate between flying through the lattice and being trapped in the wells of the optical potential. We use the stochastic map to derive formulas for the probability density functions (PDFs) for the flight and trapping events. Statistical properties of chaotic atomic transport strongly depend on the relations between the atomic and lattice parameters. We show that there is a good quantitative agreement between the analytical PDFs and those computed with the stochastic map and the basic equations of motion for different ranges of the parameters. Typical flight and trapping PDFs are shown to be broad distributions with power law ``heads'' with the slope -1.5 and exponential ``tails''. The lengths of the power law and exponential parts of the PDFs depend on the values of the parameters and can be varied continuously. We find analytical conditions, under which deterministic atomic transport has fractal properties, and explain a hierarchical structure of the dynamical fractals.

id: quant-ph/0701039
title: Violation of Bohr's Complementarity: One Slit or Both?
authors: Shahriar S. Afshar
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, Vaxjo University Conference, QUANTUM THEORY: Reconsideration of Foundations - 3, January 4, 2006
journal: AIP Cof. Proc. 810, (2006) 294-299
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701039
abstract: We have implemented a novel double-slit "which-way" experiment which raises interesting questions of interpretation. Coherent laser light is passed through a converging lens and then through a dual pinhole producing two beams crossing over at the focal point of the lens, and fully separating further downstream providing which-way information. A thin wire is then placed at a minimum of the interference pattern formed at the cross-over region. No significant reduction in the total flux or resolution of the separated beams is found, providing evidence for coexistence of perfect interference and which-way information in the same experiment, contrary to the common readings of Bohr's principle of complementarity. This result further supports the conclusions of the original experiment by the author in which an imaging lens was employed to obtain which-way information. Finally, a short discussion of the novel non-perturbative measurement technique for ensemble properties is offered.

id: quant-ph/0701040
title: On the degree conjecture for separability of multipartite quantum states
authors: Ali Saif M. Hassan, Pramod Joag
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PHYSICS 49, 012105 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701040
abstract: We settle the so-called degree conjecture for the separability of multipartite quantum states, which are normalized graph Laplacians, first given by Braunstein {\it et al.} [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{73}, 012320 (2006)]. The conjecture states that a multipartite quantum state is separable if and only if the degree matrix of the graph associated with the state is equal to the degree matrix of the partial transpose of this graph. We call this statement to be the strong form of the conjecture. In its weak version, the conjecture requires only the necessity, that is, if the state is separable, the corresponding degree matrices match. We prove the strong form of the conjecture for {\it pure} multipartite quantum states, using the modified tensor product of graphs defined in [J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. \textbf{40}, 10251 (2007)], as both necessary and sufficient condition for separability. Based on this proof, we give a polynomial-time algorithm for completely factorizing any pure multipartite quantum state. By polynomial-time algorithm we mean that the execution time of this algorithm increases as a polynomial in $m,$ where $m$ is the number of parts of the quantum system. We give a counter-example to show that the conjecture fails, in general, even in its weak form, for multipartite mixed states. Finally, we prove this conjecture, in its weak form, for a class of multipartite mixed states, giving only a necessary condition for separability.

id: quant-ph/0701041
title: Hermite Expansions of Elements of Generalized Gelfand-Shilov space
authors: Z.Lozanov--Crvenkovic, D.Perisic
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701041
abstract: We characterize the elements of generalized Gelfand Shilov spaces in terms of the coefficients of their Fourier-Hermite expansion. The technique we use can be applied both in quasianalytic and nonquasianalytic case. The characterizations imply the kernel theorems for the dual spaces. The cases when the test space is quasianalytic are important in quantum field theory with a fundamental length, see for example papers of E.Bruning and S.Nagamachi,where it was conjectured that the properties of the space of Fourier hyper functions, which is isomorphic with S^1_1 are well adapted for the use in the theory.

id: quant-ph/0701042
title: Lifshitz Interaction between Dielectric Bodies of Arbitrary Geometry
authors: Ramin Golestanian
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 230601 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701042
abstract: A formulation is developed for the calculation of the electromagnetic--fluctuation forces for dielectric objects of arbitrary geometry at small separations, as a perturbative expansion in the dielectric contrast. The resulting Lifshitz energy automatically takes on the form of a series expansion of the different many-body contributions. The formulation has the advantage that the divergent contributions can be readily determined and subtracted off, and thus makes a convenient scheme for realistic numerical calculations, which could be useful in designing nano-scale mechanical devices.

id: quant-ph/0701043
title: Communication Links for Distributed Quantum Computation
authors: Rodney Van Meter, Kae Nemoto, W. J. Munro
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: IEEE Transactions on Computers, 56(12), 1643--1653, Dec. 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701043
abstract: Distributed quantum computation requires quantum operations that act over a distance on error-correction encoded states of logical qubits, such as the transfer of qubits via teleportation. We evaluate the performance of several quantum error correction codes, and find that teleportation failure rates of one percent or more are tolerable when two levels of the [[23,1,7]] code are used. We present an analysis of performing quantum error correction (QEC) on QEC-encoded states that span two quantum computers, including the creation of distributed logical zeroes. The transfer of the individual qubits of a logical state may be multiplexed in time or space, moving serially across a single link, or in parallel across multiple links. We show that the performance and reliability penalty for using serial links is small for a broad range of physical parameters, making serial links preferable for a large, distributed quantum multicomputer when engineering difficulties are considered. Such a multicomputer will be able to factor a 1,024-bit number using Shor's algorithm with a high probability of success.

id: quant-ph/0701044
title: Fractal Fidelity as a signature of Quantum Chaos
authors: Franco Pellegrini, Simone Montangero
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052327 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701044
abstract: We analyze the fidelity of a quantum simulation and we show that it displays fractal fluctuations iff the simulated dynamics is chaotic. This analysis allows us to investigate a given simulated dynamics without any prior knowledge. In the case of integrable dynamics, the appearance of fidelity fractal fluctuations is a signal of a highly corrupted simulation. We conjecture that fidelity fractal fluctuations are a signature of the appearance of quantum chaos. Our analysis can be realized already by a few qubit quantum processor.

id: quant-ph/0701045
title: Withdrawing this manuscript
authors: Zhan-jun Zhang, Yi-min Liu, Hao Yuan
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701045
abstract: Recently Z. S. Zhang et al [Phys. Lett. A 356(2006)199] have proposed an one-way quantum identity authentication scheme and claimed that it can verify the user's identity and update securely the initial authentication key for reuse.

id: quant-ph/0701046
title: Three-party simultaneous quantum secure direct communication scheme with EPR pairs
authors: Mei-Yu Wang, Feng-Li Yan
comments: 3 pages
journal: Chinese Physics Letters, 24 (2007) 2486.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701046
abstract: We present a scheme for three-party simultaneous quantum secure direct communication by using EPR pairs. In the scheme, three legitimate parties can simultaneously exchange their secret messages. It is also proved to be secure against the intercept-and-resend attack, the disturbance attack and the entangled-and-measure attack.

id: quant-ph/0701047
title: The Possibility of Reconciling Quantum Mechanics with Classical Probability Theory
authors: D.A. Slavnov
comments: Latex, 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Theor.Math.Phys.149:1690-1701,2006; Teor.Mat.Fiz.149:457-472,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701047
abstract: We describe a scheme for constructing quantum mechanics in which a quantum system is considered as a collection of open classical subsystems. This allows using the formal classical logic and classical probability theory in quantum mechanics. Our approach nevertheless allows completely reproducing the standard mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics and identifying its applicability limits. We especially attend to the quantum state reduction problem.

id: quant-ph/0701048
title: Network implementation of covariant two-qubit quantum operations
authors: J. Novotny, G. Alber, I. Jex
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701048
abstract: A six-qubit quantum network consisting of conditional unitary gates is presented which is capable of implementing a large class of covariant two-qubit quantum operations. Optimal covariant NOT operations for one and two-qubit systems are special cases contained in this class. The design of this quantum network exploits basic algebraic properties which also shed new light onto these covariant quantum processes.

id: quant-ph/0701049
title: Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in optically trapped rubidium atoms
authors: Bernd Kaltenh?user, Harald K¨¹bler, Andreas Chromik, J¨¹rgen Stuhler, Tilman Pfau, Atac Imamoglu
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701049
abstract: We demonstrate electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in a sample of rubidium atoms, trapped in an optical dipole trap. Mixing a small amount of $\sigma^-$-polarized light to the weak $\sigma^+$-polarized probe pulses, we are able to measure the absorptive and dispersive properties of the atomic medium at the same time. Features as small as 4 kHz have been detected on an absorption line with 20 MHz line width.

id: quant-ph/0701050
title: Multiphoton Quantum Optics and Quantum State Engineering
authors: F. Dell'Anno, S. De Siena, F. Illuminati
comments: 198 pages, 36 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rep. 428, 53 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701050
abstract: We present a review of theoretical and experimental aspects of multiphoton quantum optics. Multiphoton processes occur and are important for many aspects of matter-radiation interactions that include the efficient ionization of atoms and molecules, and, more generally, atomic transition mechanisms; system-environment couplings and dissipative quantum dynamics; laser physics, optical parametric processes, and interferometry. A single review cannot account for all aspects of such an enormously vast subject. Here we choose to concentrate our attention on parametric processes in nonlinear media, with special emphasis on the engineering of nonclassical states of photons and atoms. We present a detailed analysis of the methods and techniques for the production of genuinely quantum multiphoton processes in nonlinear media, and the corresponding models of multiphoton effective interactions. We review existing proposals for the classification, engineering, and manipulation of nonclassical states, including Fock states, macroscopic superposition states, and multiphoton generalized coherent states. We introduce and discuss the structure of canonical multiphoton quantum optics and the associated one- and two-mode canonical multiphoton squeezed states. This framework provides a consistent multiphoton generalization of two-photon quantum optics and a consistent Hamiltonian description of multiphoton processes associated to higher-order nonlinearities. Finally, we discuss very recent advances that by combining linear and nonlinear optical devices allow to realize multiphoton entangled states of the electromnagnetic field, that are relevant for applications to efficient quantum computation, quantum teleportation, and related problems in quantum communication and information.

id: quant-ph/0701051
title: Canonical and micro-canonical typical entanglement of continuous variable systems
authors: A. Serafini, O.C.O. Dahlsten, D. Gross, M.B. Plenio
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures, IOP style; conclusions extended, minor layout adjustment
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, 9551 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701051
abstract: We present a framework, compliant with the general canonical principle of statistical mechanics, to define measures on the set of pure Gaussian states of continuous variable systems. Within such a framework, we define two specific measures, referred to as `micro-canonical' and `canonical', and apply them to study systematically the statistical properties of the bipartite entanglement of n-mode pure Gaussian states (as quantified by the entropy of a subsystem). We rigorously prove the "concentration of measure" around a finite average, occurring for the entanglement in the thermodynamical limit in both the canonical and the micro-canonical approach. For finite n, we determine analytically the average and standard deviation of the entanglement (as quantified by the reduced purity) between one mode and all the other modes. Furthermore, we numerically investigate more general situations, clearly showing that the onset of the concentration of measure already occurs at relatively small n.

id: quant-ph/0701052
title: Decoherence and the appearance of classicality in physical phenomena
authors: D. Bar
comments: 82 pages, 12 PS Figures, Thesis. There are some technical changes between this submission and the one submitted to the University due to some limitations imposed upon submissions's size. These changes, wherever occured, are noted by footnotes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701052
abstract: It is accepted that among the ways through which a quantum phenomenon decoheres and becomes a classical one is what is termed in the literature the Zeno effect. This effect, named after the ancient Greek philosopher Zeno of Elea (born about 485 B.C), were used in 1977 to analytically predict that an initial quantum state may be preserved in time by merely repeating a large number of times, in a finite total time, the experiment of checking its state. Since then this effect has been experimentally validated and has become an established physical fact. It has been argued by Simonius that the Zeno effect must be related not only to quantum phenomena but also to many macroscopic and classical effects. Thus, since it operates in both quantum and classical regimes it must cause to a more generalized kind of decoherence than the restricted one that ``classicalizes'' a quantum phenomenon. We show that this generalized decoherence, {\it obtained as a result of dense measurement}, not only gives rise to new phenomena that are demonstrated through new responses of the densely interacted-upon system but also may physically {\it establish} them. For that matter we have found and established the analogous {\it space Zeno effect} which leads to the necessity of an ensemble of related observers (systems) for the remarked physical validation of new phenomena. As will be shown in Chapters 3-5 of this work the new phenomena (new responses of the system) that result from the space Zeno effect may be of an unexpected nature. We use quantum field theory in addition to the more conventional methods of analysis and also corroborate our analytical findings by numerical simulations.

id: quant-ph/0701053
title: Engineering correlation and entanglement dynamics in spin systems
authors: T. S. Cubitt, J.I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, REVTeX4 format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701053
abstract: We show that the correlation and entanglement dynamics of spin systems can be understood in terms of propagation of spin waves. This gives a simple, physical explanation of the behaviour seen in a number of recent works, in which a localised, low-energy excitation is created and allowed to evolve. But it also extends to the scenario of translationally invariant systems in states far from equilibrium, which require less local control to prepare. Spin-wave evolution is completely determined by the system's dispersion relation, and the latter typically depends on a small number of external, physical parameters. Therefore, this new insight into correlation dynamics opens up the possibility not only of predicting but also of controlling the propagation velocity and dispersion rate, by manipulating these parameters. We demonstrate this analytically in a simple, example system.

id: quant-ph/0701054
title: Comment on ``A quantum-classical bracket that satisfies the Jacobi identity'' [J. Chem. Phys. 124, 201104 (2006)]
authors: L.L. Salcedo
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 126 (2007) 057101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701054
abstract: It shown that the quantum-classical dynamical bracket recently proposed in J. Chem. Phys. 124, 201104 (2006) fails to satisfy the Jacobi identity.

id: quant-ph/0701055
title: Blind encoding into qudits
authors: J. S. Shaari, M. R. B. Wahiddin, S. Mancini
comments: To appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 372, Issue 12, 17 March 2008, Pages 1963-1967
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701055
abstract: We consider the problem of encoding classical information into unknown qudit states belonging to any basis, of a maximal set of mutually unbiased bases, by one party and then decoding by another party who has perfect knowledge of the basis. Working with qudits of prime dimensions, we point out a no-go theorem that forbids shift operations on arbitrary unknown states. We then provide the necessary conditions for reliable encoding/decoding.

id: quant-ph/0701056
title: Experimental demonstration of stimulated polarization wave in a chain of nuclear spins
authors: Jae-Seung Lee, Travis Adams, A. K. Khitrin
comments: 8 pages including 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 83 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701056
abstract: A stimulated wave of polarization, which implements a simple mechanism of quantum amplification, is experimentally demonstrated in a chain of four J-coupled nuclear spins, irradiated by a weak radio-frequency transverse field. The "quantum domino" dynamics, a wave of flipped spins triggered by a flip of the first spin, has been observed in fully $^{13}$C-labeled sodium butyrate.

id: quant-ph/0701057
title: Hybrid Quantum Computation in Quantum Optics
authors: P. van Loock, W. J. Munro, Kae Nemoto, T. P. Spiller, T. D. Ladd, Samuel L. Braunstein, G. J. Milburn
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022303 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701057
abstract: We propose a hybrid quantum computing scheme where qubit degrees of freedom for computation are combined with quantum continuous variables for communication. In particular, universal two-qubit gates can be implemented deterministically through qubit-qubit communication, mediated by a continuous-variable bus mode ("qubus"), without direct interaction between the qubits and without any measurement of the qubus. The key ingredients are controlled rotations of the qubus and unconditional qubus displacements. The controlled rotations are realizable through typical atom-light interactions in quantum optics. For such interactions, our scheme is universal and works in any regime, including the limits of weak and strong nonlinearities.

id: quant-ph/0701058
title: A Matrix Factorization of Extended Hamiltonian Leads to $N$-Particle Pauli Equation
authors: Irving S. Reed, Todd A. Brun
comments: 32 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701058
abstract: In this paper the Levy-Leblond procedure for linearizing the Schr\"odinger equation to obtain the Pauli equation for one particle is generalized to obtain an $N$-particle equation with spin. This is achieved by using the more universal matrix factorization, $G\tilde{G} = |G| I = (-K)^l I$. Here the square matrix $G$ is linear in the total energy E and all momenta, $\tilde G$ is the matrix adjoint of $G$, $I$ is the identity matrix, $|G|$ is the determinant of $G$, $l$ is a positive integer and $K=H-E$ is Lanczos' extended Hamiltonian where $H$ is the classical Hamiltonian of the electro-mechanical system. $K$ is identically zero for all such systems, so that matrix $G$ is singular. As a consequence there always exists a vector function $\underline\theta$ with the property $G\underline\theta=0$. This factorization to obtain the matrix $G$ and vector function $\underline\theta$ is illustrated first for a one-dimensional particle in a simple potential well. This same technique, when applied to the classical nonrelativistic Hamiltonian for $N$ interacting particles in an electromagnetic field, is shown to yield for N=1 the Pauli wave equation with spin and its generalization to $N$ particles. Finally this nonrelativistic generalization of the Pauli equation is used to treat the simple Zeeman effect of a hydrogen-like atom as a two-particle problem with spin.

id: quant-ph/0701059
title: Ultrafast electro-nuclear dynamics of H2 double ionization
authors: Sebastien Saugout, Christian Cornaggia, Annick Suzor-Weiner, Eric Charron
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 98, 25 (2007) 253003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701059
abstract: The ultrafast electronic and nuclear dynamics of H2 laser-induced double ionization is studied using a time-dependent wave packet approach that goes beyond the fixed nuclei approximation. The double ionization pathways are analyzed by following the evolution of the total wave function during and after the pulse. The rescattering of the first ionized electron produces a coherent superposition of excited molecular states which presents a pronounced transient H+H- character. This attosecond excitation is followed by field-induced double ionization and by the formation of short-lived autoionizing states which decay via double ionization. These two double ionization mechanisms may be identified by their signature imprinted in the kinetic-energy distribution of the ejected protons.

id: quant-ph/0701060
title: Quantum time of flight distribution for cold trapped atoms
authors: Md. Manirul Ali, Dipankar Home, A. S. Majumdar, Alok K. Pan
comments: 6 pages, RevTex, 4 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042110 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701060
abstract: The time of flight distribution for a cloud of cold atoms falling freely under gravity is considered. We generalise the probability current density approach to calculate the quantum arrival time distribution for the mixed state describing the Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution of velocities for the falling atoms. We find an empirically testable difference between the time of flight distribution calculated using the quantum probability current and that obtained from a purely classical treatment which is usually employed in analysing time of flight measurements. The classical time of flight distribution matches with the quantum distribution in the large mass and high temperature limits.

id: quant-ph/0701061
title: The differential information-geometry of quantum phase transitions
authors: P. Zanardi, P. Giorda, M. Cozzini
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701061
abstract: The manifold of coupling constants parametrizing a quantum Hamiltonian is equipped with a natural Riemannian metric with an operational distinguishability content. We argue that the singularities of this metric are in correspondence with the quantum phase transitions featured by the corresponding system. This approach provides a universal conceptual framework to study quantum critical phenomena which is differential-geometric and information-theoretic at the same time.

id: quant-ph/0701062
title: Superdecoherence through gate control noise
authors: J¨¹rgen T. Stockburger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701062
abstract: The external control circuits of quantum gates inevitably introduce a small but finite noise to the operation of quantum computers. The complex modes of decoherence introduced by this noise are not covered by the common error models. Using the controlled-phase gate as an example, the effect of gate control noise on decoherence is investigated for different quantum computer architectures. It is shown that the decoherence rate rises faster than linearly with the length of a quantum register for most cases considered, adding to the challenge of implementing proposed error correcting and fault tolerant computation schemes. Sometimes an unwanted effective inter-qubit coupling associated with the noise appears.

id: quant-ph/0701063
title: Exact Bound State Solutions of the Schrodinger Equation for Noncentral Potential via the Nikiforov-Uvarov Method
authors: Metin Aktas
comments: 10 pages
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 48, 2154 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701063
abstract: Exact bound state solutions of the Schrodinger equation for generalized noncentral potential are examined by means of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method. The wavefunctions and the corresponding energy eigenvalues of the system are obtained analytically. The results examined for the potential are compatible with those obtained by the other methods.

id: quant-ph/0701064
title: A dual de Finetti theorem
authors: Graeme Mitchison
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701064
abstract: The quantum de Finetti theorem says that, given a symmetric state, the state obtained by tracing out some of its subsystems approximates a convex sum of power states. The more subsystems are traced out, the better this approximation becomes. Schur-Weyl duality suggests that there ought to be a dual result that applies to a unitarily invariant state rather than a symmetric state. Instead of tracing out a number of subsystems, one traces out part of every subsystem. The theorem then asserts that the resulting state approximates the fully mixed state, and the larger the dimension of the traced-out part of each subsystem, the better this approximation becomes. This paper gives a number of propositions together with their dual versions, to show how far the duality holds.

id: quant-ph/0701065
title: A simple family of nonadditive quantum codes
authors: John A. Smolin, Graeme Smith, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 3 pages, new version with slight clarifications, no results are changed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 130505 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701065
abstract: Most known quantum codes are additive, meaning the codespace can be described as the simultaneous eigenspace of an abelian subgroup of the Pauli group. While in some scenarios such codes are strictly suboptimal, very little is understood about how to construct nonadditive codes with good performance. Here we present a family of nonadditive quantum codes for all odd blocklengths, n, that has a particularly simple form. Our codes correct single qubit erasures while encoding a higher dimensional space than is possible with an additive code or, for n of 11 or greater, any previous codes.

id: quant-ph/0701066
title: Mesoscopic entanglement of noninteracting qubits using collective spontaneous emission
authors: D. Kielpinski
comments: replaced; corrected per referee comments
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 408 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701066
abstract: We describe an experimentally straightforward method for preparing an entangled W state of up to 100 qubits. Our repeat-until-success protocol relies on detection of single photons from collective spontaneous emission in free space. Our method allows entanglement preparation in a wide range of qubit implementations that lack entangling qubit-qubit interactions. We give detailed numerical examples for entanglement of neutral atoms in optical lattices and of nitrogen-vacancy centres in diamond. The simplicity of our method should enable preparation of mesoscopic entangled states in a number of physical systems in the near future.

id: quant-ph/0701067
title: Entanglement witnesses and concurrence for multi-qubit states
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 5 pages
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 8(8/9) (2008) 0791-0796
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701067
abstract: We establish a relation between concurrence and entanglement witnesses. In particular, we construct entanglement witnesses for three-qubit W and GHZ states in terms of concurrence and different set of operators that generate it. We also generalize our construction for multi-qubit states.

id: quant-ph/0701068
title: Strategies for the preparation of large cluster states using non-deterministic gates
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Sean D. Barrett
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys 9, 198 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701068
abstract: The cluster state model for quantum computation has paved the way for schemes that allow scalable quantum computing, even when using non-deterministic quantum gates. Here the initial step is to prepare a large entangled state using non-deterministic gates. A key question in this context is the relative efficiencies of different `strategies', i.e. in what order should the non-deterministic gates be applied, in order to maximize the size of the resulting cluster states? In this paper we consider this issue in the context of `large' cluster states. Specifically, we assume an unlimited resource of qubits and ask what the steady state rate at which `large' clusters are prepared from this resource is, given an entangling gate with particular characteristics. We measure this rate in terms of the number of entangling gate operations that are applied. Our approach works for a variety of different entangling gate types, with arbitrary failure probability. Our results indicate that strategies whereby one preferentially bonds together identical qubits are considerably more efficient than those in which one does not. Additionally, compared to earlier analytic results, our numerical study offers substantially improved resource scaling.

id: quant-ph/0701069
title: Entanglement conditions for multi-mode states
authors: Zong-Guo Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang, Ke Wu
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75(2007)012311
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701069
abstract: We provide a class of inequalities for detecting entanglements in multi-mode systems. Necessary conditions for fully separable, bi-separable and sufficient conditions for fully entangled states are explicitly presented.

id: quant-ph/0701070
title: Towards Dynamical Qubit Controlling with Time-Dependent External Fields
authors: Boris F. Samsonov, V. V. Shamshutdinova
comments: 5 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 244023 (9pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701070
abstract: For a flux qubit described by a two-level system of equations we propose a special time dependent external control field. We show that for a qubit placed in this field there exists a critical value of tunnel frequency. When the tunnel frequency is close to its critical value, the probability value of a definite direction of the current circulating in a Josephson-junction circuit may be kept above 1/2 during a desirable time interval. We also show that such a behavior is not much affected by a sufficiently small dissipation.

id: quant-ph/0701071
title: Research on Hidden Variable Theories: a review of recent progresses
authors: Marco Genovese
comments: version without figures
journal: Physics Reports 413 (2005) 319
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701071
abstract: Quantum Mechanics (QM) is one of the pillars of modern physics: an impressive amount of experiments have confirmed this theory and many technological applications are based on it. Nevertheless, at one century since its development, various aspects concerning its very foundations still remain to be clarified. Among them, the transition from a microscopic probabilistic world into a macroscopic deterministic one and quantum non-locality. A possible way out from these problems would be if QM represents a statistical approximation of an unknown deterministic theory. This review is addressed to present the most recent progresses on the studies related to Hidden Variable Theories (HVT), both from an experimental and a theoretical point of view, giving a larger emphasis to results with a direct experimental application. More in details, the first part of the review is a historical introduction to this problem. The Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen argument and the first discussions about HVT are introduced, describing the fundamental Bell's proposal for a general experimental test of every Local HVT and the first attempts to realise it. The second part of the review is devoted to elucidate the recent progresses toward a conclusive Bell inequalities experiment obtained with entangled photons and other physical systems. Finally, the last sections are targeted to shortly discuss Non-Local HVT.

id: quant-ph/0701072
title: A Note on Pseudo-Hermitian Systems with Point Interactions and Quantum Separability
authors: Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 6 pages
journal: Czech J. Phys. 56(2006)887-892
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701072
abstract: We study the quantum entanglement and separability of Hermitian and pseudo-Hermitian systems of identical bosonic or fermionic particles with point interactions. The separability conditions are investigated in detail.

id: quant-ph/0701073
title: Frequency filtered storage of parametric fluorescence with electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: K. Akiba, K. Kashiwagi, T. Yonehara, M. Kozuma
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 76, 023812 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701073
abstract: The broadband parametric fluorescence pulse (probe light) with center frequency resonant on 87Rb D1 line was injected into a cold atomic ensemble with coherent light (control light). Due to the low gain in the parametric down conversion process, the probe light was in a highly bunched photon-pair state. By switching off the control light, the probe light within the electromagnetically induced transparency window was mapped on the atoms. When the control light was switched on, the probe light was retrieved and frequency filtered storage was confirmed from the superbunching effect and an increase of the coherence time of the retrieved light.

id: quant-ph/0701074
title: Continuous variable entanglement sharing in non-inertial frames
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Ivette Fuentes-Schuller, Marie Ericsson
comments: 19 pages, 13 EPS figures (most low-res due to oversize); terminology revised
journal: Phys.Rev.A76:062112,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701074
abstract: We study the distribution of entanglement between modes of a free scalar field from the perspective of observers in uniform acceleration. We consider a two-mode squeezed state of the field from an inertial perspective, and analytically study the degradation of entanglement due to the Unruh effect, in the cases of either one or both observers undergoing uniform acceleration. We find that for two observers undergoing finite acceleration, the entanglement vanishes between the lowest frequency modes. The loss of entanglement is precisely explained as a redistribution of the inertial entanglement into multipartite quantum correlations among accessible and unaccessible modes from a non-inertial perspective. We show that classical correlations are also lost from the perspective of two accelerated observers but conserved if one of the observers remains inertial.

id: quant-ph/0701075
title: Wigner-function description of EPR experiment
authors: Riccardo Franco
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701075
abstract: We provide a detailed description of the EPR paradox (in the Bohm version) for a two qubit-state in the discrete Wigner function formalism. We compare the probability distributions for two qubit relevant to simultaneously-measurable observables (computed from the Wigner function) with the probability distributions representing two perfectly-correlated classic particles in a discrete phase-space. We write in both cases the updating formulae after a measure, thus obtaining a mathematical definition of \textit{classic collapse} and \textit{quantum collapse}. We study, with the EPR experiment, the joint probability distributions of Alice's and Bob's qubit before and after the measure, analyzing the non-local effects. In particular, we give a more precise definition of locality, which we call m-locality: we show that quantum systems may violate this kind of locality, thus preserving, in an EPR-like argument, the completeness of Quantum Mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0701076
title: Non-Abelian gauge field theory of the spin-orbit interaction and a perfect spin filter
authors: Naomichi Hatano, Ryoen Shirasaki, Hiroaki Nakamura
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A75:032107,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701076
abstract: We point out that the Rashba and Dresselhaus spin-orbit interactions in two dimensions can be regarded as a Yang-Mills non-Abelian gauge field. The physical field generated by the gauge field gives the electron wave function a spin-dependent phase which is frequently called the Aharonov-Casher phase. Applying on an AB ring this non-Abelian field together with the usual vector potential, we can make the interference condition completely destructive for one component of the spin while completely constructive for the other component of the spin over the entire energy range. This enables us to construct a perfect spin filter.

id: quant-ph/0701077
title: Fidelity, dynamic structure factor, and susceptibility in critical phenomena
authors: Wen-Long You, Ying-Wai Li, Shi-Jian Gu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, final version accepted by PRE
journal: Phys. Rev. E 76, 022101 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701077
abstract: Motivated by the growing importance of fidelity in quantum critical phenomena, we establish a general relation between fidelity and structure factor of the driving term in a Hamiltonian through a newly introduced concept: fidelity susceptibility. Our discovery, as shown by some examples, facilitates the evaluation of fidelity in terms of susceptibility using well developed techniques such as density matrix renormalization group for the ground state, or Monte Carlo simulations for the states in thermal equilibrium.

id: quant-ph/0701078
title: Input-output relations for multiport ring cavities
authors: Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures (low-res)
journal: J. Phys. B 40, F63 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701078
abstract: Quantum input-output relations for a generic $n$-port ring cavity are obtained by modeling the ring as a cascade of $n$ interlinked beam splitters. Cavity response to a beam impinging on one port is studied as a function of the beam-splitter reflectivities and the internal phase-shifts. Interferometric sensitivity and stability are analyzed as a function of the number of ports.

id: quant-ph/0701079
title: An Implementation of a Positive Operator Valued Measure
authors: Feng-Li Yan, Ting Gao, You-Cheng Li
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett., 24 (2007) 322
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701079
abstract: An implementation of the positive operator valued measure (POVM) is given. By using this POVM one can realize the probabilistic teleportation of an unknown two-particle state.

id: quant-ph/0701080
title: Manipulating Quantum States of Molecules Created via Photoassociation of Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Xiao-Ting Zhou, Xiong-Jun Liu, Hui Jing, C. H. Lai, C. H. Oh
comments: 4 Pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701080
abstract: We show the quantum state transfer technique in two-color photoassociation (PA) of a Bose-Einstein condensate, where a quantized field is used to couple the free-bound transition from atom state to excited molecular state. Under the weak excitation condition, we find that quantum states of the quantized field can be transferred to the created molecular condensate. The feasibility of this technique is confirmed by considering the atomic and molecular decays discovered in the current PA experiments. The present results allow us to manipulate quantum states of molecules in the photoassociation of a Bose-Einstein condensate.

id: quant-ph/0701081
title: Quantum Entanglement and Electron Correlation in Molecular Systems
authors: Hefeng Wang, Sabre Kais
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures, change typoes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701081
abstract: We study the relation between quantum entanglement and electron correlation in quantum chemistry calculations. We prove that the Hartree-Fock (HF) wave function does not violate Bell's inequality, thus is not entangled while the configuration interaction (CI) wave function is entangled since it violates Bell's inequality. Entanglement is related to electron correlation and might be used as an alternative measure of the electron correlation in quantum chemistry calculations. As an example we show the calculations of entanglement for the H$_2$ molecule and how it is related to electron correlation of the system, which is the difference between the exact and the HF energies.

id: quant-ph/0701082
title: Wave-particle duality in the damped harmonic oscillator
authors: S. Teerenstra
comments: MSc thesis in Theoretical Physics. 109 pages. Related to the lecture notes quant-ph/0411024
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701082
abstract: Quantization of the damped harmonic oscillator is taken as leitmotiv to gently introduce elements of quantum probability theory for physicists. To this end, we take (graduate) students in physics as entry level and explain the physical intuition and motivation behind the, sometimes overwhelming, math machinery of quantum probability theory. The main text starts with the quantization of the (undamped) harmonic oscillator from the Heisenberg and Schroedinger point of view. We show how both treatments are special instances of a quantum probabilistic quantization procedure: the second quantization functor. We then apply the second quantization functor to the damped harmonic oscillator and interpret the quantum dynamics of the position and energy operator as stochastic processes.

id: quant-ph/0701083
title: Evidence Against Klein Paradox in Graphene
authors: Daniela Dragoman
comments: Revised version 2 new pages added, new abstract, and title
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701083
abstract: It is demonstrated that both transmission and reflection coefficients associated to the Klein paradox at a step barrier are positive and less than unity, so that the particle-antiparticle pair creation mechanism commonly linked to this phenomenon is not necessary. Because graphene is a solid-state testing ground for quantum electrodynamics phenomena involving massless Dirac fermions we suggest that the transport characteristic through a p-n graphene junction can decide between the results obtained in this paper and the common Klein paradox theory, which imply negative transmission and higher-than-unity reflection coefficients. Recent experimental evidence supports our findings.

id: quant-ph/0701084
title: Average Fidelity in n-Qubit systems
authors: R. Cabrera, W. E. Baylis
comments: 4 pages, no figures. Revision includes additional references and a more detailed symmetry argument
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701084
abstract: This letter generalizes the expression for the average fidelity of single qubits, as found by Bowdrey et al., to the case of n qubits. We use a simple algebraic approach with basis elements for the density-matrix expansion expressed as Kronecker products of n Pauli spin matrices. An explicit integration over initial states is avoided by invoking the invariance of the state average under unitary transformations of the initial density matrix. The results have applications to measurements of quantum information, for example in ion-trap and NMR experiments.

id: quant-ph/0701085
title: A Dirac sea pilot-wave model for quantum field theory
authors: S. Colin, W. Struyve
comments: 41 pages, no figures, LaTex, v2 minor improvements and additions
journal: J. Phys. A 40, 7309-7342 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701085
abstract: We present a pilot-wave model for quantum field theory in which the Dirac sea is taken seriously. The model ascribes particle trajectories to all the fermions, including the fermions filling the Dirac sea. The model is deterministic and applies to the regime in which fermion number is superselected. This work is a further elaboration of work by Colin, in which a Dirac sea pilot-wave model is presented for quantum electrodynamics. We extend his work to non-electromagnetic interactions, we discuss a cut-off regularization of the pilot-wave model and study how it reproduces the standard quantum predictions. The Dirac sea pilot-wave model can be seen as a possible continuum generalization of a lattice model by Bell. It can also be seen as a development and generalization of the ideas by Bohm, Hiley and Kaloyerou, who also suggested the use of the Dirac sea for the development of a pilot-wave model for quantum electrodynamics.

id: quant-ph/0701086
title: Effect of system level structure and spectral distribution of the environment on the decoherence rate
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Xinhua Peng, Nageswaran Rajendran, Dieter Suter
comments: Generalizations are added. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042314 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701086
abstract: Minimizing the effect of decoherence on a quantum register must be a central part of any strategy to realize scalable quantum information processing. Apart from the strength of the coupling to the environment, the decoherence rate is determined by the the system level structure and by the spectral composition of the noise trace that the environment generates. Here, we discuss a relatively simple model that allows us to study these different effects quantitatively in detail. We evaluate the effect that the perturbation has on an NMR system while it performs a Grover search algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0701087
title: Numerical Bayesian quantum-state assignment for a three-level quantum system. II. Average-value data with a constant, a Gaussian-like, and a Slater prior
authors: A. M?nsson, P. G. L. Porta Mana, G. Bj?rk
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. V2: added "Post scriptum" under Conclusions, slightly changed Acknowledgements, and corrected some spelling errors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701087
abstract: This paper offers examples of concrete numerical applications of Bayesian quantum-state assignment methods to a three-level quantum system. The statistical operator assigned on the evidence of various measurement data and kinds of prior knowledge is computed partly analytically, partly through numerical integration (in eight dimensions) on a computer. The measurement data consist in the average of outcome values of N identical von Neumann projective measurements performed on N identically prepared three-level systems. In particular the large-N limit will be considered. Three kinds of prior knowledge are used: one represented by a plausibility distribution constant in respect of the convex structure of the set of statistical operators; another one represented by a prior studied by Slater, which has been proposed as the natural measure on the set of statistical operators; the last prior is represented by a Gaussian-like distribution centred on a pure statistical operator, and thus reflecting a situation in which one has useful prior knowledge about the likely preparation of the system. The assigned statistical operators obtained with the first two kinds of priors are compared with the one obtained by Jaynes' maximum entropy method for the same measurement situation. In the companion paper the case of measurement data consisting in absolute frequencies is considered.

id: quant-ph/0701088
title: Quantum Walks, Quantum Gates and Quantum Computers
authors: Andrew P. Hines, P.C.E. Stamp
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701088
abstract: The physics of quantum walks on graphs is formulated in Hamiltonian language, both for simple quantum walks and for composite walks, where extra discrete degrees of freedom live at each node of the graph. It is shown how to map between quantum walk Hamiltonians and Hamiltonians for qubit systems and quantum circuits; this is done for both a single- and multi-excitation coding, and for more general mappings. Specific examples of spin chains, as well as static and dynamic systems of qubits, are mapped to quantum walks, and walks on hyperlattices and hypercubes are mapped to various gate systems. We also show how to map a quantum circuit performing the quantum Fourier transform, the key element of Shor's algorithm, to a quantum walk system doing the same. The results herein are an essential preliminary to a Hamiltonian formulation of quantum walks in which coupling to a dynamic quantum environment is included.

id: quant-ph/0701089
title: Joint measurements on qubits and cloning of observables
authors: Alessandro Ferraro, Matteo G A Paris
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, to appear on Open System & Inf. Dynamics
journal: Open Syst. & Inf. Dyn. 14, 149 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701089
abstract: Cloning of observables, unlike standard cloning of states, aims at copying the information encoded in the statistics of a class of observables rather then on quantum states themselves. In such a process the emphasis is on the quantum operation (evolution plus measurement) necessary to retrieve the original information. We analyze, for qubit systems, the cloning of a class generated by two noncommuting observables, elucidating the relationship between such a process and joint measurements. This helps in establishing an optimality criterion for cloning of observables. We see that, even if the cloning machine is designed to act on the whole class generated by two noncommuting observables, the same optimal performances of a joint measurement can be attained. Finally, the connection with state dependent cloning is enlightened.

id: quant-ph/0701090
title: Error propagation in loss- and failure-tolerant quantum computation schemes
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Timothy C. Ralph, William J. Munro
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701090
abstract: Qubit loss and gate failure are significant obstacles for the implementation of scalable quantum computation. Recently there have been several proposals for overcoming these problems, including schemes based on parity and cluster states. While effective at dealing with loss and gate failure, these schemes typically lead to a blow-out in effective depolarizing noise rates. In this supplementary paper we present a detailed analysis of this problem and techniques for minimizing it.

id: quant-ph/0701091
title: Multi-particle and High-dimension Controlled Order Rearrangement Encryption Protocols
authors: Ya Cao, An-Min Wang, Xiao-San Ma, Ning-bo Zhao
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701091
abstract: Based on the controlled order rearrange encryption (CORE) for quantum key distribution using EPR pairs[Fu.G.Deng and G.L.Long Phys.Rev.A68 (2003) 042315], we propose the generalized controlled order rearrangement encryption (GCORE) protocols of $N$ qubits and $N$ qutrits, concretely display them in the cases using 3-qubit, 2-qutrit maximally entangled basis states. We further indicate that our protocols will become safer with the increase of number of particles and dimensions. Moreover, we carry out the security analysis using quantum covariant cloning machine for the protocol using qutrits. Although the applications of the generalized scheme need to be further studied, the GCORE has many distinct features such as great capacity and high efficiency.

id: quant-ph/0701092
title: Exponentiation of certain Matrices related to the Four Level System by use of the Magic Matrix
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex ; 13 pages ; 2 figures ; substantial changes (including the title) made. To appear in Yokohama Mathematical Journal (2007)
journal: Yokohama Math. J. 54(2007) 31-44
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701092
abstract: In this paper we show how to calculate explicitly the exponential of certain matrices, which are evolution operators governing the interaction of the four level system of atoms and the radiation, etc. We present a consistent method in terms of the magic matrix by Makhlin. As a closely related subject, we derive a closed form expression of the Baker-Campbell-Hausdorff formula for a class of matrices in SU(4), by use of the method developed by the present authors in quant-ph/0610009.

id: quant-ph/0701093
title: Decoherence in time evolution of bound entanglement
authors: Zhe Sun, Xiaoguang Wang, Y.B.Gao, C.P.Sun
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 46, 521-530 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701093
abstract: We study a dynamic process of disentanglement by considering the time evolution of bound entanglement for a quantum open system, two qutrits coupling to a common environment. Here, the initial quantum correlations of the two qutrits are characterized by the bound entanglement. In order to show the universality of the role of environment on bound entanglement, both bosonic and spin environments are considered. We found that the bound entanglement displays collapses and revivals, and it can be stable against small temperature and time change. The thermal fluctuation effects on bound entanglement are also considered.

id: quant-ph/0701094
title: Optimal quantum control of Bose Einstein condensates in magnetic microtraps
authors: Ulrich Hohenester, Per Kristian Rekdal, Alfio Borzi, Joerg Schmiedmayer
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev.A 75, 023602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701094
abstract: Transport of Bose-Einstein condensates in magnetic microtraps, controllable by external parameters such as wire currents or radio-frequency fields, is studied within the framework of optimal control theory (OCT). We derive from the Gross-Pitaevskii equation the optimality system for the OCT fields that allow to efficiently channel the condensate between given initial and desired states. For a variety of magnetic confinement potentials we study transport and wavefunction splitting of the condensate, and demonstrate that OCT allows to drastically outperfrom more simple schemes for the time variation of the microtrap control parameters.

id: quant-ph/0701095
title: Interference-induced enhancement of intensity and energy of a multimode quantum optical field by a subwavelength array of coherent light sources
authors: S.V. Kukhlevsky
comments: A revised version of MS
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701095
abstract: Recently, we have showed a mechanism that could provide a great transmission enhancement of the light waves passed through subwavelength aperture arrays in thin metal films not by the plasmon-polariton waves, but by the constructive interference of diffracted waves (beams generated by the apertures) at the detector placed in the far-field zone. We now present a quantum reformulation of the model. The Hamiltonian describing the interference-induced enhancement of the intensity and energy of a multimode quantum optical field is derived. Such a field can be produced, for instance, by a subwavelength array of coherent light sources.

id: quant-ph/0701096
title: Entanglement and Quantum Phase Transitions via Adiabatic Quantum Computation
authors: Sangchul Oh
comments: Revised
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 58, 409 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701096
abstract: For a finite XY chain and a finite two-dimensional Ising lattice, it is shown that the paramagnetic ground state is adiabatically transformed to the GHZ state in the ferromagnetic phase by slowly turning on the magnetic field. The fidelity between the GHZ state and an adiabatically evolved state shows a feature of the quantum phase transition.

id: quant-ph/0701097
title: The Free-Will Postulate in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Gerard 't Hooft
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701097
abstract: The so-called "free will axiom" is an essential ingredient in many discussions concerning hidden variables in quantum mechanics. In this paper we argue that "free will" can be defined in different ways. The definition usually employed is clearly invalid in strictly deterministic theories. A different, more precise formulation is proposed here, defining a condition that may well be a more suitable one to impose on theoretical constructions and models. Our axiom, to be referred to as the `unconstrained initial state' condition, has consequences similar to "free will", but does not clash with determinism, and appears to lead to different conclusions concerning causality and locality in quantum mechanics. Models proposed earlier by this author fall in this category. Imposing our `unconstrained initial state' condition on a deterministic theory underlying Quantum Mechanics, appears to lead to a restricted free-will condition in the quantum system: an observer has the free will to modify the setting of a measuring device, but has no control over the phase of its wave function. The dismissal of the usual "free will" concept does not have any consequences for our views and interpretations of human activities in daily life, and the way our minds function, but it requires a more careful discussion on what, in practice, free will actually amounts to.

id: quant-ph/0701098
title: Optical Shelving: Suppressed Fluorescence
authors: Richard A Mould
comments: 5 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701098
abstract: The shelving phenomenon of quantum optics, originally observed by Dehmelt, is analyzed in terms of the qRules that are given in another paper. The heuristic value of these rules is apparent because they not only describe the dark period during shelving, but they reveal the mechanism that enforces the suppression of fluorescence during that time.

id: quant-ph/0701099
title: Revised Geometric Measure of Entanglement
authors: Ya Cao, An Min Wang
comments: 35 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701099
abstract: We present an revised geometric measure of entanglement (RGME). The revised version is an entanglement monotone. Some useful inequalities about RGME are deduced. For exemplification, we give the formulas of RGME for the two-parameter class of states in $2 \otimes n$ quantum system, the two particles high dimensional maximally entangled mixed state, the isotropic state including $n$-particle $d$-level case and two multipartite bound entangled states. The result shows there is a relation $\widetilde{E}_{\sin^2} \leq E_{re}$, which indicates that the RGME is an appropriate measure of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0701100
title: Proposed experiment with Rydberg atoms to test the wave function interpretation
authors: M.Gondran, M. Bozic, D. Arsenovic, A. Gondran
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, submited to "Foundations of Physics"
journal: Acta Physica Polonica A, vol. 112 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701100
abstract: Experiment{Fabre_1983} shows that Rydberg atoms do not pass through 1 micronmeter width slits if their principal quantum number is rather large(n > 60). Thus, the particle density measured after the slits is null while the wave function calculated after the slits is not. This experiment is in contradiction with the Born interpretation (the square of the wave function is proportional to the probability density for the particle to be found at each point in space). The classical interpretation of this experiment, which removes the contradiction, is to suppose that if the particles do not pass, the wave function does not pass either (classical assumption). An alternative interpretation of this experiment is to suppose that the wave function passes through the slits, but that the Born interpretation is not valid any more in this case (alternative assumption). The aim of this paper is to present an experiment testing this alternative assumption compared to the classical assumption.

id: quant-ph/0701101
title: Quantumness without quantumness: entanglement as classical correlations in higher dimensions
authors: Vlatko Vedral
comments: 6 pages, no figures, special issue of Journal of Modern Optics in honour of Peter Knight
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701101
abstract: I exploit the formal equivalence between the ground state of a $d$ dimensional quantum system and a d+1 dimensional classical Ising chain to represent quantum entanglement in terms of classical correlations only. This offers a general "local hidden variable model" for all quantum phenomena existing in one dimension lower than the (hidden variable) classical model itself. The local hidden variable model is not contradicted by the implications of Bell's theorem. Formal theory is presented first and then exemplified by the quantum Ising spin chain in a transverse magnetic field. Here I explicitely show how to derive any two site entanglement in the transverse model from the partition function of the classical Ising spin chain existing in two dimensions. Some speculations are then presented regarding possible fundamental implications of these results.

id: quant-ph/0701102
title: Approximate quantum error correction, random codes, and quantum channel capacity
authors: Rochus Klesse
comments: 29 pages, final version to appear in Phys. Rev. A, improved lower bound for code entanglement fidelity, simplified proof
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062315 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701102
abstract: We work out a theory of approximate quantum error correction that allows us to derive a general lower bound for the entanglement fidelity of a quantum code. The lower bound is given in terms of Kraus operators of the quantum noise. This result is then used to analyze the average error correcting performance of codes that are randomly drawn from unitarily invariant code ensembles. Our results confirm that random codes of sufficiently large block size are highly suitable for quantum error correction. Moreover, employing a lemma of Bennett, Shor, Smolin, and Thapliyal, we prove that random coding attains information rates of the regularized coherent information.

id: quant-ph/0701103
title: Generalised Clifford groups and simulation of associated quantum circuits
authors: Sean Clark, Richard Jozsa, Noah Linden
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701103
abstract: Quantum computations that involve only Clifford operations are classically simulable despite the fact that they generate highly entangled states; this is the content of the Gottesman-Knill theorem. Here we isolate the ingredients of the theorem and provide generalisations of some of them with the aim of identifying new classes of simulable quantum computations. In the usual construction, Clifford operations arise as projective normalisers of the first and second tensor powers of the Pauli group. We consider replacing the Pauli group by an arbitrary finite subgroup G of U(d). In particular we seek G such that G tensor G has an entangling normaliser. Via a generalisation of the Gottesman-Knill theorem the resulting normalisers lead to classes of quantum circuits that can be classically efficiently simulated. For the qubit case d=2 we exhaustively treat all finite subgroups of U(2) and find that the only ones (up to unitary equivalence and trivial phase extensions) with entangling normalisers are the groups G_n generated by X and the n^th root of Z.

id: quant-ph/0701104
title: Graph states and carrier-envelope phase squeezing
authors: Olivier Pfister
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701104
abstract: We outline a new class of continuous-variable graph states that can be useful to describe entangle- ment, and also multimode squeezing, in an optical frequency comb. We show that a particular case of such states coincides with the squeezing of the carrier-envelope phase, or of the total intensity, of a mode-locked laser. We then discuss the experimental issues related to measuring the quantum noise of the carrier-envelope phase of a frequency comb and show that this can be carried out by use of quantum heterodyne multiplexing, a technique that may be useful to measure multipartite entanglement as well.

id: quant-ph/0701105
title: Observation of ultra-broadband, beamlike parametric downconversion
authors: Kevin A. O'Donnell, Alfred B. U'Ren
comments: Optics Letters, accepted, 4 pages and 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701105
abstract: We report spontaneous parametric downconversion having an unusually wide spectral bandwidth. A collinear type-1 phase-matching configuration is employed with degeneracy near the zero group velocity dispersion frequency. With a spectral width of 1080 nm and degenerate wavelength 1885 nm, the source also emits a high flux of photon pairs constrained to a cone of only 2 degree half-angle. A rigorous theoretical approach is developed that confirms the experimental observations. The source properties are consistent with an ultra-short photon-pair correlation time and, for a narrowband pump, extremely high-dimensional spectral entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0701106
title: Might EPR particles communicate through a wormhole?
authors: E. Sergio Santini
comments: Corrected version, to appears in EPL
journal: Europhys.Lett.78:30005,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701106
abstract: We consider the two-particle wave function of an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen system, given by a two dimensional relativistic scalar field model. The Bohm-de Broglie interpretation is applied and the quantum potential is viewed as modifying the Minkowski geometry. In this way an effective metric, which is analogous to a black hole metric in some limited region, is obtained in one case and a particular metric with singularities appears in the other case, opening the possibility, following Holland, of interpreting the EPR correlations as being originated by an effective wormhole geometry, through which the physical signals can propagate.

id: quant-ph/0701107
title: Applications of The Information Model of The Collapse Phenomena: The Mathematical Model of Everett's Worlds in The Case of The Measurement of A Spin 1/2 Projection
authors: Denys Bondar
comments: revtex4, 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701107
abstract: The information model of the collapse phenomena is further advanced. We discover an important property of the model - the death point effect. The P function approach is presented to construct the manifest form of the function of risk. We clarify a close connection of the model with the Extended Everett Concept. The model is also reformulated as an automaton. Examples are considered.

id: quant-ph/0701108
title: Deutsch's Universal Quantum Turing Machine (Revisited)
authors: Willem Fouch¨¦, Johannes Heidema, Glyn Jones, Petrus H. Potgieter
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701108
abstract: Deutsch, Feynman, and Manin viewed quantum computing as a kind of universal physical simulation procedure. Much of the writing about quantum Turing machines has shown how these machines can simulate an arbitrary unitary transformation on a finite number of qubits. This interesting problem has been addressed most famously in a paper by Deutsch, and later by Bernstein and Vazirani. Quantum Turing machines form a class closely related to deterministic and probabilistic Turing machines and one might hope to find a universal machine in this class. A universal machine is the basis of a notion of programmability. The extent to which universality has in fact been established by the pioneers in the field is examined and a key notion in theoretical computer science (universality) is scrutinised. In a forthcoming paper, the authors will also consider universality in the quantum gate model.

id: quant-ph/0701109
title: Modified Two-Slit Experiments and Complementarity
authors: Tabish Qureshi
comments: Revised version, to appear in J. Quantum Inf. Sci
journal: Journal of Quantum Information Science, 2, 34-39 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701109
abstract: Some modified two-slit interference experiments claim to demonstrate a violation of Bohr's complementarity principle. A typical such experiment is theoretically analyzed using wave-packet dynamics. The flaw in the analysis of such experiments is pointed out and it is demonstrated that they do not violate complementarity. In addition, it is quite generally proved that if the state of a particle is such that the modulus square of the wave-function yields an interference pattern, then it necessarily loses which-path information.

id: quant-ph/0701110
title: Preparing and probing atomic number states with an atom interferometer
authors: J. Sebby-Strabley, B. L. Brown, M. Anderlini, P. J. Lee, P. R. Johnson, W. D. Phillips, J. V. Porto
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 200405 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701110
abstract: We describe the controlled loading and measurement of number-squeezed states and Poisson states of atoms in individual sites of a double well optical lattice. These states are input to an atom interferometer that is realized by symmetrically splitting individual lattice sites into double wells, allowing atoms in individual sites to evolve independently. The two paths then interfere, creating a matter-wave double-slit diffraction pattern. The time evolution of the double-slit diffraction pattern is used to measure the number statistics of the input state. The flexibility of our double well lattice provides a means to detect the presence of empty lattice sites, an important and so far unmeasured factor in determining the purity of a Mott state.

id: quant-ph/0701111
title: Pairwise Concurrence Dynamics: A Four-Qubit Model
authors: M. Yonac, Ting Yu, J. H. Eberly
comments: 9 pages, 12 figures, v3 with minor changes
journal: J. Phys. B 40, S45 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701111
abstract: We examine entanglement dynamics via concurrence among four two-state systems labeled $A, ~a, ~B, ~b$. The four systems are arranged on an addressable "lattice" in such a way that $A$ and $a$ at one location labeled $Aa$ can interact with each other via excitation exchange, and the same for $B$ and $b$ at location $Bb$. The $Aa$ location is prepared entangled with the $Bb$ location, but their mutual complete isolation prevents interaction in the interval between actions of an external addressing agent. There are six pairwise concurrences on the lattice, and we follow their evolution in the interval between external actions. We show how entanglement evolves and may exhibit the non-analytic effect termed entanglement sudden death (ESD), with periodic recovery. These loss and gain processes may be interpreted as entanglement transfer between the subsystems.

id: quant-ph/0701112
title: Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation
authors: Daniel Gottesman
comments: 6 pages, prepared for special issue of Physics in Canada. v2 has typo corrections, and minor clarifications and updates to text and references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701112
abstract: I give a brief overview of fault-tolerant quantum computation, with an emphasis on recent work and open questions.

id: quant-ph/0701113
title: A presentation of Quantum Logic based on an "and then" connective
authors: Daniel Lehmann
comments: 28 pages. Submitted
journal: Journal of Logic and Computation 18 (1): 59-76 Feb. 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701113
abstract: When a physicist performs a quantic measurement, new information about the system at hand is gathered. This paper studies the logical properties of how this new information is combined with previous information. It presents Quantum Logic as a propositional logic under two connectives: negation and the "and then" operation that combines old and new information. The "and then" connective is neither commutative nor associative. Many properties of this logic are exhibited, and some small elegant subset is shown to imply all the properties considered. No independence or completeness result is claimed. Classical physical systems are exactly characterized by the commutativity, the associativity, or the monotonicity of the "and then" connective. Entailment is defined in this logic and can be proved to be a partial order. In orthomodular lattices, the operation proposed by Finch (1969) satisfies all the properties studied in this paper. All properties satisfied by Finch's operation in modular lattices are valid in Hilbert Space Quantum Logic. It is not known whether all properties of Hilbert Space Quantum Logic are satisfied by Finch's operation in modular lattices. Non-commutative, non-associative algebraic structures generalizing Boolean algebras are defined, ideals are characterized and a homomorphism theorem is proved.

id: quant-ph/0701114
title: Two-Photon Emission from Semiconductors
authors: Alex Hayat, Pavel Ginzburg, Meir Orenstein
comments: Coincidence experiment results added, QW stimulated TPE added, stimulation power TPE dependence shown, measured spectra recalibrated, quantitative theory presented
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701114
abstract: We report the first experimental observations of two-photon emission from semiconductors, to the best of our knowledge, and develop a corresponding theory for the room-temperature process. Spontaneous two-photon emission is demonstrated in optically-pumped bulk GaAs and in electrically-driven GaInP/AlGaInP quantum wells. Singly-stimulated two-photon emission measurements demonstrate the theoretically predicted two-photon optical gain in semiconductors - a necessary ingredient for any realizations of future two-photon semiconductor lasers. Photon-coincidence experiment validates the simultaneity of the electrically-driven GaInP/AlGaInP two-photon emission, limited only by detector's temporal resolution.

id: quant-ph/0701115
title: A classical one-way function to confound quantum adversaries
authors: Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell, Umesh Vazirani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701115
abstract: The promise of quantum computation and its consequences for complexity-theoretic cryptography motivates an immediate search for cryptosystems which can be implemented with current technology, but which remain secure even in the presence of quantum computers. Inspired by recent negative results pertaining to the nonabelian hidden subgroup problem, we present here a classical algebraic function $f_V(M)$ of a matrix $M$ which we believe is a one-way function secure against quantum attacks. Specifically, inverting $f_V$ reduces naturally to solving a hidden subgroup problem over the general linear group (which is at least as hard as the hidden subgroup problem over the symmetric group). We also demonstrate a reduction from Graph Isomorphism to the problem of inverting $f_V$; unlike Graph Isomorphism, however, the function $f_V$ is random self-reducible and therefore uniformly hard. These results suggest that, unlike Shor's algorithm for the discrete logarithm--which is, so far, the only successful quantum attack on a classical one-way function--quantum attacks based on the hidden subgroup problem are unlikely to work. We also show that reconstructing any entry of $M$, or the trace of $M$, with nonnegligible advantage is essentially as hard as inverting $f_V$. Finally, $f_V$ can be efficiently computed and the number of output bits is less than $1+\epsilon$ times the number of input bits for any $\epsilon > 0$.

id: quant-ph/0701116
title: Relativistic free-motion time-of-arrival
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong
comments: 16 pages, no figure. Revised version
journal: J.Phys.A40:1897-1905,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701116
abstract: Relativistic free-motion time-of-arrival theory for massive spin-1/2 particles is systematically developed. Contrary to the nonrelativistic time-of-arrival operator studied thoroughly in previous literatures, the relativistic time-of-arrival operator possesses self-adjoint extensions because of the particle-antiparticle symmetry. The nonrelativistic limit of our theory is in agreement with the nonrelativistic time-of-arrival theory. By comparing the time-of-arrival operator with the Hamiltonian operator of a free Dirac particle, one can show a duality between position space and momentum space.

id: quant-ph/0701117
title: Decomposing generalized measurements into continuous stochastic processes
authors: Martin Varbanov, Todd A. Brun
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX, name changed, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032104 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701117
abstract: One of the broadest concepts of measurement in quantum theory is the generalized measurement. Another paradigm of measurement--arising naturally in quantum optics, among other fields--is that of continuous-time measurements, which can be seen as the limit of a consecutive sequence of weak measurements. They are naturally described in terms of stochastic processes, or time-dependent random variables. We show that any generalized measurement can be decomposed as a sequence of weak measurements with a mathematical limit as a continuous stochastic process. We give an explicit construction for any generalized measurement, and prove that the resulting continuous evolution, in the long-time limit, collapses the state of the quantum system to one of the final states generated by the generalized measurement, being decomposed, with the correct probabilities. A prominent feature of the construction is the presence of a feedback mechanism--the instantaneous choice weak measurement at a given time depends on the outcomes of earlier measurements. For a generalized measurement with $n$ outcomes, this information is captured by a real $n$-vector on an $n$-simplex, which obeys a simple classical stochastic evolution.

id: quant-ph/0701118
title: The Lueders Postulate and the Distinguishability of Observables
authors: Bernhard K. Meister
comments: Submitted to the proceedings of ICFNCS, Hong Kong, 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701118
abstract: The Lueders postulate is reviewed and implications for the distinguishability of observables are discussed. As an example the distinguishability of two similar observables for spin-1/2 particles is described. Implementation issues are briefly analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0701119
title: Entanglement versus observables
authors: An Min Wang
comments: 4.3 pages, 8 figures, Revised figure captions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701119
abstract: A general scheme to seek for the relations between entanglement and bservables is proposed in principle. In two-qubit systems with enough general Hamiltonian, we find the entanglement to be the functions of observables for six kinds of chosen state sets and verify how these functions be invariant with time evolution. Moreover, we demonstrate and illustrate the cases with entanglement versus a set of commutable observables under eight kinds of given initial states. Our conclusions show how entanglement become observable even measurable by experiment, and they are helpful for understanding of the nature of entanglement in physics.

id: quant-ph/0701120
title: Evidence for coherent collective Rydberg excitation in the strong blockade regime
authors: Rolf Heidemann, Ulrich Raitzsch, Vera Bendkowsky, Bj?rn Butscher, Robert L?w, Luis Santos, Tilman Pfau
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 163601 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701120
abstract: Blockade effects on the single quantum level are at the heart of quantum devices like single-electron transistors. The blockade mechanisms are based on strong interactions like the Coulomb interaction in case of single electrons. Neutral atoms excited into a Rydberg state experience abnormally strong interactions that lead to the corresponding blockade effect for Rydberg atoms. In this paper we report on our measurements of a strong van der Waals blockade, showing that only one out of several thousand atoms within a blockade volume can be excited. In addition, our experimental results demonstrate the coherent nature of the excitation of magnetically trapped ultracold atoms into a Rydberg state, confirming the predicted dependence of the collective Rabi frequency on the square root of the mesoscopic system size. This collective coherent behaviour is generic for all mesoscopic systems which are able to carry only one single excitation quantum.

id: quant-ph/0701121
title: Visualization of Coherent Destruction of Tunneling in an Optical Double Well System
authors: G. Della Valle, M. Ornigotti, E. Cianci, V. Foglietti, P. Laporta, S. Longhi
comments: final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 263601 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701121
abstract: We report on a direct visualization of coherent destruction of tunneling (CDT) of light waves in a double well system which provides an optical analog of quantum CDT as originally proposed by Grossmann, Dittrich, Jung, and Hanggi [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 67}, 516 (1991)]. The driven double well, realized by two periodically-curved waveguides in an Er:Yb-doped glass, is designed so that spatial light propagation exactly mimics the coherent space-time dynamics of matter waves in a driven double-well potential governed by the Schr\"{o}dinger equation. The fluorescence of Er ions is exploited to image the spatial evolution of light in the two wells, clearly demonstrating suppression of light tunneling for special ratios between frequency and amplitude of the driving field.

id: quant-ph/0701122
title: Numerical evidence for the maximum number of mutually unbiased bases in dimension six
authors: Paul Butterley, William Hall
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, some minor changes made
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701122
abstract: The question of determining the maximal number of mutually unbiased bases in dimension six has received much attention since their introduction to quantum information theory, but a definitive answer has still not been found. In this paper we move away from the traditional analytic approach and use a numerical approach to attempt to determine this number. We numerically minimise a non-negative function of a set of N+1 orthonormal bases in dimension d which only evaluates to zero if the bases are mutually unbiased. As a result we find strong evidence that (as has been conjectured elsewhere) there are no more than three mutually unbiased bases in dimension six.

id: quant-ph/0701123
title: Quantum reconstruction of an intense polarization squeezed optical state
authors: Ch. Marquardt, J. Heersink, R. Dong, M.V. Chekhova, A.B. Klimov, L.L. Sanchez-Soto, U.L. Andersen, G. Leuchs
comments: 4 pages, 4 eps color figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 220401 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701123
abstract: We perform a reconstruction of the polarization sector of the density matrix of an intense polarization squeezed beam starting from a complete set of Stokes measurements. By using an appropriate quasidistribution, we map this onto the Poincare space providing a full quantum mechanical characterization of the measured polarization state.

id: quant-ph/0701124
title: Entanglement and Subsystems, Entanglement beyond Subsystems, and All That
authors: Lorenza Viola, Howard Barnum
comments: 14 pages, no figures, RevTeX4. Invited contribution to the Proceedings of the Boston Colloquium for Philosophy of Science on ``Foundations of Quantum Information and Entanglement'', Boston, March 23--24, 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701124
abstract: Entanglement plays a pervasive role nowadays throughout quantum information science, and at the same time provides a bridging notion between quantum information science and fields as diverse as condensed-matter theory, quantum gravity, and quantum foundations. In recent years, a notion of ''Generalized Entanglement'' (GE) has emerged, based on the idea that entanglement may be directly defined through expectation values of preferred observables -- without reference to a preferred subsystem decomposition. Preferred observables capture the physically relevant point of view, as defined by dynamical, operational, or fundamental constraints. While reducing to the standard entanglement notion when preferred observables are restricted to arbitrary local observables acting on individual subsystems, GE substantially expands subsystem-based entanglement theories, in terms of both conceptual foundations and range of applicability. Remarkably, the GE framework allows for non-trivial entanglement to exist within a single, indecomposable quantum system, demands in general a distinction between quantum separability and absence of entanglement, and naturally extends to situations where existing approaches may not be directly useful -- such as entanglement in arbitrary convex-cones settings and entanglement for indistinguishable quantum particles. In this paper, we revisit the main motivations leading to GE, and summarize the accomplishments and prospects of the GE program to date, with an eye toward conceptual developments and implications. In particular, we explain how the GE approach both shares strong points of contact with abstract operational quantum theories and, ultimately, calls for an observer-dependent redefinition of concepts like locality, completeness, and reality in quantum theory.

id: quant-ph/0701125
title: Emergence of typical entanglement in two-party random processes
authors: O.C.O. Dahlsten, R. Oliveira, M.B. Plenio
comments: 32 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 8081-8108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701125
abstract: We investigate the entanglement within a system undergoing a random, local process. We find that there is initially a phase of very fast generation and spread of entanglement. At the end of this phase the entanglement is typically maximal. In previous work we proved that the maximal entanglement is reached to a fixed arbitrary accuracy within $O(N^3)$ steps, where $N$ is the total number of qubits. Here we provide a detailed and more pedagogical proof. We demonstrate that one can use the so-called stabilizer gates to simulate this process efficiently on a classical computer. Furthermore, we discuss three ways of identifying the transition from the phase of rapid spread of entanglement to the stationary phase: (i) the time when saturation of the maximal entanglement is achieved, (ii) the cut-off moment, when the entanglement probability distribution is practically stationary, and (iii) the moment block entanglement scales exhibits volume scaling. We furthermore investigate the mixed state and multipartite setting. Numerically we find that classical and quantum correlations appear to behave similarly and that there is a well-behaved phase-space flow of entanglement properties towards an equilibrium, We describe how the emergence of typical entanglement can be used to create a much simpler tripartite entanglement description. The results form a bridge between certain abstract results concerning typical (also known as generic) entanglement relative to an unbiased distribution on pure states and the more physical picture of distributions emerging from random local interactions.

id: quant-ph/0701126
title: Quantum t-designs: t-wise independence in the quantum world
authors: Andris Ambainis, Joseph Emerson
comments: 19 pages, v2 two references added, to appear in Complexity'06
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701126
abstract: A t-design for quantum states is a finite set of quantum states with the property of simulating the Haar-measure on quantum states, w.r.t. any test that uses at most t copies of a state. We give efficient constructions for approximate quantum t-designs for arbitrary t. We then show that an approximate 4-design provides a derandomization of the state-distinction problem considered by Sen (quant-ph/0512085), which is relevant to solving certain instances of the hidden subgroup problem.

id: quant-ph/0701127
title: The Physical Basis of the Gibbs-von Neumann entropy
authors: O. J. E. Maroney
comments: 42 pages, no figures (3rd version substantial revision and simplification of central argument incorporating adiabatic availability and passive distributions)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701127
abstract: We develop the argument that the Gibbs-von Neumann entropy is the appropriate statistical mechanical generalisation of the thermodynamic entropy, for macroscopic and microscopic systems, whether in thermal equilibrium or not, as a consequence of Hamiltonian dynamics. The mathematical treatment utilises well known results [Gib02, Tol38, Weh78, Par89], but most importantly, incorporates a variety of arguments on the phenomenological properties of thermal states [Szi25, TQ63, HK65, GB91] and of statistical distributions[HG76, PW78, Len78]. This enables the identification of the canonical distribution as the unique representation of thermal states without approximation or presupposing the existence of an entropy function. The Gibbs-von Neumann entropy is then derived, from arguments based solely on the addition of probabilities to Hamiltonian dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0701128
title: Periodic orbit theory and spectral statistics for scaling quantum graphs
authors: Yu. Dabaghian
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701128
abstract: The explicit solution to the spectral problem of quantum graphs found recently in \cite{Anima}, is used to produce the exact periodic orbit theory description for the probability distributions of spectral statistics, including the distribution for the nearest neighbor separations, $s_{n}=k_{n}-k_{n-1}$, and the distribution of the spectral oscillations around the average, $\delta k_{n}=k_{n}-\bar k_{n}$.

id: quant-ph/0701129
title: Quantum interference with photon pairs using two micro-structured fibres
authors: J. Fulconis, O. Alibart, W. J. Wadsworth, J. G. Rarity
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 9 No 8 (August 2007) 276
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701129
abstract: We demonstrate a quantum interference experiment between two photons coming from non-degenerate pairs created by four-wave mixing in two separated micro-structured fibres. When the two heralded photons are made indistinguishable a 95% visibility is demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0701130
title: Entanglement between two fermionic atoms inside a cylindrical harmonic trap
authors: B. Sun, D. L. Zhou, L. You
comments: to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701130
abstract: We investigate quantum entanglement between two (spin-1/2) fermions inside a cylindrical harmonic trap, making use of the von Neumann entropy for the reduced single particle density matrix as the pure state entanglement measure. We explore the dependence of pair entanglement on the geometry and strength of the trap and on the strength of the pairing interaction over the complete range of the effective BCS to BEC crossover. Our result elucidates an interesting connection between our model system of two fermions and that of two interacting bosons.

id: quant-ph/0701131
title: Dissipative tunneling through a parabolic potential in the Lindblad theory of open quantum systems
authors: A. Isar, A. Sandulescu, W. Scheid
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 12, 3 (2000)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701131
abstract: By using the Lindblad theory for open quantum systems, an analytical expression of the tunneling probability through an inverted parabola is obtained. This penetration probability depends on the environment coefficients. It is shown that the tunneling probability increases with the dissipation and the temperature of the thermal bath.

id: quant-ph/0701132
title: Topological stability of stored optical vortices
authors: R. Pugatch, M. Shuker, O. Firstenberg, A. Ron, N. Davidson
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures v2: minor grammatical corrections v3: problem with references fixed v4: minor clarifications added to the text
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 203601 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701132
abstract: We report an experiment in which an optical vortex is stored in a vapor of Rb atoms. Due to its 2\pi phase twist, this mode, also known as the Laguerre-Gauss mode, is topologically stable and cannot unwind even under conditions of strong diffusion. To supplement our finding, we stored a flat phase Gaussian beam with a dark center. Contrary to the optical vortex, which stays stable for over 100 microseconds, the dark center in the retrieved flat-phased image was filled with light at storage times as small as 10 microseconds. This experiment proves that higher electromagnetic modes can be converted into atomic coherences, and that modes with phase singularities are robust to decoherence effects such as diffusion. This opens the possibility to more elaborate schemes for two dimensional information storage in atomic vapors.

id: quant-ph/0701133
title: Trapping of light pulses in ensembles of stationary Lambda atoms
authors: Kristian Rymann Hansen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701133
abstract: We present a detailed theoretical description of the generation of stationary light pulses by standing wave electromagnetically induced transparency in media comprised of stationary atoms. We show that, contrary to thermal gas media, the achievable storage times are limited only by the ground state dephasing rate of the atoms, making such media ideally suited for nonlinear optical interactions between stored pulses. Furthermore, we find significant quantitative and qualitative differences between the two types of media, which are important for quantum information processing schemes involving stationary light pulses.

id: quant-ph/0701134
title: On quantum advantage in dense coding
authors: M. Horodecki, M. Piani
comments: 8 pages, comments welcome; added results about a monogamy relation between quantum advantage in dense coding and entanglement of purification, title and abstract changed, references updated, requires IEEEtran.cls
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 105306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701134
abstract: The quantum advantage of dense coding is studied, considering general encoding quantum operations. Particular attention is devoted to the case of many senders, and it is shown that restrictions on the possible operations on the senders' side may make some quantum state useless for dense-coding. It is shown, e.g., that some states are useful for dense coding if the senders can communicate classically (but not quantumly), yet they cannot be used for dense coding, if classical communication is not allowed. These no-go results are actually independent of the particular quantification of the quantum advantage, being valid for any reasonable choice. It is further shown that the quantum advantage of dense coding satisfies a monogamy relation with the so-called entanglement of purification.

id: quant-ph/0701135
title: Linearity and Quantum Adiabatic Theorem
authors: Zhaohui Wei, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701135
abstract: We show that in a quantum adiabatic evolution, even though the adiabatic approximation is valid, the total phase of the final state indicated by the adiabatic theorem may evidently differ from the actual total phase. This invalidates the application of the linearity and the adiabatic approximation simultaneously. Besides, based on this observation we point out the mistake in the traditional proof for the adiabatic theorem. This mistake is the root of the troubles that the adiabatic theorem has met. We also show that a similar mistake remains in some recent modifications of the traditional adiabatic theorem attempting to eliminate the troubles.

id: quant-ph/0701136
title: Angular momentum of the physical electron
authors: A.M.Stewart
comments: revision, 3 pages pdf
journal: Canadian Journal of Physics 87 (2) 151-152 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701136
abstract: The angular momentum of the physical electron, modelled as a Dirac fermion coupled to the electromagnetic field, is found to be hbar/2, the same as that of a bare Dirac fermion and independent of the size of the electric charge.

id: quant-ph/0701137
title: Spontaneous decay of an excited atom placed near a rectangular plate
authors: Tuan Anh Nguyen, Ho Trung Dung
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701137
abstract: Using the Born expansion of the Green tensor, we consider the spontaneous decay rate of an excited atom placed in the vicinity of a rectangular plate. We discuss the limitations of the commonly used simplifying assumption that the plate extends to infinity in the lateral directions and examine the effects of the atomic dipole moment orientation, atomic position, and plate boundary and thickness on the atomic decay rate. In particular, it is shown that in the boundary region, the spontaneous decay rate can be strongly modified.

id: quant-ph/0701138
title: Fidelity of quantum operations
authors: Line Hjortshoj Pedersen, Klaus Molmer, Niels Martin Moller
comments: 5 pages, no figures. The text has been modified to acknowledge that our Eq.(1) has appeared already in quant-ph/0503243 and quant-ph/0512217
journal: Phys. Lett. A 367 (2007), no. 1-2, 47--51.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701138
abstract: We present a derivation and numerous applications of a compact explicit formula for the average fidelity of a quantum operation on a finite dimensional quantum system. The formula can be applied to averages over particularly relevant subspaces; it is easily generalized to multi-component systems, and as a special result, we show that when the same completely positive trace-preserving map is applied to a large number of qubits with one-bit fidelity F close to unity, the average fidelity of the operation on the full K-bit register scales as $F^{3K/2}$.

id: quant-ph/0701139
title: High accuracy results for the energy levels of the molecular ions H2+, D2+ and HD+, up to J=2
authors: Jean-Philippe Karr, Laurent Hilico
comments: 11 pages
journal: Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 39 (10/04/2006) 2095
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701139
abstract: We present a nonrelativistic calculation of the rotation-vibration levels of the molecular ions H2+, D2+ and HD+, relying on the diagonalization of the exact three-body Hamiltonian. The J=2 levels are obtained with a very high accuracy of 10^{-14} a.u. (for most levels) representing an improvement by five orders of magnitude over previous calculations. The accuracy is also improved for the J=1 levels of H2+ and D2+ with respect to earlier works. Moreover, we have computed the sensitivities of the energy levels with respect to the mass ratios, allowing these levels to be used for metrological purposes.

id: quant-ph/0701140
title: Quantum state reconstruction with imperfect rotations on an inhomogeneously broadened ensemble of qubits
authors: Karl Tordrup, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701140
abstract: We present a method for performing quantum state reconstruction on qubits and qubit registers in the presence of decoherence and inhomogeneous broadening. The method assumes only rudimentary single qubit rotations as well as knowledge of decoherence and loss mechanisms. We show that full state reconstruction is possible even in the case where single qubit rotations may only be performed imperfectly. Furthermore we show that for ensemble quantum computing proposals, quantum state reconstruction is possible even if the ensemble experiences inhomogeneous broadening and if only imperfect qubit manipulations are available during state preparation and reconstruction.

id: quant-ph/0701141
title: Dissipative Mechanics Using Complex-Valued Hamiltonians
authors: S. G. Rajeev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701141
abstract: We show that a large class of dissipative systems can be brought to a canonical form by introducing complex co-ordinates in phase space and a complex-valued hamiltonian. A naive canonical quantization of these systems lead to non-hermitean hamiltonian operators. The excited states are unstable and decay to the ground state . We also compute the tunneling amplitude across a potential barrier.

id: quant-ph/0701142
title: No nonlocal box is universal
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis, Nicolas Gisin, Avinatan Hassidim, Andr¨¦ Allan M¨¦thot, Haran Pilpel
comments: Additions to the acknowledgements section
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701142
abstract: We show that standard nonlocal boxes, also known as Popescu-Rohrlich machines, are not sufficient to simulate any nonlocal correlations that do not allow signalling. This was known in the multipartite scenario, but we extend the result to the bipartite case. We then generalize this result further by showing that no finite set containing any finite-output-alphabet nonlocal boxes can be a universal set for nonlocality.

id: quant-ph/0701143
title: Subnormalized states and trace-nonincreasing maps
authors: Valerio Cappellini, Hans-Juergen Sommers, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: LaTeX, 21 pages, 4 Encapsuled PostScript figures, 1 table
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48(5), 052110 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701143
abstract: We investigate the set of completely positive, trace-nonincreasing linear maps acting on the set M_N of mixed quantum states of size N. Extremal point of this set of maps are characterized and its volume with respect to the Hilbert-Schmidt (Euclidean) measure is computed explicitly for an arbitrary N. The spectra of partially reduced rescaled dynamical matrices associated with trace-nonincreasing completely positive maps belong to the N-cube inscribed in the set of subnormalized states of size N. As a by-product we derive the measure in M_N induced by partial trace of mixed quantum states distributed uniformly with respect to HS-measure in $M_{N^2}$.

id: quant-ph/0701144
title: Quantum Finite Automata and Weighted Automata
authors: M.V. Panduranga Rao, V. Vinay
comments: 10 pages, Preliminary version appears in the Proceedings of ACiD-2005, Texts in Algorithmics series of KCL publications, pp. 123-134, 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701144
abstract: Quantum finite automata derive their strength by exploiting interference in complex valued probability amplitudes. Of particular interest is the 2-way model of Ambainis and Watrous that has both quantum and classical states (2QCFA) [A. Ambainis and J. Watrous, Two-way finite automata with quantum and classical state, Theoretical Computer Science, 287(1), pp. 299-311, 2002], since it combines the advantage of the power of interference in a constant-sized quantum system with a 2-way head. This paper is a step towards finding the least powerful model which is purely classical and can mimic the dynamics of quantum phase. We consider weighted automata with the Cortes-Mohri definition of language recognition [C. Cortes and M. Mohri, Context-Free Recognition with Weighted Automata, Grammars 3(2/3), pp. 133-150, 2000] as a candidate model for simulating 2QCFA. Given any 2QCFA that (i) uses the accept-reject-continue observable, (ii) recognizes a language with one-sided error and (iii) the entries of whose unitary matrices are algebraic complex numbers, we show a method of constructing a weighted automaton over $\mathbb{C}$ that simulates it efficiently.

id: quant-ph/0701145
title: Quantum Multiplexing for Quantum Computer Networks
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701145
abstract: In communication networks many different channels must share a limited amount of resources. In order to allow for multiple simultaneous communications, multiple access techniques are routinely employed. With quantum communication, it is possible to share a new kind of resource. All of the system channels can be accommodated into a single channel in a larger Hilbert space. In the scheme, a single line combines the information of all the users, and, at the receiver, the original quantum channels are recovered. The given multiplexer/demultiplexer circuit can perform this n qubits to qudit transformation. Connections with superdense coding and classical multiple access schemes are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0701146
title: Non-EPR pairs quantum channel for teleporting an arbitrary two-qubit state
authors: Xin-Wei Zha, Hai-Yang Song
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 369(2007)377
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701146
abstract: Recently, Yeo and Chua [Phys. have given an explicit protocol for faithfully teleporting an arbitrary two-qubit state via a genuine four-qubit entangled state, which is not reducible to a pair of Bell states. Here, we present a transformation operator to give the criterion of for faithfully teleporting arbitrary two-qubit states. The theoretical explanations of some quantum channels are given by transformation operators. Furthermore, a new four-qubit entangled state quantum channel is presented.

id: quant-ph/0701147
title: Bounding Run-Times of Local Adiabatic Algorithms
authors: M.V. Panduranga Rao
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701147
abstract: A common trick for designing faster quantum adiabatic algorithms is to apply the adiabaticity condition locally at every instant. However it is often difficult to determine the instantaneous gap between the lowest two eigenvalues, which is an essential ingredient in the adiabaticity condition. In this paper we present a simple linear algebraic technique for obtaining a lower bound on the instantaneous gap even in such a situation. As an illustration, we investigate the adiabatic unordered search of van Dam et al. (How powerful is adiabatic quantum computation? Proc. IEEE FOCS, pp. 279-287, 2001) and Roland and Cerf (Physical Review A 65, 042308, 2002) when the non-zero entries of the diagonal final Hamiltonian are perturbed by a polynomial (in $\log N$, where $N$ is the length of the unordered list) amount. We use our technique to derive a bound on the running time of a local adiabatic schedule in terms of the minimum gap between the lowest two eigenvalues.

id: quant-ph/0701148
title: Inelastic collisions in an exactly solvable two-mode Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: I. Fuentes-Schuller, P. Barberis-Blostein
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 013641 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701148
abstract: Inelastic collisions occur in Bose-Einstein condensates, in some cases, producing particle loss in the system. Nevertheless, these processes have not been studied in the case when particles do not escape the trap. We show that such inelastic processes are relevant in quantum properties of the system such as the evolution of the relative population, the self trapping effect and the probability distribution of particles. Moreover, including inelastic terms in the model of the two-mode condensate allows for an exact analytical solution. Using this solution, we show that collisions favor the generation of entanglement between the modes of the condensate as long as the collision rate does not exceed the natural frequency of the system.

id: quant-ph/0701149
title: Conditional Entanglement
authors: Dong Yang, Michal Horodecki, Z. D. Wang
comments: New version, a short one submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701149
abstract: Based on the ideas of {\it quantum extension} and {\it quantum conditioning}, we propose a generic approach to construct a new kind of entanglement measures called {\it conditional entanglement}. The new measures, built from the known entanglement measures, are convex, automatically {\it super-additive}, and even smaller than the regularized versions of the generating measures. More importantly, new measures can also be built directly from measures of correlations, enabling us to introduce an {\it additive} measure and generalize it to a multipartite entanglement measure.

id: quant-ph/0701150
title: Scattering quantum random-walk search with errors
authors: A. Gabris, T. Kiss, I. Jex
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures. Two figures added for clarity, also made improvements to the text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 062315 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701150
abstract: We analyze the realization of a quantum-walk search algorithm in a passive, linear optical network. The specific model enables us to consider the effect of realistic sources of noise and losses on the search efficiency. Photon loss uniform in all directions is shown to lead to the rescaling of search time. Deviation from directional uniformity leads to the enhancement of the search efficiency compared to uniform loss with the same average. In certain cases even increasing loss in some of the directions can improve search efficiency. We show that while we approach the classical limit of the general search algorithm by introducing random phase fluctuations, its utility for searching is lost. Using numerical methods, we found that for static phase errors the averaged search efficiency displays a damped oscillatory behaviour that asymptotically tends to a non-zero value.

id: quant-ph/0701151
title: Casimir-Polder forces on excited atoms in the strong atom-field coupling regime
authors: Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures, extended version
journal: Physical Review A 77 (1), 012110 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701151
abstract: Based on macroscopic quantum electrodynamics in linear media, we develop a general theory of the resonant Casimir-Polder force on an excited two-level atom in the presence of arbitrary linear bodies, with special emphasis on the strong-coupling regime where reabsorption of an emitted photon can give rise to (vacuum) Rabi oscillations. We first derive a simple time-independent expression for the force by using a dressed-state approximation. For initially single-quantum excited atom-field systems we then study the dynamics of the force by starting from the Lorentz force and evaluating its average as a function of time. For strong atom-field coupling, we find that the force may undergo damped Rabi oscillations. The damping is due to the decay of both the atomic excitation and the field excitation, and both amplitude and mean value of the oscillations depend on the chosen initial state.

id: quant-ph/0701152
title: Comment on Afshar's expriments
authors: Daniel Reitzner
comments: 2 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701152
abstract: Results of the experiments carried out in [Shahriar S. Afshar, Proc. SPIE bf 5866 (2005) 229-244] and [Shahriar S. Afshar, AIP Cof. Proc. 810, (2006) 294-299] are reviewed and their interpretation by the authors is questioned. Arguments are supported by numerical simulations.

id: quant-ph/0701153
title: Effect of finite detection efficiency on the observation of the dipole-dipole interaction of a few Rydberg atoms
authors: I.I.Ryabtsev, D.B.Tretyakov, I.I.Beterov, V.M.Entin
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures; equations 8,9,18,19,23,26-31, figures 3 and 4(d), and measurements revised in version 3
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76 (2007) 012722
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701153
abstract: We have developed a simple analytical model describing multi-atom signals that are measured in experiments on dipole-dipole interaction at resonant collisions of a few Rydberg atoms. It has been shown that finite efficiency of the selective field-ionization detector leads to the mixing up of the spectra of resonant collisions registered for various numbers of Rydberg atoms. The formulas which help to estimate an appropriate mean Rydberg atom number for a given detection efficiency are presented. We have found that a measurement of the relation between the amplitudes of collisional resonances observed in the one- and two-atom signals provides a straightforward determination of the absolute detection efficiency and mean Rydberg atom number. We also performed a testing experiment on resonant collisions in a small excitation volume of a sodium atomic beam. The resonances observed for 1 to 4 detected Rydberg atoms have been analyzed and compared with theory.

id: quant-ph/0701154
title: An Extension of the Wigner-Araki-Yanase Theorem to Multiplicative Conserved Quantities
authors: Bernhard K. Meister
comments: To appear in Proceedings of QCMC 2006, Tsukuba; Final Version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701154
abstract: An extension of the Wigner-Araki-Yanase theorem to multiplicative conserved quantities is presented and approximate versions of the theorem are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0701155
title: Exponential Type Complex and non-Hermitian Potentials within Quantum Hamilton-Jacobi Formalism
authors: Ozlem Yesiltas, Ramazan Sever
comments: 16 pages
journal: J. Math. Chem. 43, 921(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701155
abstract: PT-/non-PT-symmetric and non-Hermitian deformed Morse and Poschl-Teller potentials are studied first time by quantum Hamilton-Jacobi approach. Energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions are obtained by solving quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation.

id: quant-ph/0701156
title: MLC No-go Theorems: Reinterpretation and Extension
authors: Minh-Dung Dang, Patrick Bellot
comments: 25 pages, revtex4 (prb, onecollumn), co-author added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701156
abstract: In this article, we are interested in the physical model of general quantum protocols implementing secure two-party computations in the light of Mayers' and Lo's & Chau's no-go theorems of bit commitment and oblivious transfer. In contrast to the commonly adobted quantum pure two-party model in the literature where classical communication is normally ignored, we propose an alternative interpretation for the purification of classical communication in two-party protocols by introducing a quantum third party for the classical channel. This interpretation leads to a global three-party model, involving Alice's and Bob's machines and the environment coupled to the macroscopic channel, using the decoherence scheme in quantum measurements. This model could give a more general view on the concealing/binding trade-off of quantum bit commitment protocols. Inspired from this three-party interpretation, we extend the no-go theorems for denying some classes of two-party protocols having access to some particular quantum trusted third-parties, known as quantum two-party oracles. The extension implies that a quantum protocol for implementing secure two-party computations musts have access to a trusted third-party which erases information and thus makes dissipation of heat to the environment.

id: quant-ph/0701157
title: Redfield reduced dynamics and entanglement
authors: S. Anderloni, F. Benatti, R. Floreanini
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701157
abstract: In phenomenological applications the time evolution of subsystems immersed in an external environment are sometimes described by Markovian semigroups of Redfield type that result non-positive: the appearence of negative probabilities is avoided by restricting the admissible initial conditions to those states that remain positive under the action of the dynamics. We show that this often adopted procedure may lead to physical inconsistencies in presence of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0701158
title: Phase detection at the quantum limit with multi-photon Mach-Zehnder interferometry
authors: L. Pezze, A. Smerzi, G. Khoury, J. F. Hodelin, D. Bouwmeester
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures replaced fig. 1 to correct graphics bug
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701158
abstract: We study a Mach-Zehnder interferometer fed by a coherent state in one input port and vacuum in the other. We explore a Bayesian phase estimation strategy to demonstrate that it is possible to achieve the standard quantum limit independently from the true value of the phase shift and specific assumptions on the noise of the interferometer. We have been able to implement the protocol using parallel operation of two photon-number-resolving detectors and multiphoton coincidence logic electronics at the output ports of a weakly-illuminated Mach-Zehnder interferometer. This protocol is unbiased and saturates the Cramer-Rao phase uncertainty bound and, therefore, is an optimal phase estimation strategy.

id: quant-ph/0701159
title: The Three-Dimensional Quantum Hamilton-Jacobi Equation and Microstates
authors: A. Bouda, A. Mohamed Meziane
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: Int. J. Theo. Phys. 45 (2006) 1323
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701159
abstract: In a stationary case and for any potential, we solve the three-dimensional quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation in terms of the solutions of the corresponding Schrodinger equation. Then, in the case of separated variables, by requiring that the conjugate momentum be invariant under any linear transformation of the solutions of the Schrodinger equation used in the reduced action, we clearly identify the integration constants successively in one, two and three dimensions. In each of these cases, we analytically establish that the quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation describes microstates not detected by the Schrodinger equation in the real wave function case.

id: quant-ph/0701160
title: Matrix product states and exactly solvable spin 1/2 Heisenberg chains with nearest neighbor interactions
authors: M. Asoudeh, V. Karimipour, A. Sadrolashrafi
comments: 4 pages, RevTex, references added, improved presentation, typos fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012320 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701160
abstract: Using the matrix product formalism, we introduce a two parameter family of exactly solvable $xyz$ spin 1/2 Heisenberg chains in magnetic field (with nearest neighbor interactions) and calculate the ground state and correlation functions in compact form. The ground state has a very interesting property: all the pairs of spins are equally entangled with each other. Therefore it is possible to engineer long-range entanglement in experimentally realizable spin systems on the one hand and study more closely quantum phase transition in such systems on the other.

id: quant-ph/0701161
title: Modeling an adiabatic quantum computer
authors: A. M. Zagoskin, S. Savel'ev, Franco Nori
comments: 8 pages 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 120503 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701161
abstract: We map adiabatic quantum evolution on the classical Hamiltonian dynamics of a 1D gas (Pechukas gas) and simulate the latter numerically. This approach turns out to be both insightful and numerically efficient, as seen from our example of a CNOT gate simulation. For a general class of Hamiltonians we show that the escape probability from the initial state scales no faster than |\dot{\lambda}|^{\gamma}, where |\dot{\lambda}| is the adiabaticity parameter. The scaling exponent for the escape probability is \gamma = 1/2 for all levels, except the edge (bottom and top) ones, where \gamma <~1/3. In principle, our method can solve arbitrarily large adiabatic quantum Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0701162
title: How to check the one-count operator experimentally
authors: A. V. Dodonov, S. S. Mizrahi, V. V. Dodonov
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. New references and discussion added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701162
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to probe the form of one-count operation used in the theory of continuous photodetection in cavities. Two main steps are: 1) an absorption of a single photon by an atom passing through a high-Q cavity containing electromagnetic field in a thermal or coherent state, 2) a subsequent measurement of the photon statistics in the new field state arising after the photon absorption. Then comparing the probabilities of finding 0 and 1 photons in the initial and final states of the field, one can make conclusions on the form of the one-count operation. This method can be readily applied in the microwave cavity QED with present technology.

id: quant-ph/0701163
title: Remarks on the undecidability of the quantum halting problem
authors: Daegene Song
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701163
abstract: The halting problem is a decision problem first posed and proved by Alan Turing in 1936. With the recent surge of interest in quantum computation, one is led to ask if the problem can also be considered for a quantum computer. It is reported that the halting problem may not be solved consistently in both the Schrodinger and Heisenberg pictures of quantum dynamics. The assumption of the existence of the quantum halting machine leads to a contradiction when a vector representing an observable is the system that is to be unitarily evolved in both pictures.

id: quant-ph/0701164
title: Superluminal propagation of an optical pulse in a Doppler broadened three-state, single channel active Raman gain medium
authors: K.J. Jiang, L. Deng, M.G. Payne
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701164
abstract: Using a single channel active Raman gain medium we show a $(220\pm 20)$ns advance time for an optical pulse of $\tau_{FWHM}=15.4 \mu$s propagating through a 10 cm medium, a lead time that is comparable to what was reported previously. In addition, we have verified experimentally all the features associated with this single channel Raman gain system. Our results show that the reported gain-assisted superluminal propagation should not be attributed to the interference between the two frequencies of the pump field.

id: quant-ph/0701165
title: A precise CNOT gate in the presence of large fabrication induced variations of the exchange interaction strength
authors: M. J. Testolin, C. D. Hill, C. J. Wellard, L. C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701165
abstract: We demonstrate how using two-qubit composite rotations a high fidelity controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate can be constructed, even when the strength of the interaction between qubits is not accurately known. We focus on the exchange interaction oscillation in silicon based solid-state architectures with a Heisenberg Hamiltonian. This method easily applies to a general two-qubit Hamiltonian. We show how the robust CNOT gate can achieve a very high fidelity when a single application of the composite rotations is combined with a modest level of Hamiltonian characterisation. Operating the robust CNOT gate in a suitably characterised system means concatenation of the composite pulse is unnecessary, hence reducing operation time, and ensuring the gate operates below the threshold required for fault-tolerant quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0701166
title: A Constraint between Noncommutative Parameters of Quantum Theories in Noncommutative Space
authors: Jian-Zu Zhang
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701166
abstract: In two-dimensional noncommutive space for the case of both position - position and momentum - momentum noncommuting, a constraint between noncommutative parameters is investigated. The related topic of guaranteeing Bose - Einstein statistics in noncommutive space in the general case are elucidated: Bose - Einstein statistics is guaranteed by the deformed Heisenberg - Weyl algebra itself, independent of dynamics. A special character of a dynamical system is represented by a constraint between noncommutative parameters. The general feature of the constraint for any system is a direct proportionality between noncommutative parameters with a proportional coefficient depending on characteristic parameters of the system under study. The constraint for a harmonic oscillator is illustrated.

id: quant-ph/0701167
title: Cold Atom Physics Using Ultra-Thin Optical Fibers: Light-Induced Dipole Forces and Surface Interactions
authors: G. Sagu¨¦, E. Vetsch, W. Alt, D. Meschede, A. Rauschenbeutel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: PRL 99, 163602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701167
abstract: The strong evanescent field around ultra-thin unclad optical fibers bears a high potential for detecting, trapping, and manipulating cold atoms. Introducing such a fiber into a cold atom cloud, we investigate the interaction of a small number of cold Caesium atoms with the guided fiber mode and with the fiber surface. Using high resolution spectroscopy, we observe and analyze light-induced dipole forces, van der Waals interaction, and a significant enhancement of the spontaneous emission rate of the atoms. The latter can be assigned to the modification of the vacuum modes by the fiber.

id: quant-ph/0701168
title: Using quantum key distribution for cryptographic purposes: a survey
authors: Romain All¨¦aume, Cyril Branciard, Jan Bouda, Thierry Debuisschert, Mehrdad Dianati, Nicolas Gisin, Mark Godfrey, Philippe Grangier, Thomas Langer, Norbert Lutkenhaus, Christian Monyk, Philippe Painchault, Momtchil Peev, Andreas Poppe, Thomas Pornin, John Rarity, Renato Renner, Gregoire Ribordy, Michel Riguidel, Louis Salvail, Andrew Shields, Harald Weinfurter, Anton Zeilinger
comments: Revised version of the SECOQC White Paper. Published in the special issue on QKD of TCS, Theoretical Computer Science (2014), pp. 62-81
journal: Theoretical Computer Science, 560 (2014), pp. 62-81
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701168
abstract: The appealing feature of quantum key distribution (QKD), from a cryptographic viewpoint, is the ability to prove the information-theoretic security (ITS) of the established keys. As a key establishment primitive, QKD however does not provide a standalone security service in its own: the secret keys established by QKD are in general then used by a subsequent cryptographic applications for which the requirements, the context of use and the security properties can vary. It is therefore important, in the perspective of integrating QKD in security infrastructures, to analyze how QKD can be combined with other cryptographic primitives. The purpose of this survey article, which is mostly centered on European research results, is to contribute to such an analysis. We first review and compare the properties of the existing key establishment techniques, QKD being one of them. We then study more specifically two generic scenarios related to the practical use of QKD in cryptographic infrastructures: 1) using QKD as a key renewal technique for a symmetric cipher over a point-to-point link; 2) using QKD in a network containing many users with the objective of offering any-to-any key establishment service. We discuss the constraints as well as the potential interest of using QKD in these contexts. We finally give an overview of challenges relative to the development of QKD technology that also constitute potential avenues for cryptographic research.

id: quant-ph/0701169
title: Effects of imperfections for Shor's factorization algorithm
authors: Ignacio Garcia-Mata, Klaus M. Frahm, Dima L. Shepelyansky
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures, 1 table. Added references and new data. Erratum added as appendix. 1 Figure and 1 Table added. Research is available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052311 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701169
abstract: We study effects of imperfections induced by residual couplings between qubits on the accuracy of Shor's algorithm using numerical simulations of realistic quantum computations with up to 30 qubits. The factoring of numbers up to N=943 show that the width of peaks, which frequencies allow to determine the factors, grow exponentially with the number of qubits. However, the algorithm remains operational up to a critical coupling strength $\epsilon_c$ which drops only polynomially with $\log_2 N$. The numerical dependence of $\epsilon_c$ on $\log_2 N$ is explained by analytical estimates that allows to obtain the scaling for functionality of Shor's algorithm on realistic quantum computers with a large number of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0701170
title: Strongly Correlated Two-Photon Transport in One-Dimensional Waveguide Coupled to A Two-Level System
authors: Jung-Tsung Shen, Shanhui Fan
comments: 12 pages. 3 figures. Accepted by Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 153003 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701170
abstract: We show that two-photon transport is strongly correlated in one-dimensional waveguide coupled to a two-level system. The exact S-matrix is constructed using a generalized Bethe-Ansatz technique. We show that the scattering eigenstates of this system include a two-photon bound state that passes through the two-level system as a composite single particle. Also, the two-level system can induce effective attractive or repulsive interactions in space for photons. This general procedure can be applied to the Anderson model as well.

id: quant-ph/0701171
title: Turning the Liar paradox into a metatheorem of Basic logic
authors: Paola A. Zizzi
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure, submitted to CIE 2007. The subject of Section 4, formerly devoted to the conclusions, has been changed, and is about a generalized version of self-reference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701171
abstract: We show that self-reference can be formalized in Basic logic by means of the new connective @, called "entanglement". In fact, the property of non-idempotence of the connective @ is a metatheorem, which states that a self-entangled sentence loses its own identity. This prevents having self-referential paradoxes in the corresponding metalanguage. In this context, we introduce a generalized definition of self-reference, which is needed to deal with the multiplicative connectives of substructural logics.

id: quant-ph/0701172
title: Initializing a Quantum Register from Mott Insulator States in Optical Lattices
authors: Chuanwei Zhang, V.W. Scarola, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 060301(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701172
abstract: We propose and quantitatively develop two schemes to quickly and accurately generate a stable initial configuration of neutral atoms in optical microtraps by extraction from the Mott insulator state in optical lattices. We show that thousands of atoms may be extracted and stored in the ground states of optical microtrap arrays with one atom per trap in one operational process demonstrating massive scalability. The failure probability during extraction in the first scheme can be made sufficiently small (10^{-4}) to initialize a large scale quantum register with high fidelity. A complementary faster scheme with more extracted atoms but lower fidelity is also developed.

id: quant-ph/0701173
title: Quantum walks on quotient graphs
authors: Hari Krovi, Todd A. Brun
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures in EPS format
journal: Physical Review A 75, 062332 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701173
abstract: A discrete-time quantum walk on a graph is the repeated application of a unitary evolution operator to a Hilbert space corresponding to the graph. If this unitary evolution operator has an associated group of symmetries, then for certain initial states the walk will be confined to a subspace of the original Hilbert space. Symmetries of the original graph, given by its automorphism group, can be inherited by the evolution operator. We show that a quantum walk confined to the subspace corresponding to this symmetry group can be seen as a different quantum walk on a smaller quotient graph. We give an explicit construction of the quotient graph for any subgroup of the automorphism group and illustrate it with examples. The automorphisms of the quotient graph which are inherited from the original graph are the original automorphism group modulo the subgroup used to construct it. We then analyze the behavior of hitting times on quotient graphs. Hitting time is the average time it takes a walk to reach a given final vertex from a given initial vertex. It has been shown in earlier work [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 74}, 042334 (2006)] that the hitting time can be infinite. We give a condition which determines whether the quotient graph has infinite hitting times given that they exist in the original graph. We apply this condition for the examples discussed and determine which quotient graphs have infinite hitting times. All known examples of quantum walks with fast hitting times correspond to systems with quotient graphs much smaller than the original graph; we conjecture that the existence of a small quotient graph with finite hitting times is necessary for a walk to exhibit a quantum speed-up.

id: quant-ph/0701174
title: Eavesdropping of quantum communication from a non-inertial frame
authors: Kamil Bradler
comments: accepted in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701174
abstract: We introduce a relativistic version of quantum encryption protocol by considering two inertial observers who wish to securely transmit quantum information encoded in a free scalar quantum field state forming Minkowski particles. In a non-relativistic setting a certain amount of shared classical resources is necessary to perfectly encrypt the state. We show that in the case of a uniformly accelerated eavesdropper the communicating parties need to share (asymptotically in the limit of infinite acceleration) just half of the classical resources.

id: quant-ph/0701175
title: Asymptotically noise decoupling for Markovian open quantum systems
authors: Jing Zhang, Re-Bing Wu, Chun-Wen Li, Tzyh-Jong Tarn, Jian-Wu Wu
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022324 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701175
abstract: The noise decoupling problem is investigated for general N-level Markovian open quantum systems. Firstly, the concept of Cartan decomposition of the Lie algebra $su(N)$ is introduced as a tool of designing control Hamiltonians. Next, under certain assumptions, it is shown that a part of variables of the coherence vector of the system density matrix can be asymptotically decoupled from the environmental noises. The resulting noise decoupling scheme is applied to one-qubit, qutrit and two-qubit quantum systems, by which the coherence evolution of the one-qubit and qutrit systems can always be asymptotically preserved, while, for two-qubit systems, our findings indicate that evolution of some variables can be preserved only for some initial states.

id: quant-ph/0701176
title: First direct determination of the Boltzmann constant by an optical method
authors: Christophe Daussy, Mickael Guinet, Anne Amy-Klein, Khelifa Djerroud, Yves Hermier, Stephan Briaudeau, Christian J. Bord¨¦, Christian Chardonnet
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 98 (2007) 250801
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701176
abstract: We have recorded the Doppler profile of a well-isolated rovibrational line in the \nu2 band of 14NH3. Ammonia gas was placed in an absorption cell thermalized by a water-ice bath. By extrapolating to zero pressure, we have deduced the Doppler width which gives a first measurement of the Boltzmann constant, kB, by laser spectroscopy. A relative uncertainty of 2x10-4 has been obtained. The present determination should be significantly improved in the near future and contribute to a new definition of the kelvin.

id: quant-ph/0701177
title: PT-Symmetric, Quasi-Exactly Solvable matrix Hamiltonians
authors: Y. Brihaye, Ancilla Nininahazwe, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure, one equation corrected, results added
journal: J.Phys.A40:13063-13074,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701177
abstract: Matrix quasi exactly solvable operators are considered and new conditions are determined to test whether a matrix differential operator possesses one or several finite dimensional invariant vector spaces. New examples of $2\times 2$-matrix quasi exactly solvable operators are constructed with the emphasis set on PT-symmetric Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0701178
title: Quantum theory: the role of microsystems and macrosystems
authors: L. Lanz, B. Vacchini, O. Melsheimer
comments: 12 pages. For special issue of J.Phys.A, "The Quantum Universe", on the occasion of 70th birthday of Professor Giancarlo Ghirardi
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 3123-3140
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701178
abstract: We stress the notion of statistical experiment, which is mandatory for quantum mechanics, and recall Ludwig's foundation of quantum mechanics, which provides the most general framework to deal with statistical experiments giving evidence for particles. In this approach particles appear as interaction carriers between preparation and registration apparatuses. We further briefly point out the more modern and versatile formalism of quantum theory, stressing the relevance of probabilistic concepts in its formulation. At last we discuss the role of macrosystems, focusing on quantum field theory for their description and introducing for them objective state parameters.

id: quant-ph/0701179
title: Polarizability measurements in a molecule near-field interferometer
authors: Martin Berninger, Andr¨¦ Stefanov, Sarayut Deachapunya, Markus Arndt
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 013607 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701179
abstract: We apply near-field matter-wave interferometry to determine the absolute scalar polarizability of the fullerenes C$_{60}$ and C$_{70}$. A key feature of our experiment is the combination of good transmission and high spatial resolution, gained by wide molecular beams passing through sub-micron gratings. This allows to significantly facilitate the observation of field-dependent beam shifts. We thus measure the polarizability to be $\alpha=88.9 \pm 0.9 \pm 5.1 \rm \AA^{3}$ for C$_{60}$ and to $\alpha = 108.5 \pm 2.0 \pm 6.2 \rm \AA^{3}$ for C$_{70}$.

id: quant-ph/0701180
title: Coherent electron pair. Electromagnetic field
authors: Constantin V. Usenko, Nataliia O. Cherkashyna
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701180
abstract: It is shown that relative coordinate and momentum of coherent electron pair have the meaning of observables with the help of quadrupole and magnetic moments. Distributions of quadrupole terms of scalar potential are shown. These distributions have nonclassical properties.

id: quant-ph/0701181
title: Quantum Theory as Efficient Representation of Probabilistic Information
authors: Johann Summhammer
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701181
abstract: Quantum experiments yield random data. We show that the most efficient way to store this empirical information by a finite number of bits is by means of the vector of square roots of observed relative frequencies. This vector has the unique property that its dispersion becomes invariant of the underlying probabilities, and therefore invariant of the physical parameters. This also extends to the complex square roots, and it remains true under a unitary transformation. This reveals quantum theory as a theory for making predictions which are as accurate as the input information, without any statistical loss. Our analysis also suggests that from the point of view of information a slightly more accurate theory than quantum theory should be possible.

id: quant-ph/0701182
title: Generation of EPR-entangled radiation through an atomic reservoir
authors: Susanne Pielawa, Giovanna Morigi, David Vitali, Luiz Davidovich
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, final version, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 240401 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701182
abstract: We propose a scheme for generating two-mode squeezing in high-Q resonators using a beam of atoms with random arrival times, which acts as a reservoir for the field. The scheme is based on four-wave mixing processes leading to emission into two cavity modes, which are resonant with the Rabi sidebands of the atomic dipole transition, driven by a saturating classical field. At steady state the cavity modes are in an Einstein-Podolski-Rosen (EPR) state, whose degree of entanglement is controlled by the intensity and the frequency of the transverse field. This scheme is robust against stochastic fluctuations in the atomic beam, does not require atomic detection nor velocity selection, and can be realized by presently available experimental setups with microwave resonators.

id: quant-ph/0701183
title: Reduction of Quantum Phase Fluctuations Implies Antibunching of Photon
authors: Prakash Gupta, Anirban Pathak
comments: 9 pages Latex 2e, No figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A (2007) Inpress
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701183
abstract: A clear physical meaning of the Carruthers-Nieto symmetric quantum phase fluctuation parameter (U) has been provided in Susskind Glogower and Barnett Pegg formalism of quantum phase and it is shown that the reduction of phase fluctuation parameter U with respect to its coherent state value corresponds to an antibunched state. Thus nonclassicality of a state may be manifested through the phase fluctuation parameters. As examples, quantum phase fluctuations in different optical processes, such as four wave mixing, six wave mixing and second harmonic generation have been studied by using Carruthers-Nieto quantum phase fluctuation parameters. The operators required for the calculation of quantum phase fluctuations are expressed in closed analytical forms (up to second order in coupling constant). It is also found that the reduction of phase fluctuations compared to their initial values are possible in all three cases which means nonclassical (antibunched) state exists in all these cases.

id: quant-ph/0701184
title: Experimental Observation of Environment-induced Sudden Death of Entanglement
authors: M. P. Almeida, F. de Melo, M. Hor-Meyll, A. Salles, S. P. Walborn, P. H. Souto Ribeiro, L. Davidovich
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701184
abstract: We demonstrate the difference between local, single-particle dynamics and global dynamics of entangled quantum systems coupled to independent environments. Using an all-optical experimental setup, we show that, while the environment-induced decay of each system is asymptotic, quantum entanglement may suddenly disappear. This "sudden death" constitutes yet another distinct and counter-intuitive trait of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0701185
title: On the normal ordering of multi-mode boson operators
authors: Toufik Mansour, Matthias Schork
comments: 16 pages; typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701185
abstract: In this article combinatorial aspects of normal ordering annihilation and creation operators of a multi-mode boson system are discussed. The modes are assumed to be coupled since otherwise the problem of normal ordering is reduced to the corresponding problem of the single-mode case. To describe the normal ordering in the multi-mode case for each mode a colour is introduced and coloured contractions are considered. A depiction for coloured contractions via coloured linear representations is given. In analogy to the single-mode case associated coloured Stirling numbers are defined as coefficients appearing in the process of normal ordering powers of the number operators. Several properties of these coloured Stirling numbers are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0701186
title: Phase Space Representations and Perturbation Theory for Continuous-time Histories
authors: Aidan Burch
comments: 22 pages; slightly shortened, more concise argumentation; ref. added
journal: J.Math.Phys.48:072106,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701186
abstract: We consider two technical developments of the formalism of continuous-time histories. First, we provide an explicit description of histories of the simple harmonic oscillator on the classical histories phase space, comparing and contrasting the Q, P and Wigner representations; we conclude that a representation based on coherent states is the most appropriate. Second, we demonstrate a generic method for implementing a perturbative approach for interacting theories in the histories formalism, using the quartic anharmonic oscillator. We make use of the identification of the closed-time path (CTP) generating functional with the decoherence functional to develop a perturbative expansion for the latter up to second order in the coupling constant. We consider both configuration space and phase space histories.

id: quant-ph/0701187
title: Some observations on two-way finite automata with quantum and classical states
authors: Daowen Qiu
comments: Comments and suggestions are welcome
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 5226, pp.1-8, 2008.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701187
abstract: {\it Two-way finite automata with quantum and classical states} (2qcfa's) were introduced by Ambainis and Watrous. Though this computing model is more restricted than the usual {\it two-way quantum finite automata} (2qfa's) first proposed by Kondacs and Watrous, it is still more powerful than the classical counterpart. In this note, we focus on dealing with the operation properties of 2qcfa's. We prove that the Boolean operations (intersection, union, and complement) and the reversal operation of the class of languages recognized by 2qcfa's with error probabilities are closed; as well, we verify that the catenation operation of such class of languages is closed under certain restricted condition. The numbers of states of these 2qcfa's for the above operations are presented. Some examples are included, and $\{xx^{R}|x\in \{a,b\}^{*},#_{x}(a)=#_{x}(b)\}$ is shown to be recognized by 2qcfa with one-sided error probability, where $x^{R}$ is the reversal of $x$, and $#_{x}(a)$ denotes the $a$'s number in string $x$.

id: quant-ph/0701188
title: The Bound of Entanglement of Superpositions with More Than Two Components
authors: Yang Xiang, Shi-Jie Xiong, Fang-Yu Hong
comments: 5 pages;v2: version to be pulished in The European Physical Journal D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701188
abstract: A bipartite quantum state (for two systems in any dimensions) can be decomposed as a superposition of many components. For a superposition of more than two components we prove that there is a bound of the entanglement of the superposition state which can be expressed according to entanglements of its component states. Especially, if the component states are mutually bi-orthogonal, the entanglement of the superposition state can be exactly given in terms of the entanglements of the states being superposed.

id: quant-ph/0701189
title: Background Independent Quantum Mechanics, Metric of Quantum States, and Gravity: A Comprehensive Perspective
authors: Aalok
comments: 25 Pages;journal reference added:Published in- Int. J. Theor. Phys. 46 (2007) 3216-3229. References revised
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 46 (2007) 3216-3229
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701189
abstract: This paper presents a comprehensive perspective of the metric of quantum states with a focus on the background independent metric structures. We also explore the possibilities of geometrical formulations of quantum mechanics beyond the quantum state space and Kahler manifold. The metric of quantum states in the classical configuration space with the pseudo-Riemannian signature and its possible applications are explored. On contrary to the common perception that a metric for quantum state can yield a natural metric in the configuration space with the limit when Planck constant vanishes, we obtain the metric of quantum states in the configuration space without imposing this limiting condition. Here, Planck constant is absorbed in the quantity like Bohr radii. While exploring the metric structure associated with Hydrogen like atom, we witness another interesting finding that the invariant lengths appear in the multiple of Bohr radii.

id: quant-ph/0701190
title: Quantum Dynamics with Bohmian Trajectories
authors: D.-A. Deckert, D. Duerr, P. Pickl
comments: 17 pages, 18 figures; some typos corrected, 4 figures added, some paragraphs extended, source code extended
journal: J. Phys. Chem. A, 111, 41, 10325 - 10330, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701190
abstract: We describe the advantages and disadvantages of numerical methods when Bohmian trajectory-grids are used for numerical simulations of quantum dynamics. We focus on the crucial non crossing property of Bohmian trajectories, which numerically must be paid careful attention to. Failure to do so causes instabilities or leads to false simulations.

id: quant-ph/0701191
title: Minimum detection efficiency for a loophole-free atom-photon Bell experiment
authors: Adan Cabello, Jan-Ake Larsson
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 (2007) 220402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701191
abstract: In Bell experiments, one problem is to achieve high enough photodetection to ensure that there is no possibility of describing the results via a local hidden-variable model. Using the Clauser-Horne inequality and a two-photon non-maximally entangled state, a photodetection efficiency higher than 0.67 is necessary. Here we discuss atom-photon Bell experiments. We show that, assuming perfect detection efficiency of the atom, it is possible to perform a loophole-free atom-photon Bell experiment whenever the photodetection efficiency exceeds 0.50.

id: quant-ph/0701192
title: Thermal quantum electrodynamics of nonrelativistic charged fluids
authors: Pascal R. Buenzli, Philippe A. Martin, Marc D. Ryser
comments: 32 pages, 0 figures. 2nd version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 75, 041125, pp. 1--14 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701192
abstract: The theory relevant to the study of matter in equilibrium with the radiation field is thermal quantum electrodynamics (TQED). We present a formulation of the theory, suitable for non relativistic fluids, based on a joint functional integral representation of matter and field variables. In this formalism cluster expansion techniques of classical statistical mechanics become operative. They provide an alternative to the usual Feynman diagrammatics in many-body problems which is not perturbative with respect to the coupling constant. As an application we show that the effective Coulomb interaction between quantum charges is partially screened by thermalized photons at large distances. More precisely one observes an exact cancellation of the dipolar electric part of the interaction, so that the asymptotic particle density correlation is now determined by relativistic effects. It has still the $r^{-6}$ decay typical for quantum charges, but with an amplitude strongly reduced by a relativistic factor.

id: quant-ph/0701193
title: A General Framework for Recursive Decompositions of Unitary Quantum Evolutions
authors: Mehmet Dagli, Domenico D'Alessandro, Jonathan D.H. Smith
comments: 17 pages. To appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. This article replaces our earlier preprint "A Recursive Decomposition of Unitary Operators on N Qubits." The current version provides a general method to generate recursive decompositions of unitary evolutions. Several decompositions obtained before are shown to be as a special case of this general procedure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701193
abstract: Decompositions of the unitary group U(n) are useful tools in quantum information theory as they allow one to decompose unitary evolutions into local evolutions and evolutions causing entanglement. Several recursive decompositions have been proposed in the literature to express unitary operators as products of simple operators with properties relevant in entanglement dynamics. In this paper, using the concept of grading of a Lie algebra, we cast these decompositions in a unifying scheme and show how new recursive decompositions can be obtained. In particular, we propose a new recursive decomposition of the unitary operator on $N$ qubits, and we give a numerical example.

id: quant-ph/0701194
title: Computation at a distance
authors: Samuel A. Kutin, David Petrie Moulton, Lawren M. Smithline
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701194
abstract: We consider a model of computation motivated by possible limitations on quantum computers. We have a linear array of n wires, and we may perform operations only on pairs of adjacent wires. Our goal is to build a circuits that perform specified operations spanning all n wires. We show that the natural lower bound of n-1 on circuit depth is nearly tight for a variety of problems, and we prove linear upper bounds for additional problems. In particular, using only gates adding a wire (mod 2) into an adjacent wire, we can realize any linear operation in GL_n(2) as a circuit of depth 5n. We show that some linear operations require depth at least 2n+1.

id: quant-ph/0701195
title: Investigation of a single-photon source based on quantum interference
authors: T.B. Pittman, B.C. Jacobs, J.D. Franson
comments: Submitted to the New J. Phys. Focus Issue on "Measurement-based quantum information processing"
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 195 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701195
abstract: We report on an experimental investigation of a single-photon source based on a quantum interference effect first demonstrated by Koashi, Matsuoka, and Hirano [Phys. Rev. A 53, 3621 (1996)]. For certain types of measurement-based quantum information processing applications this technique may be useful as a high rate, but random, source of single photons.

id: quant-ph/0701196
title: Physical properties of the Schur complement of local covariance matrices
authors: Luis F. Haruna, Marcos C. de Oliveira
comments: 10 pages. Replaced with final published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, 14205 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701196
abstract: General properties of global covariance matrices representing bipartite Gaussian states can be decomposed into properties of local covariance matrices and their Schur complements. We demonstrate that given a bipartite Gaussian state $\rho_{12}$ described by a $4\times 4$ covariance matrix \textbf{V}, the Schur complement of a local covariance submatrix $\textbf{V}_1$ of it can be interpreted as a new covariance matrix representing a Gaussian operator of party 1 conditioned to local parity measurements on party 2. The connection with a partial parity measurement over a bipartite quantum state and the determination of the reduced Wigner function is given and an operational process of parity measurement is developed. Generalization of this procedure to a $n$-partite Gaussian state is given and it is demonstrated that the $n-1$ system state conditioned to a partial parity projection is given by a covariance matrix such as its $2 \times 2$ block elements are Schur complements of special local matrices.

id: quant-ph/0701197
title: Scheme for remote implementation of partially unknown quantum operation of two qubits in cavity QED
authors: Liang Qiu, An Min Wang
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701197
abstract: By constructing the recovery operations of the protocol of remote implementation of partially unknown quantum operation of two qubits [An Min Wang: PRA, \textbf{74}, 032317(2006)], we present a scheme to implement it in cavity QED. Long-lived Rydberg atoms are used as qubits, and the interaction between the atoms and the field of cavity is a nonresonant one. Finally, we analyze the experimental feasibility of this scheme.

id: quant-ph/0701198
title: On Nondemolition Measurements of Photon Number: A Comment on quant-ph/0612031
authors: Vladimir S. Mashkevich
comments: 5 pages, LaTex 2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701198
abstract: Experimental results stated in quant-ph/0612031 are seminal: The authors have realized nondemolition measurements of the photon number. As to the interpretation of the results, it seems to be less than convincing: The treatment of the system state and of the role of measurement is not compatible with the conventional point of view. We propose an adequate treatment, in which the experimental results are a manifestation of a partial Zeno effect (a slowdown of relaxation).

id: quant-ph/0701199
title: Noise resilience and entanglement evolution in two non-equivalent classes of quantum algorithms
authors: C. Di Franco, M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052316 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701199
abstract: The speed-up provided by quantum algorithms with respect to their classical counterparts is at the origin of scientific interest in quantum computation. However, the fundamental reasons for such a speed-up are not yet completely understood and deserve further attention. In this context, the classical simulation of quantum algorithms is a useful tool that can help us in gaining insight. Starting from the study of general conditions for classical simulation, we highlight several important differences between two non-equivalent classes of quantum algorithms. We investigate their performance under realistic conditions by quantitatively studying their resilience with respect to static noise. This latter refers to errors affecting the inital preparation of the register used to run an algorithm. We also compare the evolution of the entanglement involved in the different computational processes.

id: quant-ph/0701200
title: Information and measurement in generally covariant quantum theory
authors: S. Jay Olson, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, reference added, typos corrected, discussion added, PACS numbers added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701200
abstract: Due to the absence of an external, classical time variable, the probabilistic predictions of covariant quantum theory are ambiguous when multiple measurements are considered. Here, we introduce an information theoretic framework to the covariant formalism, and use it to interpret the measurement process. We find that the time ordering of measurements emerges as an entropy relationship in the state of the observers, giving unique probabilities for multiple measurements. This approach suggests a new, fully self-contained probability interpretation for generally covariant quantum physics, which makes use of a quantum mechanical description of the observer, in contrast to standard quantum mechanics which assumes an external, classical observer.

id: quant-ph/0701201
title: Factorization of Quantum Density Matrices According to Bayesian and Markov Networks
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 48 pages (files: 1 .tex, 1 .sty, 7 .eps)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701201
abstract: We show that any quantum density matrix can be represented by a Bayesian network (a directed acyclic graph), and also by a Markov network (an undirected graph). We show that any Bayesian or Markov net that represents a density matrix, is logically equivalent to a set of conditional independencies (symmetries) satisfied by the density matrix. We show that the d-separation theorems of classical Bayesian and Markov networks generalize in a simple and natural way to quantum physics. The quantum d-separation theorems are shown to be closely connected to quantum entanglement. We show that the graphical rules for d-separation can be used to detect pairs of nodes (or of node sets) in a graph that are unentangled. CMI entanglement (a.k.a. squashed entanglement), a measure of entanglement originally discovered by analyzing Bayesian networks, is an important part of the theory of this paper.

id: quant-ph/0701202
title: An explicit family of unitaries with exponentially minimal length Pauli geodesics
authors: Wei Huang
comments: 4 pages, accepted as poster presentation in QIP07
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701202
abstract: Recently, Nielsen et al have proposed a geometric approach to quantum computation. They've shown that the size of the minimum quantum circuits implementing a unitary U, up to polynomial factors, equals to the length of minimal geodesic from identity I through U. They've investigated a large class of solutions to the geodesic equation, called Pauli geodesics. They've raised a natural question whether we can explicitly construct a family of unitaries U that have exponentially long minimal length Pauli geodesics? We give a positive answer to this question.

id: quant-ph/0701203
title: Zero modes of various graphene configurations from the index theorem
authors: Jiannis K. Pachos, Agapitos Hatzinikitas, Michael Stone
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. Proceedings of the Graphene Conference, MPI PKS Dresden, September 2006
journal: Eur. Phys. J., Special Topics, 148, 127 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701203
abstract: In this article we consider a graphene sheet that is folded in various compact geometries with arbitrary topology described by a certain genus, $g$. While the Hamiltonian of these systems is defined on a lattice one can take the continuous limit. The obtained Dirac-like Hamiltonian describes well the low energy modes of the initial system. Starting from first principles we derive an index theorem that corresponds to this Hamiltonian. This theorem relates the zero energy modes of the graphene sheet with the topology of the compact lattice. For $g=0$ and $g=1$ these results coincide with the analytical and numerical studies performed for fullerene molecules and carbon nanotubes while for higher values of $g$ they give predictions for more complicated molecules.

id: quant-ph/0701204
title: Signatures for generalized macroscopic superpositions
authors: E. G. Cavalcanti, M. D. Reid
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, some changes made
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 170405 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701204
abstract: We develop criteria sufficient to enable detection of macroscopic coherence where there are not just two macroscopically distinct outcomes for a pointer measurement, but rather a spread of outcomes over a macroscopic range. The criteria provide a means to distinguish a macroscopic quantum description from a microscopic one based on mixtures of microscopic superpositions of pointer-measurement eigenstates. The criteria are applied to Gaussian-squeezed and spin-entangled states.

id: quant-ph/0701205
title: Factorizing Numbers with the Gauss Sum Technique: NMR Implementations
authors: T. S. Mahesh, Nageswaran Rajendran, Xinhua Peng, Dieter Suter
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; Abstract and Conclusion are slightly modified. References added and formatted with Bibtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701205
abstract: Several physics-based algorithms for factorizing large number were recently published. A notable recent one by Schleich et al. uses Gauss sums for distinguishing between factors and non-factors. We demonstrate two NMR techniques that evaluate Gauss sums and thus implement their algorithm. The first one is based on differential excitation of a single spin magnetization by a cascade of RF pulses. The second method is based on spatial averaging and selective refocusing of magnetization for Gauss sums corresponding to factors. All factors of 16637 and 52882363 are successfully obtained.

id: quant-ph/0701206
title: Exact solution of Schrodinger equation for Pseudoharmonic potential
authors: Cevdet Tezcan, Metin Aktas, Ozlem Yesiltas Ramazan Sever
comments: 10 pages
journal: J.Math.Chem.43:845,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701206
abstract: Exact solution of Schrodinger equation for the pseudoharmonic potential is obtained for an arbitrary angular momentum. The energy eigenvalues and corresponding eigenfunctions are calculated by Nikiforov-Uvarov method. Wavefunctions are expressed in terms of Jacobi polynomials. The energy eigenvalues are calculated numerically for some values of l and n with n<5 for some diatomic molecules.

id: quant-ph/0701207
title: Roughness suppression via rapid current modulation on an atom chip
authors: Jean-Baptiste Trebbia, Carlos Leonardo Garrido Alzar, Ronald Cornelussen, Christoph I. Westbrook, Isabelle Bouchoule
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters (29/01/2007) 4
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701207
abstract: We present a method to suppress the potential roughness of a wire-based, magnetic atom guide: modulating the wire current at a few tens of kHz, the potential roughness, which is proportional to the wire current, averages to zero. Using ultra-cold $^{87}{\rm Rb}$ clouds, we show experimentally that modulation reduces the roughness by at least of a factor five without measurable heating or atom loss. This roughness suppression results in a dramatic reduction of the damping of center of mass oscillations.

id: quant-ph/0701208
title: Dirac Equation and Quantum Relativistic Effects in a Single Trapped Ion
authors: L. Lamata, J. Leon, T. Schaetz, E. Solano
comments: 4 pages and 1 figure, minor corrections, accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.98:253005,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701208
abstract: We present a method of simulating the Dirac equation in 3+1 dimensions for a free spin-1/2 particle in a single trapped ion. The Dirac bispinor is represented by four ionic internal states, and position and momentum of the Dirac particle are associated with the respective ionic variables. We show also how to simulate the simplified 1+1 case, requiring the manipulation of only two internal levels and one motional degree of freedom. Moreover, we study relevant quantum-relativistic effects, like the Zitterbewegung and Klein's paradox, the transition from massless to massive fermions, with the relativistic and nonrelativistic limits, via the tuning of controllable experimental parameters.

id: quant-ph/0701209
title: Two-Mode Squeezed States and Entangled States of Two Mechanical Resonators
authors: Fei Xue, Yu-xi Liu, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 064305 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701209
abstract: We study a device consisting of a dc-SQUID with two sections of its loop acting as two mechanical resonators. An analog of the parametric down-conversion process in quantum optics can be realized with this device. We show that a two-mode squeezed state can be generated for two overdamped mechanical resonators, where the damping constants of the two mechanical resonators are larger than the coupling strengths between the dc-SQUID and the two mechanical resonators. Thus we show that entangled states of these two mechanical resonators can be generated.

id: quant-ph/0701210
title: C++QED: An object-oriented framework for wave-function simulations of cavity QED systems
authors: A. Vukics, H. Ritsch
comments: 31 pages, 8 figures, 3 tables
journal: European Physical Journal D, Volume 44, number 3, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701210
abstract: We present a framework for efficiently performing Monte Carlo wave-function simulations in cavity QED with moving particles. It relies heavily on the object-oriented programming paradigm as realised in C++, and is extensible and applicable for simulating open interacting quantum dynamics in general. The user is provided with a number of ``elements'', eg pumped moving particles, pumped lossy cavity modes, and various interactions to compose complex interacting systems, which contain several particles moving in electromagnetic fields of various configurations, and perform wave-function simulations on such systems. A number of tools are provided to facilitate the implementation of new elements.

id: quant-ph/0701211
title: On the Pauli graphs of N-qudits
authors: Michel Planat, Metod Saniga
comments: 17 pages. Expanded section on two-qutrits, Quantum Information and Computation (2007) accept\'e
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 8, 1-2 (2008) 127-146
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701211
abstract: A comprehensive graph theoretical and finite geometrical study of the commutation relations between the generalized Pauli operators of N-qudits is performed in which vertices/points correspond to the operators and edges/lines join commuting pairs of them. As per two-qubits, all basic properties and partitionings of the corresponding Pauli graph are embodied in the geometry of the generalized quadrangle of order two. Here, one identifies the operators with the points of the quadrangle and groups of maximally commuting subsets of the operators with the lines of the quadrangle. The three basic partitionings are (a) a pencil of lines and a cube, (b) a Mermin's array and a bipartite-part and (c) a maximum independent set and the Petersen graph. These factorizations stem naturally from the existence of three distinct geometric hyperplanes of the quadrangle, namely a set of points collinear with a given point, a grid and an ovoid, which answer to three distinguished subsets of the Pauli graph, namely a set of six operators commuting with a given one, a Mermin's square, and set of five mutually non-commuting operators, respectively. The generalized Pauli graph for multiple qubits is found to follow from symplectic polar spaces of order two, where maximal totally isotropic subspaces stand for maximal subsets of mutually commuting operators. The substructure of the (strongly regular) N-qubit Pauli graph is shown to be pseudo-geometric, i. e., isomorphic to a graph of a partial geometry. Finally, the (not strongly regular) Pauli graph of a two-qutrit system is introduced; here it turns out more convenient to deal with its dual in order to see all the parallels with the two-qubit case and its surmised relation with the generalized quadrangle Q(4, 3), the dual ofW(3).

id: quant-ph/0701212
title: Non-contact rack and pinion powered by the lateral Casimir force
authors: Arash Ashourvan, MirFaez Miri, Ramin Golestanian
comments: 4 pages, submitted for publication on 17 Jan 07
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 140801 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701212
abstract: The lateral Casimir force is employed to propose a design for a potentially wear-proof rack and pinion with no contact, which can be miniaturized to nano-scale. The robustness of the design is studied by exploring the relation between the pinion velocity and the rack velocity in the different domains of the parameter space. The effects of friction and added external load are also examined. It is shown that the device can hold up extremely high velocities, unlike what the general perception of the Casimir force as a weak interaction might suggest.

id: quant-ph/0701213
title: Infinite plane wave evolution in a 1-D square quantum barrier
authors: J. Julve, F. J. de Urries
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701213
abstract: We analytically compute the time evolution of an initial infinite plane wave in the presence of a 1-dimensional square quantum barrier. This calculation generalizes the analysis of the shutter problem and sets the basis for the calculation of the transmission of general wave packets, aiming to work out the explicit contribution of the resonant (Gamow) states. The method relies mainly on the analytical properties of the Green function. The role of separate boundary conditions on the Green function and on the evolution equation is highlighted. As in previous works on related problems, only the determination of the resonant momenta requires numerical methods.

id: quant-ph/0701214
title: Nonclassical characteristic functions for highly sensitive measurements
authors: Th. Richter, W. Vogel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701214
abstract: Characteristic functions are shown to be useful for highly sensitive measurements. Redistributions of motional Fock states of a trapped atom can be directly monitored via the most fragile nonclassical part of the characteristic function. The method can also be used for decoherence measurements in optical quantum-information systems.

id: quant-ph/0701215
title: 'Designer atoms' for quantum metrology
authors: C. F. Roos, M. Chwalla, K. Kim, M. Riebe, R. Blatt
comments: 
journal: Nature 443, 316 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701215
abstract: Entanglement is recognized as a key resource for quantum computation and quantum cryptography. For quantum metrology, the use of entangled states has been discussed and demonstrated as a means of improving the signal-to-noise ratio. In addition, entangled states have been used in experiments for efficient quantum state detection and for the measurement of scattering lengths. In quantum information processing, manipulation of individual quantum bits allows for the tailored design of specific states that are insensitive to the detrimental influences of an environment. Such 'decoherence-free subspaces' protect quantum information and yield significantly enhanced coherence times. Here we use a decoherence-free subspace with specifically designed entangled states to demonstrate precision spectroscopy of a pair of trapped Ca+ ions; we obtain the electric quadrupole moment, which is of use for frequency standard applications. We find that entangled states are not only useful for enhancing the signal-to-noise ratio in frequency measurements - a suitably designed pair of atoms also allows clock measurements in the presence of strong technical noise. Our technique makes explicit use of non-locality as an entanglement property and provides an approach for 'designed' quantum metrology.

id: quant-ph/0701216
title: Optimal quantum estimation of loss in bosonic channels
authors: Alex Monras, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 160401 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701216
abstract: We address the estimation of the loss parameter of a bosonic channel probed by Gaussian signals. We derive the ultimate quantum bound on precision and show that no improvement may be obtained by having access to the environment degrees of freedom. We found that, for small losses, the variance of the optimal estimator is proportional to the loss parameter itself, a result that represents a qualitative improvement over the shot noise limit. An observable based on the symmetric logarithmic derivative is derived, which attains the ultimate bound and may be implemented using Gaussian operations and photon counting.

id: quant-ph/0701217
title: No-signaling, dynamical independence, and the local observability principle
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: Presented at the conference "Theory and Technology in Quantum Information, Communication, Computation and Cryptography", Trieste SISSA, June 2006. Submitted to J. Phys. A. Math. Gen
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701217
abstract: Within a general operational framework I show that a-causality at a distance of "local actions" (the so-called "no-signaling") is a direct consequence of commutativity of local transformations, i.e. of dynamical independence. On the other hand, the tensor product of Quantum Mechanics is not just a consequence of such dynamical independence, but needs in addition the Local Observability Principle.

id: quant-ph/0701218
title: On the precise connection between the GRW master-equation and master-equations for the description of decoherence
authors: B.Vacchini
comments: 9 pages, latex, no figures, to appear on J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 2463-2473
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701218
abstract: We point out that the celebrated GRW master-equation is invariant under translations, reflecting the homogeneity of space, thus providing a particular realization of a general class of translation-covariant Markovian master-equations. Such master-equations are typically used for the description of decoherence due to momentum transfers between system and environment. Building on this analogy we show the exact relationship between the GRW master-equation and decoherence master-equations, further providing a collisional decoherence model formally equivalent to the GRW master-equation. This allows for a direct comparison of order of magnitudes of relevant parameters. This formal analogy should not lead to confusion on the utterly different spirit of the two research fields, in particular it has to be stressed that the decoherence approach does not lead to a solution of the measurement problem. Building on this analogy however the feasibility of the extension of spontaneous localization models in order to avoid the infinite energy growth is discussed. Apart from a particular case considered in the paper, it appears that the amplification mechanism is generally spoiled by such modifications.

id: quant-ph/0701219
title: Operational axioms for a C*-algebraic formulation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: Presented at the International Conference QCM&C (Quantum Communications, Measurements and Computing), 28 November-3 December 2006, Tsukuba, Japan
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701219
abstract: A C*-algebra formulation of Quantum Mechanics is derived from purely operational axioms in which the primary role is played by the "transformations" that the system undergoes in the course of an "experiment". The notion of the {\em adjoint} of a transformation is based on the postulated existence of "faithful states" that allows one to calibrate the experimental apparatus.

id: quant-ph/0701220
title: Concentration and purification of entanglement for qubit systems with ancillary cavity fields
authors: C. D. Ogden, M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042325 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701220
abstract: We propose schemes for entanglement concentration and purification for qubit systems encoded in flying atomic pairs. We use a cavity-quantum electrodynamics setting as the paradigmatic scenario within which our proposals can be implemented. Maximally entangled pure states of qubits can be produced as a result of our protocols. In particular, the concentration protocol yields Bell states with the largest achievable theoretical probability while the purification scheme produces arbitrarily pure Bell states. The requirements for the implementation of these protocols are modest, within the state of the art, and we address all necessary steps in two specific set-ups based on experimentally mature microwave technology.

id: quant-ph/0701221
title: Entanglement in continuous variable systems: Recent advances and current perspectives
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 61 pages, 7 figures, 3 tables; Published as Topical Review in J. Phys. A, Special Issue on Quantum Information, Communication, Computation and Cryptography (v3: few typos corrected)
journal: J. Phys. A 40, 7821 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701221
abstract: We review the theory of continuous-variable entanglement with special emphasis on foundational aspects, conceptual structures, and mathematical methods. Much attention is devoted to the discussion of separability criteria and entanglement properties of Gaussian states, for their great practical relevance in applications to quantum optics and quantum information, as well as for the very clean framework that they allow for the study of the structure of nonlocal correlations. We give a self-contained introduction to phase-space and symplectic methods in the study of Gaussian states of infinite-dimensional bosonic systems. We review the most important results on the separability and distillability of Gaussian states and discuss the main properties of bipartite entanglement. These include the extremal entanglement, minimal and maximal, of two-mode mixed Gaussian states, the ordering of two-mode Gaussian states according to different measures of entanglement, the unitary (reversible) localization, and the scaling of bipartite entanglement in multimode Gaussian states. We then discuss recent advances in the understanding of entanglement sharing in multimode Gaussian states, including the proof of the monogamy inequality of distributed entanglement for all Gaussian states, and its consequences for the characterization of multipartite entanglement. We finally review recent advances and discuss possible perspectives on the qualification and quantification of entanglement in non Gaussian states, a field of research that is to a large extent yet to be explored.

id: quant-ph/0701222
title: Rotationally invariant bipartite states and bound entanglement
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak, Julia Stasi¨½ska
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 363, pp. 182-191 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701222
abstract: We consider rotationally invariant states in $\mathbb{C}^{N_{1}}\ot \mathbb{C}^{N_{2}}$ Hilbert space with even $N_{1}\geq 4$ and arbitrary $N_{2}\geq N_{1}$, and show that in such case there always exist states which are inseparable and remain positive after partial transposition, and thus the PPT criterion does not suffice to prove separability of such systems. We demonstrate it applying a map developed recently by Breuer [H.-P. Breuer, Phys. Rev. Lett {\bf 97}, 080501 (2006)] to states that remain invariant after partial time reversal.

id: quant-ph/0701223
title: Is PT-symmetric quantum mechanics just quantum mechanics in a non-orthogonal basis?
authors: Damien Martin
comments: 16 pages; references added, sign error fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701223
abstract: One of the postulates of quantum mechanics is that the Hamiltonian is Hermitian, as this guarantees that the eigenvalues are real. Recently there has been an interest in asking if $H^\dagger = H$ is a necessary condition, and has lead to the development of PT-symmetric quantum mechanics. This note shows that any finite physically acceptable non-Hermitian Hamiltonian is equivalent to doing ordinary quantum mechanics in a non-orthogonal basis. In particular, this means that there is no experimental distinction between PT-symmetric quantum mechanics and ordinary quantum mechanics for finite systems. In particular, the claim that PT-symmetric quantum mechanics allows for faster evolution than Hermitian quantum mechanics is shown to be a problem of physical interpretation.

id: quant-ph/0701224
title: Scattering of polarized laser light by an atomic gas in free space: a QSDE approach
authors: Luc Bouten, John K. Stockton, Gopal Sarma, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052111 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701224
abstract: We propose a model, based on a quantum stochastic differential equation (QSDE), to describe the scattering of polarized laser light by an atomic gas. The gauge terms in the QSDE account for the direct scattering of the laser light into different field channels. Once the model has been set, we can rigorously derive quantum filtering equations for balanced polarimetry and homodyne detection experiments, study the statistics of output processes and investigate a strong driving, weak coupling limit.

id: quant-ph/0701225
title: Probability, Arrow of Time and Decoherence
authors: Guido Bacciagaluppi
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701225
abstract: This paper relates both to the metaphysics of probability and to the physics of time asymmetry. Using the formalism of decoherent histories, it investigates whether intuitions about intrinsic time directedness that are often associated with probability can be justified in the context of no-collapse approaches to quantum mechanics. The standard (two-vector) approach to time symmetry in the decoherent histories literature is criticised, and an alternative approach is proposed, based on two decoherence conditions ('forwards' and 'backwards') within the one-vector formalism. In turn, considerations of forwards and backwards decoherence and of decoherence and recoherence suggest that a time-directed interpretation of probabilities, if adopted, should be both contingent and perspectival.

id: quant-ph/0701226
title: Complementarity in a macroscopic observation
authors: De-Zhong Cao, Jun Xiong, Hua Tang, Lu-Fang Lin, Su-Heng Zhang, Kaige Wang
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701226
abstract: Complementarity is usually considered as a phenomenon of microscopic systems. In this paper we report an experimental observation of complementarity in the correlated double-slit interference with a pseudothermal light source. The thermal light beam is divided into test and reference beams which are correlated with each other. The double-slit is set in the test arm, and the interference pattern can be observed in the intensity correlation between the two arms. The experimental results show that the disappearance of interference fringe depends on whether which-path information is gained through the reference arm. The experiment therefore witnesses the complementarity occurring in a macroscopic system.

id: quant-ph/0701227
title: Bound state solution of the Schrodinger equation for Mie potential
authors: Ramazan Sever, Mahmut Bucurgat, Cevdet Tezcan, Ozlem Yesiltas
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Math, Chem. 43, 749(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701227
abstract: Exact solution of Schrodinger equation for the Mie potential is obtained for an arbitrary angular momentum. The energy eigenvalues and the corresponding wavefunctions are calculated by the use of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method. Wavefunctions are expressed in terms of Jacobi polynomials. The bound states are calculated numerically for some values of l and $n$ with n<5. They are applied to several diatomic molecules.

id: quant-ph/0701228
title: Canonical formalism and quantization of perturbative sector of higher-derivative theories
authors: K.Andrzejewski, K.Bolonek, J.Gonera, P.Maslanka
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701228
abstract: The theories defined by Lagrangians containing second time derivative are considered. It is shown that if the second derivatives enter only the terms multiplied by coupling constant one can consistently define the perturbative sector via Dirac procedure. The possibility of introducing standard canonical variables is analysed in detail. The ambiguities in quantization procedure are pointed out.

id: quant-ph/0701229
title: Ultra-dispersive adaptive prism
authors: Vladimir A. Sautenkov, Hebin Li, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 063824 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701229
abstract: We have experimentally demonstrated an ultra-dispersive optical prism made from coherently driven Rb atomic vapor. The prism possesses spectral angular dispersion that is six orders of magnitude higher than that of a prism made of optical glass; it is the highest spectral angular dispersion that has ever been shown (such angular dispersion allows one to spatially resolve light beams with different frequencies separated by a few kHz). The prism operates near the resonant frequency of atomic vapor and its dispersion is optically controlled by a coherent driving field.

id: quant-ph/0701230
title: SU(2) nonstandard bases: the case of mutually unbiased bases
authors: O. Albouy, M.R. Kibler
comments: 33 pages; version2: rescaling of generalized Hadamard matrices, acknowledgment and references added, misprints corrected; version 3: published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL (22 pages)
journal: SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) 3 (2007) 076
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701230
abstract: This paper deals with bases in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space. Such a space can be realized as a subspace of the representation space of SU(2) corresponding to an irreducible representation of SU(2). The representation theory of SU(2) is reconsidered via the use of two truncated deformed oscillators. This leads to replace the familiar scheme {j^2, j_z} by a scheme {j^2, v(ra)}, where the two-parameter operator v(ra) is defined in the enveloping algebra of the Lie algebra su(2). The eigenvectors of the commuting set of operators {j^2, v(ra)} are adapted to a tower of chains SO(3) > C(2j+1), 2j integer, where C(2j+1) is the cyclic group of order 2j+1. In the case where 2j+1 is prime, the corresponding eigenvectors generate a complete set of mutually unbiased bases. Some useful relations on generalized quadratic Gauss sums are exposed in three appendices.

id: quant-ph/0701231
title: Optimal estimation of ensemble averages from a quantum measurement
authors: Paolo Perinotti, Giacomo M. D'Ariano
comments: 4 pages, contribution for the proceedings of the QCMC06 at Tsukuba, Japan. qcmc06.sty
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701231
abstract: We consider the general measurement scenario in which the ensemble average of an operator is determined via suitable data-processing of the outcomes of a quantum measurement described by a POVM. After reviewing the optimization of data processing that minimizes the statistical error of the estimation, we provide a compact formula for the evaluation of the estimation error.

id: quant-ph/0701232
title: A return to observability near exceptional points in a schematic PT-symmetric model
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 14 pp., 1 fig
journal: Phys. Lett. B 647 (2007) 225 - 230
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701232
abstract: Many indefinite-metric (often called pseudo-Hermitian or PT-symmetric) quantum models H prove "physical" (i.e., Hermitian with respect to an innovated, ad hoc scalar product) inside a characteristic domain of parameters D. This means that the energies get complex (= unobservable) beyond the boundary (= Kato's "exceptional points", EPs). In a solvable example we detect an enlargement of D caused by the emergence of a new degree of freedom. We conjecture that such a beneficial mechanism of a return to the real spectrum near EPs may be generic and largely model-independent.

id: quant-ph/0701233
title: Quantum Helicity Entropy of Moving Bodies
authors: Song He, Shuxin Shao, Hongbao Zhang
comments: version to appear in Journal of Physics A as a Fast Track Communication
journal: J.Phys.A40:F857-F862,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701233
abstract: Lorentz transformation of the reduced helicity density matrix for a massive spin 1/2 particle is investigated in the framework of relativistic quantum information theory for the first time. The corresponding helicity entropy is calculated, which shows no invariant meaning as that of spin. The variation of the helicity entropy with the relative speed of motion of inertial observers, however, differs significantly from that of spin due to their distinct transformation behaviors under the action of Lorentz group. This novel and odd behavior unique to the helicity may be readily detected by high energy physics experiments. The underlying physical explanations are also discussed.

id: quant-ph/0701234
title: Improving fidelity in atomic state teleportation via cavity decay
authors: Grzegorz Chimczak, Ryszard Tana?
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022317 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701234
abstract: We propose a modified protocol of atomic state teleportation for the scheme proposed by Bose et al. (Phys. Rev. Lett. 83, 5158 (1999)). The modified protocol involves an additional stage in which quantum information distorted during the first stage is fully recovered by a compensation of the damping factor. The modification makes it possible to obtain a high fidelity of teleported state for cavities that are much worse than that required in the original protocol, i.e., their decay rates can be over 25 times larger. The improvement in the fidelity is possible at the expense of lowering the probability of success. We show that the modified protocol is robust against dark counts.

id: quant-ph/0701235
title: An efficient quantum algorithm for the hidden subgroup problem in extraspecial groups
authors: G¨¢bor Ivanyos, Luc Sanselme, Miklos Santha
comments: 10 pages
journal: stacs 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701235
abstract: Extraspecial groups form a remarkable subclass of p-groups. They are also present in quantum information theory, in particular in quantum error correction. We give here a polynomial time quantum algorithm for finding hidden subgroups in extraspecial groups. Our approach is quite different from the recent algorithms presented in [17] and [2] for the Heisenberg group, the extraspecial p-group of size p3 and exponent p. Exploiting certain nice automorphisms of the extraspecial groups we define specific group actions which are used to reduce the problem to hidden subgroup instances in abelian groups that can be dealt with directly.

id: quant-ph/0701236
title: Degenerate three-level laser with parametric amplifier and squeezed vacuum
authors: Eyob Alebachew, K. Fesseha
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701236
abstract: Applying stochastic differential equations, we study the squeezing and statistical properties of the cavity and output modes of a degenerate three-level laser whose cavity contains a parametric amplifier and coupled to a squeezed vacuum reservoir. We consider the case in which the top and bottom levels of the three-level cascade atoms injected into the cavity are coupled by the pump mode emerging from the parametric amplifier. It turns out that the presence of the squeezed vacuum reservoir and the parametric amplifier contribute considerably to the mean photon number and the degree of squeezing of the cavity and output modes. It appears that almost perfect squeezing can be achieved at steady state and at threshold for a suitable choice of parameters.

id: quant-ph/0701237
title: Thermodynamic cost of reversible computing
authors: Lev B. Levitin, Tommaso Toffoli
comments: 5 pages; added two paragraphs and fixed a number of typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701237
abstract: Since reversible computing requires preservation of all information throughout the entire computational process, this implies that all errors that appear as a result of the interaction of the information-carrying system with uncontrolled degrees of freedom must be corrected. But this can only be done at the expense of an increase in the entropy of the environment corresponding to the dissipation, in the form of heat, of the ``noisy'' part of the system's energy. This paper gives an expression of that energy in terms of the effective noise temperature, and analyzes the relationship between the energy dissipation rate and the rate of computation. Finally, a generalized Clausius principle based on the concept of effective temperature is presented.

id: quant-ph/0701238
title: Experimental implementation of non-Gaussian attacks on a continuous-variable quantum key distribution system
authors: Jerome Lodewyck, Thierry Debuisschert, Raul Garcia-Patron, Rosa Tualle-Brouri, Nicolas J. Cerf, Philippe Grangier
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 98, 030503 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701238
abstract: An intercept-resend attack on a continuous-variable quantum-key-distribution protocol is investigated experimentally. By varying the interception fraction, one can implement a family of attacks where the eavesdropper totally controls the channel parameters. In general, such attacks add excess noise in the channel, and may also result in non-Gaussian output distributions. We implement and characterize the measurements needed to detect these attacks, and evaluate experimentally the information rates available to the legitimate users and the eavesdropper. The results are consistent with the optimality of Gaussian attacks resulting from the security proofs.

id: quant-ph/0701239
title: Quantum Repeaters with Photon Pair Sources and Multi-Mode Memories
authors: Christoph Simon, Hugues de Riedmatten, Mikael Afzelius, Nicolas Sangouard, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, to appear in PRL, accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 190503 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701239
abstract: We propose a quantum repeater protocol which builds on the well-known DLCZ protocol [L.M. Duan, M.D. Lukin, J.I. Cirac, and P. Zoller, Nature 414, 413 (2001)], but which uses photon pair sources in combination with memories that allow to store a large number of temporal modes. We suggest to realize such multi-mode memories based on the principle of photon echo, using solids doped with rare-earth ions. The use of multi-mode memories promises a speedup in entanglement generation by several orders of magnitude and a significant reduction in stability requirements compared to the DLCZ protocol.

id: quant-ph/0701240
title: Geometric phase gates based on stimulated Raman adiabatic passage in tripod systems
authors: Ditte Moller, Lars Bojer Madsen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701240
abstract: We consider stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) processes in tripod systems and show how to generate purely geometric phase changes of the quantum states involved. The geometric phases are controlled by three laser fields where pulse shapes, relative field strength and phases can be controlled. We present a robust set of universal gates for quantum computing based on these geometric phases: a one-qubit phase gate, a Hadamard gate and a two-qubit phase gate.

id: quant-ph/0701241
title: Spontaneous Breaking of the Quantum Superposition
authors: Vladan Pankovic, Milan Predojevic
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701241
abstract: In this work spontaneous (non-dynamical) breaking (effective hiding) of the unitary quantum mechanical dynamical symmetry (superposition) is considered. It represents an especial but very interesting case of the general formalism of the spontaneous symmetry breaking (effective hiding). Conceptual analogies with spontaneous breaking of the gauge symmetry in Weinberg-Sallam's electro-weak interaction are pointed out. Also, consequences of the spontaneous superposition breaking in the measurement process are discussed. Measurement can be considered as a typical Landau's continuous phase transition with spontaneous superposition breaking (effective hiding) effectively corresponding to collapse. Here critical values of the order parameters are determined by Heisenberg's uncertainty relations.

id: quant-ph/0701242
title: Deterministic constant-temperature dynamics for dissipative quantum systems
authors: Alessandro Sergi
comments: Revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701242
abstract: A novel method is introduced in order to treat the dissipative dynamics of quantum systems interacting with a bath of classical degrees of freedom. The method is based upon an extension of the Nos\`e-Hoover chain (constant temperature) dynamics to quantum-classical systems. Both adiabatic and nonadiabatic numerical calculations on the relaxation dynamics of the spin-boson model show that the quantum-classical Nos\`e-Hoover chain dynamics represents the thermal noise of the bath in an accurate and simple way. Numerical comparisons, both with the constant energy calculation and with the quantum-classical Brownian motion treatment of the bath, show that the quantum-classical Nos\`e-Hoover Chain dynamics can be used to introduce dissipation in the evolution of a quantum subsystem even with just one degree of freedom for the bath. The algorithm can be computationally advantageous in modeling, within computer simulation, the dynamics of a quantum subsystem interacting with complex molecular environments.

id: quant-ph/0701243
title: Phase Sensitivity of a Mach-Zehnder Quantum Sensor
authors: Thomas B. Bahder, Paul A. Lopata
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Conference proceedings of QCMC2006, The 8th International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement, and Computing, Tsukuba, Japan, 28th November - 3rd December, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701243
abstract: We investigate the dependence of the fidelity of a Mach-Zehnder quantum interferometer on the prior information about the phase, for Fock state input and for maximally entangled (N00N) state input. For no prior information, the fidelity for Fock state input is greater than for N00N state input. In the limit of a narrow distribution describing the prior information, we find that both Fock and N00N state inputs lead to nearly equal fidelity.

id: quant-ph/0701244
title: GHZ States, Almost-Complex Structure and Yang--Baxter Equation (I)
authors: Yong Zhang, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 17 pages, latex
journal: Quant.Inf.Proc.6:363-379,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701244
abstract: Recent study suggests that there are natural connections between quantum information theory and the Yang--Baxter equation. In this paper, in terms of the generalized almost-complex structure and with the help of its algebra, we define the generalized Bell matrix to yield all the GHZ states from the product base, prove it to form a unitary braid representation and present a new type of solution of the quantum Yang--Baxter equation. We also study Yang-Baxterization, Hamiltonian, projectors, diagonalization, noncommutative geometry, quantum algebra and FRT dual algebra associated with this generalized Bell matrix.

id: quant-ph/0701245
title: Signal-to-Noise Ratio in Squeezed-Light Laser Radar
authors: Mark A. Rubin, Sumanth Kaushik
comments: Typos corrected
journal: Appl. Opt. 48, 4597-4609 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701245
abstract: The formalism for computing the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) for laser radar is reviewed and applied to the tasks of target detection, direction-finding, and phase change estimation with squeezed light. The SNR for heterodyne detection of coherent light using a squeezed local oscillator is lower than that obtained using a coherent local oscillator. This is true for target detection, for phase estimation, and for direction-finding with a split detector. Squeezing the local oscillator also lowers SNR in balanced homodyne and heterodyne detection of coherent light. Loss places an upper bound on the improvement that squeezing can bring to direct-detection SNR.

id: quant-ph/0701246
title: Genuine tripartite entanglement in the non-interacting Fermi gas
authors: T. V¨¦rtesi
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042330 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0701246
abstract: We study genuine tripartite entanglement shared among the spins of three localized fermions in the non-interacting Fermi gas at zero temperature. Firstly, we prove analytically with the aid of entanglement witnesses that in a particular configuration the three fermions are genuinely tripartite entangled. Then various three-fermion configurations are investigated in order to quantify and calculate numerically the amount of genuine tripartite entanglement present in the system. Further we give a lower and an upper limit to the maximum diameter of the three-fermion configuration below which genuine tripartite entanglement exists and find that this distance is comparable with the maximum separation between two entangled fermions. The upper and lower limit turn to be very close to each other indicating that the applied witness operator is well suited to reveal genuine tripartite entanglement in the collection of non-interacting fermions.

id: cond-mat/0701006
title: Level rearrangement in exotic atoms and quantum dots
authors: Monique Combescure, Avinash Khare, Ashok Raina, Jean-Marc Richard, Carole Weydert
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.B21:3765-3781,2007
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701006
abstract: A presentation and a generalisation are given of the phenomenon of level rearrangement, which occurs when an attractive long-range potential is supplemented by a short-range attractive potential of increasing strength. This problem has been discovered in condensate-matter physics and has also been studied in the physics of exotic atoms. A similar phenomenon occurs in a situation inspired by quantum dots, where a short-range interaction is added to an harmonic confinement.

id: cond-mat/0701041
title: Single-qubit lasing and cooling at the Rabi frequency
authors: Julian Hauss, Arkady Fedorov, Carsten Hutter, Alexander Shnirman, Gerd Sch?n
comments: Replaced with final published version, fig. 2 compressed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 037003 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701041
abstract: For a superconducting qubit driven to perform Rabi oscillations and coupled to a slow electromagnetic or nano-mechanical oscillator we describe previously unexplored quantum optics effects. When the Rabi frequency is tuned to resonance with the oscillator the latter can be driven far from equilibrium. Blue detuned driving leads to a population inversion in the qubit and a bi-stability with lasing behavior of the oscillator; for red detuning the qubit cools the oscillator. This behavior persists at the symmetry point where the qubit-oscillator coupling is quadratic and decoherence effects are minimized. There the system realizes a "single-atom-two-photon laser".

id: cond-mat/0701078
title: Protocols for optimal readout of qubits using a continuous quantum nondemolition measurement
authors: Jay Gambetta, W. A. Braff, A. Wallraff, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012325 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701078
abstract: We study how the spontaneous relaxation of a qubit affects a continuous quantum non-demolition measurement of the initial state of the qubit. Given some noisy measurement record $\Psi$, we seek an estimate of whether the qubit was initially in the ground or excited state. We investigate four different measurement protocols, three of which use a linear filter (with different weighting factors) and a fourth which uses a full non-linear filter that gives the theoretically optimal estimate of the initial state of the qubit. We find that relaxation of the qubit at rate $1/T_1$ strongly influences the fidelity of any measurement protocol. To avoid errors due to this decay, the measurement must be completed in a time that decrease linearly with the desired fidelity while maintaining an adequate signal to noise ratio. We find that for the non-linear filter the predicted fidelity, as expected, is always better than the linear filters and that the fidelity is a monotone increasing function of the measurement time. For example, to achieve a fidelity of 90%, the box car linear filter requires a signal to noise ratio of $\sim 30$ in a time $T_1$ whereas the non-linear filter only requires a signal to noise ratio of $\sim 18$.

id: cond-mat/0701096
title: Spin Hall Effect For Anyons
authors: S.Dhar, B.Basu, Subir Ghosh
comments: Title changed, thoroughly revised version, no change in math. content, reference section enlarged, to appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys.Lett.A371:406-409,2007
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701096
abstract: We explain the intrinsic spin Hall effect from generic anyon dynamics in the presence of external electromagnetic field. The free anyon is represented as a spinning particle with an underlying non-commutative configuration space. The Berry curvature plays a major role in the analysis.

id: cond-mat/0701154
title: Kallen-Lehman approach to 3D Ising model
authors: Fabrizio Canfora
comments: 13 pages no figures. Accepted for pubblication on Physics Letters B
journal: Phys.Lett.B646:54-61,2007
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701154
abstract: A "Kallen-Lehman" approach to Ising model, inspired by quantum field theory a la Regge, is proposed. The analogy with the Kallen-Lehman representation leads to a formula for the free-energy of the 3D model with few free parameters which could be matched with the numerical data. The possible application of this scheme to the spin glass case is shortly discussed.

id: cond-mat/0701180
title: Twenty years of magnon Bose condensation and spin current superfluidity in 3He-B
authors: G.E. Volovik
comments: 18 pages in JLTP format, 2 figures, version accepted in JLTP, reference added
journal: J.Low.Temp.Phys.153:266-284,2008
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701180
abstract: 20 years ago a new quantum state of matter was discovered and identified. The observed dynamic quantum state of spin precession in superfluid 3He-B bears the properties of spin current superfluidity, Bose condensation of spin waves -- magnons, off-diagonal long-range order and related phenomena of quantum coherence

id: cond-mat/0701198
title: Flow Equations for the BCS-BEC Crossover
authors: S. Diehl, H. Gies, J. M. Pawlowski, C. Wetterich
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A76:021602,2007
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701198
abstract: The functional renormalisation group is used for the BCS-BEC crossover in gases of ultracold fermionic atoms. In a simple truncation, we see how universality and an effective theory with composite bosonic di-atom states emerge. We obtain a unified picture of the whole phase diagram. The flow reflects different effective physics at different scales. In the BEC limit as well as near the critical temperature, it describes an interacting bosonic theory.

id: cond-mat/0701266
title: Fluctuation and gauge effects on the critical behavior of superconductors
authors: Diana V. Shopova, Dimo I. Uzunov
comments: 41 pages, 4 figs., Chapter in the book: "Superconductivity Research Advances" (Nova Science Publ., N. Y., 2007 - in preparation); ISBN: 1-60021-694-3
journal: Progress in Superconductivity Research, (2008) pp 13-54
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701266
abstract: Gauge effects on the fluctuation properties of the normal-to-superconducting phase transition in bulk and thin film superconductors are reviewed. Similar problems in the description of other natural systems (liquid crystals, quantum field theory, early universe) are also discussed. The relatively strong gauge effects on the fluctuations of the ordering field at low spatial dimensionality $D$ and, in particular, in thin (quasi-2D) films are considered in details. A special attention is paid to the fluctuations of the gauge field. It is shown that the mechanism, in which these gauge fluctuations affect the phase transition order and other phase transition properties varies with the variation of spatial dimensionality $D$. The problem for the experimental confirmation of theoretical predictions about the order of phase transitions in gauge systems is discussed. Related topics: gauge effects on the critical behavior of unconventional superconductors, disorder, quantum fluctuations in a close vicinity of ultra-low phase transition temperatures, are also briefly discussed.

id: cond-mat/0701270
title: Reversal of the circulation of a vortex by quantum tunneling in trapped Bose systems
authors: Gentaro Watanabe, C. J. Pethick
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures; published in Phys. Rev. A, Rapid Communications
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 021605(R) (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701270
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a model for a vortex in a Bose gas with repulsive interactions in an anisotropic, harmonic trap. By solving the Schr\"odinger equation numerically, we show that the circulation of the vortex can undergo periodic reversals by quantum-mechanical tunneling. With increasing interaction strength or particle number, vortices become increasingly stable, and the period for reversals increases. Tunneling between vortex and antivortex states is shown to be described to a good approximation by a superposition of vortex and antivortex states (a Schr\"odinger cat state), rather than the mean-field state, and we derive an analytical expression for the oscillation period. The problem is shown to be equivalent to that of the two-site Bose Hubbard model with attractive interactions.

id: cond-mat/0701318
title: Control of many electron states in semiconductor quantum dots by non-Abelian vector potentials
authors: S.-R. Eric Yang
comments: minor changes included, accepted in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 245328 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701318
abstract: Adiabatic time evolution of degenerate eigenstates of a quantum system provides a means for controlling electronic states since mixing between degenerate levels generates a matrix Berry phase. In the presence of spin-orbit coupling in n-type semiconductor quantum dots the electron Hamiltonian is invariant under time reversal operation and the many body groundstate may be doubly degenerate. This double degeneracy can generate non-Abelian vector potentials when odd number of electrons are present. We find that the antisymmetry of many electron wavefunction has no effect on the matrix Berry phase. We have derived equations that allow one to investigate the effect of electron correlations by expressing the non-Abelian vector potentials for many electron system in terms of single electron non-Abelian vector potentials.

id: cond-mat/0701321
title: Ultraslow optical waveguiding in an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Devrim Tarhan, Nazmi Postacioglu, Ozgur E. Mustecaplioglu
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 32, 1038-1040 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701321
abstract: We investigate waveguiding of ultraslow light pulses in an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate. We show that under the conditions of off-resonant electromagnetically induced transparency, waveguiding with a few ultraslow modes can be realized. The number of modes that can be supported by the condensate can be controlled by means of experimentally accessible parameters. Propagation constants and the mode conditions are determined analytically using a WKB analysis. Mode profiles are found numerically.

id: cond-mat/0701325
title: Dispersive effects on optical information storage in Bose-Einstein condensates with ultra-slow short pulses
authors: Devrim Tarhan, Alphan Sennaroglu, Ozgur E. Mustecaplioglu
comments: 32 pages, 12 figures
journal: published in J. Opt. Soc. Am. B., 23, 1925-1933 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701325
abstract: We investigate the potential of atomic Bose-Einstein condensates as dynamic memory devices for coherent optical information processing. Specifically, the number of ultraslow pulses that can be simultaneously present within the storage time in the condensate has been analyzed. By modeling short-pulse propagation through the condensate, taking into account high-order dispersive properties, constraints on the information storage capacity are discussed. The roles of temperature, spatial inhomogeneity, the interatomic interactions, and the coupling laser on the pulse shape are pointed out. For a restricted set of parameters, it has been found that coherent optical information storage capacity would be optimized.

id: cond-mat/0701341
title: Decoherence induced by anisotropic hyperfine interaction in Si spin qubits
authors: W. M. Witzel, Xuedong Hu, S. Das Sarma
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 035212 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701341
abstract: We study Si:P donor electron spin decoherence due to anisotropic hyperfine (AHF) interaction with the surrounding nuclear spin bath. In particular, we clarify the electron spin echo envelope modulation (ESEEM) in the Si:P system and the resonancelike contributions from nuclear spins in various shells away from the P atoms. We suggest an approach to minimize AHF-induced decoherence by avoiding the resonances and orienting an applied magnetic field along directions that can periodically eliminate contributions from the dominant nearest neighbor atoms. Our remarkable agreement with experiment demonstrates nearly complete understanding of electron spin decoherence in Si:P when combining ESEEM, spectral diffusion, instantaneous diffusion, and spin-lattice relaxation.

id: cond-mat/0701390
title: Propagation of short pulses through a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Devrim Tarhan, Seckin Sefi, Ozgur E. Mustecaplioglu
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: published in J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 36 194-199 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701390
abstract: We study propagation of short laser pulses in a Bose-Einstein condensate taking into account dispersive effects under the conditions for electromagnetically induced transparency. We calculate dispersion coefficients using typical experimental parameters of slow-light schemes in condensates. By numerically propagating the laser pulse, and referring to theoretical estimations, we determine the conditions for which dispersion starts to introduce distortions on the pulse shape.

id: cond-mat/0701442
title: Parametric polariton amplification in semiconductor microcavities
authors: Ga?tan Messin, Jean-Philippe Karr, Augustin Baas, Galina Khitrova, Romuald Houdr¨¦, Ross P. Stanley, Ursula Oesterle, Elisabeth Giacobino
comments: 5 pages
journal: Physical review letters 87 (31/08/2001) 127403
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701442
abstract: We present novel experimental results demonstrating the coherence properties of the nonlinear emission from semiconductor microcavities in the strong coupling regime, recently interpreted by parametric polariton four-wave mixing. We use a geometry corresponding to degenerate four-wave mixing. In addition to the predicted threshold dependence of the emission on the pump power and spectral blue shift, we observe a phase dependence of the amplification which is a signature of a coherent polariton wave mixing process.

id: cond-mat/0701446
title: Enhancing capacity of coherent optical information storage and transfer in a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Ozgur E. Mustecaplioglu, Devrim Tarhan
comments: 12pages. Laser Physics, in press
journal: Laser Physics,17(2),157-161,2007
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701446
abstract: Coherent optical information storage capacity of an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate is examined. Theory of slow light propagation in atomic clouds is generalized to short pulse regime by taking into account group velocity dispersion. It is shown that the number of stored pulses in the condensate can be optimized for a particular coupling laser power, temperature and interatomic interaction strength. Analytical results are derived for semi-ideal model of the condensate using effective uniform density zone approximation. Detailed numerical simulations are also performed. It is found that axial density profile of the condensate protects the pulse against the group velocity dispersion. Furthermore, taking into account finite radial size of the condensate, multi-mode light propagation in atomic Bose-Einstein condensate is investigated. The number of modes that can be supported by a condensate is found. Single mode condition is determined as a function of experimentally accessible parameters including trap size, temperature, condensate number density and scattering length. Quantum coherent atom-light interaction schemes are proposed for enhancing multi-mode light propagation effects.

id: cond-mat/0701469
title: Preparation and manipulation of a fault-tolerant superconducting qubit
authors: Mateusz Cholascinski, Yuriy Makhlin, Gerd Sch?n
comments: Typo corrected, title changed as suggested by the editors of Phys. Rev. B, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 064501 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701469
abstract: We describe a qubit encoded in continuous quantum variables of an rf superconducting quantum interference device. Since the number of accessible states in the system is infinite, we may protect its two-dimensional subspace from small errors introduced by the interaction with the environment and during manipulations. We show how to prepare the fault-tolerant state and manipulate the system. The discussed operations suffice to perform quantum computation on the encoded state, syndrome extraction, and quantum error correction. We also comment on the physical sources of errors and possible imperfections while manipulating the system.

id: cond-mat/0701480
title: Nuclear Spins as Quantum Memory in Semiconductor Nanostructures
authors: W. M. Witzel, S. Das Sarma
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 045218 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701480
abstract: We theoretically consider solid state nuclear spins in a semiconductor nanostructure environment as long-lived, high-fidelity quantum memory. In particular, we calculate, in the limit of a strong applied magnetic field, the fidelity versus time of P donor nuclear spins in random bath environments of Si and GaAs, and the lifetime of excited intrinsic spins in polarized Si and GaAs environments. In the former situation, the nuclear spin dephases due to spectral diffusion induced by the dipolar interaction among nuclei in the bath. We calculate the decay of nuclear spin quantum memory in the context of Hahn and Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill (CPMG) refocused spin echoes using a formally exact cluster expansion technique which has previously been successful in dealing with electron spin dephasing in a solid state nuclear spin bath. With decoherence dominated by transverse dephasing (T2), we find it feasible to maintain high fidelity (losses of less than 10^{-6}) quantum memory on nuclear spins for times of the order of 100 microseconds (GaAs:P) and 1 to 2 milliseconds (natural Si:P) using CPMG pulse sequences of just a few (~2-4) applied pulses. We also consider the complementary situation of a central flipped intrinsic nuclear spin in a bath of completely polarized nuclear spins where decoherence is caused by the direct flip-flop of the central spin with spins in the bath. Exact numerical calculations that include a sufficiently large neighborhood of surrounding nuclei show lifetimes on the order of 1-5 ms for both GaAs and natural Si. Our calculated nuclear spin coherence times may have significance for solid state quantum computer architectures using localized electron spins in semiconductors where nuclear spins have been proposed for quantum memory storage.

id: cond-mat/0701490
title: Evolution of a quantum spin system to its ground state: Role of entanglement and interaction symmetry
authors: S. Yuan, M. I. Katsnelson, H. De Raedt
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052109 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701490
abstract: We study the decoherence of two ferro- and antiferromagnetically coupled spins that interact with a frustrated spin-bath environment in its ground state. The conditions under which the two-spin system relaxes from the initial spin-up - spin-down state towards its ground state are determined. It is shown that the two-spin system relaxes to its ground state for narrow ranges of the model parameters only. It is demonstrated that the symmetry of the coupling between the two-spin system and the environment has an important effect on the relaxation process. In particular, we show that if this coupling conserves the magnetization, the two-spin system readily relaxes to its ground state whereas a non-conserving coupling prevents the two-spin system from coming close to its ground state.

id: cond-mat/0701506
title: Fractional Spin Hall Effect in Atomic Bose Gases
authors: Xiong-Jun Liu, Xin Liu, L. C. Kwek, C. H. Oh
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 165301 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701506
abstract: We propose fractional spin hall effect (FSHE) by coupling pseudospin states of cold bosonic atoms to optical fields. The present scheme is an extension to interacting bosonic system of the recent work \cite{liu,zhu} on optically induced spin hall effect in non-interacting atomic system. The system has two different types of ground states. The 1st type of ground state is a 1/3-factor Laughlin function, and has the property of chiral - anti-chiral interchange antisymmetry, while the 2nd type is shown to be a 1/4-factor wave function with chiral - anti-chiral symmetry. The fractional statistics corresponding to the fractional spin Hall states are studied in detail, and are discovered to be different from that corresponding to the fractional quantum Hall (FQH) states. Therefore the present FSHE can be distinguished from FQH regime in the measurement.

id: cond-mat/0701507
title: Dynamical control of electron spin coherence in a quantum dot
authors: Wenxian Zhang, V. V. Dobrovitski, Lea F. Santos, Lorenza Viola, B. N. Harmon
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures with 3 of them in color
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 201302(R) (2007).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701507
abstract: We investigate the performance of dynamical decoupling methods at suppressing electron spin decoherence from a low-temperature nuclear spin reservoir in a quantum dot. The controlled dynamics is studied through exact numerical simulation, with emphasis on realistic pulse delays and long-time limit. Our results show that optimal performance for this system is attained by a periodic protocol exploiting concatenated design, with control rates substantially slower than expected from the upper spectral cutoff of the bath. For a known initial electron spin state, coherence can saturate at long times, signaling the creation of a stable ``spin-locked'' decoherence-free subspace. Analytical insight on saturation is obtained for a simple echo protocol, in good agreement with numerical results.

id: cond-mat/0701527
title: Entanglement entropy of aperiodic quantum spin chains
authors: F. Igloi, R. Juhasz, Z. Zimboras
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 79, 37001 (2007)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701527
abstract: We study the entanglement entropy of blocks of contiguous spins in non-periodic (quasi-periodic or more generally aperiodic) critical Heisenberg, XX and quantum Ising spin chains, e.g. in Fibonacci chains. For marginal and relevant aperiodic modulations, the entanglement entropy is found to be a logarithmic function of the block size with log-periodic oscillations. The effective central charge, c_eff, defined through the constant in front of the logarithm may depend on the ratio of couplings and can even exceed the corresponding value in the homogeneous system. In the strong modulation limit, the ground state is constructed by a renormalization group method and the limiting value of c_eff is exactly calculated. Keeping the ratio of the block size and the system size constant, the entanglement entropy exhibits a scaling property, however, the corresponding scaling function may be nonanalytic.

id: cond-mat/0701574
title: Decoherence under many-body system-environment interactions: a stroboscopic representation based on a fictitiously homogenized interaction rate
authors: Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Ernesto P. Danieli, Patricia R. Levstein, Horacio M. Pastawski
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, title changed, some typos changed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062116 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701574
abstract: An environment interacting with portions of a system leads to multiexponential interaction rates. Within the Keldysh formalism, we fictitiously homogenize the system-environment interaction yielding a uniform decay rate facilitating the evaluation of the propagators. Through an injection procedure we neutralize the fictitious interactions. This technique justifies a stroboscopic representation of the system-environment interaction which is useful for numerical implementation and converges to the natural continuous process. We apply this procedure to a fermionic two-level system and use the Jordan-Wigner transformation to solve a two-spin swapping gate in the presence of a spin environment.

id: cond-mat/0701586
title: Effect of Static Disorder in an Electron Fabry-Perot Interferometer with Two Quantum Scattering Centers
authors: Francesco Ciccarello, G. Massimo Palma, Michelangelo Zarcone, Yasser Omar, Vitor Rocha Vieira
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Las. Phys. 17, 889 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701586
abstract: In a recent paper -- F. Ciccarello \emph{et al.}, New J. Phys. \textbf{8}, 214 (2006) -- we have demonstrated that the electron transmission properties of a one-dimensional (1D) wire with two identical embedded spin-1/2 impurities can be significantly affected by entanglement between the spins of the scattering centers. Such effect is of particular interest in the control of transmission of quantum information in nanostructures and can be used as a detection scheme of maximally entangled states of two localized spins. In this letter, we relax the constraint that the two magnetic impurities are equal and investigate how the main results presented in the above paper are affected by a static disorder in the exchange coupling constants of the impurities. Good robustness against deviation from impurity symmetry is found for both the entanglement dependent transmission and the maximally entangled states generation scheme.

id: cond-mat/0701641
title: Casimir force driven ratchets
authors: Thorsten Emig
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.98:160801,2007
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701641
abstract: We explore the non-linear dynamics of two parallel periodically patterned metal surfaces that are coupled by the zero-point fluctuations of the electromagnetic field between them. The resulting Casimir force generates for asymmetric patterns with a time-periodically driven surface-to-surface distance a ratchet effect, allowing for directed lateral motion of the surfaces in sizeable parameter ranges. It is crucial to take into account inertia effects and hence chaotic dynamics which are described by Langevin dynamics. Multiple velocity reversals occur as a function of driving, mean surface distance, and effective damping. These transport properties are shown to be stable against weak ambient noise.

id: cond-mat/0701668
title: Bose-Einstein condensate in a harmonic trap decorated with Dirac delta functions
authors: Haydar Uncu, Devrim Tarhan, Ersan Demiralp, Ozgur E. Mustecaplioglu
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 76, 013618 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701668
abstract: We study Bose-Einstein condensation in a harmonic trap with a dimple potential. We specifically consider the case of a tight and deep dimple potential which is modelled by a Dirac delta function. This allows for simpler, explicit numerical and analytical investigations of noninteracting gases. Thus, the Schrodinger equation is used instead of the Gross-Pitaevski equation. Calculating the atomic density, chemical potential, critical temperature and condensate fraction, the role of the relative depth of the dimple potential with respect to the harmonic trap in large condensate formation at enhanced temperatures is clearly revealed.

id: cond-mat/0701734
title: Theory of Macroscopic Quantum Tunneling and Dissipation in High-Tc Josephson Junctions
authors: Shiro Kawabata, Satoshi Kashiwaya, Yasuhiro Asano, Yukio Tanaka, Takeo Kato, Alexander A. Golubov
comments: 4 pages. 1 figure
journal: Supercond. Sci. Tech. 20 (2007) S6
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701734
abstract: We have investigated macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) in in-plane high-Tc superconductor Josephson junctions and the influence of the nodal-quasiparticle and the zero energy bound states (ZES) on MQT. We have shown that the presence of the ZES at the interface between the insulator and the superconductor leads to strong Ohmic quasiparticle dissipation. Therefore, the MQT rate is noticeably suppressed in comparison with the c-axis junctions in which ZES are completely absent.

id: cond-mat/0701760
title: Chiral Gauge Theory for Graphene
authors: R. Jackiw, S.-Y. Pi
comments: Final PRL version
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701760
abstract: We construct a chiral gauge theory to describe fractionalization of fermions in graphene. Thereby we extend a recently proposed model, which relies on vortex formation. Our chiral gauge fields provide dynamics for the vortices and also couple to the fermions.

id: cond-mat/0701768
title: Entropy of entanglement and correlations induced by a quench: Dynamics of a quantum phase transition in the quantum Ising model
authors: Lukasz Cincio, Jacek Dziarmaga, Marek M. Rams, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures; updated references and minor cosmetic changes
journal: Phys.Rev.A75:052321.2007
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701768
abstract: Quantum Ising model in one dimension is an exactly solvable example of a quantum phase transition. We investigate its behavior during a quench from a paramagnetic to ferromagnetic phase caused by a gradual turning off of the transverse field at a fixed rate characterized by the quench time $\tau_Q$. In agreement with Kibble-Zurek mechanism, quantum state of the system after the transition exhibits a characteristic correlation length $\hat\xi$ proportional to the square root of the quench time $\tau_Q$. The inverse of this correlation length determines average density of defects after the transition. In this paper, we show that $\hat\xi$ also controls the entropy of entanglement of a block of $L$ spins with the rest of the system. For large $L$, this entropy saturates at $\frac16\log_2\hat\xi$, as might have been expected from the Kibble-Zurek mechanism. Close to the critical point, the entropy saturates when the block size $L\approx\hat\xi$, but -- in the subsequent evolution in the ferromagnetic phase -- a somewhat larger length scale $l=\sqrt{\tau_Q}\ln\tau_Q$ develops as a result of quantum dephasing, and the entropy saturates when $L\approx l$. We also study the spin-spin correlation. We find that close to the critical point ferromagnetic correlations decay exponentially with the dynamical correlation length $\hat\xi$, but in the following evolution this correlation function becomes oscillatory at distances less than this scale. However, both the wavelength and the correlation length of these oscillations are still determined by $\hat\xi$. We also derive probability distribution for the number of kinks in a finite spin chain after the transition.

id: cond-mat/0701773
title: Wigner-Kirkwood expansion for semi-infinite quantum fluids
authors: L. Samaj, B. Jancovici
comments: 19 pages, to appear in J. Stat. Mech
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2007) P02002
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701773
abstract: For infinite (bulk) quantum fluids of particles interacting via pairwise sufficiently smooth interactions, the Wigner-Kirkwood formalism provides a semiclassical expansion of the Boltzmann density in configuration space in even powers of the thermal de Broglie wavelength $\lambda$. This result permits one to generate an analogous $\lambda$-expansion for the bulk free energy and many-body densities. The present paper brings a technically nontrivial generalization of the Wigner-Kirkwood technique to semi-infinite quantum fluids, constrained by a plane hard wall impenetrable to particles. In contrast to the bulk case, the resulting Boltzmann density involves also position-dependent terms of type $\exp(-2x^2/\lambda^2)$ ($x$ denotes the distance from the wall boundary) which are non-analytic in $\lambda$. Under some condition, the analyticity in $\lambda$ is restored by integrating the Boltzmann density over configuration space; however, in contrast to the bulk free energy, the semiclassical expansion of the surface part of the free energy (surface tension) contains odd powers of $\lambda$, too. Explicit expressions for the leading quantum corrections in the presence of the boundary are given for the one-body and two-body densities. As model systems for explicit calculations, we use Coulomb fluids, in particular the one-component plasma defined in the $\nu$-dimensional (integer $\nu\ge 2$) space.

id: cs/0701060
title: Duadic Group Algebra Codes
authors: Salah A. Aly, Andreas Klappenecker, Pradeep Kiran Sarvepalli
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0701060
abstract: Duadic group algebra codes are a generalization of quadratic residue codes. This paper settles an open problem raised by Zhu concerning the existence of duadic group algebra codes. These codes can be used to construct degenerate quantum stabilizer codes that have the nice feature that many errors of small weight do not need error correction; this fact is illustrated by an example.

id: gr-qc/0701124
title: Hubble Meets Planck: A Cosmic Peek at Quantum Foam
authors: Y. Jack Ng
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX; talk given at the 11th Marcel Grossman Meeting (Berlin, 2006 summer)
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0701124
abstract: If spacetime undergoes quantum fluctuations, an electromagnetic wavefront will acquire uncertainties in direction as well as phase as it propagates through spacetime. These uncertainties can show up in interferometric observations of distant quasars as a decreased fringe visibility. The Very Large Telescope and Keck interferometers may be on the verge of probing spacetime fluctuations which, we also argue, have repercussions for cosmology, requiring the existence of dark energy/matter, the critical cosmic energy density, and accelerating cosmic expansion in the present era.

id: hep-ph/0701031
title: Decoherence of domains and defects at phase transitions
authors: F.C. Lombardo, R.J. Rivers, P. I. Villar
comments: Version published in Phys. Lett. B
journal: Phys.Lett.B648:64-69,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0701031
abstract: In this further letter on the onset of classical behaviour in field theory due to a phase transition, we show that it can be phrased easily in terms of the decoherence functional, without having to use the master equation. To demonstrate this, we consider the decohering effects due to the displacement of domain boundaries, with implications for the displacement of defects, in general. We see that decoherence arises so quickly in this event, that it is negligible in comparison to decoherence due to field fluctuations in the way defined in our previous papers.

id: hep-th/0701015
title: Callan-Symanzik equations and low-energy theorems with trace anomalies
authors: J.-F. Yang
comments: 6 pages, no figure, Revtex4, revised version
journal: J.Phys.A40:11183-11190,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0701015
abstract: Basing on some new and concise forms of the Callan-Symanzik equations, the low-energy theorems involving trace anomalies \`a la Novikov-Shifman-Vainshtein-Zakharov, first advanced and proved in Nucl. Phys. \textbf{B165}, 67 (1980), \textbf{B191}, 301 (1981), are proved as immediate consequences. The proof is valid in any consistent effective field theories and these low-energy theorems are hence generalized. Some brief discussions about related topics are given.

id: hep-th/0701032
title: A new representation for non--local operators and path integrals
authors: Paolo Amore
comments: 9 pages ; 1 figure ; refs added ; title modified
journal: Phys.Rev.A75:032111,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0701032
abstract: We derive an alternative representation for the relativistic non--local kinetic energy operator and we apply it to solve the relativistic Salpeter equation using the variational sinc collocation method. Our representation is analytical and does not depend on an expansion in terms of local operators. We have used the relativistic harmonic oscillator problem to test our formula and we have found that arbitrarily precise results are obtained, simply increasing the number of grid points. More difficult problems have also been considered, observing in all cases the convergence of the numerical results. Using these results we have also derived a new representation for the quantum mechanical Green's function and for the corresponding path integral. We have tested this representation for a free particle in a box, recovering the exact result after taking the proper limits, and we have also found that the application of the Feynman--Kac formula to our Green's function yields the correct ground state energy. Our path integral representation allows to treat hamiltonians containing non--local operators and it could provide to the community a new tool to deal with such class of problems.

id: hep-th/0701195
title: Non-compact groups, Coherent States, Relativistic Wave equations and the Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Diego Cirilo-Lombardo
comments: To be published in Foundations of Physics
journal: Found.Phys.37:919-950,2007; Found.Phys.37:1149-1180,2007; Found.Phys.38:99-99,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0701195
abstract: Relativistic geometrical action for a quantum particle in the superspace is analyzed from theoretical group point of view. To this end an alternative technique of quantization outlined by the authors in a previous work and that is based in the correct interpretation of the square root Hamiltonian, is used. The obtained spectrum of physical states and the Fock construction consist of Squeezed States which correspond to the representations with the lowest weights s=1/4 and s=3/4 with four possible (non-trivial) fractional representations for the group decomposition of the spin structure. From the theory of semi-groups the analytical representation of the radical operator in the superspace is constructed, the conserved currents are computed and a new relativistic wave equation is proposed and explicitly solved for the time dependent case. The relation with the Relativistic Schr\"odinger equation and the Time-dependent Harmonic Oscillator is analyzed and discussed.

id: hep-th/0701207
title: PT-Symmetric Matrix Quantum Mechanics
authors: Peter N. Meisinger, Michael C. Ogilvie
comments: 6 pages, 1 table, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0701207
abstract: Recently developed methods for PT-symmetric models are applied to quantum-mechanical matrix models. We consider in detail the case of potentials of the form $V=-(g/N^{p/2-1})Tr(iM)^{p}$ and show how the calculation of all singlet wave functions can be reduced to solving a one-dimensional PT-symmetric model. The large-N limit of this class of models exists, and properties of the lowest-lying singlet state can be computed using WKB. For $p=3,4$, the energy of this state for small values of $N$ appears to show rapid convergence to the large-N limit. For the special case of $p=4$, we extend recent work on the $-gx^{4}$ potential to the matrix model: we show that the PT-symmetric matrix model is equivalent to a hermitian matrix model with a potential proportional to $+(4g/N)Tr\Pi^{4}$. However, this hermitian equivalent model includes an anomaly term $\hbar\sqrt{2g/N}Tr\Pi$. In the large-N limit, the anomaly term does not contribute at leading order to the properties of singlet states.

id: hep-th/0701265
title: Quantum Bound States Around Black Holes
authors: J. Grain, A. Barrau
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C53:641-648,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0701265
abstract: Quantum mechanics around black holes has shown to be one of the most fascinating fields of theoretical physics. It involves both general relativity and particle physics, opening new eras to establish the principles of unified theories. In this article, we show that quantum bound states with no classical equivalent -- as it can easily be seen at the dominant monopolar order -- should be formed around black holes for massive scalar particles. We qualitatively investigate some important physical consequences, in particular for the Hawking evaporation mechanism and the associated greybody factors.

id: hep-th/0701284
title: Quantization of the Riemann Zeta-Function and Cosmology
authors: I. Ya. Aref'eva, I.V. Volovich
comments: 14 pages, corrected typos, references and comments added
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys.4:881-895,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0701284
abstract: Quantization of the Riemann zeta-function is proposed. We treat the Riemann zeta-function as a symbol of a pseudodifferential operator and study the corresponding classical and quantum field theories. This approach is motivated by the theory of p-adic strings and by recent works on stringy cosmological models. We show that the Lagrangian for the zeta-function field is equivalent to the sum of the Klein-Gordon Lagrangians with masses defined by the zeros of the Riemann zeta-function. Quantization of the mathematics of Fermat-Wiles and the Langlands program is indicated. The Beilinson conjectures on the values of L-functions of motives are interpreted as dealing with the cosmological constant problem. Possible cosmological applications of the zeta-function field theory are discussed.

id: math-ph/0701011
title: Quantum States and Complex Projective Space
authors: Bei Jia, Xi-guo Lee
comments: 7 pages; some minor errors about format and typing are corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0701011
abstract: In this paper we propose the idea that there is a corresponding relation between quantum states and points of the complex projective space, given that the number of dimensions of the Hilbert space is finite. We check this idea through analyzing some of the basic principles and concepts of quantum mechanics, including the principle of superposition, representations and inner product of quantum states, and give some interesting examples. Based on our point of views we are able to generate the evolution equation of quantum states -- the Heisenberg equation. We also discuss the act of dynamical operators on quantum states.

id: math-ph/0701028
title: Diagonalization of Sp(2) matrices
authors: S. Baskal, Elena Georgieva, Y. S. Kim
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0701028
abstract: The two-by-two Sp(2) matrix has three parameters with unit determinant. Yet, there are no established procedures for diagonalizing this matrix. It is shown that this matrix can be written as a similarity transformation of the two-by-two Wigner matrix, derivable from Wigner's little group which dictates the internal space-time symmetries of relativistic particles. The Wigner matrix can be diagonalized for massive and space-like particles, while it takes a triangular form with unit diagonal elements for light-like particles. The most immediate physical application can be made to repeated one-dimensional transfer matrices appearing in many different branches of physics. Another application of current interest could be the dis-entanglement of entangled systems.

id: math-ph/0701035
title: The Significance of the $C$-Numerical Range and the Local $C$-Numerical Range in Quantum Control and Quantum Information
authors: Thomas Schulte-Herbrueggen, Gunther Dirr, Uwe Helmke, Steffen J. Glaser
comments: update relating to math-ph/0702005
journal: Lin. Multilin. Alg. 56 (2008) 3--26
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0701035
abstract: This paper shows how C-numerical-range related new strucures may arise from practical problems in quantum control--and vice versa, how an understanding of these structures helps to tackle hot topics in quantum information. We start out with an overview on the role of C-numerical ranges in current research problems in quantum theory: the quantum mechanical task of maximising the projection of a point on the unitary orbit of an initial state onto a target state C relates to the C-numerical radius of A via maximising the trace function |\tr \{C^\dagger UAU^\dagger\}|. In quantum control of n qubits one may be interested (i) in having U\in SU(2^n) for the entire dynamics, or (ii) in restricting the dynamics to {\em local} operations on each qubit, i.e. to the n-fold tensor product SU(2)\otimes SU(2)\otimes >...\otimes SU(2). Interestingly, the latter then leads to a novel entity, the {\em local} C-numerical range W_{\rm loc}(C,A), whose intricate geometry is neither star-shaped nor simply connected in contrast to the conventional C-numerical range. This is shown in the accompanying paper (math-ph/0702005). We present novel applications of the C-numerical range in quantum control assisted by gradient flows on the local unitary group: (1) they serve as powerful tools for deciding whether a quantum interaction can be inverted in time (in a sense generalising Hahn's famous spin echo); (2) they allow for optimising witnesses of quantum entanglement. We conclude by relating the relative C-numerical range to problems of constrained quantum optimisation, for which we also give Lagrange-type gradient flow algorithms.

id: math-ph/0701036
title: PT-symmetric Deformations of the Korteweg-de Vries Equation
authors: Andreas Fring
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: J.Phys.A40:4215-4224,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0701036
abstract: We propose a new family of complex PT-symmetric extensions of the Korteweg-de Vries equation. The deformed equations can be associated to a sequence of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians. The first charges related to the conservation of mass, momentum and energy are constructed. We investigate solitary wave solutions of the equation of motion for various boundary conditions.

id: math/0701352
title: A Minkowski Type Trace Inequality and Strong Subadditivity of Quantum Entropy
authors: Eric A. Carlen, Elliott H. Lieb
comments: 13 pages, plaintex, dedicated to M. Birman
journal: American Mathematical Society Translations, series 2, vol 189, pp. 59-69 (1999)
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0701352
abstract: We consider the following trace function on n-tuples of positive operators: \Phi_p(A_1,A_2,...,A_n) = Trace (\sum_{j=1}^n A_j^p)^{1/p} and prove that it is jointly concave for 0<p\le 1 and convex for p=2. We then derive from this a Minkowski type inequality for operators on a tensor product of three Hilbert spaces, and show how this implies the strong subadditivity of quantum mechanical entropy. For p>2, \Phi_p is neither convex nor concave. We conjecture that \Phi_p is convex for 1<p<2, but our methods do not show this.

id: math/0701571
title: Semidefinite descriptions of separable matrix cones
authors: Roland Hildebrand
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0701571
abstract: Let K, K' be convex cones residing in finite-dimensional real vector spaces E, E'. An element in the tensor product E \otimes E' is K \otimes K'-separable if it can be represented as finite sum \sum_l x_l \otimes x'_l with x_l \in K and x_l' \in K' for all l. Let S(n), H(n), Q(n) be the spaces of n x n real symmetric, complex hermitian and quaternionic hermitian matrices, respectively. Let further S_+(n), H_+(n), Q_+(n) be the cones of positive semidefinite matrices in these spaces. If a matrix in H(mn) = H(m) \otimes H(n) is H_+(m) \otimes H_+(n)-separable, then it fulfills also the so-called PPT condition, i.e. it is positive semidefinite and has a positive semidefinite partial transpose. The same implication holds for matrices in the spaces S(m) \otimes S(n), H(m) \otimes S(n), and for m < 3 in the space Q(m) \otimes S(n). We provide a complete enumeration of all pairs (n,m) when the inverse implication is also true for each of the above spaces, i.e. the PPT condition is sufficient for separability. We also show that a matrix in Q(n) \otimes S(2) is Q_+(n) \otimes S_+(2)-separable if and only if it is positive semidefinite.

id: nlin/0701042
title: 3D-vortex labyrinths in the near field of solid-state microchip laser
authors: A.Yu.Okulov
comments: 10 pages 7 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics,v.55,n.2,pp.241-259(2008)
subjects: Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0701042
abstract: The spatiotemporal vortex lattices generated in high Fresnel number solid-state microchip lasers are studied in connection with Talbot phenomenon generic to spatially periodic electromagnetic fields. The spatial layout of light field is obtained via dynamical model based on Maxwell-Bloch equations for class-B laser, discrete Fox-Lee map with relaxation of inversion and static model based on superposition of copropagating Gaussian beams. The spatial patterns observed experimentally and obtained numerically are interpreted as nonlinear superposition of vortices with helicoidal phase dislocations. The usage of vortex labyrinths and Talbot lattices as optical dipole traps for neutral atoms is considered for the wavelength of trapping radiation in the range 0.98 $\div$ 2.79 $\mu m$. The separable optical trapping potential is mounted as a sum of array of vortex lines and additional parabolic subtrap. The factorization of macroscopic wavefunction have led to analytical solution of Gross-Pitaevski equation for ground state of ensemble of quantum particles trapped in vortex labyrinth and in spatially - periodic array of Gaussian beams.

id: nlin/0701056
title: Analytic Approach for Controlling Quantum States in Complex Systems
authors: Toshiya Takami, Hiroshi Fujisaki
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, formatted by REVTeX-4, submitted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E75, 036219 (2007)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0701056
abstract: We examine random matrix systems driven by an external field in view of optimal control theory (OCT). By numerically solving OCT equations, we can show that there exists a smooth transition between two states called "moving bases" which are dynamically related to initial and final states. In our previous work [J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 73 (2004) 3215-3216; Adv. Chem. Phys. 130A (2005) 435-458], they were assumed to be orthogonal, but in this paper, we introduce orthogonal moving bases. We can construct a Rabi-oscillation like representation of a wavpacket using such moving bases, and derive an analytic optimal field as a solution of the OCT equations. We also numerically show that the newly obtained optimal field outperforms the previous one.

id: nlin/0701063
title: Complex trajectories in chaotic dynamical tunneling
authors: D.G. Levkov, A.G. Panin, S.M. Sibiryakov
comments: 21 pages, RevTeX style, 15 figures. Journal version; abstract, introduction and discussion modified, references added
journal: Phys.Rev.E76:046209,2007
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0701063
abstract: We develop the semiclassical method of complex trajectories in application to chaotic dynamical tunneling. First, we suggest a systematic numerical technique for obtaining complex tunneling trajectories by the gradual deformation of the classical ones. This provides a natural classification of the tunneling solutions. Second, we present a heuristic procedure for sorting out the least suppressed trajectory. As an illustration, we apply our technique to the process of chaotic tunneling in a quantum mechanical model with two degrees of freedom. Our analysis reveals rich dynamics of the system. At the classical level, there exists an infinite set of unstable solutions forming a fractal structure. This structure is inherited by the complex tunneling paths and plays the central role in the semiclassical study. The process we consider exhibits the phenomenon of optimal tunneling: the suppression exponent of the tunneling probability has a local minimum at a certain energy which is thus (locally) the optimal energy for tunneling. We test the proposed method by comparison of the semiclassical results with the results of the exact quantum computations and find a good agreement.

id: physics/0701213
title: Non-Abelian evolution of electromagnetic waves in a weakly anisotropic inhomogeneous medium
authors: K. Yu. Bliokh, D. Yu. Frolov, Yu. A. Kravtsov
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A75:053821,2007
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0701213
abstract: A theory of electromagnetic wave propagation in a weakly anisotropic smoothly inhomogeneous medium is developed, based on the quantum-mechanical diagonalization procedure applied to Maxwell equations. The equations of motion for the translational (ray) and intrinsic (polarization) degrees of freedom are derived ab initio. The ray equations take into account the optical Magnus effect (spin Hall effect of photons) as well as trajectory variations owing to the medium anisotropy. Polarization evolution is described by the precession equation for the Stokes vector. In generic case, the evolution of waves turns out to be non-Abelian: it is accompanied by mutual conversion of the normal modes and periodic oscillations of the ray trajectories analogous to electron zitterbewegung. The general theory is applied to examples of wave evolution in media with circular and linear birefringence.

id: physics/0701229
title: Chiral Structures Under the Standard of Orthogonal Groups
authors: Salvatore Capozziello, Alessandra Lattanzi
comments: 24 Pages, 5 figures. to appear in Symmetry: Culture and Science 2007
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0701229
abstract: General features of microscopic and macroscopic chiral structures can be discussed under the standard of orthogonal group theory. Configuration space of systems, not physical space, is taken into account. This change of perspective allows to overcome traditional shortcomings related to true and false chirality, statistical realization of mirror images, classification of objects as more or less chiral. From this viewpoint, a chiral object is a physical system whose configurations are described by the O(N) algebra in an abstract N-dimensional space. A quantum mechanical interpretation is straightforward due to the fact that combinations of chiral states give rise to parity states which can be interpreted as energy eigenstates.

id: q-bio/0701050
title: A quantum-theoretical approach to the phenomenon of directed mutations in bacteria
authors: Vasily Ogryzko
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT); Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/q-bio/0701050
abstract: The Darwinian paradigm of biological evolution is based on the separability of the variation and selection processes. As a result, the population thinking had always been an integral part of the Darwinian approach. I propose an alternative scheme of biological adaptation. It is based on appreciation of limits of what we can observe considering an individual biological object. This leads to a possibility for the adaptation process to occur on the level of a single object, as a 'selection among virtual states of the organism'. I discuss the application of this idea to the phenomenon of adaptive mutations in bacteria.

id: cond-mat/0701695
title: Extension of the Thomas-Fermi approximation for trapped Bose-Einstein condensates with an arbitrary number of atoms
authors: A. Mu?oz Mateo, V. Delgado
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Final version published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 065602 (2006)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701695
abstract: By incorporating the zero-point energy contribution we derive simple and accurate extensions of the usual Thomas-Fermi (TF) expressions for the ground-state properties of trapped Bose-Einstein condensates that remain valid for an arbitrary number of atoms in the mean-field regime. Specifically, we obtain approximate analytical expressions for the ground-state properties of spherical, cigar-shaped, and disk-shaped condensates that reduce to the correct analytical formulas in both the TF and the perturbative regimes, and remain valid and accurate in between these two limiting cases. Mean-field quasi-1D and -2D condensates appear as simple particular cases of our formulation. The validity of our results is corroborated by an independent numerical computation based on the 3D Gross-Pitaevskii equation.

id: cond-mat/0701764
title: Ground-state properties of trapped Bose-Einstein condensates: Extension of the Thomas-Fermi approximation
authors: A. Mu?oz Mateo, V. Delgado
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures. Final version published in Phys. Rev. A. New formulas for the local sound velocity of cigar-shaped and disk-shaped condensates have been obtained. This paper generalizes our previous work cond-mat/0701695
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 063610 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701764
abstract: We derive general approximate formulas that provide with remarkable accuracy the ground-state properties of any mean-field scalar Bose-Einstein condensate with short-range repulsive interatomic interactions, confined in arbitrary cylindrically symmetric harmonic traps. Our formulation is even applicable for condensates containing a multiply quantized axisymmetric vortex. We have checked the validity of our formulas by numerically solving the 3D Gross-Pitaevskii equation.

id: cond-mat/0701044
title: Spectrum and Dynamics of the BCS-BEC crossover from a few-body perspective
authors: Javier von Stecher, Chris H. Greene
comments: 4 pages, final version to appear in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701044
abstract: The spectrum of two spin-up and two spin-down fermions in a trap is calculated using a correlated gaussian basis throughout the range of the BCS-BEC crossover. These accurate calculations provide a few-body solution to the crossover problem. This solution is used to study the time-evolution of the system as the scattering length is changed, mimicking experiments with Fermi gases near Fano-Feshbach resonances. The structure of avoiding crossings in the spectrum allow us to understand the dynamics of the system as a sequence of Landau-Zener transitions. Finally, we propose a ramping scheme to study atom-molecule coherence.

id: hep-th/0701045
title: Restoration of Lorentz Invariance of 't Hooft-Polyakov Monopole Field
authors: Khaled R. Qandalji
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.A40:13943-13953,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0701045
abstract: Lorentz invariance is broken for the non-Abelian monopoles. Here we will consider the case of 't Hooft-Polyakov monopole and show that the Lorentz invariance of its field will be restored using Dirac quantization.

id: cond-mat/0701541
title: Proposal for detection of non-Markovian decay via current noise
authors: Yueh-Nan Chen, Guang-Yin Chen
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, To appear in Phys. Rev. B (2008)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0701541
abstract: We propose to detect non-Markovian decay of an exciton qubit coupled to multi-mode bosonic reservoir via shot-noise measurements. Non-equilibrium current noise is calculated for a quantum dot embedded inside a \QTR{it}{p-i-n} junction. An additional term from non-Markovian effect is obtained in the derivation of noise spectrum. As examples, two practical photonic reservoirs, photon vacuum with the inclusion of cut-off frequency and surface plasmons, are given to show that the noise may become super-Poissonian due to this non-Markovian effect. Utilizing the property of super-radiance is further suggested to enhance the noise value.

id: q-bio/0701053
title: Dissipation and spontaneous symmetry breaking in brain dynamics
authors: Walter J. Freeman, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: Restyled, slight changes in title and abstract, updated bibliography, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. Vol. 41 (2008) in print
journal: 
subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/q-bio/0701053
abstract: We compare the predictions of the dissipative quantum model of brain with neurophysiological data collected from electroencephalograms resulting from high-density arrays fixed on the surfaces of primary sensory and limbic areas of trained rabbits and cats. Functional brain imaging in relation to behavior reveals the formation of coherent domains of synchronized neuronal oscillatory activity and phase transitions predicted by the dissipative model.

