id: quant-ph/0702001
title: Correlation loss and multipartite entanglement across a black hole horizon
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Ivette Fuentes-Schuller
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. Published version
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. 9, 0657-0665 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702001
abstract: We investigate the Hawking effect on entangled fields. By considering a scalar field which is in a two-mode squeezed state from the point of view of freely falling (Kruskal) observers crossing the horizon of a Schwarzschild black hole, we study the degradation of quantum and classical correlations in the state from the perspective of Schwarzschild observers confined outside the horizon. Due to monogamy constraints on the entanglement distribution, we show that the lost bipartite entanglement is recovered as multipartite entanglement among modes inside and outside the horizon. In the limit of a small-mass black hole, no bipartite entanglement is detected outside the horizon, while the genuine multipartite entanglement interlinking the inner and outer regions grows infinitely.

id: quant-ph/0702002
title: Preparation and probing of the ground state coherence in Rubidium
authors: Martin Oberst, Frank Vewinger, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters 32, 1755 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702002
abstract: We demonstrate the preparation and probing of the coherence between the hyperfine ground states |5S_{1/2}, F=1> and |5S_{1/2}, F=2> of the Rubidium 87 isotope. The effect of various coherence control techniques, i.e. fractional Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage and Coherent Population Return on the coherence are investigated. These techniques are implemented using nearly degenerate pump and Stokes lasers at 795nm (Rubidium D1 transition) which couple the two hyperfine ground states via the excited state |5P_{1/2}, F=1> through a resonant two-photon process, in which a coherent superposition of the two hyperfine ground states is established. The medium is probed by an additional weak laser, which generates a four-wave mixing signal proportional to the ground state coherence, and allows us to monitor its evolution in time. The experimental data are compared with numerical simulations.

id: quant-ph/0702003
title: Quantum phase transitions with Photons and Polaritons
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Michael J. Hartmann, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 7 pages, contribution for the proceedings of the QCMC06
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702003
abstract: We show that a system of polaritons - combined atom and photon excitations - in an array of coupled cavities, under an experimental set-up usually considered in electromagnetically induced transparency, is described by the Bose-Hubbard model. This opens up the possibility of using this system as a quantum simulator, allowing for the observation of quantum phase transitions and for the measurement of local properties, such as single site observables. All the basic building blocks of the proposed setting have already been achieved experimentally, showing the feasibility of its realization in the near future.

id: quant-ph/0702004
title: Non-negative Wigner functions in prime dimensions
authors: David Gross
comments: 5 pages. Special case of a result proved in quant-ph/0602001. The proof is greatly simplified, making the general case more accessible. To appear in Appl. Phys. B as part of the proceedings of the 2006 DPG Spring Meeting (Quantum Optics and Photonics section)
journal: Appl. Phys. B 86, 367-370 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702004
abstract: According to a classical result due to Hudson, the Wigner function of a pure, continuous variable quantum state is non-negative if and only if the state is Gaussian. We have proven an analogous statement for finite-dimensional quantum systems. In this context, the role of Gaussian states is taken on by stabilizer states. The general results have been published in [D. Gross, J. Math. Phys. 47, 122107 (2006)]. For the case of systems of odd prime dimension, a greatly simplified proof can be employed which still exhibits the main ideas. The present paper gives a self-contained account of these methods.

id: quant-ph/0702005
title: A decoupling approach to the quantum capacity
authors: Patrick Hayden, Michal Horodecki, Jon Yard, Andreas Winter
comments: 
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 15 (2008) 7-19
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702005
abstract: We give a proof that the coherent information is an achievable rate for the transmission of quantum information through a noisy quantum channel. Our method is to select coding subspaces according to the unitarily invariant measure and then show that provided those subspaces are sufficiently small, any data contained within them will with high probability be decoupled from the noisy channel's environment.

id: quant-ph/0702006
title: Quantum coding theorem from privacy and distinguishability
authors: Michal Horodecki, Seth Lloyd, Andreas Winter
comments: Presented at the NATO ARW "Quantum Communication and Security", 10-13 September 2006, Gdansk, Poland; final version to appear in OSID special issue
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 15 (2008) 47-69
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702006
abstract: We prove direct quantum coding theorem for random quantum codes. The problem is separated into two parts: proof of distinguishability of codewords by receiver, and that of indistinguishability of codewords by environment (privacy). For a large class of codes, only privacy has to be checked.

id: quant-ph/0702007
title: Quantum Mechanical Search and Harmonic Perturbation
authors: Jie-Hong R. Jiang, Dah-Wei Chiou, Cheng-En Wu
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, revtex4
journal: Quantum Information Processing 6(5), (Oct. 2007) 349-362
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702007
abstract: Perturbation theory in quantum mechanics studies how quantum systems interact with their environmental perturbations. Harmonic perturbation is a rare special case of time-dependent perturbations in which exact analysis exists. Some important technology advances, such as masers, lasers, nuclear magnetic resonance, etc., originated from it. Here we add quantum computation to this list with a theoretical demonstration. Based on harmonic perturbation, a quantum mechanical algorithm is devised to search the ground state of a given Hamiltonian. The intrinsic complexity of the algorithm is continuous and parametric in both time T and energy E. More precisely, the probability of locating a search target of a Hamiltonian in N-dimensional vector space is shown to be 1/(1+ c N E^{-2} T^{-2}) for some constant c. This result is optimal. As harmonic perturbation provides a different computation mechanism, the algorithm may suggest new directions in realizing quantum computers.

id: quant-ph/0702008
title: Polynomial Quantum Algorithms for Additive approximations of the Potts model and other Points of the Tutte Plane
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Itai Arad, Elad Eban, Zeph Landau
comments: 82 pages. Up to page 36: the algorithm. From there on: The universality proof. Most readers will want to read only the first part. Presented at QIP 2007, Brisbane, Australia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702008
abstract: In the first 36 pages of this paper, we provide polynomial quantum algorithms for additive approximations of the Tutte polynomial, at any point in the Tutte plane, for any planar graph. This includes as special cases the AJL algorithm for the Jones polynomial, the partition function of the Potts model for any weighted planer graph at any temperature, and many other combinatorial graph properties. In the second part of the paper we prove the quantum universality of many of the problems for which we provide an algorithm, thus providing a large set of new quantum-complete problems. Unfortunately, we do not know that this holds for the Potts model case; this is left as an important open problem. The main progress in this work is in our ability to handle non-unitary representations of the Temperley Lieb algebra, both when applying them in the algorithm, and, more importantly, in the proof of universality, when encoding quantum circuits using non-unitary operators. To this end we develop many new tools, that allow proving density and applying the Solovay Kitaev theorem in the case of non-unitary matrices. We hope that these tools will open up new possibilities of using non-unitary reps in other quantum computation contexts.

id: quant-ph/0702009
title: Unitarity, ergodicity, and quantum thermodynamics
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Daniel W. Hook, Lane P. Hughston
comments: 8 pages
journal: J.Phys.A40:F503-F510,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702009
abstract: This paper is concerned with the ergodic subspaces of the state spaces of isolated quantum systems. We prove a new ergodic theorem for closed quantum systems which shows that the equilibrium state of the system takes the form of a grand canonical density matrix involving a complete commuting set of observables including the Hamiltonian. The result obtained, which is derived for a generic finite-dimensional quantum system, shows that the equilibrium state arising from unitary evolution is always expressible in the canonical form, without the consideration of a system-bath decomposition.

id: quant-ph/0702010
title: Field quantization in inhomogeneous anisotropic dielectrics with spatio-temporal dispersion
authors: L.G. Suttorp
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702010
abstract: A quantum damped-polariton model is constructed for an inhomogeneous anisotropic linear dielectric with arbitrary dispersion in space and time. The model Hamiltonian is completely diagonalized by determining the creation and annihilation operators for the fundamental polariton modes as specific linear combinations of the basic dynamical variables. Explicit expressions are derived for the time-dependent operators describing the electromagnetic field, the dielectric polarization and the noise term in the latter. It is shown how to identify bath variables that generate the dissipative dynamics of the medium.

id: quant-ph/0702011
title: The quantum theory of measurement within dynamical reduction models
authors: A. Bassi, D.G.M. Salvetti
comments: 24 pages, RevTeX. Minor changes made
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, 9859-9876 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702011
abstract: We analyze in mathematical detail, within the framework of the QMUPL model of spontaneous wave function collapse, the von Neumann measurement scheme for the measurement of a 1/2 spin particle. We prove that, according to the equation of the model: i) throughout the whole measurement process, the pointer of the measuring device is always perfectly well localized in space; ii) the probabilities for the possible outcomes are distributed in agreement with the Born probability rule; iii) at the end of the measurement the state of the microscopic system has collapsed to the eigenstate corresponding to the measured eigenvalue. This analysis shows rigorously how dynamical reduction models provide a consistent solution to the measurement problem of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0702012
title: Attosecond neutron Compton scattering from protons
authors: C. Aris Chatzidimitriou-Dreismann
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, CEWQO-Conference, Vienna 2006
journal: Acta Phys. Hung. B 26/1-2, 203-212 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702012
abstract: The effect of "anomalous" scattering of neutrons and electrons from protons in the electron-volt energy-transfer range is considered, and related experimental results are mentioned. A recent independent confirmation of this effect with a new data analysis procedure is presented. Due to the very short characteristic scattering time, there is no well defined separation of time scales of electronic and protonic motions. An outline of a proposed theoretical interpretation is presented, which is based on the fact that scattering protons represent \textit{open} quantum systems, thus being subject to decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0702013
title: Simultaneous Measurement of Non-Commuting Observables
authors: G. Aquino, B. Mehmani
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure; Proceedings of the Workshop "Beyond the Quantum" World Scientific (2007)
journal: Beyond the Quantum, World Scientific (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702013
abstract: It is shown that the full unknown state of a spin-1/2 system, S, which, within Born's statistical interpretation, is meant as the state of an ensamble of identically prepared systems, can be determined with a simultaneous measurement with the help of an "assistant" system A whose initial state is known. The idea is to let S and A interact with each other in a known way during a proper interaction time, to measure simultaneously two observables, one of S and one of A and their correlation. One thus determines the three unknown components of the polarization vector of S by means of repeated experiments using a unique setting. In this way one can measure simultaneously all the non-commutative observables of S, which might seem prohibited in quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0702014
title: Generalized entanglement as a framework for complex quantum systems: Purity vs delocalization measures
authors: Lorenza Viola, Winton G. Brown
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702014
abstract: We establish contact between the delocalization properties of pure quantum states, as quantified by their number of principal components, and the average generalized entanglement properties, as quantified by purity measures relative to different observable sets. We find that correlations between products of state vector components with respect to Hamming distance play an important role in the structure of subsystem-based purity measures. In particular, we derive general conditions under which the amount of global multipartite entanglement relates to the inverse participation ratio averaged over a maximal set of mutually unbiased product bases. Furthermore, we provide a method for computing the expected amount of generalized entanglement with respect to an arbitrary observable set for random pure states. Specific examples and an explicit application to a disordered quantum spin chain are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0702015
title: Topological quantum gate entangler for a multi-qubit state
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 9877 - 9882
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702015
abstract: We establish a relation between topological and quantum entanglement for a multi-qubit state by considering the unitary representations of the Artin braid group. We construct topological operators that can entangle multi-qubit state. In particular we construct operators that create quantum entanglement for multi-qubit states based on the Segre ideal of complex multi-projective space. We also in detail discuss and construct these operators for two-qubit and three-qubit states.

id: quant-ph/0702016
title: Perfect state transfer in networks of arbitrary topology and coupling configuration
authors: V. Kost'ak, G. M. Nikolopoulos, I. Jex
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042319 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702016
abstract: A general formalism of the problem of perfect state transfer is presented. We show that there are infinitely many Hamiltonians which may provide solution to this problem. In a first attempt to give a classification of them we investigate their possible forms and the related dynamics during the transfer. Finally, we show how the present formalism can be used for the engineering of perfect quantum wires of various topologies and coupling configurations.

id: quant-ph/0702017
title: Concurrence-based entanglement measure for Werner States
authors: Kai Chen, Sergio Albeverio, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 58, 325-334 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702017
abstract: We give explicit expressions for entanglement measures of Werner states in arbitrary dimensions in terms of concurrence and tangle. We show that an optimal ensemble decomposition for a joint density matrix of a Werner state can achieve the minimum average concurrence and tangle simultaneously. Furthermore, the same decomposition also attains entanglement of formation for Werner states.

id: quant-ph/0702018
title: On the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Proof of the `Incompleteness' of Quantum Mechanics
authors: J. H. Field
comments: 8 pages, v2 has typos corrected and small text additions. Version submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702018
abstract: It is shown that the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen conclusion concerning the `incompleteness' of Quantum Mechanics does not follow from the results of their proposed gedanken experiment, but is rather stated as a premise. If it were possible to perform the experiment it would, in fact, show that Quantum Mechanics is `complete' for the observables discussed. Because, however, of the non square-integrable nature of the wave function, the proposed experiment gives vanishing probabilities for measurements performed in finite intervals of configuration or momentum space. Hence no conclusion as to the `completeness', or otherwise, of Quantum Mechanics can be drawn from the experiment.

id: quant-ph/0702019
title: Robust state transfer and rotation through a spin chain via dark passage
authors: Toshio Ohshima, Artur Ekert, Daniel K. L. Oi, Dagomir Kaslizowski, L. C. Kwek
comments: 4 pages, changed to simpler notations, typo corrected in version 2 typo corrected and minor changes in the discussion part made in version 3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702019
abstract: Quantum state transfer through a spin chain via adiabatic dark passage is proposed. This technique is robust against control field fluctuations and unwanted environmental coupling of intermediate spins. Our method can be applied to spin chains with more than three spins. We also propose single qubit rotation using this technique.

id: quant-ph/0702020
title: How much of one-way computation is just thermodynamics?
authors: Janet Anders, Damian Markham, Vlatko Vedral, Michal Hajdu?ek
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. Argument made clearer in line with referee comments, this final version is 4 pages longer
journal: Found. Phys. 38, 506 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702020
abstract: In this paper we argue that one-way quantum computation can be seen as a form of phase transition with the available information about the solution of the computation being the order parameter. We draw a number of striking analogies between standard thermodynamical quantities such as energy, temperature, work, and corresponding computational quantities such as the amount of entanglement, time, potential capacity for computation, respectively. Aside from being intuitively pleasing, this picture allows us to make novel conjectures, such as an estimate of the necessary critical time to finish a computation and a proposal of suitable architectures for universal one-way computation in 1D.

id: quant-ph/0702021
title: Bell inequalities: many questions, a few answers
authors: Nicolas Gisin
comments: Contribution to a Festschrift dedicated to Abner Shimony. 8 pages (May'07: minor corrections and additional references)
journal: In essays in honour of Abner Shimony, Eds Wayne C. Myrvold and Joy Christian, The Western Ontario Series in Philosophy of Science, pp 125-140, Springer 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702021
abstract: What can be more fascinating than {\it experimental metaphysics}, to quote one of Abner Shimony's enlightening expressions? Bell inequalities are at the heart of the study of nonlocality. I present a list of open questions, organised in three categories: fundamental; linked to experiments; and exploring nonlocality as a resource. New families of inequalities for binary outcomes are presented.

id: quant-ph/0702022
title: Optimal unambiguous state discrimination of two density matrices: A second class of exact solutions
authors: Philippe Raynal, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: final published version: 18 pages, 5 figures. to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A Vol 76, 052322 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702022
abstract: We consider the Unambiguous State Discrimination (USD) of two mixed quantum states. We study the rank and the spectrum of the elements of an optimal USD measurement. This naturally leads to a partial fourth reduction theorem. This theorem shows that either the failure probability equals its overall lower bound given in term of the fidelity or a two-dimensional subspace can be split off from the original Hilbert space. We then use this partial reduction theorem to derive the optimal solution for any two equally probable Geometrically Uniform (GU) states $\rho_0$ and $\rho_1=U\rho_0 U^\dagger$, $U^2={\openone}$, in a four-dimensional Hilbert space. This represents a second class of analytical solutions for USD problems that cannot be reduced to some pure state cases. We apply our result to answer two questions that are relevant in implementations of the Bennett and Brassard 1984 quantum key distribution protocol using weak coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0702023
title: Contextual logic for quantum systems
authors: Graciela Domenech, Hector Freytes
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 46 (2005) 012102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702023
abstract: In this work we build a quantum logic that allows us to refer to physical magnitudes pertaining to different contexts from a fixed one without the contradictions with quantum mechanics expressed in no-go theorems. This logic arises from considering a sheaf over a topological space associated to the Boolean sublattices of the ortholattice of closed subspaces of the Hilbert space of the physical system. Differently to standard quantum logics, the contextual logic maintains a distributive lattice structure and a good definition of implication as a residue of the conjunction.

id: quant-ph/0702024
title: Theory of decoherence in Bose-Einstein condensate interferometry
authors: B J Dalton
comments: Proceedings DICE 06 Conference, 11-15 Sept 2006, Piombino, Italy
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Series 67, 012059 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702024
abstract: A full treatment of decoherence and dephasing effects in BEC interferometry has been developed based on using quantum correlation functions for treating interferometric effects. The BEC is described via a phase space distribution functional of the Wigner type for the condensate modes and the positive P type for the non-condensate modes. Ito equations for stochastic condensate and non-condensate field functions replace the functional Fokker-Planck equation for the distribution functional and stochastic averages of field function products determine the quantum correlation functions.

id: quant-ph/0702025
title: An Intrisic Topology for Orthomodular Lattices
authors: Olivier Brunet
comments: Under submission to the International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Topology (math.GN); Logic (math.LO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702025
abstract: We present a general way to define a topology on orthomodular lattices. We show that in the case of a Hilbert lattice, this topology is equivalent to that induced by the metrics of the corresponding Hilbert space. Moreover, we show that in the case of a boolean algebra, the obtained topology is the discrete one. Thus, our construction provides a general tool for studying orthomodular lattices but also a way to distinguish classical and quantum logics.

id: quant-ph/0702026
title: Quantum Entanglement and Teleportation of Quantum-Dot States in Microcavities
authors: A. Miranowicz, S. K. Ozdemir, Yu-xi Liu, G. Chimczak, M. Koashi, N. Imoto
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, to appear in e-J. Surf. Sci. Nanotech
journal: e-J. Surf. Sci. Nanotech. 5, 51-59 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702026
abstract: Generation and control of quantum entanglement are studied in an equivalent-neighbor system of spatially-separated semiconductor quantum dots coupled by a single-mode cavity field. Generation of genuinely multipartite entanglement of qubit states realized by conduction-band electron-spin states in quantum dots is discussed. A protocol for quantum teleportation of electron-spin states via cavity decay is briefly described.

id: quant-ph/0702027
title: Quantum Thermalization With Couplings
authors: H. Dong, S. Yang, X.F. Liu, C.P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 044104 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702027
abstract: We study the role of the system-bath coupling for the generalized canonical thermalization [S. Popescu, et al., Nature Physics 2,754(2006) and S. Goldstein et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 050403(2006)] that reduces almost all the pure states of the "universe" [formed by a system S plus its surrounding heat bath $B$] to a canonical equilibrium state of S. We present an exactly solvable, but universal model for this kinematic thermalization with an explicit consideration about the energy shell deformation due to the interaction between S and B. By calculating the state numbers of the "universe" and its subsystems S and B in various deformed energy shells, it is found that, for the overwhelming majority of the "universe" states (they are entangled at least), the diagonal canonical typicality remains robust with respect to finite interactions between S and B. Particularly, the kinematic decoherence is utilized here to account for the vanishing of the off-diagonal elements of the reduced density matrix of S. It is pointed out that the non-vanishing off-diagonal elements due to the finiteness of bath and the stronger system-bath interaction might offer more novelties of the quantum thermalization.

id: quant-ph/0702028
title: Entanglement Entropy: Helicity versus Spin
authors: Song He, Shuxin Shao, Hongbao Zhang
comments: 3 pages, title changed, typos corrected, version to appear in Int. J. Quant. Inf
journal: Int.J.Quant.Inf.6:181,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702028
abstract: For a massive spin 1/2 field, we present the reduced spin and helicity density matrix, respectively, for the same pure one particle state. Their relation has also been developed. Furthermore, we calculate and compare the corresponding entanglement entropy for spin and helicity within the same inertial reference frame. Due to the distinct dependence on momentum degree of freedom between spin and helicity states, the resultant helicity entropy is different from that of spin in general. In particular, we find that both helicity entanglement for a spin eigenstate and spin entanglement for a right handed or left handed helicity state do not vanish and their Von Neumann entropy has no dependence on the specific form of momentum distribution as long as it is isotropic.

id: quant-ph/0702029
title: Quantum communication via a continuously monitored dual spin chain
authors: Kosuke Shizume, Kurt Jacobs, Daniel Burgarth, Sougato Bose
comments: 5 pages, revtex 4, 3 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062328 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702029
abstract: We analyze a recent protocol for the transmission of quantum states via a dual spin chain [Burgarth and Bose, Phys. Rev. A 71, 052315 (2005)] under the constraint that the receiver's measurement strength is finite. That is, we consider the channel where the ideal, instantaneous and complete von Neumann measurements are replaced with a more realistic continuous measurement. We show that for optimal performance the measurement strength must be "tuned" to the channel spin-spin coupling, and once this is done, one is able to achieve a similar transmission rate to that obtained with ideal measurements. The spin chain protocol thus remains effective under measurement constraints.

id: quant-ph/0702030
title: Exact diagonalization for spin-1/2 chains and the first order quantum phase transitions of the XXX chain in a uniform transverse field
authors: Feng Pan, Xin Guan, Nan Ma, Wen-Juan Han, J. P. Draayer
comments: 7pages LaTeX, 1figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702030
abstract: A simple Mathematica code based on the differential realization of hard-core boson operators for finding exact solutions of the periodic-N spin-1/2 systems with or beyond nearest neighbor interactions is proposed, which can easily be used to study general spin-1/2 interaction systems. As an example, The code is applied to study XXX spin-1/2 chain with nearest neighbor interaction in a uniform transverse field. It shows that there are [N/2] level-crossing points in the ground state, where N is the periodic number of the system and [x] stands for the integer part of x, when the interaction strength and magnitude of the magnetic field satisfy certain conditions. The quantum phase transitional behavior in the ground state of the system in the thermodynamic limit is also studied.

id: quant-ph/0702031
title: A scheme for demonstration of fractional statistics of anyons in an exactly solvable model
authors: Y.-J. Han, R. Raussendorf, L.-M. Duan
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 150404 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702031
abstract: We propose a scheme to demonstrate fractional statistics of anyons in an exactly solvable lattice model proposed by Kitaev that involves four-body interactions. The required many-body ground state, as well as the anyon excitations and their braiding operations, can be conveniently realized through \textit{dynamic}laser manipulation of cold atoms in an optical lattice. Due to the perfect localization of anyons in this model, we show that a quantum circuit with only six qubits is enough for demonstration of the basic braiding statistics of anyons. This opens up the immediate possibility of proof-of-principle experiments with trapped ions, photons, or nuclear magnetic resonance systems.

id: quant-ph/0702032
title: Two-level systems driven by large-amplitude fields
authors: S. Ashhab, J. R. Johansson, A. M. Zagoskin, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages (two-column), 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 063414 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702032
abstract: We analyze the dynamics of a two-level system subject to driving by large-amplitude external fields, focusing on the resonance properties in the case of driving around the region of avoided level crossing. In particular, we consider three main questions that characterize resonance dynamics: (1) the resonance condition, (2) the frequency of the resulting oscillations on resonance and (3) the width of the resonance. We identify the regions of validity of different approximations. In a large region of the parameter space, we use a geometric picture in order to obtain both a simple understanding of the dynamics and quantitative results. The geometric approach is obtained by dividing the evolution into discrete time steps, with each time step described by either a phase shift on the basis states or a coherent mixing process corresponding to a Landau-Zener crossing. We compare the results of the geometric picture with those of a rotating-wave approximation. We also comment briefly on the prospects of employing strong driving as a useful tool to manipulate two-level systems.

id: quant-ph/0702033
title: Information-disturbance tradeoff in covariant quantum state estimation
authors: Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 4 pages; contribution for the proceedings of the QCMC06
journal: In Proceedings of the 8th Int. Conf. on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing, ed. by O. Hirota, J. H. Shapiro and M. Sasaki (NICT press, Japan, 2007), p. 331
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702033
abstract: We provide a general framework for quantifying the optimal tradeoff between the information retrieved by a quantum measurement and the disturbance on the quantum state in covariant quantum state estimation.

id: quant-ph/0702034
title: A Single-Photon Server with Just One Atom
authors: Markus Hijlkema, Bernhard Weber, Holger P. Specht, Simon C. Webster, Axel Kuhn, Gerhard Rempe
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702034
abstract: Neutral atoms are ideal objects for the deterministic processing of quantum information. Entanglement operations have been performed by photon exchange or controlled collisions. Atom-photon interfaces were realized with single atoms in free space or strongly coupled to an optical cavity. A long standing challenge with neutral atoms, however, is to overcome the limited observation time. Without exception, quantum effects appeared only after ensemble averaging. Here we report on a single-photon source with one-and-only-one atom quasi permanently coupled to a high-finesse cavity. Quasi permanent refers to our ability to keep the atom long enough to, first, quantify the photon-emission statistics and, second, guarantee the subsequent performance as a single-photon server delivering up to 300,000 photons for up to 30 seconds. This is achieved by a unique combination of single-photon generation and atom cooling. Our scheme brings truly deterministic protocols of quantum information science with light and matter within reach.

id: quant-ph/0702035
title: Decoherence of two-electron spin states in quantum dots
authors: D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, V. Ravishankar, V. Subrahmanyam
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures. submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052338 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702035
abstract: The time evolution of spin states of two electrons interacting with a nuclear spin bath in a quantum dot system is studied. The hyperfine interaction between the electrons and the nuclear spins is modeled by an isotropic Heisenberg interaction, and the interaction between the electron spins by Heisenberg exchange. Depending on the extent of the overlap between the spatial wave functions of the electrons, there are two physically different cases, namely the two qubits either interact with the same set of nuclear spins or they see different nuclear spin environment. In the two cases, the decoherence of the two-qubit state is studied analytically. We have identified a class of two-qubit states which have a rich dynamics when the exchange interaction between the qubits becomes large in comparison to the hyperfine interaction strengths. The decoherence time scale is determined as a function of the bath-spin distribution and the polarizations of the initial two-qubit state. States with large decoherence times are identified by performing a minimization over all the two-qubit pure states.

id: quant-ph/0702036
title: Entanglement and quantum phase transitions in matrix product spin one chains
authors: S. Alipour, V. Karimipour, L. Memarzadeh
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052322 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702036
abstract: We consider a one-parameter family of matrix product states of spin one particles on a periodic chain and study in detail the entanglement properties of such a state. In particular we calculate exactly the entanglement of one site with the rest of the chain, and the entanglement of two distant sites with each other and show that the derivative of both these properties diverge when the parameter $g$ of the states passes through a critical point. Such a point can be called a point of quantum phase transition, since at this point, the character of the matrix product state which is the ground state of a Hamiltonian, changes discontinuously. We also study the finite size effects and show how the entanglement depends on the size of the chain. This later part is relevant to the field of quantum computation where the problem of initial state preparation in finite arrays of qubits or qutrits is important. It is also shown that entanglement of two sites have scaling behavior near the critical point.

id: quant-ph/0702037
title: Two-particle Wigner functions in a one-dimensional Calogero-Sutherland potential
authors: A. Tegmen, T. Altanhan, B. S. Kandemir
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, The original publication is available at www.eurphysj.org
journal: Eur Phys J D41 (2007) 397-402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702037
abstract: We calculate the Wigner distribution function for the Calogero-Sutherland system which consists of harmonic and inverse-square interactions. The Wigner distribution function is separated out into two parts corresponding to the relative and center-of-mass motions. A general expression for the relative Wigner function is obtained in terms of the Laguerre polynomials by introducing a new identity between Hermite and Laguerre polynomials.

id: quant-ph/0702038
title: On correlation approach to scattering in the decoherence timescale - Towards the theoretical interpretation of NCS and ECS experimental findings
authors: C. Aris Chatzidimitriou-Dreismann, Stig Stenholm
comments: Published in: "Decoherence, Entanglement and Information Protection in Complex Quantum Systems", NATO Science Series II - Vol.189, eds V. M. Akulin, A. Sarfati, G. Kurizki and S. Pellegrin (Springer, Dordrecht, 2005) pp. 555-562
journal: V. M. Akulin et al. (eds.), NATO Science Series II - Vol. 189, pp. 555-562 (Springer, Dordrecht, 2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702038
abstract: We provide a "first principles" description of scattering from open quantum systems subject to a Lindblad-type dynamics. In particular we consider the case that the duration of the scattering process is of similar order as the decoherence time of the scatterer. Under rather general conditions, the derivations lead to the the following new result: The irreversible time-evolution may cause a reduction of the system's transition rate being effectuated by scattering. This is tantamount to a shortfall of scattering intensity. The possible connection with striking experimental results of neutron and electron Compton scattering from protons in condensed matter is mentioned.

id: quant-ph/0702039
title: Sublattice addressing and spin-dependent motion of atoms in a double-well lattice
authors: P. J. Lee, M. Anderlini, B. L. Brown, J. Sebby-Strabley, W. D. Phillips, J. V. Porto
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 99, 020402 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702039
abstract: We load atoms into every site of an optical lattice and selectively spin flip atoms in a sublattice consisting of every other site. These selected atoms are separated from their unselected neighbors by less than an optical wavelength. We also show spin-dependent transport, where atomic wave packets are coherently separated into adjacent sites according to their internal state. These tools should be useful for quantum information processing and quantum simulation of lattice models with neutral atoms.

id: quant-ph/0702040
title: Entangled states close to the maximally mixed state
authors: Roland Hildebrand
comments: 11 pages; v2: n qubit case added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702040
abstract: We give improved upper bounds on the radius of the largest ball of separable states of an m-qubit system around the maximally mixed state. The ratio between the upper bound and the best known lower bound (Hildebrand, quant.ph/0601201) thus shrinks to a constant c = \sqrt{34/27} ~ 1.122, as opposed to a term of order \sqrt{m\log m} for the best upper bound known previously (Aubrun and Szarek, quant.ph/0503221). We give concrete examples of separable states on the boundary to entanglement which realize these upper bounds. As a by-product, we compute the radii of the largest balls that fit into the projective tensor product of four unit balls in R^3 and in the projective tensor product of an arbitrary number of unit balls in R^n for n = 2,4,8.

id: quant-ph/0702041
title: Mapping broadband single-photon wavepackets into an atomic memory
authors: J. Nunn, I. A. Walmsley, M. G. Raymer, K. Surmacz, F. C. Waldermann, Z. Wang, D. Jaksch
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, published in PRA Rapid Communications
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 011401(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702041
abstract: We analyze a quantum optical memory based on the off-resonant Raman interaction of a single broadband photon, copropagating with a classical control pulse, with an atomic ensemble. The conditions under which the memory can perform optimally are found, by means of a `universal' mode decomposition. This enables the memory efficiency to be specified in terms of a single parameter, and the control field pulse shape to be determined via a simple nonlinear scaling. We apply the same decomposition to determine the optimal configurations for read-out.

id: quant-ph/0702042
title: Tunnelling in quantum superlattices with variable lacunarity
authors: Francisco R. Villatoro, Juan A. Monsoriu
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 372 (2008) 3801-3807
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702042
abstract: Quantum fractal superlattices are microelectronic devices consisting of a series of thin layers of two semiconductor materials deposited alternately on each other over a substrate following the rules of construction of a fractal set, here, a symmetrical polyadic Cantor fractal. The scattering properties of electrons in these superlattices may be modeled by using that of quantum particles in piecewise constant potential wells. The twist plots representing the reflection coefficient as function of the lacunarity parameter show the appearance of black curves with perfectly transparent tunnelling which may be classified as vertical, arc, and striation nulls. Approximate analytical formulae for these reflection-less curves are derived using the transfer matrix method. Comparison with the numerical results show their good accuracy.

id: quant-ph/0702043
title: Production of Information and Entropy in measurement of entangled states
authors: Constantin V. Usenko
comments: Presented at the NATO ARW "Quantum Communication and Security", 10-13 September 2006, Gdansk, Poland
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702043
abstract: Problem of classification of all the set of entangled states is considered. Invariance of entangled states relative to transformations from a group of symmetry of qubit space leads to classification of all states of the system through irreducible representations from that group. Excess of entropy of a subsystem over entropy of the whole system indicates the presence of entaglement in the system.

id: quant-ph/0702044
title: How good must single photon sources and detectors be for efficient linear optical quantum computation?
authors: M. Varnava, D.E. Browne, T. Rudolph
comments: New version contains an Added Appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 060502 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702044
abstract: We present a scheme for linear optical quantum computation (LOQC) which is highly robust to imperfect single photon sources and inefficient detectors. In particular we show that if the product of the detector efficiency with the source efficiency is greater than 2/3, then efficient LOQC is possible. This threshold is many orders of magnitude more relaxed than those which could be inferred by application of standard results in fault tolerance. The result is achieved within the cluster state paradigm for quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0702045
title: Experimental quantum "Guess my Number" protocol using multiphoton entanglement
authors: Jun Zhang, Xiao-Hui Bao, Teng-Yun Chen, Tao Yang, Adan Cabello, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022302 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702045
abstract: We present an experimental demonstration of a modified version of the entanglement-assisted "Guess my Number" protocol for the reduction of communication complexity among three separated parties. The results of experimental measurements imply that the separated parties can compute a function of distributed inputs by exchanging less classical information than by using any classical strategy. And the results also demonstrate the advantages of entanglement-enhanced communication, which is very close to quantum communication. The advantages are based on the properties of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states.

id: quant-ph/0702046
title: LU transformation invariant operators and LU transformation invariant
authors: Xin-wei Zha, Chun-min Zhang
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702046
abstract: We proposed a concept of LU transformation invariant operators. By using this operator, arbitrary multi-qubit states LU transformation invariant and SLOCC invariant could be easily obtained. And we find that presences two kinds of invariant operators and corresponding invariants. One kind of operators yields LU invariants and the other operators results in SLOCC invariants. For three-qubit states, all independence LU transformation invariant are obtained. Furthermore, by this system method, arbitrary multi-qubit states invariants can be given.

id: quant-ph/0702047
title: Self-Protected Quantum Algorithms Based on Quantum State Tomography
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Mark S. Byrd
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol. 8, 1 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702047
abstract: Only a few classes of quantum algorithms are known which provide a speed-up over classical algorithms. However, these and any new quantum algorithms provide important motivation for the development of quantum computers. In this article new quantum algorithms are given which are based on quantum state tomography. These include an algorithm for the calculation of several quantum mechanical expectation values and an algorithm for the determination of polynomial factors. These quantum algorithms are important in their own right. However, it is remarkable that these quantum algorithms are immune to a large class of errors. We describe these algorithms and provide conditions for immunity.

id: quant-ph/0702048
title: Quantum Annealing for Heisenberg Spin Chains
authors: G.P. Berman, V.N. Gorshkov, V.I.Tsifrinovich
comments: 10 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702048
abstract: We suggest using the method of quantum annealing for computing the ground state of the Heisenberg spin chains. Our initial Hamiltonian describes a spin system in a highly non-uniform magnetic field. The initial Hamiltonian gradually transforms into the Heisenberg Hamiltonian, which describes the exchange interaction and the Zeeman interaction with the uniform magnetic field. We demonstrate quantum annealing for 2-, 3-, and 9-spin systems. In particular, we consider the alternate (ferro- and antiferromagnetic) exchange integral. By changing the sign of the exchange integrals we switch from the frustrated to the corresponding non-frustrated spin system. We discuss the similarity and difference between the frustrated and non-frustrated spin systems.

id: quant-ph/0702049
title: Demonstration of deterministic and high fidelity squeezing of quantum information
authors: Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Toshiki Hayashi, Takayuki Akiyama, Nobuyuki Takei, Alexander Huck, Ulrik L. Andersen, Akira Furusawa
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 060301(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702049
abstract: By employing at recent proposal (R. Filip, P. Marek and U.L. Andersen, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 71}, 042308 (2005) \cite{Filip05.pra}), we experimentally demonstrate a universal, deterministic and high-fidelity squeezing transformation of an optical field. It relies only on linear optics, homodyne detection, feedforward and an ancillary squeezed vacuum state, thus direct interaction between a strong pump and the quantum state is circumvented. We demonstrate three different squeezing levels for a coherent state input. This scheme is highly suitable for the fault-tolerant squeezing transformation in a continuous variable quantum computer.

id: quant-ph/0702050
title: Comment on "Resilient Quantum Computation in Correlated Environments: A Quantum Phase Transition Perspective" and "Fault-tolerant Quantum Computation with Longe-range Correlated Noise"
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702050
abstract: Critical comments on the recent papers supporting the idea of resilient quantum computations are presented.

id: quant-ph/0702051
title: Spin tunneling in magnetic molecules: Quantitative estimates for Fe8 clusters
authors: D. Galetti, E. C. Silva
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures, preprint submitted to Physica A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702051
abstract: Spin tunneling in the particular case of the magnetic molecular cluster octanuclear iron(III), Fe8, is treated by an effective Hamiltonian that allows for an angle-based description of the process. The presence of an external magnetic field along the easy axis is also taken into account in this description. Analytic expressions for the energy levels and barriers are obtained from a harmonic approximation of the potential function which give results in good agreement with the experimental results. The energy splittings due to spin tunneling is treated in an adapted WKB approach and it is shown that the present description can give results to a reliable degree of accuracy.

id: quant-ph/0702052
title: On the solutions of the Schrodinger equation with some molecular potentials: wave function ansatz
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 14 pages
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys. 6, 697(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702052
abstract: Making an ansatz to the wave function, the exact solutions of the $D$% -dimensional radial Schrodinger equation with some molecular potentials like pseudoharmonic and modified Kratzer potentials are obtained. The restriction on the parameters of the given potential, $\delta $ and $\eta $ are also given, where $\eta $ depends on a linear combination of the angular momentum quantum number $\ell $ and the spatial dimensions $D$ and $\delta $ is a parameter in the ansatz to the wave function. On inserting D=3, we find that the bound state eigensolutions recover their standard analytical forms in literature.

id: quant-ph/0702053
title: Resonance fluorescence of a cold atom in a high-finesse resonator
authors: Marc Bienert, J. Mauricio Torres, Stefano Zippilli, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures,version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 013410 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702053
abstract: We study the spectra of emission of a system composed by an atom, tightly confined inside a high-finesse resonator, when the atom is driven by a laser and is at steady state of the cooling dynamics induced by laser and cavity field. In general, the spectrum of resonance fluorescence and the spectrum at the cavity output contain complementary information about the dynamics undergone by the system. In certain parameter regimes, quantum interference effects between the scattering processes induced by cavity and laser field lead to the selective suppression of features of the resonance fluorescence spectrum, which are otherwise visible in the spectrum of laser-cooled atoms in free space.

id: quant-ph/0702054
title: Strongly-Driven One-Atom Laser and Decoherence Monitoring
authors: P. Lougovski, F. Casagrande, A. Lulli, E. Solano
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 033802 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702054
abstract: We propose the implementation of a strongly-driven one-atom laser, based on the off-resonant interaction of a three-level atom in $\Lambda$-configuration with a single cavity mode and three laser fields. We show that the system can be described equivalently by a two-level atom resonantly coupled to the cavity and driven by a strong effective coherent field. The effective dynamics can be solved exactly, including a thermal field bath, allowing an analytical description of field statistics and entanglement properties. We also show the possible generation of Schr\"odinger cat states for the whole atom-field system and for the field alone after atomic measurement. We propose a way to monitor the system decoherence by measuring atomic population. Finally, we confirm the validity of our model through numerical solutions.

id: quant-ph/0702055
title: Entanglement oscillations in non-Markovian quantum channels
authors: Sabrina Maniscalco, Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062119 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702055
abstract: We study the non-Markovian dynamics of a two-mode bosonic system interacting with two uncorrelated thermal bosonic reservoirs. We present the solution to the exact microscopic Master equation in terms of the quantum characteristic function and study in details the dynamics of entanglement for bipartite Gaussian states. In particular, we analyze the effects of short-time system-reservoir correlations on the separability thresholds and show that the relevant parameter is the reservoir spectral density. If the frequencies of the involved modes are within the reservoir spectral density entanglement persists for a longer time than in a Markovian channel. On the other hand, when the reservoir spectrum is out of resonance short-time correlations lead to a faster decoherence and to the appearance of entanglement oscillations.

id: quant-ph/0702056
title: Stimulated emission of two photons in parametric amplification and its interpretation as multi-photon interference
authors: F. W. Sun, B. H. Liu, Y. X. Gong, Y. F. Huang, Z. Y. Ou, G. C. Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702056
abstract: Stimulated emission of two photons is observed experimentally in the parametric amplification process and is compared to a three-photon interference scheme. We find that the underlying physics of stimulated emission is simply the constructive interference due to photon indistinguishability. So the observed signal enhancement upon the input of photons is a result of multi-photon interference of the input photons and the otherwise spontaneously emitted photon from the amplifier.

id: quant-ph/0702057
title: Functional Quantum Nodes for Entanglement Distribution over Scalable Quantum Networks
authors: Chin-Wen Chou, Julien Laurat, Hui Deng, Kyung Soo Choi, Hugues de Riedmatten, Daniel Felinto, H. Jeff Kimble
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures. Text revised, additional information included in Appendix. Published online in Science Express, 5 April, 2007
journal: Science 316, 1316 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702057
abstract: We demonstrate entanglement distribution between two remote quantum nodes located 3 meters apart. This distribution involves the asynchronous preparation of two pairs of atomic memories and the coherent mapping of stored atomic states into light fields in an effective state of near maximum polarization entanglement. Entanglement is verified by way of the measured violation of a Bell inequality, and can be used for communication protocols such as quantum cryptography. The demonstrated quantum nodes and channels can be used as segments of a quantum repeater, providing an essential tool for robust long-distance quantum communication.

id: quant-ph/0702058
title: Mathematical Modeling of Physical and Engineering Systems in Quantum Information
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: Conference Proceedings Article of an invited talk at QCMC2006; revised version with note added in Section 3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702058
abstract: Several concrete examples in quantum information are discussed to demonstrate the importance of proper modeling that relates the mathematical description to real-world applications. In particular, it is shown that some commonly accepted conclusions are not adequately supported by their purported justifications in the logical manner required.

id: quant-ph/0702059
title: Spin chains and channels with memory
authors: M. B. Plenio, S. Virmani
comments: V2: changes in presentation, some additional comments on generalisation. V3: In accordance with published version, most (but not all) details of proofs now included. A separate paper will shortly be submitted separately with all details and more results
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 120504 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702059
abstract: In most studies of the channel capacity of quantum channels, it is assumed that the errors in each use of the channel are independent. However, recent work has begun to investigate the effects of memory or correlations in the error. This work has led to speculation that interesting non-analytic behaviour may occur in the capacity. Motivated by these observations, we connect the study of channel capacities under correlated error to the study of critical behaviour in many-body physics. This connection enables us the techniques of many-body physics to either completely solve or understand qualitatively a number of interesting models of correlated error. The models can display analogous behaviour to associated many-body systems, including `phase transitions'.

id: quant-ph/0702060
title: Comment on ``Lateral Casimir force beyond the proximity-force approximation''
authors: F.Chen, U.Mohideen, G.L.Klimchitskaya, V.M.Mostepanenko
comments: 2 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.98:068901,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702060
abstract: We demonstrate that the approach by Rodrigues et al. (PRL, v.96, 100402, 2006) to the description of the lateral Casimir force between corrugated surfaces is in disagreement with a path-integral theory by Emig et al. (PRA, v.67, 022114, 2003), and the approximations used are not appropriate for comparison to experiment.

id: quant-ph/0702061
title: The Casimir Effect in Relativistic Quantum Field Theories
authors: V.M.Mostepanenko
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures, uses ws-procs975x65.cls, to appear in Proceedings of 11th Marsel Grossmann Meeting on General Relativity (Berlin, 2006)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702061
abstract: We review recent developments in the Casimir effect which arises in quantization volumes restricted by material boundaries and in spaces with non-Euclidean topology. The starting point of our discussion is the novel exact solution for the electromagnetic Casimir force in the configuration of a cylinder above a plate. The related work for the scalar Casimir effect in sphere-plate configuration is also considered, and the application region of the proximity force theorem is discussed. Next we consider new experiments on the measurement of the Casimir force between metals and between metal and semiconductor. The complicated problem connected with the theory of the thermal Casimir force between real metals is analyzed in detail. The present situation regarding different theoretical approaches to the resolution of this problem is summarized. We conclude with new constraints on non-Newtonian gravity obtained using the results of latest Casimir force measurements and compare them with constraints following from the most recent gravitational experiments.

id: quant-ph/0702062
title: Practical scheme for quantum dense coding between three parties using microwave radiation in trapped ions
authors: Wen-Xing Yang, Zhe-Xuan Gong
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, accepted by J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 40 (2007) 1245-1252
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702062
abstract: We propose a practical scheme for implementing two-dimension quantum dense coding (QDC) between three parties through manipulating three ions confined in microtraps addressed by microwaves and assisted by a magnetic field gradient. The ions in our scheme are not required to be strictly cooled to the vibrational ground state because single-qubit and multi-qubit operations are made via Ising terms, in which the vibrational modes of the ions remain unchanged throughout the scheme, rendering our scheme robust to the heating of the ions. We also present the detailed steps and parameters for implementing the three-party QDC experimentally and show that the proposed scheme is within the current techniques of ion-trap experiments.

id: quant-ph/0702063
title: On an additional realization of supersymmetry in orthopositronium lifetime anomalies
authors: B.M. Levin, V.I. Sokolov
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702063
abstract: Expansion of Standard Model for the quantitative description of the orthopositronium lifetime anomalies (from QED to supersymmetric QED) allows to formulate experimental tests of supervision of additional realization of the supersymmetry in final state of the positron beta-decay of the nuclei such as Na-22, Ga-68. The expermentum crucis program is based on supervision of the orthopositronium "isotope anomaly", on the quantitative description of the "lifetime anomaly", and will allow to resolve the alternative as results of the last Michigan work (2003).

id: quant-ph/0702064
title: Practical effects in cat state breeding
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Austin P. Lund
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702064
abstract: A cat state is a superposition of macroscopically distinct states. In quantum optics one such type of state is a superposition of distinct coherent states. Recently, a protocol has been proposed for preparing large optical cat states from a resource of smaller ones. We consider the effects of mode-mismatch and loss in the preparation of large cat states using this protocol with a view to understand experimental limitations. (This paper is written in an experimental rapid communication format).

id: quant-ph/0702065
title: Noise thresholds for entanglement purification
authors: Peter P. Rohde
comments: 2 pages, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702065
abstract: We consider the effects of gate noise on the operation of an entanglement purification protocol. We characterize the performance of the protocol by two measures, the minimum purifiable input state fidelity, and the maximum output state fidelity. Both these measures are a function of gate error rate. For sufficiently large gate error rate these two measures converge, defining a threshold on gate error rates. Numerically, we estimate this threshold to be $9.2\times 10^{-2}$, which is achievable with many present day experimental architectures. (This paper is written in an experimental rapid communication format).

id: quant-ph/0702066
title: Rectification of the lateral Casimir force in a vibrating non-contact rack and pinion
authors: Arash Ashourvan, MirFaez Miri, Ramin Golestanian
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 75, 040103 (R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702066
abstract: The nonlinear dynamics of a cylindrical pinion that is kept at a distance from a vibrating rack is studied, and it is shown that the lateral Casimir force between the two corrugated surfaces can be rectified. The effects of friction and external load are taken into account and it is shown that the pinion can do work against loads of up to a critical value, which is set by the amplitude of the lateral Casimir force. We present a phase diagram for the rectified motion that could help its experimental investigations, as the system exhibits a chaotic behavior in a large part of the parameter space.

id: quant-ph/0702067
title: Spatial Entanglement From Off-Diagonal Long Range Order in a BEC
authors: Libby Heaney, Janet Anders, Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. Extended from 4 to 7 pages. More detailed derivations of key formula. Extended introduction and background. Results remain unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 76 053605 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702067
abstract: We investigate spatial entanglement - particle-number entanglement between regions of space - in an ideal Bosonic gas. We quantify the amount spatial entanglement around the transition temperature for condensation by probing the gas with two localised two-level systems. We show that spatial entanglement in the gas is directly related to filling of the ground state energy level and therefore to the off-diagonal long-range order of the system and the onset of condensation.

id: quant-ph/0702068
title: How continuous quantum measurements in finite dimension are actually discrete
authors: G. Chiribella, G.M. D'Ariano, D. M. Schlingemann
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 190403 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702068
abstract: We show that in finite dimension a quantum measurement with continuous set of outcomes is always equivalent to a continuous random choice of measurements with only finite outcomes.

id: quant-ph/0702069
title: Entanglement of Gaussian states
authors: Gerardo Adesso
comments: Ph.D. Thesis, University of Salerno. 296 pages, many (heavily compressed) figures. Hi-res version downloadable at this http URL (PDF 11Mb)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702069
abstract: This Dissertation collects my results on the interpretation, characterization, quantification and application of bipartite and multipartite entanglement in Gaussian states of continuous variable systems.

id: quant-ph/0702070
title: Theory of quantum fluctuations of optical dissipative structures and its application to the squeezing properties of bright cavity solitons
authors: Isabel Perez-Arjona, Eugenio Roldan, German J. de Valcarcel
comments: 10 figures
journal: Physical Review A 75, 063802 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702070
abstract: We present a method for the study of quantum fluctuations of dissipative structures forming in nonlinear optical cavities, which we illustrate in the case of a degenerate, type I optical parametric oscillator. The method consists in (i) taking into account explicitly, through a collective variable description, the drift of the dissipative structure caused by the quantum noise, and (ii) expanding the remaining -internal- fluctuations in the biorthonormal basis associated to the linear operator governing the evolution of fluctuations in the linearized Langevin equations. We obtain general expressions for the squeezing and intensity fluctuations spectra. Then we theoretically study the squeezing properties of a special dissipative structure, namely, the bright cavity soliton. After reviewing our previous result that in the linear approximation there is a perfectly squeezed mode irrespectively of the values of the system parameters, we consider squeezing at the bifurcation points, and the squeezing detection with a plane--wave local oscillator field, taking also into account the effect of the detector size on the level of detectable squeezing.

id: quant-ph/0702071
title: A Cyclic Cooling Algorithm
authors: F.Rempp, M. Michel, G. Mahler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702071
abstract: We introduce a scheme to perform the cooling algorithm, first presented by Oscar Boykin et al. in 2002, for an arbitrary number of times on the same set of qbits. We achieve this goal by adding an additional SWAP-gate and a bath contact to the algorithm. This way one qbit may repeatedly be cooled without adding additional qbits to the system. By using a product Liouville space to model the bath contact we calculate the density matrix of the system after a given number of applications of the algorithm.

id: quant-ph/0702072
title: Markovian Entanglement Networks
authors: Pierfrancesco La Mura, Lukasz Swiatczak
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, uses aaai.sty
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702072
abstract: Graphical models of probabilistic dependencies have been extensively investigated in the context of classical uncertainty. However, in some domains (most notably, in computational physics and quantum computing) the nature of the relevant uncertainty is non-classical, and the laws of classical probability theory are superseded by those of quantum mechanics. In this paper we introduce Markovian Entanglement Networks (MEN), a novel class of graphical representations of quantum-mechanical dependencies in the context of such non-classical systems. MEN are the quantum-mechanical analogue of Markovian Networks, a family of undirected graphical representations which, in the classical domain, exploit a notion of conditional independence among subsystems. After defining a notion of conditional independence appropriate to our domain (conditional separability), we prove that the conditional separabilities induced by a quantum-mechanical wave function are effectively reflected in the graphical structure of MEN. Specifically, we show that for any wave function there exists a MEN which is a perfect map of its conditional separabilities. Next, we show how the graphical structure of MEN can be used to effectively classify the pure states of three-qubit systems. We also demonstrate that, in large systems, exploiting conditional independencies may dramatically reduce the computational burden of various inference tasks. In principle, the graph-theoretic representation of conditional independencies afforded by MEN may not only facilitate the classical simulation of quantum systems, but also provide a guide to the efficient design and complexity analysis of quantum algorithms and circuits.

id: quant-ph/0702073
title: Krawtchouk polynomials and Krawtchouk matrices
authors: Philip Feinsilver, Jerzy Kocik
comments: 
journal: Recent advances in applied probability, Springer-Verlag, October, 2004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702073
abstract: Krawtchouk matrices have as entries values of the Krawtchouk polynomials for nonnegative integer arguments. We show how they arise as condensed Sylvester-Hadamard matrices via a binary shuffling function. The underlying symmetric tensor algebra is presented. Our approach is used to solve Kac' formulation of the Ehrenfest urn model. Connections with quantum and classical random walks are shown as well as various extensions of the classical polynomials.

id: quant-ph/0702074
title: QBC3: An Unconditionally Secure Quantum Bit Commitment Protocol
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: Conference Proceedings article of a submission to QCMC 2006; revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702074
abstract: This article describes a quantum bit commitment protocol, QBC3, based on entanglement destruction via forced measurements and proves its unconditional security. Some comments on the current status of the field are also made.

id: quant-ph/0702075
title: Protecting an optical qubit against photon loss
authors: Wojciech Wasilewski, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042316 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702075
abstract: We consider quantum error-correction codes for multimode bosonic systems, such as optical fields, that are affected by amplitude damping. Such a process is a generalization of an erasure channel. We demonstrate that the most accessible method of transforming optical systems with the help of passive linear networks has limited usefulness in preparing and manipulating such codes. These limitations stem directly from the recoverability condition for one-photon loss. We introduce a three-photon code protecting against the first order of amplitude damping, i.e. a single photon loss, and discuss its preparation using linear optics with single-photon sources and conditional detection. Quantum state and process tomography in the code subspace can be implemented using passive linear optics and photon counting. An experimental proof-of-principle demonstration of elements of the proposed quantum error correction scheme for a one-photon erasure lies well within present technological capabilites.

id: quant-ph/0702076
title: Classification of two-particle quantum channels of information transfer
authors: Constantin V. Usenko
comments: To appear in Bulletin of the University of Kiev. Series: Physics & Mathematics (translated from Ukrainian). Extended version of quant-ph/0702043
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702076
abstract: Classification of states of two-particle quantum channels of information transfer is built on the basis of irreducible representations of qubit state space group of symmetry and properties of density matrix spectrum. It is shown that the reason of state disentanglement can be in degeneration of non-zero density matrix eigenvalues. Among the states with non-degenerate density matrix disentangled states form two-dimensional surface of special states.

id: quant-ph/0702077
title: Unconditional privacy over channels which cannot convey quantum information
authors: Karol Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Debbie Leung, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: Related to quant-ph/0608195 and for a more general audience
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 110502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702077
abstract: By sending systems in specially prepared quantum states, two parties can communicate without an eavesdropper being able to listen. The technique, called quantum cryptography, enables one to verify that the state of the quantum system has not been tampered with, and thus one can obtain privacy regardless of the power of the eavesdropper. All previous protocols relied on the ability to faithfully send quantum states. In fact, until recently, they could all be reduced to a single protocol where security is ensured though sharing maximally entangled states. Here we show this need not be the case -- one can obtain verifiable privacy even through some channels which cannot be used to reliably send quantum states.

id: quant-ph/0702078
title: Atomic Entanglement vs Photonic Visibility for Quantum Criticality of Hybrid System
authors: M.X. Huo, Ying Li, Z. Song, C.P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022103 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702078
abstract: To characterize the novel quantum phase transition for a hybrid system consisting of an array of coupled cavities and two-level atoms doped in each cavity, we study the atomic entanglement and photonic visibility in comparison with the quantum fluctuation of total excitations. Analytical and numerical simulation results show the happen of quantum critical phenomenon similar to the Mott insulator to superfluid transition. Here, the contour lines respectively representing the atomic entanglement, photonic visibility and excitation variance in the phase diagram are consistent in the vicinity of the non-analytic locus of atomic concurrences.

id: quant-ph/0702079
title: Quantum Non-Demolition Test of Bipartite Complementarity
authors: F. de Melo, S. P. Walborn, J¨¢nos A. Bergou, L. Davidovich
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 250501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702079
abstract: We present a quantum circuit that implements a non-demolition measurement of complementary single- and bi-partite properties of a two-qubit system: entanglement and single-partite visibility and predictability. The system must be in a pure state with real coefficients in the computational basis, which allows a direct operational interpretation of those properties. The circuit can be realized in many systems of interest to quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0702080
title: Composite Geometric Phase for Multipartite Entangled States
authors: Mark Williamson, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, improved presentation, results and conclusions unchanged from v1. Accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032115 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702080
abstract: When an entangled state evolves under local unitaries, the entanglement in the state remains fixed. Here we show the dynamical phase acquired by an entangled state in such a scenario can always be understood as the sum of the dynamical phases of its subsystems. In contrast, the equivalent statement for the geometric phase is not generally true unless the state is separable. For an entangled state an additional term is present, the mutual geometric phase, that measures the change the additional correlations present in the entangled state make to the geometry of the state space. For $N$ qubit states we find this change can be explained solely by classical correlations for states with a Schmidt decomposition and solely by quantum correlations for W states.

id: quant-ph/0702081
title: Minimal set of local measurements and classical communication for two-mode Gaussian state entanglement quantification
authors: Luis F. Haruna, Marcos C. de Oliveira, Gustavo Rigolin
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Replaced with final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 150501 (2007); Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 059902 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702081
abstract: We develop the minimal requirements for the complete entanglement quantification of an arbitrary two-mode bipartite Gaussian state via local measurements and a classical communication channel. The minimal set of measurements is presented as a reconstruction protocol of local covariance matrices and no previous knowledge of the state is required but its Gaussian character. The protocol becomes very simple mostly when dealing with Gaussian states transformed to its standard form, since photocounting/intensity measurements define the whole set of entangled states. In addition, conditioned on some prior information, the protocol is also useful for a complete global state reconstruction.

id: quant-ph/0702082
title: Efficient quantum state transfer in spin chains via adiabatic passage
authors: K. Eckert, O. Romero-Isart, A. Sanpera
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures, to be published in New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 155 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702082
abstract: We propose a method for quantum state transfer in spin chains using an adiabatic passage technique. Modifying even and odd nearest-neighbour couplings in time allows to achieve transfer fidelities arbitrarily close to one, without the need for a precise control of coupling strengths and timing. We study in detail transfer by adiabatic passage in a spin-1 chain governed by a generalized Heisenberg Hamiltonian. We consider optimization of the transfer process applying optimal control techniques. We discuss a realistic experimental implementation using cold atomic gases confined in deep optical lattices.

id: quant-ph/0702083
title: Quantum gate entangler for general multipartite systems
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 6 pages
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics, Vol. 15, No. 3 (2008) 213-222
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702083
abstract: We construct quantum gate entangler for general multipartite states based on topological unitary operators. We show that these operators can entangle quantum states if they satisfy the separability condition that is given by the complex multi-projective Segre variety. We also in detail discuss the construction of quantum gate entangler for higher dimensional bipartite and three-partite quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0702084
title: Secure Quantum Telephones
authors: J.S. Shaari, R.S. Said, M.R.B. Wahiddin
comments: Substantial changes made to ensure security of protocol
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702084
abstract: We propose in this paper a novel deterministic protocol using particular maximally entangled states of polarized photons for a genuine bidirectional secure communication setup. We further propose a plausible experimental setup for such a protocol using currently available optical technology which liberates two communicating party from sharing identical apparatus. We note that security of the protocol is promised by the monogamous nature of maximally entangled states. We discuss the security of our protocol in the light of some simple eavesdropping scenarios.

id: quant-ph/0702085
title: Coherent manipulation of atomic qubits in optical micropotentials
authors: A. Lengwenus, J. Kruse, M. Volk, W. Ertmer, G. Birkl
comments: to be published in Appl. Phys. B
journal: Appl. Phys. B 86, 377-383 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702085
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the coherent manipulation of atomic states in far-detuned dipole traps and registers of dipole traps based on two-dimensional arrays of microlenses. By applying Rabi, Ramsey, and spin-echo techniques, we systematically investigate the dephasing mechanisms and determine the coherence time. Simultaneous Ramsey measurements in up to 16 dipole traps are performed and proves the scalability of our approach. This represents an important step in the application of scalable registers of atomic qubits for quantum information processing. In addition, this system can serve as the basis for novel atomic clocks making use of the parallel operation of a large number of individual clocks each remaining separately addressable.

id: quant-ph/0702086
title: Quantum key distribution based on phase encoding and polarization measurement
authors: Hai-Qiang Ma, Jian-Ling Zhao, Ling-An Wu
comments: To appear in Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702086
abstract: A one-way quantum key distribution scheme based on intrinsically stable Faraday-mirror type Michelson interferometers with four-port polarizing beampslitters has been demonstrated which can compensate for birefringence effects automatically. The encoding is performed with phase modulators, but decoding is accomplished through measurement of the polarization state of Bob's photons. An extinction ratio of about 30dB was maintained for several hours over 50km of fiber at 1310nm without any adjustment to the setup, which shows its good potential for practical systems

id: quant-ph/0702087
title: Light force fluctuations in a strongly coupled atom-cavity system
authors: T. Puppe, I. Schuster, P. Maunz, K. Murr, P.W.H. Pinkse, G. Rempe
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 54:13, 1927 - 1937 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702087
abstract: Between mirrors, the density of electromagnetic modes differs from the one in free space. This changes the radiation properties of an atom as well as the light forces acting on an atom. It has profound consequences in the strong-coupling regime of cavity quantum electrodynamics. For a single atom trapped inside the cavity, we investigate the atom-cavity system by scanning the frequency of a probe laser for various atom-cavity detunings. The avoided crossing between atom and cavity resonance is visible in the transmission of the cavity. It is also visible in the loss rate of the atom from the intracavity dipole trap. On the normal-mode resonances, the dominant contribution to the loss rate originates from dipole-force fluctuations which are dramatically enhanced in the cavity. This conclusion is supported by Monte-Carlo simulations.

id: quant-ph/0702088
title: The Impossibility of Quantum State Mirroring on Square Lattices
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702088
abstract: We discuss the possibility of engineering a Hamiltonian that can perfectly mirror a state of many excitations stored on a square lattice. In comparison to the well-studied case of a chain, there is potential for a speed-up of information transfer. However, we prove that in a large class of cases, perfect state mirroring on a square lattice is impossible.

id: quant-ph/0702089
title: Reply to ``Comment on ``Lateral Casimir Force beyond the Proximity Force Approximation'' ''
authors: Robson B. Rodrigues, Paulo A. Maia Neto, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 1 page
journal: Phys. Rev. Letters 98, 068902 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702089
abstract: We reply to the comment arXiv:quant-ph/0702060 on our letter arXiv:quant-ph/0603120 [Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 100402 (2006)]

id: quant-ph/0702090
title: Entanglement generation via phase-matched processes: different Bell states within the linewidth
authors: G. Brida, M.V. Chekhova, M. Genovese, L.A. Krivitsky
comments: submitted for publication
journal: Optics Express Vol.15, No.16, 10182-10188 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702090
abstract: It is shown, theoretically and experimentally, that at any type-II spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) phase matching, the decoherence-free singlet Bell state is always present within the natural bandwidth and can be filtered out by a proper spectral selection. Instead of the frequency selection, one can perform time selection of the two-photon time amplitude at the output of a dispersive fibre. Applications to quantum communication are outlined.

id: quant-ph/0702091
title: Linear-optics manipulations of photon-loss codes
authors: Konrad Banaszek, Wojciech Wasilewski
comments: Proceedings of NATO Advanced Research Workshop "Quantum Communication and Security"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702091
abstract: We discuss codes for protecting logical qubits carried by optical fields from the effects of amplitude damping, i.e. linear photon loss. We demonstrate that the correctability condition for one-photon loss imposes limitations on the range of manipulations than can be implemented with passive linear-optics networks.

id: quant-ph/0702092
title: The Topological Properties of Fault-Tolerant Circuits
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures v3: thoroughly revised, new techniques and altered conclusions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702092
abstract: The design of time-independent local Hamiltonians that realise quantum algorithms is derived from the study of perfect state transfer. The novel features of this evolution are the perfect realisation of the computation, and the ability to implement operations in parallel rather than sequentially. This is applied to a quantum circuit for concatenated error correcting codes, and the properties of the eigenstates are compared to those of topological memories. An erroneous implementation of the algorithm (one where a single error could lead to a fault in the output) is found not to be topological, whereas a true fault-tolerant algorithm possesses self-correcting properties, suggesting the existence of a unifying structure for fault-tolerant memories.

id: quant-ph/0702093
title: On the Security of the Y-00 (AlphaEta) Direct Encryption Protocol
authors: Ranjith Nair, Horace P. Yuen
comments: Conference Proceedings article of a contribution to QCMC 2006; claims made more precise and some other minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702093
abstract: We review the current status of the AlphaEta direct encryption protocol. After describing AlphaEta, we summarize the main security claims made on it. We then describe recent attacks developed against it in the literature, and suggest security enhancements and future research directions based on our results.

id: quant-ph/0702094
title: Generalising Landauer's Principle
authors: O. J. E. Maroney
comments: 29 pages, 4 figures. v4 Major changes to thermodynamic reversibility discussion
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW E 79, 031105 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702094
abstract: In a recent paper [Mar05] it is argued that to properly understand the thermodynamics of Landauer's Principle it is necessary extend the concept of logical operations to include indeterministic operations. Here we examine the thermodynamics of such operations in more detail, extending the work of Landuaer[Lan61] to include indeterministic operations and to include logical states with variable entropies, temperatures and mean energies. We derive the most general statement of Landauer's Principle and prove it's universality, extending considerably the validity of previous proofs. This confirms conjectures made in [Mar05b], in particular that all logical operations may, in principle, be performed in a thermodynamically reversible fashion. We demonstrate a physical process that can perform any computation without work requirements or heat exchange with the environment. Many widespread statements of Landauer's Principle are shown to be only special cases of our generalised principle.

id: quant-ph/0702095
title: Macroscopic quantum jumps and entangled state preparation
authors: Jeremy Metz, Almut Beige
comments: 14 pages, 12 figures, proof of the robustness of the state preparation against parameter fluctuations added, figure replaced
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022331 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702095
abstract: Recently we predicted a random blinking, i.e. macroscopic quantum jumps, in the fluorescence of a laser-driven atom-cavity system [Metz et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 040503 (2006)]. Here we analyse the dynamics underlying this effect in detail and show its robustness against parameter fluctuations. Whenever the fluorescence of the system stops, a macroscopic dark period occurs and the atoms are shelved in a maximally entangled ground state. The described setup can therefore be used for the controlled generation of entanglement. Finite photon detector efficiencies do not affect the success rate of the state preparation, which is triggered upon the observation of a macroscopic fluorescence signal. High fidelities can be achieved even in the vicinity of the bad cavity limit due to the inherent role of dissipation in the jump process.

id: quant-ph/0702096
title: The method of partial wave functions and the structure of time interval between the subsequent quantum transitions
authors: A.G. Shkorbatov
comments: 45 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702096
abstract: We present the formulation of non relativistic quantum mechanics in the extended space (u,x,t) where x and t are coordinates of particles and time, and u - an additional real parameter that corresponds to generalized virial - an integral over path on potential energy of the particle. If the u value is defined, the state of a particle is described by the partial wave function F(u,x,t) (PWF). The wave function is obtained from F(u,x,t) by special integral transform. The "drift" wave equation (DWE) for F(u,x,t) is introduced. The integral invariants of F(u,x,t) evolution are obtained. The sets of orthonormal solutions for stationary DWE are obtained; the moments of distribution of are calculated. The process of "aging" of PWF is described. Effective time interval necessary for the creation of the state is calculated within the limits of PWF formalism. The structure of the time interval between the processes of consequent quantum transition is investigated. The theoretical basis for the describing counterfactual situations in quantum mechanics is examined.

id: quant-ph/0702097
title: Strong Super-additivity of the entanglement of formation for pure stabilizer states
authors: David Fattal, Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702097
abstract: We prove the strong super-additivity of the entanglement of formation for stabilizer pure states, and the set of mixed states which minimize their average entropy of entanglement as a mixture of stabilizer pure states sharing the same stabilizer group up to phases. The implications of the result on the additivity of the Holevo capacity of a quantum channel transmitting stabilizer states with Pauli noise is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0702098
title: Additivity of Entangled Channel Capacity for Quantum Input States
authors: V.P.Belavkin, X.Dai
comments: 17 pages. See the related papers at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702098
abstract: An elementary introduction into algebraic approach to unified quantum information theory and operational approach to quantum entanglement as generalized encoding is given. After introducing compound quantum state and two types of informational divergences, namely, Araki-Umegaki (a-type) and of Belavkin-Staszewski (b-type) quantum relative entropic information, this paper treats two types of quantum mutual information via entanglement and defines two types of corresponding quantum channel capacities as the supremum via the generalized encodings. It proves the additivity property of quantum channel capacities via entanglement, which extends the earlier results of V. P. Belavkin to products of arbitrary quantum channels for quantum relative entropy of any type.

id: quant-ph/0702099
title: On The Significance of Which-Way Expositions: Propounding a New Possibility
authors: Mohammad Bahrami, Afshin Shafiee
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures, this is the second version which includes many amendments in exploring the issue
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702099
abstract: In this article, we survey some controversial problems concerning the idea of erasing Which Way information proposed in recent years. A statistical examination of these proposals suggests that whenever the Bayesian rule is taken into account for two relevant events in two successive times, the probabilistic description of them is unavoidably time-symmetric. Consequently, it seems that they cannot fulfill the implications of a so-called delayed-choice experiment. As a possible alternative, however, we suggest a new experimental arrangement in which one can change the whole state of a given system at a proper time (without measurement) to accomplish an actual delayed-choice experiment with a time-asymmetric attribute. The peculiar features of this experiment are then discussed.

id: quant-ph/0702100
title: Uncertainty functions of the open quantum harmonic oscillator in the Lindblad theory
authors: A. Isar, W. Scheid
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 042117 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702100
abstract: In the framework of the Lindblad theory for open quantum systems, we derive closed analytical expressions of the Heisenberg and Schr\"odinger generalized uncertainty functions for a particle moving in a harmonic oscillator potential. The particle is initially in an arbitrary correlated coherent state, and interacts with an environment at finite temperature. We describe how the quantum and thermal fluctuations contribute to the uncertainties in the canonical variables of the system and analyze the relative importance of these fluctuations in the evolution of the system. We show that upon contact with the bath the system evolves from a quantum-dominated to a thermal-dominated state in a time that is of the same order as the decoherence time calculated in other models in the context of transitions from quantum to classical physics.

id: quant-ph/0702101
title: Negativity as Entanglement Degree of the Jaynes-Cummings Model
authors: S. J. Akhtarshenas, M. Farsi
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physica Scripta, 75 (2007) 608-614
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702101
abstract: In this paper, by using the notion of negativity, we study the degree of entanglement of a two-level atom interacting with a quantized radiation field, described by the Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM). We suppose that initially the field is in a pure state and the atom is in a general mixed state. In this case the negativity fully captures the entanglement of the JCM. We investigate the case for that the initial state of the field is a coherent state. The influences of the detuning on the degree of entanglement is also examined.

id: quant-ph/0702102
title: A statistical mechanics view on Kitaev's proposal for quantum memories
authors: R. Alicki, M. Fannes, M. Horodecki
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 6451-6467.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702102
abstract: We compute rigorously the ground and equilibrium states for Kitaev's model in 2D, both the finite and infinite version, using an analogy with the 1D Ising ferromagnet. Next, we investigate the structure of the reduced dynamics in the presence of thermal baths in the Markovian regime. Special attention is paid to the dynamics of the topological freedoms which have been proposed for storing quantum information.

id: quant-ph/0702103
title: Matrix realignment and partial transpose approach to entangling power of quantum evolutions
authors: Zhihao Ma, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: Four pages and no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 014304 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702103
abstract: Based on the matrix realignment and partial transpose, we develop an approach to entangling power and operator entanglement of quantum unitary operators. We demonstrate efficiency of the approach by studying several unitary operators on qudits, and indicate that these two matrix rearrangements are not only powerful for studying separability problem of quantum states, but also useful in studying entangling capabilities of quantum operators.

id: quant-ph/0702104
title: Scalable quantum computer using superconducting charge qubits
authors: W. Y. Huo, G. L. Long
comments: 4 pages and 2 figures. References added, and W-state generation added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702104
abstract: We present a scalable scheme for superconducting charge qubits with the assistance of one-dimensional superconducting transmission line resonator (STLR) playing the role of data bus. The coupling between qubit and data bus may be turned on and off by just controlling the gate voltage and externally applied flux of superconducting charge qubit. In our proposal, the entanglement between arbitrary two qubits and $W$ states of three qubits can be generated quickly and easily.

id: quant-ph/0702105
title: Ponderomotive tunneling in electron-laser interactions
authors: Ju Gao, Fang Shen
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702105
abstract: It is known that the ponderomotive potential from the laser electron interaction behaves like a static potential that scatters off electrons. We have investigated the process of the electron tunneling the ponderomotive potential by using the nonperturbative quantum electrodynamic approach with a modified Gaussian quantized laser field. The results show that the ponderomotive tunneling is significantly larger than the tunneling of a static potential of the same profile. The tunneled electron is discrete in energy spectrum and spatial diffraction as the result of multiphoton processes. A resonant tunneling occurs when the ponderomotive energy equals the multiple integer of the laser photon energy.

id: quant-ph/0702106
title: Frequencies and energy levels of the weakly relativistic harmonic oscillator from the action variable
authors: M.K.Balasubramanya
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702106
abstract: The frequency of a classical periodic system and the energy levels of the corresponding quantum system can both be obtained using action variables. We demonstrate the construction of two forms of the action variable for a one dimensional harmonic oscillator in classical, relativistic and quantum regimes. The relativistic effects are considered as perturbative, within the context of a non-relativistic quantum formalism. The transition of the relativistic quantum system to both classical relativistic and classical non-relativistic regimes is illustrated in a unified framework. Formulas for the frequency of a classical relativistic oscillator and the energy eigenvalues of the corresponding quantum oscillator for the weak relativistic case are derived. Also studied are the non-relativistic and classical limits of these formulas which provide valuable insights on the parallels between relativistic and non-relativistic systems on the one hand and between classical and quantum systems on the other.

id: quant-ph/0702107
title: The Quantum Mellin transform
authors: J. Twamley, G. J. Milburn
comments: 23 pages, 6 Figures
journal: New J Phys 8 328 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702107
abstract: We uncover a new type of unitary operation for quantum mechanics on the half-line which yields a transformation to ``Hyperbolic phase space''. We show that this new unitary change of basis from the position x on the half line to the Hyperbolic momentum $p_\eta$, transforms the wavefunction via a Mellin transform on to the critial line $s=1/2-ip_\eta$. We utilise this new transform to find quantum wavefunctions whose Hyperbolic momentum representation approximate a class of higher transcendental functions, and in particular, approximate the Riemann Zeta function. We finally give possible physical realisations to perform an indirect measurement of the Hyperbolic momentum of a quantum system on the half-line.

id: quant-ph/0702108
title: Output radiation from a degenerate parametric oscillator
authors: Sintayehu Tesfa
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702108
abstract: We study the squeezing as well as the statistical properties of the output radiation from a degenerate parametric oscillator coupled to a squeezed vacuum reservoir employing the stochastic differential equations associated with the normal ordering. It is found that the degree of squeezing of the output radiation is less than the corresponding cavity radiation. However, for output radiation the correlation of the quadrature operators evaluated at different times also exhibits squeezing, which is the reason for quenching of the overall noise in one of the quadrature components of the squeezing spectrum even when the oscillator is coupled to a vacuum reservoir. Moreover, coupling the oscillator to the squeezed vacuum reservoir enhances the squeezing exponentially and it also increases the mean photon number.

id: quant-ph/0702109
title: Vector Cooper Pairs and Coherent-Population-Trapping-like States in Ensemble of Interacting Fermions
authors: A.V. Taichenachev, V.I. Yudin
comments: revtex, 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702109
abstract: Using the standard Hamiltonian of the BCS theory, we show that in an ensemble of interacting fermions with the spin 1/2 there exist coherent states $|NC>$, which nullify the Hamiltonian of the interparticle interaction (scattering). These states have an analogy with the well-known in quantum optics the coherent population trapping (CPT) effect. The structure of these CPT-like states corresponds to Cooper pairs with the total spin $S$=1. The found states have a huge degree of degeneracy and carry a macroscopic magnetic moment, that allows us to construct a new model of the magnetism connected with the delocalized electrons in metals (conductors). A principal possibility to apply the obtained results to the superfluid $^3$He is also demonstrated.

id: quant-ph/0702110
title: The Canonical Function Method and its applications in Quantum Physics
authors: C. Tannous, K. Fakhreddine, J. Langlois
comments: 30 pages, 12 figures- To submit to Reviews of Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702110
abstract: The Canonical Function Method (CFM) is a powerful method that solves the radial Schr\"{o}dinger equation for the eigenvalues directly without having to evaluate the eigenfunctions. It is applied to various quantum mechanical problems in Atomic and Molecular physics with presence of regular or singular potentials. It has also been developed to handle single and multiple channel scattering problems where the phaseshift is required for the evaluation of the scattering cross-section. Its controllable accuracy makes it a valuable tool for the evaluation of vibrational levels of cold molecules, a sensitive test of Bohr correspondance principle and a powerful method to tackle local and non-local spin dependent problems.

id: quant-ph/0702111
title: A selfadjoint variant of the time operator
authors: R. de la Madrid, J.M. Isidro
comments: 7 pages
journal: Adv.Stud.Theor.Phys.2:281-289,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702111
abstract: We study the selfadjoint time operator recently constructed by one of the authors. We will show that this time operator must be interpreted as a ``selfadjoint variant'' of the time operator.

id: quant-ph/0702112
title: Are elementary particles point-like objects?
authors: P. Brovetto, V. Maxia, M. Salis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702112
abstract: Simple arguments based on uncertainty principle and Dirac's equation are examined which show that electron behaves either as a point-like charge or as an extended distribution according as high- or low-energy experiments are considered.

id: quant-ph/0702113
title: Quadrature and polarization squeezing in a dispersive optical bistability model
authors: F.V. Garcia-Ferrer, I. Perez-Arjona, G.J. de Valcarcel, E. Roldan
comments: 10 text pages + 12 figures
journal: Physical Review A 75, 063823 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702113
abstract: We theoretically study quadrature and polarization squeezing in dispersive optical bistability through a vectorial Kerr cavity model describing a nonlinear cavity filled with an isotropic chi(3) medium in which self-phase and cross-phase modulation, as well as four--wave mixing, occur. We derive expressions for the quantum fluctuations of the output field quadratures as a function of which we express the spectrum of fluctuations of the output field Stokes parameters. We pay particular attention to study how the bifurcations affecting the non-null linearly polarized output mode squeezes the orthogonally polarized vacuum mode, and show how this produces polarization squeezing.

id: quant-ph/0702114
title: Nature as the observer: A simplified approach to the measurement problem and related issues
authors: Fred H. Thaheld
comments: 9 pages, no figures. Born and von Neumann comments added, minor typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702114
abstract: Several theories have been advanced recently which appear to offer a resolution to that portion of the measurement problem which previously dealt with a possible reduction of the state vector in a subjective fashion by the brain, mind or consciousness. It now appears, based on both biological and mathematical analysis, that collapse of the wave function always takes place in an objective fashion in the retinal rod-rhodopsin molecule, and that only measured information is ever presented to the brain, mind or consciousness for possible subjective analysis. The remaining portion of the measurement problem has to do with the use and legitimacy of such terms as boundary (Heisenberg or von Neumann cut), information, irreversible, measurement, microscopic, macroscopic, observer (apparatus or measuring system), observed (measured system) and wave function collapse. This portion of the measurement problem may be resolved in two ways. First, by adopting Dirac's theory that it is nature that makes the choice of measuremental result. Second, by the insertion of a mesoscopic bridge between the microscopic and macroscopic worlds, in the existing form of the rhodopsin molecule with its retinal and opsin components.

id: quant-ph/0702115
title: Coherent control of single photon states
authors: G. J. Milburn
comments: Lecture given at the workshop on "Theoretical and Experimental Foundations of Recent Quantum Technologies" Durban, July 2006. Submited to Journal de Physique IV - Proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702115
abstract: We define a class of multi-mode single photon states suitable for quantum information applications. We show how standard amplitude modulation techniques may be used to control the pulse shape of single photon states.

id: quant-ph/0702116
title: Fundamentals of universality in one-way quantum computation
authors: M. Van den Nest, W. D¨¹r, A. Miyake, H. J. Briegel
comments: 50 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 9 204 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702116
abstract: We build a framework allowing for a systematic investigation of the issue: "Which quantum states are universal resources for one-way quantum computation?" We start by re-examining what is exactly meant by "universality" in quantum computation, and what the implications are for universal one-way quantum computation. Given the framework of a measurement-based quantum computer, where quantum information is processed by local operations only, the most general universal one-way quantum computer is one which is capable of accepting arbitrary classical inputs and producing arbitrary quantum outputs--we refer to this property as CQ-universality. We then show that a systematic study of CQ-universality in one-way quantum computation is possible by identifying entanglement features that must be present in every universal resource. These insights are used to identify several states as being not universal, such as 1D cluster states, W states, and ground states of non-critical 1D spin systems. Our criteria are strengthened by considering the efficiency of a quantum computation, and we find that entanglement measures must obey a certain scaling law with the system size for all efficient universal resources. This again leads to examples of non-universal resources, such as, e.g., ground states of critical 1D spin systems. We also provide several examples of efficient universal resources, namely graph states corresponding to hexagonal, triangular and Kagome lattices. Finally, we consider the more general notion of encoded CQ-universality, where quantum outputs are allowed to be produced in an encoded form. Again we provide entanglement-based criteria for encoded universality. Moreover, we present a general procedure to construct encoded universal resources.

id: quant-ph/0702117
title: Van der Waals Interactions in a Magneto-Dielectric Medium
authors: S. Spagnolo, D.A.R. Dalvit, P.W. Milonni
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052117 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702117
abstract: The van der Waals interaction between two ground-state atoms is calculated for two electrically or magnetically polarizable particles embedded in a dispersive magneto-dielectric medium. Unlike previous calculations which infer the atom-atom interaction from the dilute-medium limit of the macroscopic, many-body van der Waals interaction, the interaction is calculated directly for the system of two atoms in a magneto-dielectric medium. Two approaches are presented, the first based on the quantized electromagnetic field in a dispersive medium without absorption and the second on Green functions that allow for absorption. We show that the correct van der Waals interactions are obtained regardless of whether absorption in the host medium is taken into account.

id: quant-ph/0702118
title: Six-qubit permutation-based decoherence-free orthogonal basis
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75 (2007) 020301(R)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702118
abstract: There is a natural orthogonal basis of the 6-qubit decoherence-free (DF) space robust against collective noise. Interestingly, most of the basis states can be obtained from one another just permuting qubits. This property: (a) is useful for encoding qubits in DF subspaces, (b) allows the implementation of the Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) protocol in DF subspaces just permuting qubits, which completes a the method for quantum key distribution using DF states proposed by Boileau et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 017901 (2004)], and (c) points out that there is only one 6-qubit DF state which is essentially new (not obtained by permutations) and therefore constitutes an interesting experimental challenge.

id: quant-ph/0702119
title: On spin evolution in a time-dependent magnetic field: post-adiabatic corrections and geometric phases
authors: K. Yu. Bliokh
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys.Lett.A372:204-209,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702119
abstract: We examine both quantum and classical versions of the problem of spin evolution in a slowly varying magnetic field. Main attention is given to the first- and second-order adiabatic corrections in the case of in-plane variations of the magnetic field. While the first-order correction relates to the adiabatic Berry phase and Coriolis-type lateral deflection of the spin, the second-order correction is shown to be responsible for the next-order geometric phase and in-plain deflection. A comparison between different approaches, including the exact (non-adiabatic) geometric phase, is presented.

id: quant-ph/0702120
title: Sideband cooling while preserving coherences in the nuclear spin state in group-II-like atoms
authors: Iris Reichenbach, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures v4: minor changes in text, changes in the references, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 123001 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702120
abstract: We propose a method for laser cooling group-II-like atoms without changing the quantum state of their nuclear spins, thus preserving coherences that are usually destroyed by optical pumping. As group-II-like atoms have a $^1S_0$ closed-shell ground state, nuclear spin and electronic degrees of freedom are decoupled, allowing for independent manipulation. The hyperfine interaction that couples these degrees of freedom in excited states can be suppressed through the application of external magnetic fields. Our protocol employs resolved-sideband cooling on the forbidden clock transition, $^1S_0 \to {}^3P_0$, with quenching via coupling to the rapidly decaying $^1P_1$ state, deep in the Paschen-Back regime. This makes it possible to laser cool neutral atomic qubits without destroying the quantum information stored in their nuclear spins, as shown in two examples, $^{171}$Yb and $^{87}$Sr.

id: quant-ph/0702121
title: Certainty and Uncertainty in Quantum Information Processing
authors: Eleanor G. Rieffel
comments: Invited paper accompanying invited talk to AAAI Spring Symposium 2007. Comments, corrections, and suggestions would be most welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702121
abstract: This survey, aimed at information processing researchers, highlights intriguing but lesser known results, corrects misconceptions, and suggests research areas. Themes include: certainty in quantum algorithms; the "fewer worlds" theory of quantum mechanics; quantum learning; probability theory versus quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0702122
title: Chirping a two-photon transition in a multi-state ladder
authors: Wolfgang Merkel, Holger Mack, Wolfgang P. Schleich, Eric Lutz, Gerhard G. Paulus, Bertrand Girard
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 76, 02 (2007) 023417
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702122
abstract: We consider a two-photon transition in a specific ladder system driven by a chirped laser pulse. In the weak field limit, we find that the excited state probability amplitude arises due to interference of multiple quantum paths which are weighted by quadratic phase factors. The excited state population has the form of a Gauss sum which plays a prominent role in number theory.

id: quant-ph/0702123
title: Subspace Confinement: How good is your qubit?
authors: Simon J. Devitt, Sonia G. Schirmer, Daniel K.L. Oi, Jared H. Cole, Lloyd C.L. Hollenberg
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures, accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 384 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702123
abstract: The basic operating element of standard quantum computation is the qubit, an isolated two-level system that can be accurately controlled, initialized and measured. However, the majority of proposed physical architectures for quantum computation are built from systems that contain much more complicated Hilbert space structures. Hence, defining a qubit requires the identification of an appropriate controllable two-dimensional sub-system. This prompts the obvious question of how well a qubit, thus defined, is confined to this subspace, and whether we can experimentally quantify the potential leakage into to states outside the qubit subspace. In this paper we demonstrate that subspace leakage can be quantitatively characterized using minimal theoretical assumptions by examining the Fourier spectrum of the Rabi oscillation experiment.

id: quant-ph/0702124
title: An Information-Theoretic Approach to Quantum Theory, I: The Abstract Quantum Formalism
authors: Philip Goyal
comments: 31 pages, 2 eps figures, revtex4. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702124
abstract: In this paper and a companion paper, we attempt to systematically investigate the possibility that the concept of information may enable a derivation of the quantum formalism from a set of physically comprehensible postulates. To do so, we formulate an abstract experimental set-up and a set of assumptions based on generalizations of experimental facts that can be reasonably taken to be representative of quantum phenomena, and on theoretical ideas and principles, and show that it is possible to deduce the quantum formalism. In particular, we show that it is possible to derive the abstract quantum formalism for finite-dimensional quantum systems and the formal relations, such as the canonical commutation relationships and Dirac's Poisson Bracket rule, that are needed to apply the abstract formalism to particular systems of interest. The concept of information, via an information-theoretic invariance principle, plays a key role in the derivation, and gives rise to some of the central structural features of the quantum formalism.

id: quant-ph/0702125
title: Probing quantum phases of ultracold atoms in optical lattices by transmission spectra in cavity QED
authors: Igor. B. Mekhov, Christoph Maschler, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Phys. 3, 319 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702125
abstract: Studies of ultracold atoms in optical lattices link various disciplines, providing a playground where fundamental quantum many-body concepts, formulated in condensed-matter physics, can be tested in much better controllable atomic systems, e.g., strongly correlated phases, quantum information processing. Standard methods to measure quantum properties of Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) are based on matter-wave interference between atoms released from traps which destroys the system. Here we propose a nondestructive method based on optical measurements, and prove that atomic statistics can be mapped on transmission spectra of a high-Q cavity. This can be extremely useful for studying phase transitions between Mott insulator and superfluid states, since various phases show qualitatively distinct light scattering. Joining the paradigms of cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) and ultracold gases will enable conceptually new investigations of both light and matter at ultimate quantum levels, which only recently became experimentally possible. Here we predict effects accessible in such novel setups.

id: quant-ph/0702126
title: Conditional generation of an arbitrary superposition of coherent states
authors: Masahiro Takeoka, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 064302 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702126
abstract: We present a scheme to conditionally generate an arbitrary superposition of a pair of coherent states from a squeezed vacuum by means of the modified photon subtraction where a coherent state ancilla and two on/off type detectors are used. We show that, even including realistic imperfections of the detectors, our scheme can generate a target state with a high fidelity. The amplitude of the generated states can be amplified by conditional homodyne detections.

id: quant-ph/0702127
title: Monogamy Inequality in terms of Negativity for Three-Qubit States
authors: Yong-Cheng Ou, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, minor modifications are made
journal: Physical Review A 75, 062308 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702127
abstract: We propose a new entanglement measure to quantify three qubits entanglement in terms of negativity. A monogamy inequality analogous to Coffman-Kundu-Wootters (CKW) inequality is established. This consequently leads to a definition of residual entanglement, which is referred to as three-$\pi$ in order to distinguish from three-tangle. The three-$\pi$ is proved to be a natural entanglement measure. By contrast to the three-tangle, it is shown that the three-$\pi$ always gives greater than zero values for $W$ and GHZ classes, implying there always exists three-way entanglement for them, and three-tangle generally underestimates three-way entanglement of a given system. This investigation will offer an alternative tool to understand genuine multipartite entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0702128
title: Structure of the photon and magnetic field induced birefringence and dichroism
authors: Juan Alberto Beswick, Carlo Rizzo
comments: 
journal: Annales Fond.Broglie 33:31-43,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702128
abstract: In this letter we show that the dichroism and ellipticity induced on a linear polarized light beam by the presence of a magnetic field in vacuum can be explained in the framework of the de Broglie's fusion model of a photon. In this model it is assumed that the usual photon is the spin 1 state of a particle-antiparticle bound state of two spin 1/2 fermions. The other S=0 state is referred to as the \emph{second} photon. On the other hand, since no charged particle neither particles having an electric dipole are considered, no effect is predicted in the presence of electric fields and this model is not in contradiction with star cooling data or solar axion search.

id: quant-ph/0702129
title: Quantum expanders and the quantum entropy difference problem
authors: Avraham Ben-Aroya, Amnon Ta-Shma
comments: 30 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702129
abstract: We define quantum expanders in a natural way. We show that under certain conditions classical expander constructions generalize to the quantum setting, and in particular so does the Lubotzky, Philips and Sarnak construction of Ramanujan expanders from Cayley graphs of the group PGL. We show that this definition is exactly what is needed for characterizing the complexity of estimating quantum entropies.

id: quant-ph/0702130
title: Detection loophole in asymmetric Bell experiments
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Nicolas Gisin, Valerio Scarani, Christoph Simon
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Main result unchanged, wrong corollary removed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 98, 220403 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702130
abstract: The problem of closing the detection loophole with asymmetric systems, such as entangled atom-photon pairs, is addressed. We show that, for the Bell inequality I_3322, a minimal detection efficiency of 43% can be tolerated for one of the particles, if the other one is always detected. We also study the influence of noise and discuss the prospects of experimental implementation.

id: quant-ph/0702131
title: Quantum Process Tomography: Resource Analysis of Different Strategies
authors: M. Mohseni, A. T. Rezakhani, D. A. Lidar
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032322 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702131
abstract: Characterization of quantum dynamics is a fundamental problem in quantum physics and quantum information science. Several methods are known which achieve this goal, namely Standard Quantum Process Tomography (SQPT), Ancilla-Assisted Process Tomography (AAPT), and the recently proposed scheme of Direct Characterization of Quantum Dynamics (DCQD). Here, we review these schemes and analyze them with respect to some of the physical resources they require. Although a reliable figure-of-merit for process characterization is not yet available, our analysis can provide a benchmark which is necessary for choosing the scheme that is the most appropriate in a given situation, with given resources. As a result, we conclude that for quantum systems where two-body interactions are not naturally available, SQPT is the most efficient scheme. However, for quantum systems with controllable two-body interactions, the DCQD scheme is more efficient than other known QPT schemes in terms of the total number of required elementary quantum operations.

id: quant-ph/0702132
title: Calibration of a single atom detector for atomic micro chips
authors: A. Stibor, S. Kraft, T. Campey, D. Komma, A. G¨¹nther, J. Fort¨¢gh, C. J. Vale, H. Rubinsztein-Dunlop, C. Zimmermann
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 033614 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702132
abstract: We experimentally investigate a scheme for detecting single atoms magnetically trapped on an atom chip. The detector is based on the photoionization of atoms and the subsequent detection of the generated ions. We describe the characterization of the ion detector with emphasis on its calibration via the correlation of ions with simultaneously generated electrons. A detection efficiency of 47.8% (+-2.6%) is measured, which is useful for single atom detection, and close to the limit allowing atom counting with sub-Poissonian uncertainty.

id: quant-ph/0702133
title: Cluster state quantum computation in coupled cavity arrays
authors: Dimitris G. Angelakis, Alastair Kay
comments: Updated version that includes cluster state fidelity calculation and protocol on minimizing the number of qubits neccesary for the implementation of any algorithm
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 023012.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702133
abstract: Measurement-based quantum computation has revolutionized quantum information processing, and the physical systems with which it can be implemented. One simply needs the ability to prepare a particular state, known as the cluster state, and subsequently to perform single-qubit measurements on it. Nevertheless, a scalable implementation is yet to be realized. Here we propose a hybrid light-matter system comprised of coupled cavities interacting with two level systems. Utilising the stable, individually addressable, qubits resulting from the localised long-lived atom-photon excitations, we demonstrate how to use the natural system dynamics to `weave' these qubits into a cluster state and propose the implementation of quantum algorithms employing just two rows of qubits. Finally, we briefly discuss the prospects for experimental implementation using atoms, quantum dots or Cooper pair boxes.

id: quant-ph/0702134
title: Qubit-Qubit and Qubit-Qutrit Separability Functions and Probabilities
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 36 pages, 3 figures; some new material included -- a quaternionic two-qubit example, a new set of simplified integration limits for two-qubit density matrices, and an analytically-derived (approximate) separability function containing incomplete beta functions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702134
abstract: We list in increasing order -- 1/3, 3/8, 2/5, 135 pi/1024, 16/(3 pi^2), 3 pi/16, 5/8, 105 pi/512, 2 - 435 pi/1024, 11/16, 1 -- a number of exact two-qubit Hilbert-Schmidt (HS) separability probabilities, we are able to compute. Each probability corresponds to a specific scenario -- a class of 4 x 4 density matrices (rho) with an m-subset (m<6) of its six off-diagonal pairs of symmetrically located entries set to zero. Initially, we consider only scenarios in which the (6-m) non-nullified pairs are real, but then permit them to be complex (as well as quaternionic) in nature also. The general analytical strategy we implement is based on the Bloore density matrix parameterization (J. Phys. A, 9, 2059 [1976]), allowing us to conveniently reduce the dimensionalities of required integrations. For each scenario, we identify a certain univariate ``separability function'' S_{scenario}(nu), where nu = rho_{11} rho_{44}/(rho_{22} rho_{33}). The integral over nu in [0,infty] of the product of this function with a scenario-specific (marginal) jacobian function J_{scenario}(nu) yields the HS {separable} volume (V^{HS}_{sep}). The ratio of V^{HS}_{sep} to the HS total (entangled and non-entangled) volume, gives us the HS scenario-specific separability probability. Among the possible forms that we have so far determined for S_{scenario}(nu) are piecewise combinations of c, c sqrt{nu} and c nu for nu in [0,1] and (in a dual manner) c, c/sqrt{nu} and c/nu for nu in [1,infty]. We also obtain bivariate separability functions S_{scenario)^{6 x 6}(nu_{1},nu_{2}} in the qubit-qutrit case, involving 6 x 6 density matrices, with ratio variables, nu_{1}= rho_{11} rho_{55}/(rho_{22} rho_{44}), and nu_{2}= rho_{22} rho_{66}/(rho_{33} rho_{55}). Additionally, we investigate parallel two-qutrit and three-qubit problems.

id: quant-ph/0702135
title: The Quantum Measurement Process: Lessons from an Exactly Solvable Model
authors: Armen E. Allahverdyan, Roger Balian, Theo M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 13 pages, discussion of pre-measurement added. World Scientific style. To appear in proceedings "Beyond The Quantum", Th.M. Nieuwenhuizen et al, eds, (World Scientific, 2007)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702135
abstract: The measurement of a spin-$\half$ is modeled by coupling it to an apparatus, that consists of an Ising magnetic dot coupled to a phonon bath. Features of quantum measurements are derived from the dynamical solution of the measurement, regarded as a process of quantum statistical mechanics. Schr\"odinger cat terms involving both the system and the apparatus, die out very quickly, while the registration is a process taking the apparatus from its initially metastable state to one of its stable final states. The occurrence of Born probabilities can be inferred at the macroscopic level, by looking at the pointer alone. Apparent non-unitary behavior of the measurement process is explained by the arisal of small many particle correlations, that characterize relaxation.

id: quant-ph/0702136
title: Remarks on the equivalence of full additivity and monotonicity for the entanglement cost
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Michal Horodecki, Martin B. Plenio, Shashank Virmani
comments: 3 and a bit sides
journal: Open Sys. Inf. Dyn., 14, page 333 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702136
abstract: We analyse the relationship between the full additivity of the entanglement cost and its full monotonicity under local operations and classical communication. We show that the two properties are equivalent for the entanglement cost. The proof works for the regularization of any convex, subadditive, and asymptotically continuous entanglement monotone, and hence also applies to the asymptotic relative entropy of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0702137
title: Nonclassicality of quantum excitation of classical coherent fields in thermal environments
authors: Shang-Bin Li, Justin Liu, Xu-Bo Zou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, three references are added, and a brief discussion of the possible applications of SPACSs in quantum information processes has been added; Accepted by JOSA B
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 25, 54 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702137
abstract: The nonclassicality of photon-added coherent fields in the thermal channel is investigated by exploring the volume of the negative part of the Wigner function which reduces with the dissipative time. The Wigner functions become positive when the decay time exceeds a threshold value. For the case of the single photon-added coherent state, we derive the exact threshold values of decay time in the thermal channel. For arbitrary partial negative Wigner distribution function, a generic analytical relation between the mean photon number of heat bath and the threshold value of decay time is presented. Finally, the possible application of SPACSs in quantum computation has been briefly discussed. OCIS codes: 270.0270, 270.2500, 000.5490

id: quant-ph/0702138
title: Quantum non-demolition measurement of photon-arrival using an atom-cavity system
authors: Kunihiro Kojima, Akihisa Tomita
comments: 12pages, 4figures, Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032320 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702138
abstract: A simple and efficient quantum non-demolition measurement (QND) scheme is proposed in which the arrival of a signal photon is detected without affecting the qubit state. The proposed QND scheme functions even if the ancillary photon is replaced with weak light composed of vacuum and one-photon states. Although the detection scheme is designed for entanglement sharing applications, it is also suitable for general purification of a single photon state.

id: quant-ph/0702139
title: Observation of -9 dB quadrature squeezing with improvement of phase stability in homodyne measurement
authors: Yuishi Takeno, Mitsuyoshi Yukawa, Hidehiro Yonezawa, Akira Furusawa
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express 15, 4321 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702139
abstract: We observe -9.01$\pm$0.14 dB of squeezing and +15.12$\pm$0.14 dB of antisqueezing with a local oscillator phase locked in homodyne measurement. In reference [1], two main factors are pointed out which degrade the observed squeezing level: phase fluctuation in homodyne measurement and intracavity losses of an optical parametric oscillator for squeezing. We have improved the phase stability of homodyne measurement and have reduced the intracavity losses. We measure pump power dependences of the squeezing and antisqueezing levels, which show good agreement with theoretical calculations taking account of the phase fluctuation.

id: quant-ph/0702140
title: Slowing the Decay of an Excited Atom by the Presence of a Detector
authors: D. R. Fredkin, Amiram Ron
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702140
abstract: The decay of an excited is shown to slow down in the presence of a photo detector. This is similar to the behavior of an atom in a mistuned cavity, and under the conditions of the quantum Zeno effect. No external perturbing field is applied to measure the survival probability of the unstable state.

id: quant-ph/0702141
title: Exact solutions of the radial Schrodinger equation for some physical potentials
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 13 pages
journal: CentralEur.J.Phys.5:516,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702141
abstract: By using an ansatz for the eigenfunction, we have obtained the exact analytical solutions of the radial Schrodinger equation for the pseudoharmonic and Kratzer potentials in two dimensions. The energy levels of all the bound states are easily calculated from this eigenfunction ansatz. The normalized wavefunctions are also obtained.

id: quant-ph/0702142
title: Strong-field spatial intensity-intensity correlations of light scattered from regular structures of atoms
authors: M. Macovei, J. Evers, C. H. Keitel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702142
abstract: Photon correlations and cross-correlations of light scattered by a regular structure of strongly driven atoms are investigated. At strong driving, the scattered light separates into distinct spectral bands, such that each band can be treated as independent, thus extending the set of observables. We focus on second-order intensity-intensity correlation functions in two- and multi-atom systems. We demonstrate that for a single two-photon detector as, e.g., in lithography, increasing the driving field intensity leads to an increased spatial resolution of the second-order two-atom interference pattern. We show that the cross-correlations between photons emitted in the spectral sidebands violate Cauchy-Schwartz inequalities, and that their emission ordering cannot be predicted. Finally, the results are generalized for multi-particle structures, where we find results different from those in a Dicke-type sample.

id: quant-ph/0702143
title: On the Threshold for the Pair Production and Localization of Spinless Particles
authors: Tatiana R. Cardoso, Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 12 pages, in Portuguese
journal: Rev.Bras.Ens.Fis.29:203-208,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702143
abstract: The one-dimensional Klein-Gordon equation is investigated with the most general Lorentz structure for the external potentials. The analysis of the scattering of particles in a step potential with an arbitrary mixing of vector and scalar couplings reveals that the scalar coupling contributes for increasing the threshold energy for the particle-antiparticle pair production. Furthermore, it is shown that the pair production is only feasible whether the vector coupling exceeds the scalar one. An apparent paradox concerning the localization of a particle in an arbitrarily small region of space, due to the presence of the scalar coupling, is solved by introducing the concept of effective Compton wavelength.

id: quant-ph/0702144
title: A Quantum Algorithm for the Hamiltonian NAND Tree
authors: E. Farhi, J. Goldstone, S. Gutmann
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures, v2 with run time improved to sqrt N by slight sharpening of estimates in section 3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702144
abstract: We give a quantum algorithm for the binary NAND tree problem in the Hamiltonian oracle model. The algorithm uses a continuous time quantum walk with a run time proportional to sqrt N. We also show a lower bound of sqrt N for the NAND tree problem in the Hamiltonian oracle model.

id: quant-ph/0702145
title: On the consistency in the adiabatic theorem and quantum geometric phase
authors: Hua-Zhong Li
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702145
abstract: The recent discovery of inconsistency (MS inconsistency) in the adiabatic approximation is discussed. In particular, the so-called, inconsistency in Berry phase is analyzed. On the contrary to some authors, we found that the MS inconsistency persisted and the so-called inconsistency in Berry phase does not exist.

id: quant-ph/0702146
title: A Quantum Scattering Interferometer
authors: Russell A. Hart, Xinye Xu, Ronald Legere, Kurt Gibble
comments: Corrected formatting and typos
journal: Nature 446, 892-895 (19 April 2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702146
abstract: The collision of two ultra-cold atoms results in a quantum-mechanical superposition of two outcomes: each atom continues without scattering and each atom scatters as a spherically outgoing wave with an s-wave phase shift. The magnitude of the s-wave phase shift depends very sensitively on the interaction between the atoms. Quantum scattering and the underlying phase shifts are vitally important in many areas of contemporary atomic physics, including Bose-Einstein condensates, degenerate Fermi gases, frequency shifts in atomic clocks, and magnetically-tuned Feshbach resonances. Precise measurements of quantum scattering phase shifts have not been possible until now because, in scattering experiments, the number of scattered atoms depends on the s-wave phase shifts as well as the atomic density, which cannot be measured precisely. Here we demonstrate a fundamentally new type of scattering experiment that interferometrically detects the quantum scattering phase shifts of individual atoms. By performing an atomic clock measurement using only the scattered part of each atom, we directly and precisely measure the difference of the s-wave phase shifts for the two clock states in a density independent manner. Our method will give the most direct and precise measurements of ultracold atom-atom interactions and will place stringent limits on the time variations of fundamental constants.

id: quant-ph/0702147
title: Optimal control of quantum gates and suppression of decoherence in a system of interacting two-level particles
authors: Matthew Grace, Constantin Brif, Herschel Rabitz, Ian A. Walmsley, Robert L. Kosut, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: IOP LaTeX, 10 figures, 29 pages; Accepted for publication in the Special Issue of the Journal of Physics B on Dynamical Control of Entanglement and Decoherence by Field-Matter Interactions
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 40, S103-S125 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702147
abstract: Methods of optimal control are applied to a model system of interacting two-level particles (e.g., spin-half atomic nuclei or electrons or two-level atoms) to produce high-fidelity quantum gates while simultaneously negating the detrimental effect of decoherence. One set of particles functions as the quantum information processor, whose evolution is controlled by a time-dependent external field. The other particles are not directly controlled and serve as an effective environment, coupling to which is the source of decoherence. The control objective is to generate target one- and two-qubit unitary gates in the presence of strong environmentally-induced decoherence and under physically motivated restrictions on the control field. The quantum-gate fidelity, expressed in terms of a novel state-independent distance measure, is maximized with respect to the control field using combined genetic and gradient algorithms. The resulting high-fidelity gates demonstrate the feasibility of precisely guiding the quantum evolution via optimal control, even when the system complexity is exacerbated by environmental coupling. It is found that the gate duration has an important effect on the control mechanism and resulting fidelity. An analysis of the sensitivity of the gate performance to random variations in the system parameters reveals a significant degree of robustness attained by the optimal control solutions.

id: quant-ph/0702148
title: Quantum Mechanics with Complex Time : A Comment to the Paper by Rajeev
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex ; 7 pages ; 1 figure. A draft prepared for the coming Numazu Meeting (6-8/March/2007)
journal: The Bulletin of Yokohama City University, 58(2007) 49-54
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702148
abstract: In (quant-ph/0701141) Rajeev studied quantization of the damped simple harmonic oscillator and introduced a complex-valued Hamiltonian (which is normal). In this note we point out that the quantization is interpreted as a quantum mechanics with {\bf complex time}. We also present a problem on quantization of classical control systems.

id: quant-ph/0702149
title: An Information-Theoretic Approach to Quantum Theory, II: The Formal Rules of Quantum Theory
authors: Philip Goyal
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures, revtex4. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702149
abstract: In a companion paper (hereafter referred to as Paper I), we have presented an attempt to derive the finite-dimensional abstract quantum formalism from a set of physically comprehensible assumptions. In this paper, we formulate a correspondence principle, the Average-Value Correspondence Principle, that allows relations between measurement outcomes which are known to hold in a classical model of a system to be systematically taken over into the quantum model of the system. Using this principle, we derive the explicit form of the temporal evolution operator (thereby completing the derivation of the abstract quantum formalism begun in Paper I), and derive many of the formal rules (such as operator rules, commutation relations, and Dirac's Poisson bracket rule) that are needed to apply the abstract quantum formalism to model particular physical systems.

id: quant-ph/0702150
title: The Bell bases decomposition of a general N-qubit state Teleportation through a non-maximally entangled quantum channel
authors: Xiu-Lao Tian, Xiao-Qiang Xi
comments: Comments are welcome; txl@xiyou.edu.cn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702150
abstract: We propose a method of the Bell bases decomposition to teleport an arbitrary unknown N-qubit state through a nonmaximally entangled quantum channel, and give the universal decomposition matrix of N-qubit. Using the decomposition matrix, we can easily obtain the collapsed state at the receiver site. The inverse matrix that the decomposition matrix is just the transformation matrix that the receiver can manipulate. The decomposition matrix is a function of the parameters of the quantum channel. After defining the sub-matrix of the quantum channel, we find that the decomposition matrix is a tensor product of the sub-matrixes.

id: quant-ph/0702151
title: A search on Dirac equation
authors: M Kocak, B Gonul
comments: 9 pages
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 24 (2007) 3024
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702151
abstract: The solutions, in terms of orthogonal polynomials, of Dirac equation with analytically solvable potentials are investigated within a novel formalism by transforming the relativistic equation into a Schrodinger like one. Earlier results are discussed in a unified framework and certain solutions of a large class of potentials are given.

id: quant-ph/0702152
title: Device-independent security of quantum cryptography against collective attacks
authors: Antonio Acin, Nicolas Brunner, Nicolas Gisin, Serge Massar, Stefano Pironio, Valerio Scarani
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. v2: minor modifications
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 230501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702152
abstract: We present the optimal collective attack on a Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) protocol in the "device-independent" security scenario, where no assumptions are made about the way the QKD devices work or on what quantum system they operate. Our main result is a tight bound on the Holevo information between one of the authorized parties and the eavesdropper, as a function of the amount of violation of a Bell-type inequality.

id: quant-ph/0702153
title: Catalytic majorization and $\ell_p$ norms
authors: Guillaume Aubrun, Ion Nechita
comments: 
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics 278 (2008) 133-144
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702153
abstract: An important problem in quantum information theory is the mathematical characterization of the phenomenon of quantum catalysis: when can the surrounding entanglement be used to perform transformations of a jointly held quantum state under LOCC (local operations and classical communication) ? Mathematically, the question amounts to describe, for a fixed vector $y$, the set $T(y)$ of vectors $x$ such that we have $x \otimes z \prec y \otimes z$ for some $z$, where $\prec$ denotes the standard majorization relation. Our main result is that the closure of $T(y)$ in the $\ell_1$ norm can be fully described by inequalities on the $\ell_p$ norms: $\|x\|_p \leq \|y\|_p$ for all $p \geq 1$. This is a first step towards a complete description of $T(y)$ itself. It can also be seen as a $\ell_p$-norm analogue of Ky Fan dominance theorem about unitarily invariant norms. The proofs exploits links with another quantum phenomenon: the possibiliy of multiple-copy transformations ($x^{\otimes n} \prec y^{\otimes n}$ for given $n$). The main new tool is a variant of Cram\'er$ theorem on large deviations for sums of i.i.d. random variables.

id: quant-ph/0702154
title: Asymptotics of random density matrices
authors: Ion Nechita
comments: 
journal: Pacific Journal of Mathematics 8, 8 (2007) 1521-1538
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702154
abstract: We investigate random density matrices obtained by partial tracing larger random pure states. We show that there is a strong connection between these random density matrices and the Wishart ensemble of random matrix theory. We provide asymptotic results on the behavior of the eigenvalues of random density matrices, including convergence of the empirical spectral measure. We also study the largest eigenvalue (almost sure convergence and fluctuations).

id: quant-ph/0702155
title: Entanglement purification with two-way classical communication
authors: Alan W. Leung, Peter W. Shor
comments: 10 pages with 4 figures, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702155
abstract: We present an improved protocol for entanglement purification of bipartite mixed states. The protocol requires two-way classical communication and hence implies an improved lower bound on the quantum capacity with two-way classical communication of the quantum depolarizing channel.

id: quant-ph/0702156
title: Adaptive Entanglement Purification Protocols with Two-way Classical Communication
authors: Alan W. Leung, Peter W. Shor
comments: 4 pages with 7 figures, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702156
abstract: We present a family of entanglement purification protocols that generalize four previous methods, namely the recurrence method, the modified recurrence method, and the two methods proposed by Maneva-Smolin and Leung-Shor. We will show that this family of protocols have improved yields over a wide range of initial fidelities F, and hence imply new lower bounds on the quantum capacity assisted by two-way classical communication of the quantum depolarizing channel. In particular, the yields of these protocols are higher than the yield of universal hashing for F less than 0.993 and as F goes to 1.

id: quant-ph/0702157
title: Quantum Mechanical Heat Transport in Disordered Harmonic Chains
authors: Christopher Gaul, Helmut B¨¹ttner
comments: 12 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 76, 011111 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702157
abstract: We investigate the mechanism of heat conduction in ordered and disordered harmonic onedimensional chains within the quantum mechanical Langevin method. In the case of the disordered chains we find indications for normal heat conduction which means that there is a finite temperature gradient but we cannot clearly decide whether the heat resistance increases linearly with the chain length. Furthermore we observe characteristic quantum mechanical features like Bose-Einstein statistics of the occupation numbers of the normal modes, freezing of the heat conductivity and the influence of the entanglement within the chain on the current. For the ordered chain we recover some classical results like a vanishing temperature gradient and a heat flux independent of the length of the chain.

id: quant-ph/0702158
title: Quantum entropy dynamics for chaotic systems beyond the classical limit
authors: Arnaldo Gammal, Arjendu K. Pattanayak
comments: 4 pages, 2 figs. Phys Rev E (to appear)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702158
abstract: The entropy production rate for an open quantum system with a classically chaotic limit has been previously argued to be independent of $\hbar$ and $D$, the parameter denoting coupling to the environment, and to be equal to the sum of generalized Lyapunov exponents, with these results applying in the near-classical regime. We present results for a specific system going well beyond earlier work, considering how these dynamics are altered for the Duffing problem by changing $\hbar,D$ and show that the entropy dynamics have a transition from classical to quantum behavior that scales, at least for a finite time, as a function of $\hbar^2/D$.

id: quant-ph/0702159
title: Photoionization and Photoelectric Loading of Barium Ion Traps
authors: A.V. Steele, L. R. Churchill, P. F. Griffin, M. S. Chapman
comments: 5 pages, Accepted to PRA 3/20/2007 -fixed typo -clarified figure 3 caption -added reference [15]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702159
abstract: Simple and effective techniques for loading barium ions into linear Paul traps are demonstrated. Two-step photoionization of neutral barium is achieved using a weak intercombination line (6s2 1S0 <-> 6s6p 3P1, 791 nm) followed by excitation above the ionization threshold using a nitrogen gas laser (337 nm). Isotopic selectivity is achieved by using a near Doppler-free geometry for excitation of the triplet 6s6p 3P1 state. Additionally, we report a particularly simple and efficient trap loading technique that employs an in-expensive UV epoxy curing lamp to generate photoelectrons.

id: quant-ph/0702160
title: Discrete-query quantum algorithm for NAND trees
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Richard Cleve, Stephen P. Jordan, David Yeung
comments: 2 pages
journal: Theory of Computing, Vol. 5 (2009) 119-123
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702160
abstract: Recently, Farhi, Goldstone, and Gutmann gave a quantum algorithm for evaluating NAND trees that runs in time O(sqrt(N log N)) in the Hamiltonian query model. In this note, we point out that their algorithm can be converted into an algorithm using O(N^{1/2 + epsilon}) queries in the conventional quantum query model, for any fixed epsilon > 0.

id: quant-ph/0702161
title: Decoherence of two qubit systems: A random matrix description
authors: C. Pineda, T. Gorin, T. H. Seligman
comments: 32 pages, 11 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 106,(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702161
abstract: We study decoherence of two non-interacting qubits. The environment and its interaction with the qubits are modelled by random matrices. Decoherence, measured in terms of purity, is calculated in linear response approximation. Monte Carlo simulations illustrate the validity of this approximation and of its extension by exponentiation. The results up to this point are also used to study one qubit decoherence. Purity decay of entangled and product states are qualitatively similar though for the latter case it is slower. Numerical studies for a Bell pair as initial state reveal a one to one correspondence between its decoherence and its internal entanglement decay. For strong and intermediate coupling to the environment this correspondence agrees with the one for Werner states. In the limit of a large environment the evolution induces a unital channel in the two qubits, providing a partial explanation for the relation above.

id: quant-ph/0702162
title: Trapping and observing single atoms in the dark
authors: T. Puppe, I. Schuster, A. Grothe, A. Kubanek, K. Murr, P.W.H. Pinkse, G. Rempe
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 013002 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702162
abstract: A single atom strongly coupled to a cavity mode is stored by three-dimensional confinement in blue-detuned cavity modes of different longitudinal and transverse order. The vanishing light intensity at the trap center reduces the light shift of all atomic energy levels. This is exploited to detect a single atom by means of a dispersive measurement with 95% confidence in 0.010 ms, limited by the photon-detection efficiency. As the atom switches resonant cavity transmission into cavity reflection, the atom can be detected while scattering about one photon.

id: quant-ph/0702163
title: Selective Rotational Excitation of Molecular Isotopes and Nuclear Spin Isomers
authors: Sharly Fleischer, Ilya. Sh. Averbukh, Yehiam Prior
comments: 23 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702163
abstract: Following excitation by a strong ultra-short laser pulse, molecules develop coordinated rotational motion, exhibiting transient alignment along the direction of the laser electric field, followed by periodic full and fractional revivals that depend on the molecular rotational constants. In mixtures, the different species undergo similar rotational dynamics, all starting together but evolving differently with each demonstrating its own periodic revival cycles. For a bimolecular mixture of linear molecules, at predetermined times, one species may attain a maximally aligned state while the other is anti-aligned (i.e. molecular axes are confined in a plane perpendicular to the laser electric field direction). By a properly timed second laser pulse, the rotational excitation of the undesired species may be almost completely removed leaving only the desired species to rotate and periodically realign, thus facilitating further selective manipulations by polarized light. In this paper, such double excitation schemes are demonstrated for mixtures of molecular isotopes (isotopologues) and for nuclear spin isomers.

id: quant-ph/0702164
title: Non-universal level statistics in a chaotic quantum spin chain
authors: Carlos Pineda, Toma? Prosen
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 76, 061127 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702164
abstract: We study the level statistics of an interacting multi-qubit system, namely the kicked Ising spin chain, in the regime of quantum chaos. Long range quasi-energy level statistics show effects analogous to the ones observed in semi-classical systems due to the presence of classical periodic orbits, while short range level statistics display perfect statistical agreement with random matrix theory. Even though our system possesses no classical limit, our result suggest existence of an important non-universal system specific behavior at short time scale, which clearly goes beyond finite size effects in random matrix theory.

id: quant-ph/0702165
title: Violation of Bell's inequality using classical measurements and non-linear local operations
authors: Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, Hyunseok Jeong, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052105 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702165
abstract: We find that Bell's inequality can be significantly violated (up to Tsirelson's bound) with two-mode entangled coherent states using only homodyne measurements. This requires Kerr nonlinear interactions for local operations on the entangled coherent states. Our example is a demonstration of Bell-inequality violations using classical measurements. We conclude that entangled coherent states with coherent amplitudes as small as 0.842 are sufficient to produce such violations.

id: quant-ph/0702166
title: Global information balance in quantum measurements
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Masahito Hayashi, Michal Horodecki
comments: Final version to appear on Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 210504 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702166
abstract: We perform an information-theoretical analysis of quantum measurement processes and obtain the global information balance in quantum measurements, in the form of a closed chain equation for quantum mutual entropies. Our balance provides a tight and general entropic information-disturbance trade-off, and explains the physical mechanism underlying it. Finally, the single-outcome case, that is, the case of measurements with post-selection, is briefly discussed.

id: quant-ph/0702167
title: Quantum Game Theory Based on the Schmidt Decomposition
authors: Tsubasa Ichikawa, Izumi Tsutsui, Taksu Cheon
comments: 40 pages, 9 figures, PlainTeX
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 41 (2008) 135303 (29p)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702167
abstract: We present a novel formulation of quantum game theory based on the Schmidt decomposition, which has the merit that the entanglement of quantum strategies is manifestly quantified. We apply this formulation to 2-player, 2-strategy symmetric games and obtain a complete set of quantum Nash equilibria. Apart from those available with the maximal entanglement, these quantum Nash equilibria are extensions of the Nash equilibria in classical game theory. The phase structure of the equilibria is determined for all values of entanglement, and thereby the possibility of resolving the dilemmas by entanglement in the game of Chicken, the Battle of the Sexes, the Prisoners' Dilemma, and the Stag Hunt, is examined. We find that entanglement transforms these dilemmas with each other but cannot resolve them, except in the Stag Hunt game where the dilemma can be alleviated to a certain degree.

id: quant-ph/0702168
title: Enhanced Spontaneous Emission Into The Mode Of A Cavity QED System
authors: M. L. Terraciano, R. Olson Knell, D. L. Freimund, L. A. Orozco, J. P. Clemens, P. R. Rice
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, to appear in May 2007 Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702168
abstract: We study the light generated by spontaneous emission into a mode of a cavity QED system under weak excitation of the orthogonally polarized mode. Operating in the intermediate regime of cavity QED with comparable coherent and decoherent coupling constants, we find an enhancement of the emission into the undriven cavity mode by more than a factor of 18.5 over that expected by the solid angle subtended by the mode. A model that incorporates three atomic levels and two polarization modes quantitatively explains the observations.

id: quant-ph/0702169
title: Quantum wavefunction annealing of spin glasses
authors: Javier Rodriguez-Laguna
comments: Accepted for publication in JSTAT
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2007) P05008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702169
abstract: A technique inspired on quantum annealing is proposed in order to obtain the classical ground state of a spin-glass by tracking the full wavefunction of a given system within the subspace of matrix product states (MPS), using the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG). The technique is exemplified within the problem of obtention of the classical ground state of an Ising spin glass on ladder geometries. Its performance is evaluated and related to the entanglement entropy.

id: quant-ph/0702170
title: Quantum states for Heisenberg-limited interferometry
authors: H. Uys, P. Meystre
comments: Published version, Updated discussion on N00N states, 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 76, 013804, (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702170
abstract: The phase resolution of interferometers is limited by the so-called Heisenberg limit, which states that the optimum phase sensitivity is inversely proportional to the number of interfering particles N, a 1/sqrt{N} improvement over the standard quantum limit. We have used simulated annealing, a global optimization strategy, to systematically search for quantum interferometer input states that approach the Heisenberg limited uncertainty in estimates of the interferometer phase shift. We compare the performance of these states to that of other non-classical states already known to yield Heisenberg limited uncertainty.

id: quant-ph/0702171
title: Why quantum dynamics is linear
authors: Thomas F. Jordan
comments: From talks, 15 pages
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.196:012010,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702171
abstract: Quantum dynamics is linear. How do we know? From theory or experiment? The history of this question is reviewed. Nonlinear generalizations of quantum mechanics have been proposed. They predict small but clear nonlinear effects, which very accurate experiments have not seen. Is there a reason in principle why nonlinearity is not found? Is it impossible? Does quantum dynamics have to be linear? Attempts to prove this have not been decisive, because either their assumptions are not compelling or their arguments are not conclusive. The question has been left unsettled. There is a simple answer, based on a simple assumption. It was found in two steps separated by 44 years. They are steps back to simpler and more compelling assumptions. A proof of the assumptions of the Wigner-Bargmann proof has been known since 1962. It assumes that the maps of density matrices in time are linear. For this step, it is also assumed that density matrices are mapped one-to-one onto density matrices. An alternative is to assume that pure states are mapped one-to-one onto pure states and that entropy does not decrease. In a step taken in 2006, it is proved that the maps of density matrices in time are linear. It is assumed, as in the earlier step, that at each time the physical quantities and states are described by the usual linear structures of quantum mechanics, so the question is only about how things change in time. Beyond that, the proof assumes only that the dynamics does not depend on anything outside the system, but must allow the system to be described as part of a larger system.

id: quant-ph/0702172
title: Quantum Entanglement dependence on bifurcations and scars in non autonomous systems. The case of Quantum Kicked Top
authors: George Stamatiou, Demetris P.K. Ghikas
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures in separate ps files, submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702172
abstract: Properties related to entanglement in quantum systems, are known to be associated with distinct properties of the corresponding classical systems, as for example stability, integrability and chaos. This means that the detailed topology, both local and global, of the classical phase space may reveal, or influence, the entangling power of the quantum system. As it has been shown in the literature, the bifurcation points, in autonomous dynamical systems, play a crucial role for the onset of entanglement. Similarly, the existence of scars among the quantum states seems to be a factor in the dynamics of entanglement. Here we study these issues for a non-autonomous system, the Quantum Kicked Top, as a collective model of a multi-qubit system. Using the bifurcation diagram of the corresponding classical limit (the Classical Kicked Top), we analyzed the pair-wise and the bi-partite entanglement of the qubits and their relation to scars, as a function of the critical parameter of the system. We found that the pair-wise entanglement and pair-wise negativity show a strong maximum precisely at the bifurcation points, while the bi-partite entanglement changes slope at these points. We have also investigated the connection between entanglement and the fixed points on the branch of the bifurcation diagram between the two first bifurcation points and we found that the entanglement measures take their extreme values precisely on these points. We conjecture that our results on this behaviour of entanglement is generic for many quantum systems with a non-linear classical analogue.

id: quant-ph/0702173
title: Krawtchouk matrices from classical and quantum random walks
authors: Philip Feinsilver, Jerzy Kocik
comments: There is a notational change (from Phi to K) from the published version
journal: Contemporary Mathematics, Volume 287 (2001) 83-96
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702173
abstract: Krawtchouk's polynomials occur classically as orthogonal polynomials with respect to the binomial distribution. They may be also expressed in the form of matrices, that emerge as arrays of the values that the polynomials take. The algebraic properties of these matrices provide a very interesting and accessible example in the approach to probability theory known as quantum probability. First it is noted how the Krawtchouk matrices are connected to the classical symmetric Bernoulli random walk. And we show how to derive Krawtchouk matrices in the quantum probability context via tensor powers of the elementary Hadamard matrix. Then connections with the classical situation are shown by calculating expectation values in the quantum case.

id: quant-ph/0702174
title: Non-monotonicity in the quantum-classical transition: Chaos induced by quantum effects
authors: Arie Kapulkin, Arjendu K. Pattanayak
comments: 4 pages; presentation modified significantly to demonstrate that quantum effects are indeed responsible for the `anomalous' chaos. 2 figures added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702174
abstract: The transition from classical to quantum behavior for chaotic systems is understood to be accompanied by the suppression of chaotic effects as the relative size of $\hbar$ is increased. We show evidence to the contrary in the behavior of the quantum trajectory dynamics of a dissipative quantum chaotic system, the double-well Duffing oscillator. The classical limit in the case considered has regular behavior, but as the effective $\hbar$ is increased we see chaotic behavior. This chaos then disappears deeper into the quantum regime, which means that the quantum-classical transition in this case is non-monotonic in $\hbar$.

id: quant-ph/0702175
title: On the Transport of Atomic Ions in Linear and Multidimensional Ion Trap Arrays
authors: D. Hucul, M. Yeo, W.K. Hensinger, J. Rabchuk, S. Olmschenk, C. Monroe
comments: 72 pages, 35 figures. to appear in the Journal of Quantum Information and Computation, vol 8, no. 6&7, pg. 501 (2008)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702175
abstract: Trapped atomic ions have become one of the most promising architectures for a quantum computer, and current effort is now devoted to the transport of trapped ions through complex segmented ion trap structures in order to scale up to much larger numbers of trapped ion qubits. This paper covers several important issues relevant to ion transport in any type of complex multidimensional rf (Paul) ion trap array. We develop a general theoretical framework for the application of time-dependent electric fields to shuttle laser-cooled ions along any desired trajectory, and describe a method for determining the effect of arbitrary shuttling schedules on the quantum state of trapped ion motion. In addition to the general case of linear shuttling over short distances, we introduce issues particular to the shuttling through multidimensional junctions, which are required for the arbitrary control of the positions of large arrays of trapped ions. This includes the transport of ions around a corner, through a cross or T junction, and the swapping of positions of multiple ions in a laser-cooled crystal. Where possible, we make connections to recent experimental results in a multidimensional T junction trap, where arbitrary 2-dimensional transport was realized.

id: quant-ph/0702176
title: Quantum theory of degenerate $¦Ö^{(3)}$ two-photon state
authors: Jun Chen, Kim Fook Lee, Prem Kumar
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702176
abstract: We developed a quantum theory for degenerate $\chi^{(3)}$ two-photon state generated from optical fiber, and compared the theory predictions with an experimental result which exhibits a Hong-Ou-Mandel dip visibility of around 94%. Excellent agreement between theory and experiment has been achieved, and we attribute the missing 6% visibility mainly to spatial mode mismatch between signal and idler photons at the beamsplitter.

id: quant-ph/0702177
title: Total correlations as fully additive entanglement monotones
authors: Gerardo A. Paz-Silva, John H. Reina
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Title changed, new results
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 055306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702177
abstract: We generalize the strategy presented in Refs. [1, 2], and propose general conditions for a measure of total correlations to be an entanglement monotone using its pure (and mixed) convex-roof extension. In so doing, we derive crucial theorems and propose a concrete candidate for a total correlations measure which is a fully additive entanglement monotone.

id: quant-ph/0702178
title: Resonances of Multichannel Systems
authors: Alexander K. Motovilov
comments: Based on a talk presented at the UNISA-JINR Symposium "Models and Methods in Few- and Many-Body Systems" (6-9 February 2007, Skukuza, Kruger National Park, South Africa
journal: Models and Methods in Few- and Many-Body Systems. Proc. of the DST-UNISA-JINR Symposium/Ed.: S.A.Sofianos (UNISA Press, Pretoria 2007), pp. 136--150
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702178
abstract: We describe structure of the T-matrices, scattering matrices, and Green functions on unphysical energy sheets in multichannel scattering problems with binary channels and in the three-body problem. Based on the explicit representations obtained for the values of T- and S-matrices on the unphysical sheets, we prove that the resonances belonging to an unphysical sheet are just those energies where the correspondingly truncated scattering matrix, taken in the physical sheet, has eigenvalue zero. We show, in addition, that eigenvectors of the truncated scattering matrix associated with its zero eigenvalue are formed of the breakup amplitudes for the respective resonant states.

id: quant-ph/0702179
title: Groverian Entanglement Measure of Pure Quantum States with Arbitrary Partitions
authors: Yishai Shimoni, Ofer Biham
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 75, 022308(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702179
abstract: The Groverian entanglement measure of pure quantum states of $n$ qubits is generalized to the case in which the qubits are divided into any $m \le n$ parties and the entanglement between these parties is evaluated. To demonstrate this measure we apply it to general states of three qubits and to symmetric states with any number of qubits such as the Greenberg-Horne-Zeiliner state and the W state.

id: quant-ph/0702180
title: Dihedral symmetry of periodic chain: quantization and coherent states
authors: P. Luft, G. Chadzitaskos, J. Tolar
comments: 13 pages; minor changes of the text
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007), 4833-4845
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702180
abstract: Our previous work on quantum kinematics and coherent states over finite configuration spaces is extended: the configuration space is, as before, the cyclic group Z_n of arbitrary order n=2,3,..., but a larger group - the non-Abelian dihedral group D_n - is taken as its symmetry group. The corresponding group related coherent states are constructed and their overcompleteness proved. Our approach based on geometric symmetry can be used as a kinematic framework for matrix methods in quantum chemistry of ring molecules.

id: quant-ph/0702181
title: Stationary states in a potential well
authors: H.C. Rosu, J.L. Moran-Lopez
comments: 40 pages, 9 figures, prepared as a book chapter, last section on BICs could be not only of historic interest
journal: Encyclopedia of Life Support Systems, UNESCO, EOLSS Publishers, England, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702181
abstract: We review here in a historical context the topic of stationary states in the quantum world, including the generalization to the primary ideas. We also discuss the stationary states in one dimensional parabolic wells and the three dimensional Coulomb and parabolic cases, as well as the stationary bound states in the continuum

id: quant-ph/0702182
title: Su(2) intelligent states as coupled su(2) coherent states
authors: Benjamin R. Lavoie, Hubert de Guise
comments: to appear in J.Phys.A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. vol. 40 (2007) 2825-2837
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702182
abstract: We show how su(2) intelligent states can be obtained by coupling su(2) coherent states. The construction is simple and efficient, and easily leads to a discussion of some general properties of su(2) intelligent states.

id: quant-ph/0702183
title: Security Notions for Quantum Public-Key Cryptography
authors: Takeshi Koshiba
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702183
abstract: It is well known that Shor's quantum algorithm for integer factorization can break down the RSA public-key cryptosystem, which is widely used in many cryptographic applications. Thus, public-key cryptosystems in the quantum computational setting are longed for cryptology. In order to define the security notions of public-key cryptosystems, we have to model the power of the sender, receiver, adversary and channel. While we may consider a setting where quantum computers are available only to adversaries, we generally discuss what are the right security notions for (quantum) public-key cryptosystems in the quantum computational setting. Moreover, we consider the security of quantum public-key cryptosystems known so far.

id: quant-ph/0702184
title: Constructing CSS Codes with LDPC Codes for the BB84 Quantum Key Distribution Protocol
authors: Maki Ohata, Kanta Matsuura
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures. Submitted to IEEE Trans. Info. Theory. v2,v3: Changed Title and updated simulation results
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702184
abstract: In this paper, we propose how to simply construct a pair of linear codes for the BB84 quantum key distribution protocol. This protocol allows unconditional security in the presence of an eavesdropper, and the pair of linear codes is used for error correction and privacy amplification. Since their high decoding performance implies low eavesdropper's mutual information, good design of the two codes is required. The proposed method admits using arbitrary low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes. Therefore, it has low complexity and high performance for hardware implementation. Simulation results show that the pair of codes performs well against practical and various noise levels.

id: quant-ph/0702185
title: Violation of Energy Conservation in Boson and Fermion Fields on Subwavelength Nano-Scale
authors: S. V. Kukhlevsky
comments: corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702185
abstract: The Hamiltonians describing the energy nonconservation in boson and fermion multimode fields under quantum interference have been derived. We show that violation of the energy conservation is accompanied by the nonconservation of momentum, number of particles and field charge. The phenomena could be observed in Young's double-slit subwavelength (nanometer-scale) setup.

id: quant-ph/0702186
title: Polynomial Solution of Non-Central Potentials
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 18 pages
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 46, 2384(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702186
abstract: We show that the exact energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the Schrodinger equation for charged particles moving in certain class of non-central potentials can be easily calculated analytically in a simple and elegant manner by using Nikiforov and Uvarov (NU) method. We discuss the generalized Coulomb and harmonic oscillator systems. We study the Hartmann Coulomb and the ring-shaped and compound Coulomb plus Aharanov-Bohm potentials as special cases. The results are in exact agreement with other methods.

id: quant-ph/0702187
title: Privacy Amplification, Private States, and the Uncertainty Principle
authors: Joseph M. Renes, Jean-Christian Boileau
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702187
abstract: We show that three principle means of treating privacy amplification in quantum key distribution, private state distillation, classical privacy amplification, and via the uncertainty principle, are equivalent and interchangeable. By adapting the security proof based on the uncertainty principle, we construct a new protocol for private state distillation which we prove is identical to standard classical privacy amplification. Underlying this approach is a new characterization of private states, related to their standard formulation by the uncertainty principle, which gives a more physical understanding of security in quantum key distribution.

id: quant-ph/0702188
title: Paradox in Wave-Particle Duality
authors: Shahriar S. Afshar, Eduardo Flores, Keith F. McDonald, Ernst Knoesel
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure
journal: Found. Phys. 37, 295 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702188
abstract: We report on the simultaneous determination of complementary wave and particle aspects of light in a double-slit type "welcher-weg" experiment beyond the limitations set by Bohr's Principle of Complementarity. Applying classical logic, we verify the presence of sharp interference in the single photon regime, while reliably maintaining the information about the particular pinhole through which each individual photon had passed. This experiment poses interesting questions on the validity of Complementarity in cases where measurements techniques that avoid Heisenberg's uncertainty principle and quantum entanglement are employed. We further argue that the application of classical concepts of waves and particles as embodied in Complementarity leads to a logical inconsistency in the interpretation of this experiment.

id: quant-ph/0702189
title: Unbounded violation of tripartite Bell inequalities
authors: D. Perez-Garcia, M.M Wolf, C. Palazuelos, I. Villanueva, M. Junge
comments: Substantial changes in the presentation to make the paper more accessible for a non-specialized reader
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 279, 455 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702189
abstract: We prove that there are tripartite quantum states (constructed from random unitaries) that can lead to arbitrarily large violations of Bell inequalities for dichotomic observables. As a consequence these states can withstand an arbitrary amount of white noise before they admit a description within a local hidden variable model. This is in sharp contrast with the bipartite case, where all violations are bounded by Grothendieck's constant. We will discuss the possibility of determining the Hilbert space dimension from the obtained violation and comment on implications for communication complexity theory. Moreover, we show that the violation obtained from generalized GHZ states is always bounded so that, in contrast to many other contexts, GHZ states do in this case not lead to extremal quantum correlations. The results are based on tools from the theories of operator spaces and tensor norms which we exploit to prove the existence of bounded but not completely bounded trilinear forms from commutative C*-algebras.

id: quant-ph/0702190
title: Local encoding of classical information onto quantum states
authors: Yu Tanaka, Damian Markham, Mio Murao
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. Version II. Missing references added, minor simplification of theorem and minor errors corrected. Published in a special issue of Journal of Modern Optics celebrating the 60th birthday of Peter Knight
journal: J. Mod. Opt., 54, 2259 - 2273 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702190
abstract: In this article we investigate the possibility of encoding classical information onto multipartite quantum states in the distant laboratory framework. We show that for all states generated by Clifford operation there always exist such an encoding, this includes all stabilizer states such as cluster states and all graph states. We also show encoding for classes of symmetric states (which cannot be generated by Clifford operations). We generalise our approach using group theoretic methods introducing the unifying notion of Pseudo Clifford operations. All states generated by Pseudo Clifford operations are locally encodable (unifying all our examples), and we give a general method for generating sets of many such locally encodable states.

id: quant-ph/0702191
title: Quantum dynamics and breakdown of classical realism in nonlinear oscillators
authors: Omri Gat
comments: RevTeX 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702191
abstract: The dynamics of a quantum nonlinear oscillator is studied in terms of its quasi-flow, a dynamical mapping of the classical phase plane that represents the time-evolution of the quantum observables. Explicit expressions are derived for the deformation of the classical flow by the quantum nonlinearity in the semiclassical limit. The breakdown of the classical trajectories under the quantum nonlinear dynamics is quantified by the mismatch of the quasi-flow carried by different observables. It is shown that the failure of classical realism can give rise to a dynamical violation of Bell's inequalities.

id: quant-ph/0702192
title: Quantum Thought Experiments Can Define Nature
authors: Donald McCartor
comments: 37 pages, no figures
journal: Concepts of Physics, Vol. I no. 1 (2004) pp. 105-150
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702192
abstract: One would not think that thought experiments could matter to nature, for they are a humble human device. Yet quantum mechanics very naturally frames thought experiments (as distinct from precisely defining what exists). They exemplify the informing powers of radiation. Though based on wave functions that have time symmetry, these tableaux inevitably tell of irreversible behavior by nature. The paper sketches how John von Neumann's measurement theory fits into this and retells N. David Mermin's baseball story.

id: quant-ph/0702193
title: Light scattering from ultracold atoms in optical lattices as an optical probe of quantum statistics
authors: Igor B. Mekhov, Christoph Maschler, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 053618 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702193
abstract: We study off-resonant collective light scattering from ultracold atoms trapped in an optical lattice. Scattering from different atomic quantum states creates different quantum states of the scattered light, which can be distinguished by measurements of the spatial intensity distribution, quadrature variances, photon statistics, or spectral measurements. In particular, angle-resolved intensity measurements reflect global statistics of atoms (total number of radiating atoms) as well as local statistical quantities (single-site statistics even without an optical access to a single site) and pair correlations between different sites. As a striking example we consider scattering from transversally illuminated atoms into an optical cavity mode. For the Mott insulator state, similar to classical diffraction, the number of photons scattered into a cavity is zero due to destructive interference, while for the superfluid state it is nonzero and proportional to the number of atoms. Moreover, we demonstrate that light scattering into a standing-wave cavity has a nontrivial angle dependence, including the appearance of narrow features at angles, where classical diffraction predicts zero. The measurement procedure corresponds to the quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement of various atomic variables by observing light.

id: quant-ph/0702194
title: Multiatom cooperative emission following single-photon absorption: Dicke-state dynamics
authors: I.E. Mazets, G. Kurizki
comments: Misprints in Eqs. (8, 24-26) are corrected
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 40 (2007) F105-F112
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702194
abstract: We investigate conditions under which multiatom absorption of a single photon leads to cooperative decay. Our analysis reveals the symmetry properties of the multiatom Dicke states underlying the cooperative decay dynamics and their spatio-temporal manifestations, particularly, the forward-directed spontaneous emission investigated by Scully et al.

id: quant-ph/0702195
title: Scaling and better approximating quantum Fourier transform by higher radices
authors: Zeljko Zilic, Katarzyna Radecka
comments: 
journal: IEEE Transactions on Computers, Vol. 56, No. 2, pp. 202-207, February 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702195
abstract: Quantum Fourier Transform (QFT) plays a principal role in the development of efficient quantum algorithms. Since the number of quantum bits that can currently built is limited, while many quantum technologies are inherently three- (or more) valued, we consider extending the reach of the realistic quantum systems by building a QFT over ternary quantum digits. Compared to traditional binary QFT, the q-valued transform improves approximation properties and increases the state space by a factor of (q/2)n. Further, we use non-binary QFT derivation to generalize and improve the approximation bounds for QFT.

id: quant-ph/0702196
title: Quantum search of partially ordered sets
authors: Ashley Montanaro
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures; v2 has minor corrections and improvements
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, vol. 9, no. 7&8, pp. 0628-0647, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702196
abstract: We investigate the generalisation of quantum search of unstructured and totally ordered sets to search of partially ordered sets (posets). Two models for poset search are considered. In both models, we show that quantum algorithms can achieve at most a quadratic improvement in query complexity over classical algorithms, up to logarithmic factors; we also give quantum algorithms that almost achieve this optimal reduction in complexity. In one model, we give an improved quantum algorithm for searching forest-like posets; in the other, we give an optimal O(sqrt(m))-query quantum algorithm for searching posets derived from m*m arrays sorted by rows and columns. This leads to a quantum algorithm that finds the intersection of two sorted lists of n integers in O(sqrt(n)) time, which is optimal.

id: quant-ph/0702197
title: Particle Localization by Decoherence and Classical Lensing
authors: Ivo Knittel
comments: submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702197
abstract: A phenomenological model of the time evolution of a particle wavepacket is presented that is subject to scattering event with small momentum transfer. It is suited for three dimensions and allows for an additional potential. For a random value of a phase parameter, it is equivalent to the decoherence by scattering off plane wave field states. Imposing some condition on the same phase parameter, the model delivers definite outcomes in a local pointer base. Common sense notions about the quantum-classical transition are readily obtained: Decoherent free particle solutions are localized constant-width wavepackets, quantum barrier scattering results in random reflection and transmission. The scattering process assumed in the phenomenological model is realized by scattering of a particle pair interacting by a force-distance law with small momentum transfer. Particles are localized not by decoherence but by a classical lensing effect. Schmidt paths in the Schmidt representation of the multiparticle state are products of single-particle wavepackets. Therefore the model has a natural 'Many Worlds' interpretation, identifying each Schmidt path with a classical branch. Different runs of the phenomenological model map the state of the same particular particle within different branches.

id: quant-ph/0702198
title: Influence of pure-dephasing by phonons on exciton-photon interfaces: Quantum microscopic theory
authors: Kunihiro Kojima, Akihisa Tomita
comments: 9pages, 5figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 73, 195312 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702198
abstract: We have developed a full quantum microscopic theory to analyze the time evolution of transversal and longitudinal components of an exciton-single photon system coupled to bulk acoustic phonons. These components are subjected to two decay processes. One is radiative relaxation and the other is pure-dephasing due to exciton-phonon interaction. The former results in a decay with an exponent linear to time, while the latter causes a faster initial decay than the radiative decay. We analyzed the dependence of the components on the duration of the input one-photon pulse, temperature, and radiative relaxation rates. Such a quantitative analysis is important for the developments of atom-photon interfaces which enable coherent transfer of quantum information between photons and atomic systems. We found that, for a GaAs spherical quantum dot in which the exciton interacts with bulk phonons, the maximal probability of the excited state can be increased up to 75 %. This probability can be considered as the efficiency for quantum information transfer from photon to exciton.

id: quant-ph/0702199
title: New Bell inequalities for the singlet state: Going beyond the Grothendieck bound
authors: Itamar Pitowsky
comments: 18 pages, two figures, some corrections and additional references, published version
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 49, 012101 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702199
abstract: Contemporary versions of Bell's argument against local hidden variable (LHV) theories are based on the Clauser Horne Shimony and Holt (CHSH) inequality, and various attempts to generalize it. The amount of violation of these inequalities cannot exceed the bound set by the Grothendieck constants. However, if we go back to the original derivation by Bell, and use the perfect anti-correlation embodied in the singlet spin state, we can go beyond these bounds. In this paper we derive two-particle Bell inequalities for traceless two-outcome observables, whose violation in the singlet spin state go beyond the Grothendieck constants both for the two and three dimensional cases. Moreover, creating a higher dimensional analog of perfect correlations, and applying a recent result of Alon and his associates (Invent. Math. 163 499 (2006)) we prove that there are two-particle Bell inequalities for traceless two-outcome observables whose violation increases to infinity as the dimension and number of measurements grow. Technically these result are possible because perfect correlations (or anti-correlations) allow us to transport the indices of the inequality from the edges of a bipartite graph to those of the complete graph. Finally, it is shown how to apply these results to mixed Werner states, provided that the noise does not exceed 20%.

id: quant-ph/0702200
title: Spectral density matrix of a single photon measured
authors: Wojciech Wasilewski, Piotr Kolenderski, Robert Frankowski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 123601 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702200
abstract: We propose and demonstrate a method for measuring the spectral density matrix of a single photon pulse. The method is based on registering Hong-Ou-Mandel interference between photon to be measured and a pair of attenuated and suitably delayed laser pulses described by a known spectral amplitude. The density matrix is retrieved from a two-dimensional interferogram of coincidence counts. The method has been implemented for a type-I downconversion source, pumped by ultrashort laser pulses. The experimental results agree well with a theoretical model which takes into account the temporal as well as spatial effects in the source.

id: quant-ph/0702201
title: Universal fault tolerant quantum computation on bilinear nearest neighbor arrays
authors: A. M. Stephens, A. G. Fowler, L. C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 9 pages, 17 figures, minor revisions
journal: QIC 8, 330 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702201
abstract: Assuming an array that consists of two parallel lines of qubits and that permits only nearest neighbor interactions, we construct physical and logical circuitry to enable universal fault tolerant quantum computation under the [[7,1,3]] quantum code. A rigorous lower bound to the fault tolerant threshold for this array is determined in a number of physical settings. Adversarial memory errors, two-qubit gate errors, and readout errors are included in our analysis. In the setting where the physical memory failure rate is equal to one-tenth of the physical gate error rate, the physical readout error rate is equal to the physical gate error rate, and the duration of physical readout is ten times the duration of a physical gate, we obtain a lower bound to the asymptotic threshold of 1.96x10^-6.

id: quant-ph/0702202
title: Quantum Cryptography: from Theory to Practice
authors: Hoi-Kwong Lo, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: Changed the wording to emphasize the importance of using a proper definition of security. 7 pages, prepared for a special issue of "Physics in Canada"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702202
abstract: Quantum cryptography can, in principle, provide unconditional security guaranteed by the law of physics only. Here, we survey the theory and practice of the subject and highlight some recent developments.

id: quant-ph/0702203
title: Purple bacteria and quantum Fourier transform
authors: Samir Lipovaca
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702203
abstract: The LH-II of purple bacteria Rhodospirillum (Rs.) molischianum and Rhodopseudomonas (Rps.) acidophila adopts a highly symmetrical ring shape, with a radius of about 7 nm. In the case of Rps. acidophila the ring has a ninefold symmetry axis, and in LH-II from Rs. molischianum the ring has an eightfold symmetry axis. These rings are found to exibit two bands of excitons. A simplified mathematical description of the exciton states is given in Hu, X. & Schulten, K. (1997) Physics Today 50, 28-34. Using this description, we will show, by suitable labeling of the lowest energy (Qy) excited states of individual BChls, that the resulting exciton states are the quantum Fourier transform of the BChls excited states. For Rs. molischianum ring exciton states will be modeled as the four qubit quantum Fourier transform and the explicit circuit will be derived. Exciton states for Rps. acidophila ring cannot be modeled with an integer number of qubits. Both quantum Fourier transforms are instances of the hidden subgroup problem and this opens up a possibility that both purple bacteria implement an efficient quantum circuit for light harvesting.

id: quant-ph/0702204
title: Accidental cloning of a single-photon qubit in two-channel continuous-variable quantum teleportation
authors: Toshiki Ide, Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, improved explanation of cloning fidelity
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062311 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702204
abstract: The information encoded in the polarization of a single photon can be transferred to a remote location by two-channel continuous-variable quantum teleportation. However, the finite entanglement used in the teleportation causes random changes in photon number. If more than one photon appears in the output, the continuous-variable teleportation accidentally produces clones of the original input photon. In this paper, we derive the polarization statistics of the $N$-photon output components and show that they can be decomposed into an optimal cloning term and completely unpolarized noise. We find that the accidental cloning of the input photon is nearly optimal at experimentally feasible squeezing levels, indicating that the loss of polarization information is partially compensated by the availability of clones.

id: quant-ph/0702205
title: Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with Real Spectra in Quantum Mechanics
authors: C. Yuce
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to an error in Equ. (5)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702205
abstract: A condition to have a real spectrum for a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian is given. As special cases, it is shown that the condition is reduced to Hermiticity and PT symmetric conditions.

id: quant-ph/0702206
title: Quantum information transfer for qutrits
authors: A. Delgado, C. Saavedra, J.C. Retamal
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702206
abstract: We propose a scheme for the transfer of quantum information among distant qutrits. We apply this scheme to the distribution of entanglement among distant nodes and to the generation of multipartite antisymmetric states. We also discuss applications to quantum secret sharing.

id: quant-ph/0702207
title: Resonance Theory of Decoherence and Thermalization
authors: M. Merkli, I.M. Sigal, G.P. Berman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702207
abstract: We present a rigorous analysis of the phenomenon of decoherence for general $N-$level systems coupled to reservoirs. The latter are described by free massless bosonic fields. We apply our general results to the specific cases of the qubit and the quantum register. We compare our results with the explicitly solvable case of systems whose interaction with the environment does not allow for energy exchange (non-demolition, or energy conserving interactions). We suggest a new approach which applies to a wide variety of systems which are not explicitly solvable.

id: quant-ph/0702208
title: A proposed superluminal S-field mediating quantum entanglement
authors: Vitalij Garber
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702208
abstract: We propose a bimetric space-time consisting of two vierbein bundles, in which a superluminal S-field mediates a causal exchange of quantum information associated with quantum entanglement. The resulting theory leaves the usual quantum field interactions, as well as the speed of light unchanged, but introduces quantum information effects related to the S-field vierbein bundle. We show that such S-field interactions with the Dirac field, affect its spin density, as we would expect for a field that would impart entanglement related information.

id: quant-ph/0702209
title: Efficient growth of complex graph states via imperfect path erasure
authors: Earl T. Campbell, Joseph Fitzsimons, Simon C. Benjamin, Pieter Kok
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures (which print to better quality than when viewed as an on screen pdf)
journal: New J. Phys. volume 9 page 196 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702209
abstract: Given a suitably large and well connected (complex) graph state, any quantum algorithm can be implemented purely through local measurements on the individual qubits. Measurements can also be used to create the graph state: Path erasure techniques allow one to entangle multiple qubits by determining only global properties of the qubits. Here, this powerful approach is extended by demonstrating that even imperfect path erasure can produce the required graph states with high efficiency. By characterizing the degree of error in each path erasure attempt, one can subsume the resulting imperfect entanglement into an extended graph state formalism. The subsequent growth of the improper graph state can be guided, through a series of strategic decisions, in such a way as to bound the growth of the error and eventually yield a high-fidelity graph state. As an implementation of these techniques, we develop an analytic model for atom (or atom-like) qubits in mismatched cavities, under the double-heralding entanglement procedure of Barrett and Kok [Phys. Rev. A 71, 060310 (2005)]. Compared to straightforward postselection techniques our protocol offers a dramatic improvement in growing complex high-fidelity graph states.

id: quant-ph/0702210
title: Why Kastner analysis does not apply to a modified Afshar experiment
authors: Eduardo Flores, Ernst Knoesel
comments: one pdf-file, 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702210
abstract: In an analysis of the Afshar experiment R.E. Kastner points out that the selection system used in this experiment randomly separates the photons that go to the detectors, and therefore no which-way information is obtained. In this paper we present a modified but equivalent version of the Afshar experiment that does not contain a selection device. The double-slit is replaced by two separate coherent laser beams that overlap under a small angle. At the intersection of the beams an interference pattern can be inferred in a non-perturbative manner, which confirms the existence of a superposition state. In the far field the beams separate without the use of a lens system. Momentum conservation warranties that which-way information is preserved. We also propose an alternative sequence of Stern-Gerlach devices that represents a close analogue to the Afshar experimental set up.

id: quant-ph/0702211
title: Parameter estimation for mixed states from a single copy
authors: Thomas Konrad, Otfried G¨¹hne, J¨¹rgen Audretsch, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, v2: small changes, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062101 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702211
abstract: Given a single copy of a mixed state of the form \rho=\lambda\rho_1+(1-\lambda)\rho_2, what is the optimal measurement to estimate the parameter \lambda, if \rho_1 and \rho_2 are known? We present a general strategy to obtain the optimal measurements employing a Bayesian estimator. The measurements are chosen to minimize the deviation between the estimated- and the true value of \lambda. We explicitly determine the optimal measurements for a general two-dimensional system and for important higher dimensional cases.

id: quant-ph/0702212
title: Generalized Flow and Determinism in Measurement-based Quantum Computation
authors: D.E. Browne, E. Kashefi, M. Mhalla, S. Perdrix
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 9 250 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702212
abstract: We extend the notion of quantum information flow defined by Danos and Kashefi for the one-way model and present a necessary and sufficient condition for the deterministic computation in this model. The generalized flow also applied in the extended model with measurements in the X-Y, X-Z and Y-Z planes. We apply both measurement calculus and the stabiliser formalism to derive our main theorem which for the first time gives a full characterization of the deterministic computation in the one-way model. We present several examples to show how our result improves over the traditional notion of flow, such as geometries (entanglement graph with input and output) with no flow but having generalized flow and we discuss how they lead to an optimal implementation of the unitaries. More importantly one can also obtain a better quantum computation depth with the generalized flow rather than with flow. We believe our characterization result is particularly essential for the study of the algorithms and complexity in the one-way model.

id: quant-ph/0702213
title: WKB formalism and a lower limit for the energy eigenstates of bound states for some potentials
authors: Luis F. Barragan-Gil, Abel Camacho
comments: Accepted in Modern Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702213
abstract: In the present work the conditions appearing in the WKB approximation formalism of quantum mechanics are analyzed. It is shown that, in general, a careful definition of an approximation method requires the introduction of two length parameters, one of them always considered in the text books on quantum mechanics, whereas the second one is usually neglected. Afterwards we define a particular family of potentials and prove, resorting to the aforementioned length parameters, that we may find an energy which is a lower bound to the ground energy of the system. The idea is applied to the case of a harmonic oscillator and also to a particle freely falling in a homogeneous gravitational field, and in both cases the consistency of our method is corroborated. This approach, together with the Rayleigh--Ritz formalism, allows us to define an energy interval in which the ground energy of any potential, belonging to our family, must lie.

id: quant-ph/0702214
title: Quantum annealing of the random-field Ising model by transverse ferromagnetic interactions
authors: Sei Suzuki, Hidetoshi Nishimori, Masuo Suzuki
comments: 6 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 75, 051112 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702214
abstract: We introduce transverse ferromagnetic interactions, in addition to a simple transverse field, to quantum annealing of the random-field Ising model to accelerate convergence toward the target ground state. The conventional approach using only the transverse-field term is known to be plagued by slow convergence when the true ground state has strong ferromagnetic characteristics for the random-field Ising model. The transverse ferromagnetic interactions are shown to improve the performance significantly in such cases. This conclusion is drawn from the analyses of the energy eigenvalues of instantaneous stationary states as well as by the very fast algorithm of Bethe-type mean-field annealing adopted to quantum systems. The present study highlights the importance of a flexible choice of the type of quantum fluctuations to achieve the best possible performance in quantum annealing. The existence of such flexibility is an outstanding advantage of quantum annealing over simulated annealing.

id: quant-ph/0702215
title: Experimental Demonstration of Macroscopic Quantum Coherence in Gaussian States
authors: Christoph Marquardt, Ulrik L. Andersen, Gerd Leuchs, Yuishi Takeno, Mitsuyoshi Yukawa, Hidehiro Yonezawa, Akira Furusawa
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 76 (3), 030101 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702215
abstract: We witness experimentally the presence of macroscopic coherence in Gaussian quantum states using a recently proposed criterion (E.G. Cavalcanti and M. Reid, Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 170405 (2006)). The macroscopic coherence stems from interference between macroscopically distinct states in phase space and we prove experimentally that even the vacuum state contains these features with a distance in phase space of $0.51\pm0.02$ shot noise units (SNU). For squeezed states we found macroscopic superpositions with a distance of up to $0.83\pm0.02$ SNU. The proof of macroscopic quantum coherence was investigated with respect to squeezing and purity of the states.

id: quant-ph/0702216
title: Low Timing Jitter Detector for Gigahertz Quantum Key Distribution
authors: R.J. Collins, R.H. Hadfield, V. Fernandez, S.W. Nam, G.S. Buller
comments: 11 pages, including 2 figures
journal: Electronics Letters, 43 (3), pp 180-182 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702216
abstract: A superconducting single-photon detector based on a niobium nitride nanowire is demonstrated in an optical-fibre-based quantum key distribution test bed operating at a clock rate of 3.3 GHz and a transmission wavelength of 850 nm. The low jitter of the detector leads to significant reduction in the estimated quantum bit error rate and a resultant improvement in the secrecy efficiency compared to previous estimates made by use of silicon single-photon avalanche detectors.

id: quant-ph/0702217
title: Entanglement-screening by nonlinear resonances
authors: Ignacio Garcia-Mata, Andre R. R. Carvalho, Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. PRL, in press
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 120504 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702217
abstract: We show that nonlinear resonances in a classically mixed phase space allow to define generic, strongly entangled multi-partite quantum states. The robustness of their multipartite entanglement increases with the particle number, i.e. in the semiclassical limit, for those classes of diffusive noise which assist the quantum-classical transition.

id: quant-ph/0702218
title: Electron bound by a potential well in the presence of a constant uniform magnetic field
authors: V.R. Khalilov, F.Kh. Chibirova
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures. Acknowledgements are rewritten
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702218
abstract: We study the effect of a constant uniform magnetic field on an electrically charged massive particle (an electron) bound by a potential well, which is described by means of a single attractive $\lambda\delta({\bf r})$ potential. A transcendental equation that determines the electron energy spectrum is derived and solved. The electron wave function in the ground (bound) state is approximately constructed in a remarkable simple form. It is shown that there arises the probability current in the bound state in the presence of a uniform constant magnetic field. This (electric) current, being by the gauge invariant quantity, must be observable and involve (and exercise influence on) the electron scattering. The probability current density resembles a stack of "pancake" vortices'' whose circulating "currents'' around the magnetic field direction ($z$-axes) are mostly confined within the plane $z=0$. We also compute the tunnelling probability of electron from the bound to free state under a weak constant homogeneous electric field, which is parallel to the magnetic field. The model under consideration is briefly discussed in two spatial dimensions.

id: quant-ph/0702219
title: Optimal spin squeezing inequalities detect bound entanglement in spin models
authors: Geza Toth, Christian Knapp, Otfried G¨¹hne, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 1 table; small changes, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 250405 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702219
abstract: We determine the complete set of generalized spin squeezing inequalities. These are entanglement criteria that can be used for the experimental detection of entanglement in a system of spin-1/2 particles in which the spins cannot be individually addressed. They can also be used to show the presence of bound entanglement in the thermal states of several spin models.

id: quant-ph/0702220
title: Generation of higher order nonclassical states via interaction of intense electromagnetic field with third order nonlinear medium
authors: Anirban Pathak
comments: 7 pages, no figure
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B, Vol. 20, (2006) p 1421-1427
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702220
abstract: Interaction of intense laser beam with an inversion symmetric third order nonlinear medium is modeled as a quartic anharmonic oscillator. A first order operator solution of the model Hamiltonian is used to study the possibilities of generation of higher order nonclassical states. It is found that the higher order squeezed and higher order antibunched states can be produced by this interaction. It is also shown that the higher order nonclassical states may appear separately, i.e. a higher order antibunched state is not essentially higher order squeezed state and vice versa.

id: quant-ph/0702221
title: Success Rate and Entanglement Evolution in Search Algorithm
authors: Arti Chamoli, C. M. Bhandari
comments: 08 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702221
abstract: Evolution of entanglement with the processing of quantum algorithms affects the outcome of the algorithm. Particularly, the performance of Grover's search algorithm gets worsened if the initial state of the algorithm is an entangled one. Biham et al [14] have shown that the success probability of search algorithm can be seen as an operational measure of entanglement. Following the same line of thought, analytical expressions for entanglement measure for three and five qubit system have been derived, which reveals that entanglement measure based on Grover's search algorithm is valid for any state with real coefficients for even number of qubits.

id: quant-ph/0702222
title: Evolution of Entanglement in Groverian Search Algorithm: n-qudit System
authors: Arti Chamoli, C. M. Bhandari
comments: 11 pages, 01 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702222
abstract: Entanglement plays a crucial role in quantum processes particularly those pertaining to quantum information and computation. An analytical expression for an entanglement measure defined in terms of success rate of Grover's search algorithm has been obtained for qutrit systems with real coefficients and the calculated results agree well with the conventional entropy based measure. The entanglement measure is further generalised for qudit (d-level) systems with real coefficients.

id: quant-ph/0702223
title: Entanglement Teleportation by Qutrits
authors: Arti Chamoli, C. M. Bhandari
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702223
abstract: Quantum entanglement, like othre resources, is now coonsidered to be a resource which can be produced, concentrated if required, transported and consumed. After its inception [1] in 1933, various schemes of quantum state teleportation have been proposed using different types of channels. Not restricting to qubit based systems, qutrit states and channels have also been of considerable interest. In the present paper we investigate the teleportation of an unknown single qutrit state as well as two qutrit state through a three qutrit quantum channel along with the required operations to recover the state. This is further generalized to the case of teleportation of n-qutrit system.

id: quant-ph/0702224
title: A causal look into the quantum Talbot effect
authors: A. S. Sanz, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 126, 234106 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702224
abstract: A well-known phenomenon in both optics and quantum mechanics is the so-called Talbot effect. This near field interference effect arises when infinitely periodic diffracting structures or gratings are illuminated by highly coherent light or particle beams. Typical diffraction patterns known as quantum carpets are then observed. Here the authors provide an insightful picture of this nonlocal phenomenon as well as its classical limit in terms of Bohmian mechanics, also showing the causal reasons and conditions that explain its appearance. As an illustration, theoretical results obtained from diffraction of thermal He atoms by both N-slit arrays and weak corrugated surfaces are analyzed and discussed. Moreover, the authors also explain in terms of what they call the Talbot-Beeby effect how realistic interaction potentials induce shifts and distortions in the corresponding quantum carpets.

id: quant-ph/0702225
title: Quantum entanglement
authors: Ryszard Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Karol Horodecki
comments: 110 pages, 3 figures, ReVTex4, Improved (slightly extended) presentation, updated references, minor changes, submitted to Rev. Mod. Phys.
journal: Rev.Mod.Phys.81:865-942,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702225
abstract: All our former experience with application of quantum theory seems to say: {\it what is predicted by quantum formalism must occur in laboratory}. But the essence of quantum formalism - entanglement, recognized by Einstein, Podolsky, Rosen and Schr\"odinger - waited over 70 years to enter to laboratories as a new resource as real as energy. This holistic property of compound quantum systems, which involves nonclassical correlations between subsystems, is a potential for many quantum processes, including ``canonical'' ones: quantum cryptography, quantum teleportation and dense coding. However, it appeared that this new resource is very complex and difficult to detect. Being usually fragile to environment, it is robust against conceptual and mathematical tools, the task of which is to decipher its rich structure. This article reviews basic aspects of entanglement including its characterization, detection, distillation and quantifying. In particular, the authors discuss various manifestations of entanglement via Bell inequalities, entropic inequalities, entanglement witnesses, quantum cryptography and point out some interrelations. They also discuss a basic role of entanglement in quantum communication within distant labs paradigm and stress some peculiarities such as irreversibility of entanglement manipulations including its extremal form - bound entanglement phenomenon. A basic role of entanglement witnesses in detection of entanglement is emphasized.

id: quant-ph/0702226
title: Study of Phonon Modes in Germanium Nanowires
authors: Xi Wang, Ali Shakouri, Bin Yu, Xuhui Sun, Meyya Meyyappan
comments: 11 pages,15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702226
abstract: The observation of pure phonon confinement effect in germanium nanowires is limited due to the illumination sensitivity of Raman spectra. In this paper we measured Raman spectra for different size germanium nanowires with different excitation laser powers and wavelengths. By eliminating the local heating effect, the phonon confinement effect for small size nanowires was clearly identified. We have also fitted the Raman feature changes to estimate the size distribution of nanowires for the first time.

id: quant-ph/0702227
title: Adiabatically coupled systems and fractional monodromy
authors: M S Hansen, F Faure, B I Zhilinskii
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. vol 40 p.13075-13089, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702227
abstract: We present a 1-parameter family of systems with fractional monodromy and adiabatic separation of motion. We relate the presence of monodromy to a redistribution of states both in the quantum and semi-quantum spectrum. We show how the fractional monodromy arises from the non diagonal action of the dynamical symmetry of the system and manifests itself as a generic property of an important subclass of adiabatically coupled systems.

id: quant-ph/0702228
title: Efficient multiqubit entanglement via a spin-bus
authors: Mark Friesen, Asoka Biswas, Xuedong Hu, Daniel Lidar
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. v98, p230503 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702228
abstract: We propose an experimentally feasible architecture with controllable long-range couplings built up from local exchange interactions. The scheme consists of a spin-bus, with strong, always-on interactions, coupled dynamically to external qubits of the Loss and DiVincenzo type. Long-range correlations are enabled by a spectral gap occurring in a finite-size chain. The bus can also form a hub for multiqubit entangling operations. We show how multiqubit gates may be used to efficiently generate $W$-states (an important entanglement resource). The spin-bus therefore provides a route for scalable solid-state quantum computation, using currently available experimental resources.

id: quant-ph/0702229
title: An extremal result for geometries in the one-way measurement model
authors: Niel de Beaudrap, Martin Pei
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures: numerous minor revisions to presentation. Version to appear in QIC vol. 8 #5
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702229
abstract: We present an extremal result for the class of graphs G which (together with some specified sets of input and output vertices, I and O) have a certain "flow" property introduced by Danos and Kashefi for the one-way measurement model of quantum computation. The existence of a flow for a triple (G,I,O) allows a unitary embedding to be derived from any choice of measurement bases allowed in the one-way measurement model. We prove an upper bound on the number of edges that a graph G may have, in order for a triple (G,I,O) to have a flow for some $I, O \subseteq V(G)$, in terms of the number of vertices in G and O. This implies that finding a flow for a triple (G,I,O) when |I| = |O| = k (corresponding to unitary transformations in the measurement model) and |V(G)| = n can be performed in time O(k^2 n), improving the earlier known bound of O(km) given in [quant-ph/0611284], where m = |E(G)|.

id: quant-ph/0702230
title: Quantum Computation and Bell-state Measurement with Double-Dot Molecules
authors: Hui Zhang, Guo-Ping Guo, Tao Tu, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 76, 012335 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702230
abstract: We propose a quantum computation architecture of double-dot molecules, where the qubit is encoded in the molecule two-electron spin states. By arranging the two dots inside each molecule perpendicular to the qubit scaling line, the interactions between neighboring qubits are largely simplified and the scaling to multi-qubit system becomes straightforward. As an Ising-model effective interaction can be expediently switched on and off between any two neighboring molecules by adjusting the potential offset between the two dots, universal two-qubit gates can be implemented without requiring time-dependent control of the tunnel coupling between the dots. A Bell-state measurement scheme for qubit encoded in double-dot singlet and triplet states is also proposed for quantum molecules arranged in this way.

id: quant-ph/0702231
title: Pre- and post-selected ensembles and time-symmetry in quantum mechanics
authors: D. J. Miller
comments: RevTex4, 17 pages, no figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702231
abstract: An expression is proposed for the quantum mechanical state of a pre- and post-selected ensemble, which is an ensemble determined by the final as well as the initial state of the quantum systems involved. It is shown that the probabilities calculated from the proposed state agree with previous expressions, for cases where they both apply. The same probabilities are found when they are calculated in the forward- or reverse-time directions. This work was prompted by several problems raised by Shimony recently in relation to the state, and time symmetry, of pre- and post-selected ensembles.

id: quant-ph/0702232
title: STIRAP-like transitions in a harmonically-modulated optical lattice
authors: Benjamin P. Holder, Linda E. Reichl
comments: 29 pages, 5 figures; Submitted to Phys. Rev. A, 2/26/07
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702232
abstract: We introduce a method for the coherent acceleration of atoms trapped in an optical lattice, using the well-known model for stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP). Specifically, we show that small harmonic modulations of the optical lattice amplitude, with frequencies tuned to the eigenvalue spacings of three "unperturbed" eigenstates, reveals a three-state STIRAP subsystem. We use this model to realize an experimentally achievable method for transferring trapped atoms from stationary to motional eigenstates.

id: quant-ph/0702233
title: Quantum Fermi's Golden Rule
authors: Fausto Rossi
comments: submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702233
abstract: We shall revisit the conventional adiabatic or Markov approximation, showing its intrinsic failure in describing the proper quantum-mechanical evolution of a generic subsystem interacting with its environment. In particular, we shall show that -contrary to the semiclassical case- the Markov limit does not preserve the positive-definite character of the corresponding density matrix, thus leading to highly non-physical results. To overcome this problem, we shall propose an alternative adiabatic procedure which (i) in the semiclassical limit reduces to the standard Fermi's golden rule, and (ii) describes a genuine Limblad evolution, thus providing a reliable/robust treatment of energy-dissipation and dephasing processes.

id: quant-ph/0702234
title: Tunable negative refraction without absorption via electromagnetically induced chirality
authors: J¨¹rgen K?stel, Michael Fleischhauer, Susanne F. Yelin, Ronald L. Walsworth
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures (shortened version, submitted to PRL)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702234
abstract: We show that negative refraction with minimal absorption can be obtained by means of quantum interference effects similar to electromagnetically induced transparency. Coupling a magnetic dipole transition coherently with an electric dipole transition leads to electromagnetically induced chirality, which can provide negative refraction without requiring negative permeability, and also suppresses absorption. This technique allows negative refraction in the optical regime at densities where the magnetic susceptibility is still small and with refraction/absorption ratios that are orders of magnitude larger than those achievable previously. Furthermore, the value of the refractive index can be fine-tuned via external laser fields, which is essential for practical realization of sub-diffraction-limit imaging.

id: quant-ph/0702235
title: An alternative simple solution of the sextic anharmonic oscillator and perturbed Coulomb problems
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 15 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. C 18, 1571(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702235
abstract: Utilizing an appropriate ansatz to the wave function, we reproduce the exact bound-state solutions of the radial Schrodinger equation to various exactly solvable sextic anharmonic oscillator and confining perturbed Coulomb models in $D$-dimensions. We show that the perturbed Coulomb problem with eigenvalue $E$ can be transformed to a sextic anharmonic oscillator problem with eigenvalue E. We also check the explicit relevance of these two related problems in higher-space dimensions. It is shown that exact solutions of these potentials exist when their coupling parameters with $k=D+2\ell $ appearing in the wave equation satisfy certain constraints.

id: quant-ph/0702236
title: The Maslov correction in the semiclassical Feynman integral
authors: P. A. Horvathy
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: Central Eur.J.Phys.9:1-12,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702236
abstract: The Maslov correction to the wave function is to the jump of $-\pi/2$ in the phase when the system passes through a caustic point. This phenomenon is related to the second variation and to the geometry of paths, as conveniently explained in Feynman's path integral framework. The results can be extended to any system using the semiclassical approximation. The 1-dimensional harmonic oscillator is used to illustrate the different derivations reviewed here.

id: quant-ph/0702237
title: Dynamical diffusion as the approximation of one quantum particle dynamics
authors: Yuri Ozhigov
comments: 16 pages, proof is given
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702237
abstract: The paper contains the proof that the diffusion ensemble of point wise particles with the intensity depending on the grain of spatial resolution serves as the satisfactory approximation of one quantum particle dynamics.

id: quant-ph/0702238
title: The Effect of Partial Coherence on the Statistics of Single-Photon Pulses Propagating in the Atmosphere
authors: G.P. Berman, A.A. Chumak
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702238
abstract: The photon density operator function is used to describe the propagation of single-photon pulses through a turbulent atmosphere. The effects of statistical properties of photon source and the effects of a random phase screen on the variance of photon counting are studied. A procedure for reducing the total noise is discussed. The physical mechanisms responsible for this reduction are explained.

id: quant-ph/0702239
title: Deriving a Fault-Tolerant Threshold for a Global Control Scheme
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 21 pages, 15 figures, 3 tables v2: reference added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702239
abstract: In this paper, adapted from the author's PhD thesis, we present otherwise unpublished results relating to global control schemes, culminating in the calculation of a fault-tolerant threshold for one such scheme. As with early fault-tolerant threshold results, the aim is to calculate a positive number, not to optimise it. We also discuss how the results might affect other related schemes, such as those based on cellular automata.

id: quant-ph/0702240
title: Optimal two-qubit gate for generation of random bipartite entanglement
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 9 pages, 9 PS figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012318 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702240
abstract: We numerically study protocols consisting of repeated applications of two qubit gates used for generating random pure states. A necessary number of steps needed in order to generate states displaying bipartite entanglement typical of random states is obtained. For generic two qubit entangling gate the decay rate of purity is found to scale as $\sim n$ and therefore of order $\sim n^2$ steps are necessary to reach random bipartite entanglement. We also numerically identify the optimal two qubit gate for which the convergence is the fastest. Perhaps surprisingly, applying the same good two qubit gate in addition to a random single qubit rotations at each step leads to a faster generation of entanglement than applying a random two qubit transformation at each step.

id: quant-ph/0702241
title: Limitations of some simple adiabatic quantum algorithms
authors: Lawrence M. Ioannou, Michele Mosca
comments: This work originally appeared in L. Ioannou's Master's thesis, submitted to the University of Waterloo, in 2002 (available at this http URL)
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 6, No. 3 (June 2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702241
abstract: Let $H(t)=(1-t/T)H_0 + (t/T)H_1$, $t\in [0,T]$, be the Hamiltonian governing an adiabatic quantum algorithm, where $H_0$ is diagonal in the Hadamard basis and $H_1$ is diagonal in the computational basis. We prove that $H_0$ and $H_1$ must each have at least two large mutually-orthogonal eigenspaces if the algorithm's running time is to be subexponential in the number of qubits. We also reproduce the optimality proof of Farhi and Gutmann's search algorithm in the context of this adiabatic scheme; because we only consider initial Hamiltonians that are diagonal in the Hadamard basis, our result is slightly stronger than the original.

id: quant-ph/0702242
title: A critical analysis of Popper's experiment
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Luca Marinatto, Francesco de Stefano
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, RevTex; to be published on PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042107 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702242
abstract: An experiment which could decide against the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics has been proposed by K. Popper and, subsequently, it has been criticized by M.J. Collett and R. Loudon. Here we show that both the above mentioned arguments are not correct because they are based on a misuse of basic quantum rules.

id: quant-ph/0702243
title: Criteria for dynamically stable decoherence-free subspaces and incoherently generated coherences
authors: Raisa I. Karasik, Karl-Peter Marzlin, Barry C. Sanders, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77(5), 052301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702243
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of decoherence free subspaces and develop a rigorous theory that provides necessary and sufficient conditions for dynamically stable decoherence free subspaces. This allows us to identify a special class of decoherence free states which rely on incoherent generation of coherences. We provide examples of physical systems that support such states. Our approach employs Markovian master equations and applies primarily to finite-dimensional quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0702244
title: Multi-particle decoherence free subspaces in extended systems
authors: Raisa I. Karasik, Karl-Peter Marzlin, Barry C. Sanders, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012331 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702244
abstract: We develop a method to determine spatial configurations to realize decoherence-free subspaces for spatially extended multi-particle systems. We have assumed normal reservoir behavior including translational invariance of the reservoir and preparation in stationary states or mixture thereof and weak Markovian system-reservoir coupling that requires energy transfer. One important outcome of our method is a proof that there does not exist a multi-particle decoherence-free subspace in such systems except in the limit that the spatial extent of the system becomes infinitesimal.

id: quant-ph/0702245
title: Unambiguous discrimination among oracle operators
authors: Anthony Chefles, Akira Kitagawa, Masahiro Takeoka, Masahide Sasaki, Jason Twamley
comments: 35 pages. Final version. To appear in J. Phys. A: Math. & Theor
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702245
abstract: We address the problem of unambiguous discrimination among oracle operators. The general theory of unambiguous discrimination among unitary operators is extended with this application in mind. We prove that entanglement with an ancilla cannot assist any discrimination strategy for commuting unitary operators. We also obtain a simple, practical test for the unambiguous distinguishability of an arbitrary set of unitary operators on a given system. Using this result, we prove that the unambiguous distinguishability criterion is the same for both standard and minimal oracle operators. We then show that, except in certain trivial cases, unambiguous discrimination among all standard oracle operators corresponding to integer functions with fixed domain and range is impossible. However, we find that it is possible to unambiguously discriminate among the Grover oracle operators corresponding to an arbitrarily large unsorted database. The unambiguous distinguishability of standard oracle operators corresponding to totally indistinguishable functions, which possess a strong form of classical indistinguishability, is analysed. We prove that these operators are not unambiguously distinguishable for any finite set of totally indistinguishable functions on a Boolean domain and with arbitrary fixed range. Sets of such functions on a larger domain can have unambiguously distinguishable standard oracle operators and we provide a complete analysis of the simplest case, that of four functions. We also examine the possibility of unambiguous oracle operator discrimination with multiple parallel calls and investigate an intriguing unitary superoperator transformation between standard and entanglement-assisted minimal oracle operators.

id: quant-ph/0702246
title: Abrupt Changes in the Dynamics of Quantum Disentanglement
authors: F. Lastra, G. Romero, C. E. L¨®pez, M. Fran?a Santos, J.C. Retamal
comments: 4 pages and 6 figures, submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062324 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702246
abstract: Entanglement evolution in high dimensional bipartite systems under dissipation is studied. Discontinuities for the time derivative of the lower bound of entanglement of formation is found depending on the initial conditions for entangled states. This abrupt changes along the evolution appears as precursors of entanglement sudden death.

id: quant-ph/0702247
title: Teleportation capability, distillability, and nonlocality on three-qubit states
authors: Soojoon Lee, Jaewoo Joo, Jaewan Kim
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; The old version has been generalized into the results on general 3-qubit states
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012311 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702247
abstract: In this paper, we consider teleportation capability, distillability, and nonlocality on three-qubit states. In order to investigate some relations among them, we first find the explicit formulas of the quantities about the maximal teleportation fidelity on three-qubit states. We show that if any three-qubit state is useful for three-qubit teleportation then the three-qubit state is distillable into a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state, and that if any three-qubit state violates a specific form of Mermin inequality then the three-qubit state is useful for three-qubit teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0702248
title: Reversible state transfer between light and a single trapped atom
authors: A. D. Boozer, A. Boca, R. Miller, T. E. Northup, H. J. Kimble
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702248
abstract: We demonstrate the reversible mapping of a coherent state of light with mean photon number n-bar ~= 1.1 to and from the hyperfine states of an atom trapped within the mode of a high finesse optical cavity. The coherence of the basic processes is verified by mapping the atomic state back onto a field state in a way that depends on the phase of the original coherent state. Our experiment represents an important step towards the realization of cavity QED-based quantum networks, wherein coherent transfer of quantum states enables the distribution of quantum information across the network.

id: quant-ph/0702249
title: Time-dependent density-functional theory for open systems
authors: Xiao Zheng, Fan Wang, Chi Yung Yam, Yan Mo, GuanHua Chen
comments: 16 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702249
abstract: By introducing the self-energy density functionals for the dissipative interactions between the reduced system and its environment, we develop a time-dependent density-functional theory formalism based on an equation of motion for the Kohn-Sham reduced single-electron density matrix of the reduced system. Two approximate schemes are proposed for the self-energy density functionals, the complete second order approximation and the wide-band limit approximation. A numerical method based on the wide-band limit approximation is subsequently developed and implemented to simulate the steady and transient current through various realistic molecular devices. Simulation results are presented and discussed.

id: quant-ph/0702250
title: Upper bounds of eavesdropper's performances in finite-length code with decoy method
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, 76, 012329 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702250
abstract: Security formulas of quantum key distribution (QKD) with imperfect resources are obtained for finite-length code when the decoy method is applied. This analysis is useful for guaranteeing the security of implemented QKD systems. Our formulas take into account the effect of the vacuum state and dark counts in the detector. We compare the asymptotic key generation rate in presence of dark counts with that without.

id: quant-ph/0702251
title: General theory for decoy-state quantum key distribution with arbitrary number of intensities
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: This manuscript has been revised extensively
journal: New J. Phys. 9 284 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702251
abstract: We develop a general theory for quantum key distribution (QKD) in both the forward error correction and the reverse error correction cases when the QKD system is equipped with phase-randomized coherent light with arbitrary number of decoy intensities. For this purpose, generalizing Wang's expansion, we derive a convex expansion of the phase-randomized coherent state. We also numerically check that the asymptotic key generation rates are almost saturated when the number of decoy intensities is three.

id: quant-ph/0702252
title: Convergence of Quantum Annealing with Real-Time Schrodinger Dynamics
authors: Satoshi Morita, Hidetoshi Nishimori
comments: 6 pages, minor corrections
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 76 (2007) 064002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702252
abstract: Convergence conditions for quantum annealing are derived for optimization problems represented by the Ising model of a general form. Quantum fluctuations are introduced as a transverse field and/or transverse ferromagnetic interactions, and the time evolution follows the real-time Schrodinger equation. It is shown that the system stays arbitrarily close to the instantaneous ground state, finally reaching the target optimal state, if the strength of quantum fluctuations decreases sufficiently slowly, in particular inversely proportionally to the power of time in the asymptotic region. This is the same condition as the other implementations of quantum annealing, quantum Monte Carlo and Green's function Monte Carlo simulations, in spite of the essential difference in the type of dynamics. The method of analysis is an application of the adiabatic theorem in conjunction with an estimate of a lower bound of the energy gap based on the recently proposed idea of Somma et. al. for the analysis of classical simulated annealing using a classical-quantum correspondence.

id: quant-ph/0702253
title: Two-spin entanglement distribution near factorized states
authors: Fabrizio Baroni, Andrea Fubini, Valerio Tognetti, Paola Verrucchi
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures. Final version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 9845 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702253
abstract: We study the two-spin entanglement distribution along the infinite $S=1/2$ chain described by the XY model in a transverse field; closed analytical expressions are derived for the one-tangle and the concurrences $C_r$, $r$ being the distance between the two possibly entangled spins, for values of the Hamiltonian parameters close to those corresponding to factorized ground states. The total amount of entanglement, the fraction of such entanglement which is stored in pairwise entanglement, and the way such fraction distributes along the chain is discussed, with attention focused on the dependence on the anisotropy of the exchange interaction. Near factorization a characteristic length-scale naturally emerges in the system, which is specifically related with entanglement properties and diverges at the critical point of the fully isotropic model. In general, we find that anisotropy rule a complex behavior of the entanglement properties, which results in the fact that more isotropic models, despite being characterized by a larger amount of total entanglement, present a smaller fraction of pairwise entanglement: the latter, in turn, is more evenly distributed along the chain, to the extent that, in the fully isotropic model at the critical field, the concurrences do not depend on $r$.

id: quant-ph/0702254
title: Measurement of Dicke Narrowing in Electromagnetically Induced Transparency
authors: M. Shuker, O. Firstenberg, R. Pugatch, A. Ben-Kish, A. Ron, N. Davidson
comments: Introduction revised
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 023813 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702254
abstract: Dicke narrowing is a phenomena that dramatically reduces the Doppler width of spectral lines, due to frequent velocity-changing collisions. A similar phenomena occurs for electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) resonances, and facilitates ultra-narrow spectral features in room-temperature vapor. We directly measure the Dicke-like narrowing by studying EIT line-shapes as a function of the angle between the pump and the probe beams. The measurements are in good agreement with an analytic theory with no fit parameters. The results show that Dicke narrowing can increase substantially the tolerance of hot-vapor EIT to angular deviations. We demonstrate the importance of this effect for applications such as imaging and spatial solitons using a single-shot imaging experiment, and discuss the implications on the feasibility of storing images in atomic vapor.

id: quant-ph/0702255
title: The Jamio?kowski isomorphism and a conceptionally simple proof for the correspondence between vectors having Schmidt number $k$ and $k$-positive maps
authors: Kedar S. Ranade, Mazhar Ali
comments: 9 pages
journal: Open Sys. Inf. Dyn. 14 (No. 4, Dec. 2007), 371 - 378
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702255
abstract: Positive maps which are not completely positive are used in quantum information theory as witnesses for convex sets of states, in particular as entanglement witnesses and more generally as witnesses for states having Schmidt number not greater than k. It is known that such witnesses are related to k-positive maps. In this article we propose a new proof for the correspondence between vectors having Schmidt number k and k-positive maps using Jamiolkowski's criterion for positivity of linear maps; to this aim, we also investigate the precise notion of the term "Jamiolkowski isomorphism". As consequences of our proof we get the Jamiolkowski criterion for complete positivity, and we find a special case of a result by Choi, namely that k-positivity implies complete positivity, if k is the dimension of the smaller one of the Hilbert spaces on which the operators act.

id: quant-ph/0702256
title: Spontaneous emission of graviton by a quantum bouncer
authors: G. Pignol, K.V. Ptotasov, V.V. Nesvizhevsky
comments: 
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.24:2439-2441,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702256
abstract: Spontaneous emission of graviton rates for the quantum bouncer states are evaluated.

id: quant-ph/0702257
title: Classification and monogamy of three-qubit biseparable Bell correlations
authors: Michael Seevinck
comments: Accepted final version for PRA. 6 pages
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 76, 012106 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702257
abstract: We strengthen the set of Bell-type inequalities presented by Sun & Fei [Phys. Rev. A 74, 032335 (2006)] that give a classification for biseparable correlations and entanglement in tripartite quantum systems. We will furthermore consider the restriction to local orthogonal spin observables and show that this strengthens all previously known such tripartite inequalities. The quadratic inequalities we find indicate a type of monogamy of maximal biseparable three-particle quantum correlations, although the nonmaximal ones can be shared. This is contrasted to recently found monogamy inequalities for bipartite Bell correlations in tripartite systems.

id: quant-ph/0702258
title: Entanglement of macroscopic test masses and the Standard Quantum Limit in laser interferometry
authors: Helge Mueller-Ebhardt, Henning Rehbein, Roman Schnabel, Karsten Danzmann, Yanbei Chen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 013601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702258
abstract: We show that the generation of entanglement of two heavily macroscopic mirrors with masses of up to several kilograms are feasible with state of the art techniques of high-precision laser interferometry. The basis of such a demonstration would be a Michelson interferometer with suspended mirrors and simultaneous homodyne detections at both interferometer output ports. We present the connection between the generation of entanglement and the Standard Quantum Limit (SQL) for a free mass. The SQL is a well-known reference limit in operating interferometers for gravitational-wave detection and provides a measure of when macroscopic entanglement can be observed in the presence of realistic decoherence processes.

id: quant-ph/0702259
title: Microcavities Using Holey Fibers
authors: S.M. Hendrickson, T.B. Pittman, J.D. Franson
comments: 
journal: Journal of Lightwave Technology, 25(10), 3068-3071 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702259
abstract: Vacuum compatible microcavities consisting of microstructured holey fibers and separate end mirrors have been constructed and tested. These devices exhibit excellent transverse mode confinement and the ability to control the percentage of power guided outside of the fiber core. As a result, these devices may be a useful tool for enhancing the interaction between light and an atomic medium.

id: quant-ph/0702260
title: Nodes of Wavefunctions
authors: M. Moriconi
comments: 5 pages
journal: Am. J. Phys. 75, 284-285 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702260
abstract: We give a simple argument to show that the $n$th wavefunction for the one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation has $n-1$ nodes. We also show that if $n_1 < n_2$, then between two consecutive zeros of $\psi_{n_1}$, there is a zero of $\psi_{n_2}$.

id: quant-ph/0702261
title: On the Bandgap quantum coupler and the harmonic oscillator interacting with a reservoir: Defining the relative phase gate
authors: P. C. Garcia Quijas, L. M. Arevalo Aguilar
comments: 11 pages, submited, content changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702261
abstract: In order to be able to study dissipation, the interaction between a single system and their environment was introduced in quantum mechanics. Master and quantum Langeving equations was derived and, also, decoherence was studied using this approach. One of the most used model in this field is a single harmonic oscillator interacting with a reservoir. In this work we solve analytically this problem in the resonance case with the evolution operator method. We use this result to study the conditional dynamics of a finite system of coupling, a bandgap quantum coupler. We study the conditional dynamics of the coupler on the computational basis by choosing a proper interaction time. This conditional dynamics provides a distinct realization of a quantum phase gate, which we name the relative phase gate.

id: quant-ph/0702262
title: Faked states attack using detector efficiency mismatch on SARG04, phase-time, DPSK, and Ekert protocols
authors: Vadim Makarov, Johannes Skaar
comments: 9 pages, 2 tables, 5 figures; v3: rewritten for clarity, a few explanations and recent references added
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 8, 0622 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702262
abstract: In quantum cryptosystems, variations in detector efficiency can be exploited to stage a successful attack. This happens when the efficiencies of Bob's two detectors are different functions of a control parameter accessible to Eve (e.g., timing of the incoming pulses). It has previously been shown that the Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) protocol is vulnerable to this attack. In this paper, we show that several other protocols and encodings may also be vulnerable. We consider a faked states attack in the case of a partial efficiency mismatch on the Scarani-Acin-Ribordy-Gisin 2004 (SARG04) protocol, and derive the quantum bit error rate as a function of detector efficiencies. Additionally, it is shown how faked states can in principle be constructed for quantum cryptosystems that use a phase-time encoding, the differential phase shift keying (DPSK) and the Ekert protocols.

id: quant-ph/0702263
title: Observables and unobservables in a non-associative quantum theory
authors: Vladimir Dzhunushaliev
comments: 4 pages
journal: J.General.LieTheor.Appl.2:269-272,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Rings and Algebras (math.RA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702263
abstract: It is shown that the non-associative operators in a non-associative quantum theory are unobservables. The observable quantity may be presented only by the elements of some associative subalgebra. It is shown that the elements of the associative subalgebra are extended objects that can be similar to strings. It is assumed that the non-associative quantum field theory can be applied to the quantization of strongly interacting fields. The method for obtaining field equations in a non-associative case is given.

id: quant-ph/0702264
title: Entanglement of thermal scalar fields in a compact space space
authors: Jae-Weon Lee, Jaewan Kim, Taeseung Choi
comments: title changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702264
abstract: Using the thermal Green's function approach we propose a general method to investigate entanglement of the vacuum state or thermal ground states in an arbitrary dimensional space-time. As an application we show quantum separability of the massive thermal scalar field vacuum in the 1+1 dimensional cylindrical space-time. Separability is demonstrated using the positive partial transpose criterion for effective two-mode Gaussian states of collective operators. In this case, for all mass and temperature values entanglement is absent between the collective operators.

id: quant-ph/0702265
title: Controlled Quantum State Transfer in a Spin Chain
authors: Jiangbin Gong, Paul Brumer
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032331 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702265
abstract: Control of the transfer of quantum information encoded in quantum wavepackets moving along a spin chain is demonstrated. Specifically, based on a relationship with control in a paradigm of quantum chaos, it is shown that wavepackets with slow dispersion can automatically emerge from a class of initial superposition states involving only a few spins, and that arbitrary unspecified travelling wavepackets can be nondestructively stopped and later relaunched with perfection. The results establish an interesting application of quantum chaos studies in quantum information science.

id: quant-ph/0702266
title: Optimal control of light pulse storage and retrieval
authors: Irina Novikova, Alexey V. Gorshkov, David F. Phillips, Anders S. Sorensen, Mikhail D. Lukin, Ronald L. Walsworth
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 243602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702266
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally a procedure to obtain the maximum efficiency for the storage and retrieval of light pulses in atomic media. The procedure uses time reversal to obtain optimal input signal pulse-shapes. Experimental results in warm Rb vapor are in good agreement with theoretical predictions and demonstrate a substantial improvement of efficiency. This optimization procedure is applicable to a wide range of systems.

id: quant-ph/0702267
title: Measurement of EPR-type flavour entanglement in Upsilon(4S)->B0 B0bar decays
authors: A. Go, A. Bay, Belle Collaboration
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.99:131802,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702267
abstract: The neutral B-meson pair produced at the Upsilon(4S) should exhibit a non-local correlation of the type discussed by Einstein, Podolski, and Rosen (EPR). We measure this correlation using the time-dependent flavour asymmetry of semileptonic B0 decays, which we compare with predictions from quantum mechanics and two local realistic models. The data are consistent with quantum mechanics, and inconsistent with the other models. Assuming that some B pairs disentangle to produce B0 and B0bar with definite flavour, we find a decoherent fraction of 0.029+-057, consistent with no decoherence.

id: quant-ph/0702268
title: Quantum Critical Dynamics of A Qubit Coupled to An Isotropic Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick Bath
authors: H. T. Quan, Z. D. Wang, C. P. Sun
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012104 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702268
abstract: We explore a dynamic signature of quantum phase transition (QPT) in an isotropic Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick (LMG) model by studying the time evolution of a central qubit coupled to it. We evaluate exactly the time-dependent purity, which can be used to measure quantum coherence, of the central qubit. It is found that distinctly different behaviors of the purity as a function of the parameter reveal clearly the QPT point in the system. It is also clarified that the present model is equivalent to an anti Jaynes-Cummings model under certain conditions.

id: quant-ph/0702269
title: Creating, distributing and freezing entanglement with spin chains
authors: Irene D'Amico, Brendon W. Lovett, Timothy P. Spiller
comments: modification to the text, some references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702269
abstract: We show how branching spin chains can be used to both generate and distribute entanglement from their natural dynamics. Such entanglement provides a useful resource, for example for teleportation or distributed quantum processing. Once distributed, this resource can be isolated through mapping or swapping the entanglement into specific qubits at the ends of branches. Alternatively, as we demonstrate for distributed bipartite entanglement, applying simple single-qubit operations to the end spin of one or more branches can dynamically freeze the entanglement at the branch ends.

id: quant-ph/0702270
title: Tunnelling dynamics of Bose-Einstein condensate in a four wells loop shaped system
authors: Simone De Liberato, Christopher J. Foot
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 73, 035602 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702270
abstract: We investigated the tunnelling dynamics of a zero-temperature Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in configuration of four potential wells arranged in a loop. We found three interesting dynamic regimes: (a) flows of matter with small amplitude, (b) steady flow and (c) forced flow of matter for large amplitudes. The regime of quantum self-confinement has been studied and a new variant of it has been found for this system.

id: quant-ph/0702271
title: Quantum states with less energy than the vacuum in Dirac Hole Theory
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: Major changes. Corrected typos and algebraic mistakes in soem equations. Added some additional material. Basic result unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0702271
abstract: In Dirac's hole theory the vacuum state is generally believed to be the state of minimum energy. However it has recently been shown that this is not the case. In [1] it was shown that energy can be extracted from the hole theory vacuum state through the application of an electric field so that the final state has less energy than the vacuum state. In this paper we will confirm the results of [1] by calculating the change in the energy of the vacuum state due to its interaction with a specific electric field. It will be shown that the final state has less energy than the original vacuum state.

id: cond-mat/0702014
title: Robustness of adiabatic passage trough a quantum phase transition
authors: Andrea Fubini, Giuseppe Falci, Andreas Osterloh
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 9 134 (2007)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702014
abstract: We analyze the crossing of a quantum critical point based on exact results for the transverse XY model. In dependence of the change rate of the driving field, the evolution of the ground state is studied while the transverse magnetic field is tuned through the critical point with a linear ramping. The excitation probability is obtained exactly and is compared to previous studies and to the Landau-Zener formula, a long time solution for non-adiabatic transitions in two-level systems. The exact time dependence of the excitations density in the system allows to identify the adiabatic and diabatic regions during the sweep and to study the mesoscopic fluctuations of the excitations. The effect of white noise is investigated, where the critical point transmutes into a non-hermitian ``degenerate region''. Besides an overall increase of the excitations during and at the end of the sweep, the most destructive effect of the noise is the decay of the state purity that is enhanced by the passage through the degenerate region.

id: cond-mat/0702025
title: Model for l/f Flux Noise in SQUIDs and Qubits
authors: Roger H. Koch, David P. DiVincenzo, John Clarke
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures; v2: Various minor changes. Physical Review Letters, in press
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702025
abstract: We propose a model for 1/f flux noise in superconducting devices (f is frequency). The noise is generated by the magnetic moments of electrons in defect states which they occupy for a wide distribution of times before escaping. A trapped electron occupies one of the two Kramers-degenerate ground states, between which the transition rate is negligible at low temperature. As a result, the magnetic moment orientation is locked. Simulations of the noise produced by randomly oriented defects with a density of 5*10^17 m^-2 yield 1/f noise magnitudes in good agreement with experiments.

id: cond-mat/0702068
title: Measurement of energy eigenstates by a slow detector
authors: I. Martin, W. H. Zurek
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 120401 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702068
abstract: We propose a method for a weak continuous measurement of the energy eigenstates of a fast quantum system by means of a "slow" detector. Such a detector is only sensitive to slowly-changing variables, e. g. energy, while its back-action can be limited solely to decoherence of the eigenstate superpositions. We apply this scheme to the problem of detection of quantum jumps between energy eigenstates in a harmonic oscillator.

id: cond-mat/0702113
title: Theory of ground state cooling of a mechanical oscillator using dynamical back-action
authors: I. Wilson-Rae, N. Nooshi, W. Zwerger, T.J. Kippenberg
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 093901 (2007).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702113
abstract: A quantum theory of cooling of a mechanical oscillator by radiation pressure-induced dynamical back-action is developed, which is analogous to sideband cooling of trapped ions. We find that final occupancies well below unity can be attained when the mechanical oscillation frequency is larger than the cavity linewidth. It is shown that the final average occupancy can be retrieved directly from the optical output spectrum.

id: cond-mat/0702142
title: Persistent Supercurrent Atom Chip
authors: T. Mukai, C. Hufnagel, A. Kasper, T. Meno, A. Tsukada, K. Semba, F. Shimizu
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702142
abstract: Rubidium 87 atoms are trapped in an Ioffe-Pritchard potential generated with a persistent supercurrent that flows in a loop circuit patterned on a sapphire surface. The superconducting circuit is a closed loop made of 100 micro meter wide MBE-grown MgB2 stripe carrying a supercurrent of 2.5 A. To control the supercurrent in the stripe, an on-chip thermal switch operated by a focused argon-ion laser is developed. The switch operates as an on/off switch of the supercurrent, or as a device to set the current to a specific value with the aid of an external magnetic field. The current can be set even without an external source if the change is in decreasing direction.

id: cond-mat/0702156
title: Vortices, antivortices and superfluid shells separating Mott-insulating regions
authors: Kaushik Mitra, C. J. Williams, C. A. R. Sa de Melo
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702156
abstract: Atomic or molecular bosons in harmonically confined optical lattices exhibit a wedding cake structure consisting of insulating (Mott) shells. It is shown that superfluid regions emerge between Mott shells as a result of fluctuations due to finite hopping. It is found that the order parameter equation in the superfluid region is not of the Gross-Pitaeviskii type except near the insulator to superfluid boundaries. The excitation spectra in the Mott and superfluid regions are obtained, and it is shown that the superfluid shells posses low energy sound modes with spatially dependent sound velocity described by a local index of refraction directly related to the local superfluid density. Lastly, the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless transition and vortex-antivortex pairs are discussed in thin (wide) superfluid shells (rings) limited by three (two) dimensional Mott regions.

id: cond-mat/0702196
title: Exact Analysis of Entanglement in Gapped Quantum Spin Chains
authors: Hosho Katsura, Takaaki Hirano, Yasuhiro Hatsugai
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 012401 (2007)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702196
abstract: We investigate the entanglement properties of the valence-bond-solid states with generic integer-spin $S$. Using the Schwinger boson representation of the valence-bond-solid states, the entanglement entropy, the von Neumann entropy of a subsystem, is obtained exactly and its relationship with the usual correlation function is clarified. The saturation value of the entanglement entropy, $2 \log_2 (S+1)$, is derived explicitly and is interpreted in terms of the edge-state picture. The validity of our analytical results and the edge-state picture is numerically confirmed. We also propose a novel application of the edge state as a qubit for quantum computation.

id: cond-mat/0702219
title: Line Shape Broadening in Surface Diffusion of Interacting Adsorbates with Quasielastic He Atom Scattering
authors: R. Martinez-Casado, J. L. Vega, A. S. Sanz, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures (slightly revised version)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 216102 (2007)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702219
abstract: The experimental line shape broadening observed in adsorbate diffusion on metal surfaces with increasing coverage is usually related to the nature of the adsorbate-adsorbate interaction. Here we show that this broadening can also be understood in terms of a fully stochastic model just considering two noise sources: (i) a Gaussian white noise accounting for the surface friction, and (ii) a shot noise replacing the physical adsorbate-adsorbate interaction potential. Furthermore, contrary to what could be expected, for relatively weak adsorbate-substrate interactions the opposite effect is predicted: line shapes get narrower with increasing coverage.

id: cond-mat/0702255
title: Classical to Quantum Transition of a Driven Nonlinear Nanomechanical Resonator
authors: Itamar Katz, Alex Retzker, Raphael Straub, Ron Lifshitz
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99 (2007) 040404.
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702255
abstract: We seek the first indications that a nanoelectromechanical system (NEMS) is entering the quantum domain as its mass and temperature are decreased. We find them by studying the transition from classical to quantum behavior of a driven nonlinear Duffing resonator. Numerical solutions of the equations of motion, operating in the bistable regime of the resonator, demonstrate that the quantum Wigner function gradually deviates from the corresponding classical phase-space probability density. These clear differences that develop due to nonlinearity can serve as experimental evidence, in the near future, that NEMS resonators are entering the quantum domain.

id: cond-mat/0702318
title: Breathing modes of a fast rotating Fermi gas
authors: Mauro Antezza, Marco Cozzini, Sandro Stringari
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 053609 (2007)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702318
abstract: We derive the frequency spectrum of the lowest compressional oscillations of a 3D harmonically trapped Fermi superfluid in the presence of a vortex lattice, treated in the diffused vorticity approximation within a hydrodynamic approach. We consider the general case of a superfluid at T=0 characterized by a polytropic equation of state ($\sim{n}^\gamma$), which includes both the Bose-Einstein condensed regime of dimers ($\gamma=1$) and the unitary limit of infinite scattering length ($\gamma=2/3$). Important limiting cases are considered, including the centrifugal limit, the isotropic trapping and the cigar geometry. The conditions required to enter the lowest Landau level and quantum Hall regimes at unitarity are also discussed.

id: cond-mat/0702377
title: A symmetry principle for Topological Quantum Order
authors: Zohar Nussinov, Gerardo Ortiz
comments: 57 pages, 14 figures, references added
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702377
abstract: We present a unifying framework to study physical systems which exhibit topological quantum order (TQO). The guiding principle behind our approach is that of symmetries and entanglement. We introduce the concept of low-dimensional Gauge-Like Symmetries (GLSs), and the physical conservation laws (including topological terms and fractionalization) which emerge from them. We prove then sufficient conditions for TQO at both zero and finite temperatures. The topological defects which are associated with the restoration of GLSs lead to TQO. Selection rules associated with the GLSs enable us to systematically construct states with TQO; these selection rules do not rely on the existence of a finite gap between the ground states to all other excited states. All currently known examples of TQO display GLSs. We analyze spectral structures and show that Kitaev's toric code model and Wen's plaquette model are equivalent and reduce, by a duality mapping, to an Ising chain. Despite the spectral gap in these systems, the toric operator expectation values may vanish once thermal fluctuations are present. This mapping illustrates that the quantum states themselves in a particular (operator language) representation encode TQO and that the duality mappings, being non-local in the original representation, disentangle the order. We present a general algorithm for the construction of long-range string orders in general systems with entangled ground states.

id: cond-mat/0702480
title: Macroscopic quantum tunneling and quasiparticle-tunneling blockade effect in s-wave/d-wave hybrid junctions
authors: S. Kawabata, A. A. Golubov, Ariando, C. J. M. Verwijs, H. Hilgenkamp, J. R. Kirtley
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76 (2007) 064505
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702480
abstract: We have theoretically investigated macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) and the influence of nodal quasiparticles and zero energy bound states (ZES) on MQT in s-wave/ d-wave hybrid Josephson junctions. In contrast to d-wave/d-wave junctions, the low-energy quasiparticle dissipation resulting from nodal quasiparticles and ZES is suppressed due to a quasiparticle-tunneling blockade effect in an isotropic s-wave superconductor. Therefore, the inherent dissipation in these junctions is found to be very weak. We have also investigated MQT in a realistic s-wave/d-wave (Nb/Au/YBCO) junction in which Ohmic dissipation in a shunt resistance is stronger than the inherent dissipation and find that MQT is observable within the current experimental technology. This result suggests high potential of s-wave/d-wave hybrid junctions for applications in quantum information devices.

id: cond-mat/0702519
title: Characterizing electron entanglement in multiterminal mesoscopic conductors
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Diego Frustaglia, Fabio Taddei, Rosario Fazio
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Ref. added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 241305(R) (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702519
abstract: We show that current correlations at the exit ports of a beam splitter can be used to detect electronic entanglement for a fairly general input state. This includes the situation where electron pairs can enter the beam splitter from the same port or be separated due to backscattering. The proposed scheme allows to discriminate between occupation-number and degree-of-freedom entanglement.

id: cond-mat/0702620
title: Long-range coupling and scalable architecture for superconducting flux qubits
authors: Austin G. Fowler, William F. Thompson, Zhizhong Yan, Ashley M. Stephens, B. L. T. Plourde, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures
journal: PRB 76, 174507 (2007)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702620
abstract: Constructing a fault-tolerant quantum computer is a daunting task. Given any design, it is possible to determine the maximum error rate of each type of component that can be tolerated while still permitting arbitrarily large-scale quantum computation. It is an underappreciated fact that including an appropriately designed mechanism enabling long-range qubit coupling or transport substantially increases the maximum tolerable error rates of all components. With this thought in mind, we take the superconducting flux qubit coupling mechanism described in PRB 70, 140501 (2004) and extend it to allow approximately 500 MHz coupling of square flux qubits, 50 um a side, at a distance of up to several mm. This mechanism is then used as the basis of two scalable architectures for flux qubits taking into account crosstalk and fault-tolerant considerations such as permitting a universal set of logical gates, parallelism, measurement and initialization, and data mobility.

id: cond-mat/0702668
title: Dissipationless Directed Transport in Rocked Single-Band Quantum Dynamics
authors: Jiangbin Gong, Dario Poletti, Peter Hanggi
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Physical Review A, March 2007
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 033602 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702668
abstract: Using matter waves that are trapped in a deep optical lattice, dissipationless directed transport is demonstrated to occur if the single-band quantum dynamics is periodically tilted on one half of the lattice by a monochromatic field. Most importantly, the directed transport can exist for almost all system parameters, even after averaged over a broad range of single-band initial states. The directed transport is theoretically explained within ac-scattering theory. Total reflection phenomena associated with the matter waves travelling from a tilting-free region to a tilted region are emphasized. The results are of relevance to ultracold physics and solid-state physics, and may lead to powerful means of selective, coherent, and directed transport of cold particles in optical lattices.

id: cond-mat/0702688
title: Spin-Photon Entangling Diode
authors: Christian Flindt, Anders S. Sorensen, Mikhail D. Lukin, Jacob M. Taylor
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; figures updated
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 240501 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702688
abstract: We propose a semiconductor device that can electrically generate entangled electron spin-photon states, providing a building block for entanglement of distant spins. The device consists of a p-i-n diode structure that incorporates a coupled double quantum dot. We show that electronic control of the diode bias and local gating allow for the generation of single photons that are entangled with a robust quantum memory based on the electron spins. Practical performance of this approach to controlled spin-photon entanglement is analyzed.

id: gr-qc/0702118
title: Is it possible to detect gravitational waves with atom interferometers?
authors: G. M. Tino, F. Vetrano
comments: 
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.24:2167-2178,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0702118
abstract: We investigate the possibility to use atom interferometers to detect gravitational waves. We discuss the interaction of gravitational waves with an atom interferometer and analyze possible schemes.

id: hep-ph/0702120
title: Explanation of the RHIC HBT Puzzle by a Granular Source of Quark-Gluon Plasma Droplets
authors: Wei-Ning Zhang, Cheuk-Yin Wong
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, invited talk presented at the XI International Workshop on Correlation and Fluctuation in Multiparticle Production, Nov. 21-24, 2006, Hangzhou, China
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.E16:3262-3270,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0702120
abstract: We present a review on the explanation of the RHIC HBT puzzle by a granular pion-emitting source of quark-gluon plasma droplets. The evolution of the droplet is described by relativistic hydrodynamics with an equation of state suggested by lattice gauge results. The granular source evolution is obtained by superposing all of the evolutions of individual droplets. Pions are assumed to be emitted thermally from the droplets at the freeze-out configuration characterized by a freeze-out temperature $T_f$. We find that the average particle emission time scales with the initial radius of the droplet. Pions will be emitted earlier if the droplet radius is smaller. An earlier emission time will lead to a smaller extracted HBT radius $R_{\rm out}$, while the extracted HBT radius $R_{\rm side}$ is determined by the scale of the distribution of the droplet centers. However, a collective expansion of the droplets can further decrease $R_{\rm out}$. As a result, the value of $R_{\rm out}/R_{\rm side}$ can be close to, or even less than 1 for the

id: hep-ph/0702121
title: Single-Event Handbury-Brown-Twiss Interferometry
authors: Cheuk-Yin Wong, Wei-Ning Zhang
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, invited talk presented at the XI International Workshop on Correlation and Fluctuation in Multiparticle Production, Nov. 21-24, 2006, Hangzhou, China
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.E16:3271-3279,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0702121
abstract: Large spatial density fluctuations in high-energy heavy-ion collisions can come from many sources: initial transverse density fluctuations, non-central collisions, phase transitions, surface tension, and fragmentations. The common presence of some of these sources in high-energy heavy-ion collisions suggests that large scale density fluctuations may often occur. The detection of large density fluctuations by single-event Hanbury-Brown-Twiss interferometry in heavy-ion collisions will provide useful information on density fluctuations and the dynamics of heavy-ion collisions.

id: hep-ph/0702271
title: Bell Inequalities in High Energy Physics
authors: Yi-Bing Ding, Junli Li, Cong-Feng Qiao
comments: 26 pages, 3 eps figures; references added, published version
journal: High Ener. Phys. & Nucl. Phys. 31, 1086(2007)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0702271
abstract: We review in this paper the research status on testing the completeness of Quantum mechanics in High Energy Physics, especially on the Bell Inequalities. We briefly introduce the basic idea of Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen paradox and the results obtained in photon experiments. In the tests of Bell inequalities in high energy physics, the early attempts of using spin correlations in particle decays and later on the mixing of neutral mesons used to form the quasi-spin entangled states are covered. The related experimental results in K^0 and B^0 systems are presented and discussed. We introduce the new scheme, which is based on the non-maximally entangled state and proposed to implement in \phi factory, in testing the Local Hidden Variable Theory. And, we also discuss the possibility in generalizing it to the tau charm factory.

id: hep-th/0702060
title: Boson-fermion unification, superstrings, and Bohmian mechanics
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 30 pages, 1 figure, revised, to appear in Found. Phys
journal: Found.Phys.39:1109-1138,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0702060
abstract: Bosonic and fermionic particle currents can be introduced in a more unified way, with the cost of introducing a preferred spacetime foliation. Such a unified treatment of bosons and fermions naturally emerges from an analogous superstring current, showing that the preferred spacetime foliation appears only at the level of effective field theory, not at the fundamental superstring level. The existence of the preferred spacetime foliation allows an objective definition of particles associated with quantum field theory in curved spacetime. Such an objective definition of particles makes the Bohmian interpretation of particle quantum mechanics more appealing. The superstring current allows a consistent Bohmian interpretation of superstrings themselves, including a Bohmian description of string creation and destruction in terms of string splitting. The Bohmian equations of motion and the corresponding probabilistic predictions are fully relativistic covariant and do not depend on the preferred foliation.

id: hep-th/0702157
title: A new variational perturbation method for double well oscillators
authors: Hyeong-Chan Kim, Jae Hyung Yee
comments: 29 pages, 5 figures
journal: AnnalsPhys.323:1424-1459,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0702157
abstract: We propose a variational perturbation method based on the observation that eigenvalues of each parity sector of both the anharmonic and double-well oscillators are approximately equi-distanced. The generalized deformed algebra satisfied by the invariant operators of the systems provides well defined Hilbert spaces to both of the oscillators. There appears a natural expansion parameter defined by the ratios of three distance scales of the trial wavefunctions. The energies of the ground state and the first order excited state, in the $0^{th}$ order variational approximation, are obtained with errors $<10^{-2}$% for vast range of the coupling strength for both oscillators. An iterative formula is presented which perturbatively generates higher order corrections from the lower order invariant operators and the first order correction is explicitly given.

id: hep-th/0702159
title: Deformed Special Relativity and Deformed Symmetries in a Canonical Framework
authors: Subir Ghosh, Probir Pal
comments: Revised version with change in Title and Abstract, No change in mathematical content, Reference section enlarged, Discussion on Soccer Ball Problem removed; Version to appear in PRD
journal: Phys.Rev.D75:105021,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0702159
abstract: In this paper we have studied the nature of kinematical and dynamical laws in $\kappa $-Minkowski spacetime from a new perspective: the canonical phase space approach. We discuss a particular form of $\kappa$-Minkowski phase space algebra that yields the $\kappa$-extended finite Lorentz transformations derived in \cite{kim}. This is a particular form of a Deformed Special Relativity model that admits a modified energy-momentum dispersion law as well as noncommutative $\kappa$-Minkowski phase space. We show that this system can be completely mapped to a set of phase space variables that obey canonical (and {\it{not}} $\kappa$-Minkowski) phase space algebra and Special Relativity Lorentz transformation (and {\it{not}} $\kappa$-extended Lorentz transformation). The complete set of deformed symmetry generators are constructed that obeys an unmodified closed algebra but induce deformations in the symmetry transformations of the physical $\kappa$-Minkowski phase space variables. Furthermore, we demonstrate the usefulness and simplicity of this approach through a number of phenomenological applications both in classical and quantum mechanics. We also construct a Lagrangian for the $\kappa$-particle.

id: hep-th/0702162
title: Positive-definite states of a Klein-Gordon type particle
authors: A.A. Semenov, C.V. Usenko, B.I. Lev
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys.Lett.A372:4180-4183,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0702162
abstract: A possible way for the consistent probability interpretation of the Klein-Gordon equation is proposed. It is assumed that some states of a scalar charged particle cannot be physically realized. The rest of quantum states are proven to have positive-definite probability distributions.

id: hep-th/0702185
title: Is classical reality completely deterministic?
authors: Boris Kosyakov
comments: Replace the paper with a revised version
journal: Found.Phys.38:76-88,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0702185
abstract: The concept of determinism for a classical system is interpreted as the requirement that the solution to the Cauchy problem for the equations of motion governing this system be unique. This requirement is generally assumed to hold for all autonomous classical systems. We give counterexamples of this view. Our analysis of classical electrodynamics in a world with one temporal and one spatial dimension shows that the solution to the Cauchy problem with the initial conditions of a particular type is not unique. Therefore, random behavior of closed classical systems is indeed possible. This finding provides a qualitative explanation of how classical strings can split. We propose a modified path integral formulation of classical mechanics to include indeterministic systems.

id: math-ph/0702001
title: Invariant and polynomial identities for higher rank matrices
authors: Victor Tapia
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, 5525 (2007)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0702001
abstract: We exhibit explicit expressions, in terms of components, of discriminants, determinants, characteristic polynomials and polynomial identities for matrices of higher rank. We define permutation tensors and in term of them we construct discriminants and the determinant as the discriminant of order $d$, where $d$ is the dimension of the matrix. The characteristic polynomials and the Cayley--Hamilton theorem for higher rank matrices are obtained there from.

id: math-ph/0702005
title: Relative $C$"-Numerical Ranges for Applications in Quantum Control and Quantum Information
authors: G. Dirr, U. Helmke, M. Kleinsteuber, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen
comments: accompanying paper to math-ph/0701035
journal: Lin. Multilin. Alg. 56 (2008) 27--51
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0702005
abstract: Motivated by applications in quantum information and quantum control, a new type of $C$"-numerical range, the relative $C$"-numerical range denoted $W_K(C,A)$, is introduced. It arises upon replacing the unitary group U(N) in the definition of the classical $C$"-numerical range by any of its compact and connected subgroups $K \subset U(N)$. The geometric properties of the relative $C$"-numerical range are analysed in detail. Counterexamples prove its geometry is more intricate than in the classical case: e.g. $W_K(C,A)$ is neither star-shaped nor simply-connected. Yet, a well-known result on the rotational symmetry of the classical $C$"-numerical range extends to $W_K(C,A)$, as shown by a new approach based on Lie theory. Furthermore, we concentrate on the subgroup $SU_{\rm loc}(2^n) := SU(2)\otimes ... \otimes SU(2)$, i.e. the $n$-fold tensor product of SU(2), which is of particular interest in applications. In this case, sufficient conditions are derived for $W_{K}(C,A)$ being a circular disc centered at origin of the complex plane. Finally, the previous results are illustrated in detail for $SU(2) \otimes SU(2)$.

id: math-ph/0702020
title: Threshold Bound States
authors: W. A. Berger, H. G. Miller, D. Waxman
comments: 
journal: Eur.Phys.J.A37:357-360,2008
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0702020
abstract: Relationships between the coupling constant and the binding energy of threshold bound states are obtained in a simple manner from an iterative algorithm for solving the eigenvalue problem. The absence of threshold bound states in higher dimensions can be easily understood.

id: math-ph/0702034
title: H = x p with interaction and the Riemann zeros
authors: German Sierra
comments: 23 pages, 12 figures, minor corrections
journal: Nucl.Phys.B776:327-364,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Number Theory (math.NT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0702034
abstract: Starting from a quantized version of the classical Hamiltonian H = x p, we add a non local interaction which depends on two potentials. The model is solved exactly in terms of a Jost like function which is analytic in the complex upper half plane. This function vanishes, either on the real axis, corresponding to bound states, or below it, corresponding to resonances. We find potentials for which the resonances converge asymptotically toward the average position of the Riemann zeros. These potentials realize, at the quantum level, the semiclassical regularization of H = x p proposed by Berry and Keating. Furthermore, a linear superposition of them, obtained by the action of integer dilations, yields a Jost function whose real part vanishes at the Riemann zeros and whose imaginary part resembles the one of the zeta function. Our results suggest the existence of a quantum mechanical model where the Riemann zeros would make a point like spectrum embbeded in the continuum. The associated spectral interpretation would resolve the emission/absortion debate between Berry-Keating and Connes. Finally, we indicate how our results can be extended to the Dirichlet L-functions constructed with real characters.

id: math-ph/0702053
title: Generalized Heisenberg Algebras and Fibonacci Series
authors: J. de Souza, E. M. F. Curado, M. A. Rego-Monteiro
comments: 24 pages, 2 figures, subfigure.sty
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 10415
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0702053
abstract: We have constructed a Heisenberg-type algebra generated by the Hamiltonian, the step operators and an auxiliar operator. This algebra describes quantum systems having eigenvalues of the Hamiltonian depending on the eigenvalues of the two previous levels. This happens, for example, for systems having the energy spectrum given by Fibonacci sequence. Moreover, the algebraic structure depends on two functions f(x) and g(x). When these two functions are linear we classify, analysing the stability of the fixed points of the functions, the possible representations for this algebra.

id: math-ph/0702078
title: Generalized Heisenberg algebras and k-generalized Fibonacci numbers
authors: Matthias Schork
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 4207-4214
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0702078
abstract: It is shown how some of the recent results of de Souza et al. [1] can be generalized to describe Hamiltonians whose eigenvalues are given as k-generalized Fibonacci numbers. Here k is an arbitrary integer and the cases considered by de Souza et al. corespond to k=2.

id: math-ph/0702088
title: Exact propagators for SUSY partners
authors: Andrey M. Pupasov, Boris F. Samsonov, Uwe Guenther
comments: 31 pages
journal: J.Phys.A40:10557-10587,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0702088
abstract: Pairs of SUSY partner Hamiltonians are studied which are interrelated by usual (linear) or polynomial supersymmetry. Assuming the model of one of the Hamiltonians as exactly solvable with known propagator, expressions for propagators of partner models are derived. The corresponding general results are applied to "a particle in a box", the Harmonic oscillator and a free particle (i.e. to transparent potentials).

id: math-ph/0702094
title: Maslov's complex germ and the Weyl--Moyal algebra in quantum mechanics and in quantum field theory
authors: A. V. Stoyanovsky
comments: 36 pages
journal: in: A. V. Stoyanovsky, Introduction to the mathematical principles of quantum field theory, Editorial URSS, Moscow, 2007 (in Russian).
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0702094
abstract: The paper is a survey of some author's results related with the Maslov--Shvedov method of complex germ and with quantum field theory. The main idea is that many results of the method of complex germ and of perturbative quantum field theory can be made more simple and natural if instead of the algebra of (pseudo)differential operators one uses the Weyl algebra (operators with Weyl symbols) with the Moyal *-product. Section 1, devoted to quantum mechanics, contains a closed mathematical description of the Maslov--Shvedov method in the theory of Schrodinger equation, including the method of canonical operator. In particular, it contains a new simple definition of the Maslov index modulo 4. Section 2, devoted to quantum field theory, contains a logically self-consistent exposition of the main results of perturbative quantum field theory not using the subtraction of infinities from the quantum Hamiltonian of free field and normal ordering of operators. It also contains a result (dynamical evolution in quantum field theory in quasiclassical approximation) close to the Maslov--Shvedov quantum field theory complex germ.

id: math-ph/0702095
title: Geometrical modification of quaternionic quantum mechanics
authors: Vladimir Trifonov
comments: Final version published in IJTP under the title "GR-friendly description of quantum systems"
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.47:492-510,2008
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0702095
abstract: We present an axiomatic modification of quaternionic quantum mechanics with a possible-worlds semantics capable of predicting essential "nonquantum" features of an observable universe model - the dimensionality and topology of spacetime, the existence, the signature and a specific form of a metric on it, and certain naturally distinguished directions (vistas) in spacetime unrelated to its metric properties.

id: math/0702188
title: Higher Dimensional Unitary Braid Matrices: Construction, Associated Structures and Entanglements
authors: B. Abdesselam, A. Chakrabarti, V.K. Dobrev, S.G. Mihov
comments: 26 pages, 1 figure, Addendum and new references are added. To appear in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: J.Math.Phys.48:053508,2007
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0702188
abstract: We construct $(2n)^2\times (2n)^2$ unitary braid matrices $\hat{R}$ for $n\geq 2$ generalizing the class known for $n=1$. A set of $(2n)\times (2n)$ matrices $(I,J,K,L)$ are defined. $\hat{R}$ is expressed in terms of their tensor products (such as $K\otimes J$), leading to a canonical formulation for all $n$. Complex projectors $P_{\pm}$ provide a basis for our real, unitary $\hat{R}$. Baxterization is obtained. Diagonalizations and block-diagonalizations are presented. The loss of braid property when $\hat{R}$ $(n>1)$ is block-diagonalized in terms of $\hat{R}$ $(n=1)$ is pointed out and explained. For odd dimension $(2n+1)^2\times (2n+1)^2$, a previously constructed braid matrix is complexified to obtain unitarity. $\hat{R}\mathrm{LL}$- and $\hat{R}\mathrm{TT}$-algebras, chain Hamiltonians, potentials for factorizable $S$-matrices, complex non-commutative spaces are all studied briefly in the context of our unitary braid matrices. Turaev construction of link invariants is formulated for our case. We conclude with comments concerning entanglements.

id: nlin/0702003
title: Importance of the Wick rotation on Tunnelling
authors: Amaury Mouchet
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0702003
abstract: A continuous complex rotation of time $t\mapsto t\EXP{-i\theta}$ is shown to smooth out the huge fluctuations that characterise chaotic tunnelling. This is illustrated in the kicked rotor model (quantum standard map) where the period of the map is complexified: the associated chaotic classical dynamics, if significant for $\theta=0$, is blurred out long before the Wick rotation is completed ($\theta=\pi/2$). The influence of resonances on tunnelling rates weakens exponentially as $\theta$ increases from zero, all the more rapidly the sharper the fluctuations. The long range fluctuations can therefore be identified in a deterministic way without ambiguity. When the last ones have been washed out, tunnelling recovers the (quasi-)integrable exponential behaviour governed by the action of a regular instanton.

id: physics/0702038
title: Suppression of Intensity Fluctuations in Free Space High-Speed Optical Communication Based on Spectral Encoding of a Partially Coherent Beam
authors: Gennady P. Berman, Alan R. Bishop, Boris M. Chernobrod, Dinh C. Nguyen, Vyacheslav N. Gorshkov
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics (physics.ao-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0702038
abstract: A new concept of a free-space, high-speed (Gbps) optical communication system based on spectral encoding of radiation from a broadband pulsed laser is developed. It is shown that, in combination with the use of partially coherent laser beams and a relatively slow photosensor, scintillations can be suppressed by orders of magnitude for distances of more than 10 km. We also consider the spectral encoding of radiation from a LED as a gigabit rate solution of the "last mile" problem and rapid-deployment systems for disaster recovery.

id: physics/0702069
title: Would Bohr be born if Bohm were born before Born?
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 5 pages, revised, accepted for publication in Am. J. Phys
journal: Am.J.Phys.76:143-146,2008
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0702069
abstract: I discuss a hypothetical historical context in which a Bohm-like deterministic interpretation of the Schrodinger equation could have been proposed before the Born probabilistic interpretation and argue that in such a context the Copenhagen (Bohr) interpretation would probably have never achieved great popularity among physicists.

id: physics/0702072
title: Hempel's dilemma and the physics of computation
authors: C.W.J. Beenakker
comments: 5 pages
journal: in: Knowledge in Ferment: Dilemmas in Science, Scholarship and Society (Leiden University Press, 2007)
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0702072
abstract: Carl Gustav Hempel (1905-1997) formulated the dilemma that carries his name in an attempt to determine the boundaries of physics. Where does physics go over into metaphysics? The purpose of this contribution is to indicate how a recently developed field of research, the physics of computation, might offer a new answer to that old question: The boundary between physics and metaphysics is the boundary between what can and what cannot be computed in the age of the universe.

id: physics/0702105
title: A three-dimensional degree of polarization based on Rayleigh scattering
authors: M. R. Dennis
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures. OSA style
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0702105
abstract: A measure of the degree of polarization for the three-dimensional polarization matrix (coherence matrix) of an electromagnetic field is proposed, based on Rayleigh scattering. The degree of polarization, due to dipole scattering of the three-dimensional state of polarization, is averaged over all scattering directions. This gives a well-defined purity measure, which, unlike other proposed measures of the three-dimensional degree of polarization, is not a unitary invariant of the matrix. This is demonstrated and discussed for several examples, including a partially polarized transverse beam.

id: physics/0702192
title: Ionization of Sodium and Rubidium nS, nP and nD Rydberg atoms by blackbody radiation
authors: I.I. Beterov, D.B. Tretyakov, I.I. Ryabtsev, A. Ekers, N.N. Bezuglov
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures, 6 tables in Appendix
journal: Physical Review A 75, 052720 (2007)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0702192
abstract: Results of theoretical calculations of ionization rates of Rb and Na Rydberg atoms by blackbody radiation (BBR) are presented. Calculations have been performed for nS, nP and nD states of Na and Rb, which are commonly used in a variety of experiments, at principal quantum numbers n=8-65 and at three ambient temperatures of 77, 300 and 600 K. A peculiarity of our calculations is that we take into account the contributions of BBR-induced redistribution of population between Rydberg states prior to photoionization and field ionization by extraction electric field pulses. The obtained results show that these phenomena affect both the magnitude of measured ionization rates and shapes of their dependencies on n. The calculated ionization rates are compared with the results of our earlier measurements of BBR-induced ionization rates of Na nS and nD Rydberg states with n=8-20 at 300 K. A good agreement for all states except nS with n>15 is observed. We also present the useful analytical formulae for quick estimation of BBR ionization rates of Rydberg atoms.

id: physics/0702220
title: Path integral formulation for quantum nonadiabatic dynamics and the mixed quantum-classical limit
authors: Vinod Krishna
comments: 26 pages, 2 figures. Accepted for publication, Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 126, 134107 (2007)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0702220
abstract: This work identifies geometric effects on dynamics due to nonadiabatic couplings in Born Oppenheimer systems and provides a systematic method for deriving corrections to mixed quantum-classical methods. Specifically, an exact path integral formulation of the quantum nonadiabatic dynamics of Born Oppenheimer systems is described. Stationary phase approximations to the propagator for full quantum dynamics are derived. It is shown that quantum corrections to mixed quantum classical methods can be obtained through stationary phase approximations to the full quantum dynamics. A rigorous description of the quantum corrections due to electronic nonadiabatic coupling on the nuclear dynamics within the Ehrenfest framework is obtained. The fewest switches surface hopping method is shown to be obtained as a quasiclassical approximation to the dynamics and natural semiclassical extensions to include classically forbidden nonadiabatic transitions are suggested.

id: hep-th/0702091
title: How Does Casimir Energy Fall?
authors: Stephen A. Fulling, Kimball A. Milton, Prachi Parashar, August Romeo, K. V. Shajesh, Jef Wagner
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, REVTeX. Minor revisions, including changes in references
journal: Phys.Rev.D76:025004,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0702091
abstract: Doubt continues to linger over the reality of quantum vacuum energy. There is some question whether fluctuating fields gravitate at all, or do so anomalously. Here we show that for the simple case of parallel conducting plates, the associated Casimir energy gravitates just as required by the equivalence principle, and that therefore the inertial and gravitational masses of a system possessing Casimir energy $E_c$ are both $E_c/c^2$. This simple result disproves recent claims in the literature. We clarify some pitfalls in the calculation that can lead to spurious dependences on coordinate system.

id: cond-mat/0702645
title: Fast initialization of a high-fidelity quantum register using optical superlattices
authors: B. Vaucher, S. R. Clark, U. Dorner, D. Jaksch
comments: 22 pages, 9 figures, IOP style. Revised version to appear in NJP
journal: New J. Phys. 9 221 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702645
abstract: We propose a method for the fast generation of a quantum register of addressable qubits consisting of ultracold atoms stored in an optical lattice. Starting with a half filled lattice we remove every second lattice barrier by adiabatically switching on a superlattice potential which leads to a long wavelength lattice in the Mott insulator state with unit filling. The larger periodicity of the resulting lattice could make individual addressing of the atoms via an external laser feasible. We develop a Bose-Hubbard-like model for describing the dynamics of cold atoms in a lattice when doubling the lattice periodicity via the addition of a superlattice potential. The dynamics of the transition from a half filled to a commensurately filled lattice is analyzed numerically with the help of the Time Evolving Block Decimation algorithm and analytically using the Kibble-Zurek theory. We show that the time scale for the whole process, i.e. creating the half filled lattice and subsequent doubling of the lattice periodicity, is significantly faster than adiabatic direct quantum freezing of a superfluid into a Mott insulator for large lattice periods. Our method therefore provides a high fidelity quantum register of addressable qubits on a fast time scale.

id: cond-mat/0702569
title: Quantum rearrangement and self-consistent BCS-BEC crossover thermodynamics
authors: Ji-sheng Chen, Chuan-ming Cheng, Jia-rong Li, Yan-ping Wang
comments: published version revised according to comments; a few typos fixed and references updated
journal: Phys.Rev.A76:033617,2007
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702569
abstract: Based on previous works, analytical calculational procedures for dealing with the strongly interacting fermions ground state are further developed through a medium dependent potential in terms of the Bethe-Peierls contact interaction model. The methods are exact in the unitary limit regime and they lead to the self-consistent equations analogous to the Hartree ones. The single particle energy spectrum rearrangement effects on the thermodynamics due to the Hugenholtz-van Hove theorem constraint are addressed. These effects lead to an additional instantaneous correlation potential contribution to the system physical chemical potential and pressure, i.e., equation of state, which enforces the classical thermodynamic consistency. The Dyson-Schwinger equations represent implicitly the various Bethe-Goldstone expansion ones. In a thermodynamically self-consistent way, the universal dimensionless factor is analytically calculated to be $\xi=\049$, which defines the ratio of the unitary fermions energy density to that of the ideal non-interacting ones at T=0.

id: cond-mat/0702648
title: Generating Single Microwave Photons in a Circuit
authors: A. A. Houck, D. I. Schuster, J. M. Gambetta, J. A. Schreier, B. R. Johnson, J. M. Chow, J. Majer, L. Frunzio, M. H. Devoret, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, hires version at this http URL
journal: Nature 449, 328-331 (20 September 2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0702648
abstract: Electromagnetic signals in circuits consist of discrete photons, though conventional voltage sources can only generate classical fields with a coherent superposition of many different photon numbers. While these classical signals can control and measure bits in a quantum computer (qubits), single photons can carry quantum information, enabling non-local quantum interactions, an important resource for scalable quantum computing. Here, we demonstrate an on-chip single photon source in a circuit quantum electrodynamics (QED) architecture, with a microwave transmission line cavity that collects the spontaneous emission of a single superconducting qubit with high efficiency. The photon source is triggered by a qubit rotation, as a photon is generated only when the qubit is excited. Tomography of both qubit and fluorescence photon shows that arbitrary qubit states can be mapped onto the photon state, demonstrating an ability to convert a stationary qubit into a flying qubit. Both the average power and voltage of the photon source are characterized to verify performance of the system. This single photon source is an important addition to a rapidly growing toolbox for quantum optics on a chip.

