id: quant-ph/0703001
title: Generation of a stable low-frequency squeezed vacuum field with periodically-poled KTiOPO$_4$ at 1064 nm
authors: Keisuke Goda, Eugeniy E. Mikhailov, Osamu Miyakawa, Shailendhar Saraf, Stephen Vass, Alan Weinstein, Nergis Mavalvala
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703001
abstract: We report on the generation of a stable continuous-wave low-frequency squeezed vacuum field with a squeezing level of $3.8\pm0.1$ dB at 1064 nm, the wavelength at which laser interferometers for gravitational wave (GW) detection operate, using periodically poled KTiOPO$_4$ (PPKTP) in a sub-threshold optical parametric oscillator. PPKTP has the advantages of higher nonlinearity, smaller intra-crystal and pump-induced seed absorption, user-specified parametric down-conversion temperature, wider temperature tuning range, and lower susceptibility to thermal lensing over alternative nonlinear materials such as MgO doped or periodically poled LiNbO$_3$, and is, therefore, an excellent material for generation of squeezed vacuum fields for application to laser interferometers for GW detection.

id: quant-ph/0703002
title: Macroscopic Reality in Quantum Mechanics; Origin and Dissipation
authors: Kentaro Urasaki
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703002
abstract: We study the connection between dissipation and reality in macroscopic quantum systems. We present the following scenario; if we consider the dynamics of a `partial' wave function, the dissipation is represented as a nonlocal term and it causes destructive interference to suppress the quantum fluctuation. Using the variational method, we confirm that this dissipation term is a reasonable extension of the standard (Schr\"odinger) description for isolated systems, from which we also derive the classical action. Consequently, in macroscopic systems, the states whose time-integrated dissipation takes an extreme value come true. This description, which is consistent with our sense of reality, coexists with the usual linear-time-dependent description.

id: quant-ph/0703003
title: Entangling a nanomechanical resonator with a microwave field
authors: A.K.Ringsmuth, G.J.Milburn
comments: submitted to J. Mod. Opt
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703003
abstract: We show how the coherent oscillations of a nanomechanical resonator can be entangled with a microwave cavity in the form of a superconducting coplanar resonator. Dissipation is included and realistic values for experimental parameters are estimated.

id: quant-ph/0703004
title: Reply to "The three-box paradox revisited" by Ravon and Vaidman
authors: K. A. Kirkpatrick
comments: 8pp
journal: J. Phys. A 40 2883-2890 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703004
abstract: I reply to Ravon and Vaidman's criticism (quant-ph/0606067) of my classical implementation (quant-ph/0207124) of a three-box system as a card game.

id: quant-ph/0703005
title: Toric varieties: Simple combinatorial and geometrical structure of multipartite quantum systems
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 14 pages
journal: Mathematical Physics Research Developments, Edited by M. B. Levy, Nova publisher, (2009) pp. 589-604
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703005
abstract: We investigate the geometrical structure of multipartite states based on the construction of toric varieties. We show that the toric variety represents the space of general pure states and projective toric variety defines the space of separable set of multi-qubits states. We also discuss in details the construction of single-, two-, three-, and multi- qubits states. This construction gives a very simple and elegant visual representation of the geometrical structure of multipartite quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0703006
title: A necessary and sufficient condition to play games in quantum mechanical settings
authors: Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Junichi Shimamura, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics, 9 (2007) 43
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703006
abstract: Quantum game theory is a multidisciplinary field which combines quantum mechanics with game theory by introducing non-classical resources such as entanglement, quantum operations and quantum measurement. By transferring two-player-two strategy (2x2) dilemma containing classical games into quantum realm, dilemmas can be resolved in quantum pure strategies if entanglement is distributed between the players who use quantum operations. Moreover, players receive the highest sum of payoffs available in the game, which are otherwise impossible in classical pure strategies. Encouraged by the observation of rich dynamics of physical systems with many interacting parties and the power of entanglement in quantum versions of 2x2 games, it became generally accepted that quantum versions can be easily extended to N-player situations by simply allowing N-partite entangled states. In this article, however, we show that this is not generally true because the reproducibility of classical tasks in quantum domain imposes limitations on the type of entanglement and quantum operators. We propose a benchmark for the evaluation of quantum and classical versions of games, and derive the necessary and sufficient conditions for a physical realization. We give examples of entangled states that can and cannot be used, and the characteristics of quantum operators used as strategies.

id: quant-ph/0703007
title: Remarks on Duality Transformations and Generalized Stabilizer States
authors: Martin B Plenio
comments: Contribution to Special Issue in Journal of Modern Optics celebrating the 60th birthday of Peter Knight
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 54, 349 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703007
abstract: We consider the transformation of Hamilton operators under various sets of quantum operations acting simultaneously on all adjacent pairs of particles. We find mappings between Hamilton operators analogous to duality transformations as well as exact characterizations of ground states employing non-Hermitean eigenvalue equations and use this to motivate a generalization of the stabilizer formalism to non-Hermitean operators. The resulting class of states is larger than that of standard stabilizer states and allows for example for continuous variation of local entropies rather than the discrete values taken on stabilizer states and the exact description of certain ground states of Hamilton operators.

id: quant-ph/0703008
title: Exact solutions of the modified Kratzer potential plus ring-shaped potential in the D-dimensional Schrodinger equation by the Nikiforov-Uvarov method
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 16 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. C 19, 221(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703008
abstract: We present analytically the exact energy bound-states solutions of the Schrodinger equation in D-dimensions for a recently proposed modified Kratzer potential plus ring-shaped potential by means of the conventional Nikiforov-Uvarov method. We give a clear recipe of how to obtain an explicit solution to the wave functions in terms of orthogonal polynomials. The results obtained in this work are more general and true for any dimension which can be reduced to the standard forms in three-dimensions given by other works.

id: quant-ph/0703009
title: New Mathematical Tools for Quantum Technology
authors: Christian Bracher, Manfred Kleber, Tobias Kramer
comments: 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703009
abstract: Progress in manufacturing technology has allowed us to probe the behavior of devices on a smaller and faster scale than ever before. With increasing miniaturization, quantum effects come to dominate the transport properties of these devices, between collisions, carriers undergo ballistic motion under the influence of local electric and magnetic fields. The often surprising propertiesof quantum ballistic transport are currently elucidated in clean atomic physics experiments. From a theoretical viewpoint, theelectron dynamics is governed by ballistic propagators and Green functions, intriguing quantities at the crossroads of classical and quantum mechanics. Here, we briefly describe the propagator method, some ballistic Green functions, and their application in a diverse range of problems in atomic and solid state physics, such as photodetachment, atom lasers, scanning tunneling microscopy, and the quantum Hall effect.

id: quant-ph/0703010
title: Entanglement in alternating open spin-1/2 chains with XY-Hamiltonian
authors: S.I.Doronin, E.B.Fel'dman, A.N.Pyrkov
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: JETP Letters, Vol. 85, pp. 519 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703010
abstract: We investigate entanglement of spin pairs in alternating open spin chains in the equilibrium state in an external magnetic field. We calculate the reduced density matrix of spin pairs and estimate the concurrence with Wootter's criteria. The obtained results demonstrate the dependence of the entanglement on the temperature, chain's length, the positions of the spins, and the ratio of the spin-spin interaction constants.

id: quant-ph/0703011
title: Stochastic particle annihilation: a model of state reduction in relativistic quantum field theory
authors: D. J. Bedingham
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures, replacement with revised section III
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703011
abstract: A model of state reduction in relativistic quantum field theory involving a nonlinear stochastic extension of Schr\"odinger's equation is outlined. The eigenstates of the annihilation operator are chosen as the preferred basis onto which reduction occurs. These are the coherent states which saturate the bound of the Heisenberg uncertainty relation, exhibiting classical-like behavior. The quantum harmonic oscillator is studied in detail before generalizing to relativistic scalar quantum field theory. The infinite rates of increase in energy density which have plagued recent relativistic proposals of dynamical state reduction are absent in this model. This is because the state evolution equation does not drive particle creation from the vacuum. The model requires the specification of a preferred sequence of space-like hyper-surfaces supporting the time-like state evolution. However, it is shown that the choice of preferred surfaces has no effect on perturbative results to second order in the coupling parameter. It is demonstrated how state reduction to a charge density basis can be induced in fermionic matter via an appropriate coupling to a bosonic field undergoing this mechanism.

id: quant-ph/0703012
title: Problems of the CASCADE Protocol and Renyi Entropy Reduction in Classical and Quantum Key Generation
authors: Koichi Yamazaki, Ranjith Nair, Horace P. Yuen
comments: QCMC 2006 Proceedings Article
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703012
abstract: It is shown that the interactive error correction protocol `CASCADE' should be analyzed taking the correlation between passes and finite length of sequence into account. Furthermore we mention some problems in quantifying the reduction of Renyi entropy by information announced during the error correction process.

id: quant-ph/0703013
title: Relativistic extension of the complex scaling method
authors: A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures (3 in color), 6 tables
journal: Phys.Rev.A75:042707,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703013
abstract: We construct a tridiagonal matrix representation for the three dimensions Dirac-Coulomb Hamiltonian that provides for a simple and straightforward relativistic extension of the complex scaling method. Besides the Coulomb interaction, additional vector, scalar, and pseudo-scalar coupling to short-range potentials could also be included in the same representation. Using that, we are able to obtain highly accurate values for the relativistic bound states and resonance energies. A simple program code is developed to perform the calculation for a given charge, angular momentum and potential configuration. The resonance structure in the complex relativistic energy plane is also shown graphically. Illustrative examples are given and we verify that in the nonrelativistic limit one obtains known results. As an additional advantage of this tridiagonal representation, we use it to obtain a highly accurate evaluation of the relativistic bound states energies for the Woods-Saxon potential (as a model of nuclear interaction) with the nucleus treated as solid sphere of uniform charge distribution.

id: quant-ph/0703014
title: Quantum Capacity of a dephasing channel with memory
authors: Antonio D'Arrigo, Giuliano Benenti, Giuseppe Falci
comments: Revised version, to be published in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 310 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703014
abstract: We show that the amount of coherent quantum information that can be reliably transmitted down a dephasing channel with memory is maximized by separable input states. In particular, we model the channel as a Markov chain or a multimode environment of oscillators. While in the first model the maximization is achieved for the maximally mixed input state, in the latter it is convenient to exploit the presence of a decoherence-protected subspace generated by memory effects. We explicitly compute the quantum channel capacity for the first model while numerical simulations suggest a lower bound for the latter. In both cases memory effects enhance the coherent information. We present results valid for arbitrary size of the input.

id: quant-ph/0703015
title: Every NAND formula of size N can be evaluated in time N^{1/2+o(1)} on a quantum computer
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Ben W. Reichardt, Robert Spalek, Shengyu Zhang
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, v2: substantially rewritten with clearer analysis, v3: using better discretization we have obtained an optimal algorithm. to appear in FOCS'07
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703015
abstract: For every NAND formula of size N, there is a bounded-error N^{1/2+o(1)}-time quantum algorithm, based on a coined quantum walk, that evaluates this formula on a black-box input. Balanced, or ``approximately balanced,'' NAND formulas can be evaluated in O(sqrt{N}) queries, which is optimal. It follows that the (2-o(1))-th power of the quantum query complexity is a lower bound on the formula size, almost solving in the positive an open problem posed by Laplante, Lee and Szegedy.

id: quant-ph/0703016
title: Band theory in the context of the Hamilton-Jacobi formulation
authors: A.Bouda, A. Mohamed Meziane
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.45:2377,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703016
abstract: In the one-dimensional periodic potential case, we formulate the condition of Bloch periodicity for the reduced action by using the relation between the wave function and the reduced action established in the context of the equivalence postulate of quantum mechanics. Then, without appealing to the wave function properties, we reproduce the well-known dispersion relations which predict the band structure for the energy spectrum in the Kr\"onig-Penney model.

id: quant-ph/0703017
title: A complete characterization of mixed state entanglement using probability density functions
authors: Shanthanu Bhardwaj, V. Ravishankar
comments: four pages, four figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703017
abstract: We propose that the entanglement of mixed states is characterised properly in terms of a probability density function $\mathcal{P}(\mathcal{E})$. There is a need for such a measure since the prevalent measures (such as \textit{concurrence} and \textit{negativity}) are rough benchmarks, and not monotones of each other. Considering the specific case of two qubit mixed states, we provide an explicit construction of $\mathcal{P}(\mathcal{E})$ and show that it is characterised by a set of parameters, of which concurrence is but one particular combination. $\mathcal{P}(\mathcal{E})$ is manifestly invariant under $SU(2) \times SU(2)$ transformations. It can, in fact, reconstruct the state up to local operations - with the specification of at most four additional parameters. Finally the new measure resolves the controversy regarding the role of entanglement in quantum computation in NMR systems.

id: quant-ph/0703018
title: Noise robustness of the nonlocality of entangled quantum states
authors: Mafalda L. Almeida, Stefano Pironio, Jonathan Barrett, Geza Toth, Antonio Acin
comments: 5 pages, no figures. It contains only minor changes, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 040403 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703018
abstract: We study the nonlocal properties of states resulting from the mixture of an arbitrary entangled state rho of two d-dimensional systems and completely depolarized noise, with respective weights p and 1-p. We first construct a local model for the case in which rho is maximally entangled and p at or below a certain bound. We then extend the model to arbitrary rho. Our results provide bounds on the resistance to noise of the nonlocal correlations of entangled states. For projective measurements, the critical value of the noise parameter p for which the state becomes local is at least asymptotically log(d) larger than the critical value for separability.

id: quant-ph/0703019
title: Thermal entanglement and teleportation in a two-qubit Heisenberg chain with Dzyaloshinski-Moriya anisotropic antisymmetric interaction
authors: Guo-Feng Zhang
comments: 1 tex;5eps. accepted by Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 75, 034304 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703019
abstract: Thermal entanglement of a two-qubit Heisenberg chain in presence of the Dzyaloshinski-Moriya (DM) anisotropic antisymmetric interaction and entanglement teleportation when using two independent Heisenberg chains as quantum channel are investigated. It is found that the DM interaction can excite the entanglement and teleportation fidelity. The output entanglement increases linearly with increasing value of input one, its dependences on the temperature, DM interaction and spin coupling constant are given in detail. Entanglement teleportation will be better realized via antiferromagnetic spin chain when the DM interaction is turned off and the temperature is low. However, the introduction of DM interaction can cause the ferromagnetic spin chain to be a better quantum channel for teleportation. A minimal entanglement of the thermal state in the model is needed to realize the entanglement teleportation regardless of antiferromagnetic or ferromagnetic spin chains.

id: quant-ph/0703020
title: Probability in modal interpretations of quantum mechanics
authors: Dennis Dieks
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703020
abstract: Modal interpretations have the ambition to construe quantum mechanics as an objective, man-independent description of physical reality. Their second leading idea is probabilism: quantum mechanics does not completely fix physical reality but yields probabilities. In working out these ideas an important motif is to stay close to the standard formalism of quantum mechanics and to refrain from introducing new structure by hand. In this paper we explain how this programme can be made concrete. In particular, we show that the Born probability rule, and sets of definite-valued observables to which the Born probabilities pertain, can be uniquely defined from the quantum state and Hilbert space structure. We discuss the status of probability in modal interpretations, and to this end we make a comparison with many-worlds alternatives. An overall point that we stress is that the modal ideas define a general framework and research programme rather than one definite and finished interpretation.

id: quant-ph/0703021
title: Identical Quantum Particles and Weak Discernibility
authors: Dennis Dieks, Marijn Versteegh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703021
abstract: We examine a recent argument that ``identical'' quantum particles with an anti-symmetric state (fermions) are weakly discernible objects, just like irreflexively related ordinary objects in situations with perfect symmetry (Black's spheres, for example). We conclude that the argument uses a silent premise that is not justified in the quantum case.

id: quant-ph/0703022
title: Completely Positive Maps and Classical Correlations
authors: C¨¦sar A. Rodr¨ªguez-Rosario, Kavan Modi, Aik-meng Kuah, Anil Shaji, E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 205301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703022
abstract: We expand the set of initial states of a system and its environment that are known to guarantee completely positive reduced dynamics for the system when the combined state evolves unitarily. We characterize the correlations in the initial state in terms of its quantum discord [H. Ollivier and W. H. Zurek, Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 017901 (2001)]. We prove that initial states that have only classical correlations lead to completely positive reduced dynamics. The induced maps can be not completely positive when quantum correlations including, but not limited to, entanglement are present. We outline the implications of our results to quantum process tomography experiments.

id: quant-ph/0703023
title: On the Exact Evaluation of Certain Instances of the Potts Partition Function by Quantum Computers
authors: Joseph Geraci, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 279, 735 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703023
abstract: We present an efficient quantum algorithm for the exact evaluation of either the fully ferromagnetic or anti-ferromagnetic q-state Potts partition function Z for a family of graphs related to irreducible cyclic codes. This problem is related to the evaluation of the Jones and Tutte polynomials. We consider the connection between the weight enumerator polynomial from coding theory and Z and exploit the fact that there exists a quantum algorithm for efficiently estimating Gauss sums in order to obtain the weight enumerator for a certain class of linear codes. In this way we demonstrate that for a certain class of sparse graphs, which we call Irreducible Cyclic Cocycle Code (ICCC_\epsilon) graphs, quantum computers provide a polynomial speed up in the difference between the number of edges and vertices of the graph, and an exponential speed up in q, over the best classical algorithms known to date.

id: quant-ph/0703024
title: Entangled Causal Relation in Measurement by Two Measurement Devices Moving Mutually
authors: Narumi Ohkawa
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703024
abstract: I want to show situations in which causal relation of two events is entangled and similar to time paradox, without employing time machines. Such situations will be obtained in measurement by two measurement devices moving mutually. According to the concept of the collapse of wave packet and the relativity of simultaneity, the causal relation of two measurements can be entangled.

id: quant-ph/0703025
title: Weighted complex projective 2-designs from bases: optimal state determination by orthogonal measurements
authors: Aidan Roy, A. J. Scott
comments: 28 pages, to appear in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48, 072110 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703025
abstract: We introduce the problem of constructing weighted complex projective 2-designs from the union of a family of orthonormal bases. If the weight remains constant across elements of the same basis, then such designs can be interpreted as generalizations of complete sets of mutually unbiased bases, being equivalent whenever the design is composed of d+1 bases in dimension d. We show that, for the purpose of quantum state determination, these designs specify an optimal collection of orthogonal measurements. Using highly nonlinear functions on abelian groups, we construct explicit examples from d+2 orthonormal bases whenever d+1 is a prime power, covering dimensions d=6, 10, and 12, for example, where no complete sets of mutually unbiased bases have thus far been found.

id: quant-ph/0703026
title: Addendum to "Multipartite states under local unitary transformations"
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Laura Cattaneo, Shao-Ming Fei, Xiao-Hong Wang
comments: 5 pages
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 58(2006)223-226
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703026
abstract: In previous work the authors introduced a notion of generic states and obtained criteria for local equivalence of them. Here they introduce the concept of CHG states maintaining the criteria of local equivalence. This fact allows the authors to halve the number of invariants necessary to characterize the equivalence classes under local unitary transformations for the set of tripartite states whose partial trace with respect to one of the subsystems belongs to the class of CHG mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0703027
title: Are entropic Bell inequalities implied by the second law?
authors: Ian T. Durham
comments: Yes. Extensively expanded and updated based upon feedback received on previous version. (10 pages; presented at the 2007 Mearch Meeting of the APS under the title "Entanglement and the second law")
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703027
abstract: Bell's inequalities, in the form given by Cerf and Adami, are derived from the combination of the second law of thermodynamics and the Markov postulate. Violations of these inequalities are discussed in terms of the mixing characteristics of the density operators. A quantum mechanical bound for a system of three qubits, two of which are entangled, is found and is shown to lead to strong subadditivity in one case. Finally, in interpreting the results, the role the uncertainty relations play in the definition of entropy and the second law is discussed, demonstrating a link to Bell's inequalities. Additionally the second law is shown to be dependent on the type of measurement in quantum systems. Specifically, a more general statement of the second law appropriate to both quantum and classical systems is suggested.

id: quant-ph/0703028
title: Entanglement Entropy in Random Quantum Spin-S Chains
authors: A. Saguia, M. S. Sarandy, B. Boechat, M. A. Continentino
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052329 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703028
abstract: We discuss the scaling of entanglement entropy in the random singlet phase (RSP) of disordered quantum magnetic chains of general spin-S. Through an analysis of the general structure of the RSP, we show that the entanglement entropy scales logarithmically with the size of a block and we provide a closed expression for this scaling. This result is applicable for arbitrary quantum spin chains in the RSP, being dependent only on the magnitude S of the spin. Remarkably, the logarithmic scaling holds for the disordered chain even if the pure chain with no disorder does not exhibit conformal invariance, as is the case for Heisenberg integer spin chains. Our conclusions are supported by explicit evaluations of the entanglement entropy for random spin-1 and spin-3/2 chains using an asymptotically exact real-space renormalization group approach.

id: quant-ph/0703029
title: Scalable Quantum Networks based on Few-Qubit Registers
authors: L. Jiang, J. M. Taylor, A. S. S?rensen, M. D. Lukin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures (new figures 1 and 3)
journal: Int. J. Quanum Inform. 08, 93 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703029
abstract: We describe and analyze a hybrid approach to scalable quantum computation based on an optically connected network of few-qubit quantum registers. We show that probabilistically connected five-qubit quantum registers suffice for deterministic, fault-tolerant quantum computation even when state preparation, measurement, and entanglement generation all have substantial errors. We discuss requirements for achieving fault-tolerant operation for two specific implementations of our approach.

id: quant-ph/0703030
title: Abrupt termination of a quantum channel and exactly solvable position-dependent mass models in three dimensions
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 8 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703030
abstract: We consider a particle with a position-dependent mass, moving in a three-dimensional semi-infinite parallelepipedal or cylindrical channel under the influence of some hyperbolic potential. We show that the lack of uniformity in the environment generates an infinite number of bound states.

id: quant-ph/0703031
title: Cold polar molecules in 2D traps: Tailoring interactions with external fields for novel quantum phases
authors: A. Micheli, G. Pupillo, H. P. B¨¹chler, P. Zoller
comments: 28 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 043604 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703031
abstract: We discuss techniques to engineer effective long-range interactions between polar molecules using external static electric and microwave fields. We consider a setup where molecules are trapped in a two-dimensional pancake geometry by a far-off-resonance optical trap, which ensures the stability of the dipolar collisions. We detail how to modify the shape and the strength of the long-range part of interaction potentials, which can be utilized to realize interesting quantum phases in the context of cold molecular gases.

id: quant-ph/0703032
title: State visibility in Q-bit space
authors: A. F. Kracklauer
comments: 3 pages RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703032
abstract: We study by comparison the structure of singlet type states in Q-bit space in the light of quantum and classical paradigms. It is shown that only the classical paradigm implies a variation in the visibility of correlation coefficients, that has been observed in fact in experiments. We conclude that Q-bit space in not a appropriate venue for an EPR test of quantum completeness.

id: quant-ph/0703033
title: Multipartite unlockable bound entanglement in the stabilizer formalism
authors: Guoming Wang, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 7 pages, no figure
journal: Physical Review A 75, 052332 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703033
abstract: We find an interesting relationship between multipartite bound entangled states and the stabilizer formalism. We prove that if a set of commuting operators from the generalized Pauli group on $n$ qudits satisfy certain constraints, then the maximally mixed state over the subspace stabilized by them is an unlockable bound entangled state. Moreover, the properties of this state, such as symmetry under permutations of parties, undistillability and unlockability, can be easily explained from the stabilizer formalism without tedious calculation. In particular, the four-qubit Smolin state and its recent generalization to even number of qubits can be viewed as special examples of our results. Finally, we extend our results to arbitrary multipartite systems in which the dimensions of all parties may be different.

id: quant-ph/0703034
title: Exact Solutions of Schrodinger Equation for a Ring-Shaped Potential
authors: Ozlem Yesiltas, Ramazan sever
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703034
abstract: The exact solutions of Schrodinger equation are obtained for a noncentral potential which is a ring-shaped potential. The energy eigenvalues and corresponding eigenfunctions are obtained for any angular momentum l. Nikiforov-Uvarov method is used in the computations.

id: quant-ph/0703035
title: Objective probability and quantum fuzziness
authors: Ulrich Mohrhoff
comments: 21 pages, no graphics, inspired by "Subjective probability and quantum certainty" (quant-ph/0608190 v2)
journal: Found. Phys. 39/2 (2009) 137-155
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703035
abstract: This paper offers a critique of the Bayesian interpretation of quantum mechanics with particular focus on a paper by Caves, Fuchs, and Schack containing a critique of the "objective preparations view" or OPV. It also aims to carry the discussion beyond the hardened positions of Bayesians and proponents of the OPV. Several claims made by Caves et al. are rebutted, including the claim that different pure states may legitimately be assigned to the same system at the same time, and the claim that the quantum nature of a preparation device cannot legitimately be ignored. Both Bayesians and proponents of the OPV regard the time dependence of a quantum state as the continuous dependence on time of an evolving state of some kind. This leads to a false dilemma: quantum states are either objective states of nature or subjective states of belief. In reality they are neither. The present paper views the aforesaid dependence as a dependence on the time of the measurement to whose possible outcomes the quantum state serves to assign probabilities. This makes it possible to recognize the full implications of the only testable feature of the theory, viz., the probabilities it assigns to measurement outcomes...

id: quant-ph/0703036
title: Uncertainty Relations for Positive Operator Valued Measures
authors: Serge Massar
comments: 5 pages, minor modifications and clarifications
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042114 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703036
abstract: How much unavoidable randomness is generated by a Positive Operator Valued Measure (POVM)? We address this question using two complementary approaches. First we study the variance of a real variable associated to the POVM outcomes. In this context we introduce an uncertainty operator which measures how much additional noise is introduced by carrying out a POVM rather than a von Neumann measurement. We illustrate this first approach by studying the variances of joint estimates of \sigma_x and \sigma_z for spin 1/2 particles. We show that for unbiased measurements the sum of these variances is lower bounded by 1. In our second approach we study the entropy of the POVM outcomes. In particular we try to establish lower bounds on the entropy of the POVM outcomes. We illustrate this second approach by examples.

id: quant-ph/0703037
title: Efficient quantum processing of 3-manifold topological invariants
authors: Silvano Garnerone, Annalisa Marzuoli, Mario Rasetti
comments: 39 pages, 22 figures, accepted for publication in Advances in Theoretical and Mathematical Physics
journal: Adv.Theor.Math.Phys.13:6,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703037
abstract: A quantum algorithm for approximating efficiently 3--manifold topological invariants in the framework of SU(2) Chern-Simons-Witten (CSW) topological quantum field theory at finite values of the coupling constant k is provided. The model of computation adopted is the q-deformed spin network model viewed as a quantum recognizer in the sense of Wiesner and Crutchfield, where each basic unitary transition function can be efficiently processed by a standard quantum circuit. This achievement is an extension of the algorithm for approximating polynomial invariants of colored oriented links found in Refs 2,3. Thus all the significant quantities - partition functions and observables - of quantum CSW theory can be processed efficiently on a quantum computer, reflecting the intrinsic, field-theoretic solvability of such theory at finite k. The paper is supplemented by a critical overview of the basic conceptual tools underlying the construction of quantum invariants of links and 3-manifolds and connections with algorithmic questions that arise in geometry and quantum gravity models are discussed.

id: quant-ph/0703038
title: Robust Weak Measurements on Finite Samples
authors: Jeff Tollaksen
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Ser. (2007); Third Feynmann Festival (University of Maryland, College Park, August 2006), Guest Editors: H. Brandt, Y.S. Kim, and M.A. Man'ko.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703038
abstract: A new weak measurement procedure is introduced for finite samples which yields accurate weak values that are outside the range of eigenvalues and which do not require an exponentially rare ensemble. This procedure provides a unique advantage in the amplification of small non-random signals by minimizing uncertainties in determining the weak value and by minimizing sample size. This procedure can also extend the strength of the coupling between the system and measuring device to a new regime.

id: quant-ph/0703039
title: Implications for a spatially discrete transition amplitude in the twin-slit experiment
authors: W.M. Stuckey
comments: Revised to reflect referee comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703039
abstract: A discrete path integral formalism is used to obtain the transition amplitude between 'sources' (slits and detector) in the twin-slit experiment of quantum mechanics. This method explicates the normally tacit construct of dynamic entities with temporal duration. The resulting amplitude is compared to that of Schrodinger dynamics in order to relate 'source' dynamics and spatial separation. The implied metric embodies non-separability, in stark contrast to the metric of general relativity. Thus, this approach may have implications for quantum gravity.

id: quant-ph/0703040
title: Quantum Superposition State Production by Continuous Observations and Feedback
authors: Antonio Negretti, Uffe V. Poulsen, Klaus Molmer
comments: RevTex4, 4 pages, 2 figures. Published in Phys. Rev. Lett. with higher quality figures. The first part of the manuscript, regarding the Fock state generator, has been removed
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 223601 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703040
abstract: We present a protocol for generation of superpositions of states with distinguishable field amplitudes in an optical cavity by quantum nondemolition photon number measurements and coherent feeding of the cavity.

id: quant-ph/0703041
title: The Implications of a Cosmological Information Bound for Complexity, Quantum Information and the Nature of Physical Law
authors: P.C.W. Davies
comments: Chapter for a book celebrating the work of Gregory Chaitin: "Randomness & Complexity, from Leibniz to Chaitin," edited by C.S. Calude, World Scientific, Singapore, 2007 (to appear)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703041
abstract: The finite age of the universe and the existence of cosmological horizons provides a strong argument that the observable universe represents a finite causal region with finite material and informational resources. A similar conclusion follows from the holographic principle. In this paper I address the question of whether the cosmological information bound has implications for fundamental physics. Orthodox physics is based on Platonism: the laws are treated as infinitely precise, perfect, immutable mathematical relationships that transcend the physical universe and remain totally unchanged by physical processes, however extreme. If instead the laws of physics are regarded as akin to computer software, with the physical universe as the corresponding hardware, then the finite computational capacity of the universe imposes a fundamental limit on the precision of the laws and the specifiability of physical states. That limit depends on the age of the universe. I examine how the imprecision of the laws impacts on the evolution of highly entangled states and on the problem of dark energy.

id: quant-ph/0703042
title: Exact solutions of the pseudo-Coulomb potential plus ring-shaped potential in the D-dimensional Schrodinger equation by the Nikiforov-Uvarov method
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 15 pages
journal: Chinese J. Phys. 46, 291(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703042
abstract: We present analytically the exact energy bound-states solutions of the Schrodinger equation in D-dimensions for an alternative (often used) pseudo-Coulomb potential-plus- ring-shaped potential of the form $V(r)=-% \frac{a}{r}+\frac{b}{r^{2}}+\frac{\beta \cos ^{2}\theta}{r^{2}\sin ^{2}\theta }+c$ by means of the conventional Nikiforov-Uvarov method. We give a clear recipe of how to obtain an explicit solution to the radial and angular parts of the wave functions in terms of orthogonal polynomials. The total energy of the system is different from the pseudo-Coulomb potential because of the contribution of the angular part. The general results obtained in this work can be reduced to the standard forms given in literature.

id: quant-ph/0703043
title: Entanglement in the bimodal Jaynes-Cummings model with the two-mode squeezed vacuum state
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, S. Abdel-Khalek, M. Abdel-Aty, M. R. B. Wahiddin
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703043
abstract: In this paper, we study the interaction between the two-level atom and a bimodal cavity field, namely, two-mode Jaynes-Cummings model when the atom and the modes are initially in the atomic superposition state and two-mode squeezed vacuum state, respectively. For this system we investigate the atomic inversion, linear entropy and atomic Wehrl entropy. We show that there is a connection between all these quantities. Also we prove that the atomic Wehrl entropy exhibits behaviors similar to those of the linear entropy and the von Neumann entropy. Moreover, we show that the bipartite exhibits periodical disentanglement and derive the explicit forms of the states of the atom and the modes at these values of the interaction times.

id: quant-ph/0703044
title: Entanglement in Many-Body Systems
authors: Luigi Amico, Rosario Fazio, Andreas Osterloh, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 61 pages, 29 figures
journal: Rev.Mod.Phys.80:517-576,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703044
abstract: The recent interest in aspects common to quantum information and condensed matter has prompted a prosperous activity at the border of these disciplines that were far distant until few years ago. Numerous interesting questions have been addressed so far. Here we review an important part of this field, the properties of the entanglement in many-body systems. We discuss the zero and finite temperature properties of entanglement in interacting spin, fermionic and bosonic model systems. Both bipartite and multipartite entanglement will be considered. At equilibrium we emphasize on how entanglement is connected to the phase diagram of the underlying model. The behavior of entanglement can be related, via certain witnesses, to thermodynamic quantities thus offering interesting possibilities for an experimental test. Out of equilibrium we discuss how to generate and manipulate entangled states by means of many-body Hamiltonians.

id: quant-ph/0703045
title: Cluster state preparation using gates operating at arbitrary success probabilities
authors: K. Kieling, D. Gross, J. Eisert
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures, contribution to special issue of New J. Phys. on "Measurement-Based Quantum Information Processing". Replaced with published version
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 200 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703045
abstract: Several physical architectures allow for measurement-based quantum computing using sequential preparation of cluster states by means of probabilistic quantum gates. In such an approach, the order in which partial resources are combined to form the final cluster state turns out to be crucially important. We determine the influence of this classical decision process on the expected size of the final cluster. Extending earlier work, we consider different quantum gates operating at various probabilites of success. For finite resources, we employ a computer algebra system to obtain the provably optimal classical control strategy and derive symbolic results for the expected final size of the cluster. We identify two regimes: When the success probability of the elementary gates is high, the influence of the classical control strategy is found to be negligible. In that case, other figures of merit become more relevant. In contrast, for small probabilities of success, the choice of an appropriate strategy is crucial.

id: quant-ph/0703046
title: Entropic security in Quantum Cryptography
authors: Simon Pierre Desrosiers
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703046
abstract: We present two new definitions of security for quantum ciphers which are inspired by the definition of entropic security and entropic indistinguishability defined by Dodis and Smith. We prove the equivalence of these two new definitions. We also propose a generalization of a cipher described by Dodis and Smith and show that it can actually encrypt n qubits using less than n bits of key under reasonable conditions and yet be secure in an information theoretic setting. This cipher also totally closes the gap between the key requirement of quantum ciphers and classical ciphers.

id: quant-ph/0703047
title: Quantum Brachistochrone for Mixed States
authors: A. Carlini, A. Hosoya, T. Koike, Y. Okudaira
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008), 045303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703047
abstract: We present a general formalism based on the variational principle for finding the time-optimal quantum evolution of mixed states governed by a master equation, when the Hamiltonian and the Lindblad operators are subject to certain constraints. The problem reduces to solving first a fundamental equation (the {\it quantum brachistochrone}) for the Hamiltonian, which can be written down once the constraints are specified, and then solving the constraints and the master equation for the Lindblad and the density operators. As an application of our formalism, we study a simple one-qubit model where the optimal Lindblad operators control decoherence and can be simulated by a tunable coupling with an ancillary qubit. It is found that the evolution through mixed states can be more efficient than the unitary evolution between given pure states. We also discuss the mixed state evolution as a finite time unitary evolution of the system plus an environment followed by a single measurement. For the simplest choice of the constraints, the optimal duration time for the evolution is an exponentially decreasing function of the environment's degrees of freedom.

id: quant-ph/0703048
title: Modeling heat transport through completely positive maps
authors: Hannu Wichterich, Markus J. Henrich, Heinz-Peter Breuer, Jochen Gemmer, Mathias Michel
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 76, 031115 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703048
abstract: We investigate heat transport in a spin-1/2 Heisenberg chain, coupled locally to independent thermal baths of different temperature. The analysis is carried out within the framework of the theory of open systems by means of appropriate quantum master equations. The standard microscopic derivation of the weak-coupling Lindblad equation in the secular approximation is considered, and shown to be inadequate for the description of stationary nonequilibrium properties like a non-vanishing energy current. Furthermore, we derive an alternative master equation that is capable to describe a stationary energy current and, at the same time, leads to a completely positive dynamical map. This paves the way for efficient numerical investigations of heat transport in larger systems based on Monte Carlo wave function techniques.

id: quant-ph/0703049
title: Geometric phases induced in auxiliary qubits by many-body systems near its critical points
authors: X. X. Yi, W. Wang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032103 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703049
abstract: The geometric phase induced in an auxiliary qubit by a many-body system is calculated and discussed. Two kinds of coupling between the auxiliary qubit and the many-body system are considered, which lead to dephasing and dissipation in the qubit, respectively. As an example, we consider the XY spin-chain dephasingly couple to a qubit, the geometric phase induced in the qubit is presented and discussed. The results show that the geometric phase might be used to signal the critical points of the many-body system, and it tends to zero with the parameters of the many-body system going away from the critical points.

id: quant-ph/0703050
title: Faster annealing schedules for quantum annealing
authors: Satoshi Morita
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, minor corrections
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 76 (2007) 104001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703050
abstract: New annealing schedules for quantum annealing are proposed based on the adiabatic theorem. These schedules exhibit faster decrease of the excitation probability than a linear schedule. To derive this conclusion, the asymptotic form of the excitation probability for quantum annealing is explicitly obtained in the limit of long annealing time. Its first-order term, which is inversely proportional to the square of the annealing time, is shown to be determined only by the information at the initial and final times. Our annealing schedules make it possible to drop this term, thus leading to a higher order (smaller) excitation probability. We verify these results by solving numerically the time-dependent Schrodinger equation for small size systems

id: quant-ph/0703051
title: Nonprobabilistic teleportation of field state via cavity QED
authors: Carlos Renato De Carvalho, Emerson S. Guerra, Ginette Jalbert, Jean Claude Garreau
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 40 (05/03/2007) 1271-1282
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703051
abstract: In this article we discuss a teleportation scheme of coherent states of cavity field. The experimental realization proposed makes use of cavity quatum electrodynamics involving the interaction of Rydberg atoms with micromaser and Ramsey cavities. In our scheme the Ramsey cavities and the atoms play the role of auxiliary systems used to teleport the state from a micromaser cavity to another. We show that, even if the correct atomic detection fails in the first trials, one can succeed in teleportating the cavity field state if the proper measurement occurs in a later atom.

id: quant-ph/0703052
title: Photovoltaic Probe of Cavity Polaritons in a Quantum Cascade Structure
authors: Luca Sapienza, Raffaele Colombelli, Angela Vasanelli, Cristiano Ciuti, Christophe Manquest, Ulf Gennser, Carlo Sirtori
comments: submitted to Applied Physics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703052
abstract: The strong coupling between an intersubband excitation in a quantum cascade structure and a photonic mode of a planar microcavity has been detected by angle-resolved photovoltaic measurements. A typical anticrossing behavior, with a vacuum-field Rabi splitting of 16 meV at 78K, has been measured, for an intersubband transition at 163 meV. These results show that the strong coupling regime between photons and intersubband excitations can be engineered in a quantum cascade opto-electronic device. They also demonstrate the possibility to perform angle-resolved mid-infrared photodetection and to develop active devices based on intersubband cavity polaritons.

id: quant-ph/0703053
title: Boundary Effects in Non-Uniform Spin Chains
authors: K.E.Feldman
comments: 13 pages, to appear in International Journal of Information & Systems Sciences
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703053
abstract: We give an explicit comparison of eigenvalues and eigenvectors of XY Hamiltonians of an open linear spin-1/2 chain and a closed spin-1/2 ring with periodic in space coefficients. It is shown that the Hamiltonian of a k-periodic chain with nk-1 sites has (n-1)k multiplicity one eigenvalues which are eigenvalues of multiplicity two for a Hamiltonian of a k-periodic ring with 2kn sites. For the corresponding eigenvectors in the case of a chain an explicit expression in terms of eigenvectors of the ring Hamiltonian is given. The remaining k-1 eigenvalues of the chain Hamiltonian and 2k eigenvalues of the ring Hamiltonian, together with the corresponding eigenvectors, are responsible for the difference between chain and ring models which displays in the boundary effects at the ends of the chain and translation invariance of the periodic ring.

id: quant-ph/0703054
title: Dynamics of decoherence without dissipation in a squeezed thermal bath
authors: Subhashish Banerjee, R. Ghosh
comments: Accepted for publication in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor.; 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703054
abstract: We study a generic open quantum system where the coupling between the system and its environment is of an energy-preserving quantum nondemolition (QND) type. We obtain the general master equation for the evolution of such a system under the influence of a squeezed thermal bath of harmonic oscillators. From the master equation it can be seen explicitly that the process involves decoherence or dephasing without any dissipation of energy. We work out the decoherence-causing term in the high and zero temperature limits and check that they match with known results for the case of a thermal bath. The decay of the coherence is quantified as well by the dynamics of the linear entropy of the system under various environmental conditions. We make a comparison of the quantum statistical properties between QND and dissipative types of evolution using a system of two-level atom and a harmonic oscillator.

id: quant-ph/0703055
title: Phase diffusion pattern in quantum nondemolition systems
authors: Subhashish Banerjee, Joyee Ghosh, R. Ghosh
comments: 18 pages, REVTeX, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062106 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703055
abstract: We quantitatively analyze the dynamics of the quantum phase distribution associated with the reduced density matrix of a system, as the system evolves under the influence of its environment with an energy-preserving quantum nondemolition (QND) type of coupling. We take the system to be either an oscillator (harmonic or anharmonic) or a two-level atom (or equivalently, a spin-1/2 system), and model the environment as a bath of harmonic oscillators, initially in a general squeezed thermal state. The impact of the different environmental parameters is explicitly brought out as the system starts out in various initial states. The results are applicable to a variety of physical systems now studied experimentally with QND measurements.

id: quant-ph/0703056
title: Quantic Superpositions and the Geometry of Complex Hilbert Spaces
authors: Daniel Lehmann
comments: 29 pages. This 2nd version differs from the first in that superposition of states x and y is now defined as a one-parameter operation: r x + (1-r) y whereas version 1 defined it as a two-parameters operation: r x + (1-r) e^{i \phi} y
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 47(5) 2008 pp. 1333-1353
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703056
abstract: The concept of a superposition is a revolutionary novelty introduced by Quantum Mechanics. If a system may be in any one of two pure states x and y, we must consider that it may also be in any one of many superpositions of x and y. An in-depth analysis of superpositions is proposed, in which states are represented by one-dimensional subspaces, not by unit vectors as in Dirac's notation. Superpositions must be considered when one cannot distinguish between possible paths, i.e., histories, leading to the current state of the system. In such a case the resulting state is some compound of the states that result from each of the possible paths. States can be compounded, i.e., superposed in such a way only if they are not orthogonal. Since different classical states are orthogonal, the claim implies no non-trivial superpositions can be observed in classical systems. The parameter that defines such compounds is a proportion defining the mix of the different states entering the compound. Two quantities, p and theta, both geometrical in nature, relate one-dimensional subspaces in complex Hilbert spaces: the first one is a measure of proximity relating two rays, the second one is an angle relating three rays. The properties of the operation of superposition are very different from those that govern linear combination of vectors.

id: quant-ph/0703057
title: Statistical bounds on the dynamical production of entanglement
authors: Romulo F. Abreu, Raul O. Vallejos
comments: preprint format, 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703057
abstract: We present a random-matrix analysis of the entangling power of a unitary operator as a function of the number of times it is iterated. We consider unitaries belonging to the circular ensembles of random matrices (CUE or COE) applied to random (real or complex) non-entangled states. We verify numerically that the average entangling power is a monotonic decreasing function of time. The same behavior is observed for the "operator entanglement" --an alternative measure of the entangling strength of a unitary. On the analytical side we calculate the CUE operator entanglement and asymptotic values for the entangling power. We also provide a theoretical explanation of the time dependence in the CUE cases.

id: quant-ph/0703058
title: Weakly bound electrons in external magnetic field
authors: I.V. Mamsurov, F.Kh. Chibirova
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703058
abstract: The effect of the uniform magnetic field on the electron in the spherically symmetric square-well potential is studied. A transcendental equation that determines the electron energy spectrum is derived. The approximate value of the lowest (bound) energy state is found. The approximate wave function and probability current density of this state are constructed.

id: quant-ph/0703059
title: Quantum communication without alignment using multiple-qubit single-photon states
authors: L. Aolita, S. P. Walborn
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 100501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703059
abstract: We propose a scheme for encoding logical qubits in a subspace protected against collective rotations around the propagation axis using the polarization and transverse spatial degrees of freedom of single photons. This encoding allows for quantum key distribution without the need of a shared reference frame. We present methods to generate entangled states of two logical qubits using present day down-conversion sources and linear optics, and show that the application of these entangled logical states to quantum information schemes allows for alignment-free tests of Bell's inequalities, quantum dense coding and quantum teleportation.

id: quant-ph/0703060
title: A Topos Foundation for Theories of Physics: I. Formal Languages for Physics
authors: A. Doering, C.J. Isham
comments: 36 pages, no figures
journal: J.Math.Phys.49:053515,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703060
abstract: This paper is the first in a series whose goal is to develop a fundamentally new way of constructing theories of physics. The motivation comes from a desire to address certain deep issues that arise when contemplating quantum theories of space and time. Our basic contention is that constructing a theory of physics is equivalent to finding a representation in a topos of a certain formal language that is attached to the system. Classical physics arises when the topos is the category of sets. Other types of theory employ a different topos. In this paper we discuss two different types of language that can be attached to a system, S. The first is a propositional language, PL(S); the second is a higher-order, typed language L(S). Both languages provide deductive systems with an intuitionistic logic. The reason for introducing PL(S) is that, as shown in paper II of the series, it is the easiest way of understanding, and expanding on, the earlier work on topos theory and quantum physics. However, the main thrust of our programme utilises the more powerful language L(S) and its representation in an appropriate topos.

id: quant-ph/0703061
title: Remarks on the Fact that the Uncertainty Principle Does Not Determine the Quantum State
authors: Maurice de Gosson, Franz Luef
comments: To appaer in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703061
abstract: We discuss the relation between density matrices and the uncertainty principle; this allows us to justify and explain a recent statement by Man'ko et al. We thereafter use Hardy's uncertainty principle to prove a new result for Wigner distributions dominated by a Gaussian and we relate this result to the coarse-graining of phase-space by "quantum blobs".

id: quant-ph/0703062
title: A Topos Foundation for Theories of Physics: II. Daseinisation and the Liberation of Quantum Theory
authors: A. Doering, C.J. Isham
comments: 34 pages, no figures
journal: J.Math.Phys.49:053516,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703062
abstract: This paper is the second in a series whose goal is to develop a fundamentally new way of constructing theories of physics. The motivation comes from a desire to address certain deep issues that arise when contemplating quantum theories of space and time. Our basic contention is that constructing a theory of physics is equivalent to finding a representation in a topos of a certain formal language that is attached to the system. Classical physics arises when the topos is the category of sets. Other types of theory employ a different topos. In this paper, we study in depth the topos representation of the propositional language, PL(S), for the case of quantum theory. In doing so, we make a direct link with, and clarify, the earlier work on applying topos theory to quantum physics. The key step is a process we term `daseinisation' by which a projection operator is mapped to a sub-object of the spectral presheaf--the topos quantum analogue of a classical state space. In the second part of the paper we change gear with the introduction of the more sophisticated local language L(S). From this point forward, throughout the rest of the series of papers, our attention will be devoted almost entirely to this language. In the present paper, we use L(S) to study `truth objects' in the topos. These are objects in the topos that play the role of states: a necessary development as the spectral presheaf has no global elements, and hence there are no microstates in the sense of classical physics. Truth objects therefore play a crucial role in our formalism.

id: quant-ph/0703063
title: Quantum States and Hardy's Formulation of the Uncertainty Principle : a Symplectic Approach
authors: Maurice de Gosson, Franz Luef
comments: To appear in Lett. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703063
abstract: We express the condition for a phase space Gaussian to be the Wigner distribution of a mixed quantum state in terms of the symplectic capacity of the associated Wigner ellipsoid. Our results are motivated by Hardy's formulation of the uncertainty principle for a function and its Fourier transform. As a consequence we are able to state a more general form of Hardy's theorem.

id: quant-ph/0703064
title: A Topos Foundation for Theories of Physics: III. The Representation of Physical Quantities With Arrows
authors: A. Doering, C.J. Isham
comments: 38 pages, no figures
journal: J.Math.Phys.49:053517,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703064
abstract: This paper is the third in a series whose goal is to develop a fundamentally new way of viewing theories of physics. Our basic contention is that constructing a theory of physics is equivalent to finding a representation in a topos of a certain formal language that is attached to the system. In paper II, we studied the topos representations of the propositional language PL(S) for the case of quantum theory, and in the present paper we do the same thing for the, more extensive, local language L(S). One of the main achievements is to find a topos representation for self-adjoint operators. This involves showing that, for any physical quantity A, there is an arrow $\breve{\delta}^o(A):\Sig\map\SR$, where $\SR$ is the quantity-value object for this theory. The construction of $\breve{\delta}^o(A)$ is an extension of the daseinisation of projection operators that was discussed in paper II. The object $\SR$ is a monoid-object only in the topos, $\tau_\phi$, of the theory, and to enhance the applicability of the formalism, we apply to $\SR$ a topos analogue of the Grothendieck extension of a monoid to a group. The resulting object, $\kSR$, is an abelian group-object in $\tau_\phi$. We also discuss another candidate, $\PR{\mathR}$, for the quantity-value object. In this presheaf, both inner and outer daseinisation are used in a symmetric way. Finally, there is a brief discussion of the role of unitary operators in the quantum topos scheme.

id: quant-ph/0703065
title: Cavity-enhanced superradiant Rayleigh scattering with ultra-cold and Bose-Einstein condensed atoms
authors: Sebastian Slama, Gordon Krenz, Simone Bux, Claus Zimmermann, Philippe W. Courteille
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Physical Review A 75, 063620 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703065
abstract: We report on the observation of collective atomic recoil lasing and superradiant Rayleigh scattering with ultracold and Bose-Einstein condensed atoms in an optical ring cavity. Both phenomena are based on instabilities evoked by the collective interaction of light with cold atomic gases. This publication clarifies the link between the two effects. The observation of superradiant behavior with thermal clouds as hot as several tens of $\mu\textrm{K}$ proves that the phenomena are driven by the cooperative dynamics of the atoms, which is strongly enhanced by the presence of the ring cavity.

id: quant-ph/0703066
title: A Topos Foundation for Theories of Physics: IV. Categories of Systems
authors: A. Doering, C.J. Isham
comments: 38 pages, no figures
journal: J.Math.Phys.49:053518,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703066
abstract: This paper is the fourth in a series whose goal is to develop a fundamentally new way of building theories of physics. The motivation comes from a desire to address certain deep issues that arise in the quantum theory of gravity. Our basic contention is that constructing a theory of physics is equivalent to finding a representation in a topos of a certain formal language that is attached to the system. Classical physics arises when the topos is the category of sets. Other types of theory employ a different topos. The previous papers in this series are concerned with implementing this programme for a single system. In the present paper, we turn to considering a collection of systems: in particular, we are interested in the relation between the topos representation for a composite system, and the representations for its constituents. We also study this problem for the disjoint sum of two systems. Our approach to these matters is to construct a category of systems and to find a topos representation of the entire category.

id: quant-ph/0703067
title: Dynamics of Quantum Dot Photonic Crystal Lasers
authors: Bryan Ellis, Ilya Fushman, Dirk Englund, Bingyang Zhang, Yoshihisa Yamamoto, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703067
abstract: Quantum dot photonic crystal membrane lasers were fabricated and the large signal modulation characteristics were studied. We find that the modulation characteristics of quantum dot lasers can be significantly improved using cavities with large spontaneous emission coupling factor. Our experiments show, and simulations confirm, that the modulation rate is limited by the rate of carrier capture into the dots to around 30GHz in our present system.

id: quant-ph/0703068
title: The entanglement character between atoms in the non-degenerate two photons Tavis-Cummings model
authors: Guo-feng Zhang, Zi-yu Chen
comments: 1tex and 2 eps figures. accepted by Optics Communications
journal: Optics Communications 275 (2007) 274-277
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703068
abstract: The entanglement character including the so-called sudden death effect between atoms in the non-degenerate two photons Tavis-Cummings model is studied by means of concurrence. The results show that the so-called sudden death effect occurs only for some kind of initial states. In other words, the phenomenon is sensitive to the initial conditions. One can expect the resurrection of the original entanglement to occur in a periodic way following each sudden death event. The length of the time interval for the zero entanglement is dependent on not only the degree of entanglement of the initial state but also the initial state. And the influence of dipole-dipole interaction and different atomic initial states on entanglement between atoms are discussed. The sudden death effect can be weakened by the introducing of dipole-dipole interaction.

id: quant-ph/0703069
title: Symmetry implies independence
authors: Renato Renner
comments: LaTeX, contains 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 3, 645 - 649 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703069
abstract: Given a quantum system consisting of many parts, we show that symmetry of the system's state, i.e., invariance under swappings of the subsystems, implies that almost all of its parts are virtually identical and independent of each other. This result generalises de Finetti's classical representation theorem for infinitely exchangeable sequences of random variables as well as its quantum-mechanical analogue. It has applications in various areas of physics as well as information theory and cryptography. For example, in experimental physics, one typically collects data by running a certain experiment many times, assuming that the individual runs are mutually independent. Our result can be used to justify this assumption.

id: quant-ph/0703070
title: Non-relativistic Schroedinger theory on q-deformed quantum spaces I, Mathematical framework and equations of motion
authors: Hartmut Wachter
comments: 48 pages, no figures, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703070
abstract: The aim of these three papers (I, II, and III) is to develop a q-deformed version of non-relativistic Schroedinger theory. Paper I introduces the fundamental mathematical and physical concepts. The braided line and the three-dimensional q-deformed Euclidean space play the role of position space. For both cases the algebraic framework is extended by a time element. A short review of the elements of q-deformed analysis on the spaces under consideration is given. The time evolution operator is introduced in a consistent way and its basic properties are discussed. These reasonings are continued by proposing q-deformed analogs of the Schroedinger and the Heisenberg picture.

id: quant-ph/0703071
title: Quantum nonlocality without hidden variables: An algorithmic approach
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 4 pages, corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703071
abstract: Is quantum mechanics (QM) local or nonlocal? Different formulations/interpretations (FI) of QM, with or without hidden variables, suggest different answers. Different FI's can be viewed as different algorithms, which leads us to propose an algorithmic definition of locality according to which a theory is local if and only if there exists at least one FI in which all irreducible elements of that FI are local. The fact that no such FI of QM is known strongly supports quantum nonlocality.

id: quant-ph/0703072
title: Non-relativistic Schroedinger theory on q-deformed quantum spaces II, The free non-relativistic particle and its interactions
authors: Hartmut Wachter
comments: 48 pages, no figures, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703072
abstract: This is the second part of a paper about a q-deformed analog of non-relativistic Schroedinger theory. It applies the general ideas of part I and tries to give a description of one-particle states on q-deformed quantum spaces like the braided line or the q-deformed Euclidean space in three dimensions. Hamiltonian operators for the free q-deformed particle in one as well as three dimensions are introduced. Plane waves as solutions to the corresponding Schroedinger equations are considered. Their completeness and orthonormality relations are written down. Expectation values of position and momentum observables are taken with respect to one-particle states and their time-dependence is discussed. A potential is added to the free-particle Hamiltonians and q-analogs of the Ehrenfest theorem are derived from the Heisenberg equations of motion. The conservation of probability is proved.

id: quant-ph/0703073
title: Non-relativistic Schroedinger theory on q-deformed quantum spaces III, Scattering theory
authors: Hartmut Wachter
comments: 42 pages, 2 figures, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703073
abstract: This is the third part of a paper about non-relativistic Schroedinger theory on q-deformed quantum spaces like the braided line or the three-dimensional q-deformed Euclidean space. Propagators for the free q-deformed particle are derived and their basic properties are discussed. A time-dependent formulation of scattering is proposed. In this respect, q-analogs of the Lippmann-Schwinger equation are given. Expressions for their iterative solutions are written down. It is shown how to calculate S-matrices and transition probabilities. Furthermore, attention is focused on the question what becomes of unitarity of S-matrices in a q-deformed setting. The examinations are concluded by a discussion of the interaction picture and its relation to scattering processes.

id: quant-ph/0703074
title: Laser-induced ultrafast electron emission from a field emission tip
authors: Brett Barwick, Chris Corder, James Strohaber, Nate Chandler-Smith, Cornelis Uiterwaal, Herman Batelaan
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703074
abstract: We show that a field emission tip electron source that is triggered with a femtosecond laser pulse can generate electron pulses shorter than the laser pulse duration (~100 fs). The emission process is sensitive to a power law of the laser intensity, which supports an emission mechanism based on multiphoton absorption followed by over-the-barrier emission. Observed continuous transitions between power laws of different orders are indicative of field emission processes. We show that the source can also be operated so that thermionic emission processes become significant. Understanding these different emission processes is relevant for the production of sub-cycle electron pulses.

id: quant-ph/0703075
title: Single-atom entropy squeezing for two two-level atoms interacting with a single-mode radiation field
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, Wahiddin M R B, Obada A-S F
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, comments are most welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703075
abstract: In this paper we consider a system of two two-level atoms interacting with a single-mode quantized electromagnetic field in a lossless resonant cavity via $l$-photon-transition mechanism. The field and the atoms are initially prepared in the coherent state and the excited atomic states, respectively. For this system we investigate the entropy squeezing, the atomic variances, the von Neumann entropy and the atomic inversions for the single-atom case. We show that the more the number of the parties in the system the less the amounts of the nonclassical effects exhibited in the entropy squeezing. The entropy squeezing can give information on the corresponding von Neumann entropy. Also the nonclassical effects obtained form the asymmetric atoms are greater than those obtained form the symmetric atoms. Finally, the entropy squeezing gives better information than the atomic variances only for the asymmetric atoms.

id: quant-ph/0703076
title: Balanced homodyne detectors in QFT
authors: P. Marecki
comments: Revised version with minor mistakes removed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012101 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703076
abstract: Within the dipole approximation we describe the interaction of a photodiode with the quantum electric field. The diode is modelled by an electron in a bound state which upon interaction, treated perturbatively in the paper, can get excited to one of the scattering states. We furthermore analyze a balanced homodyne detector (BHD) with a local oscillator (LO) consisting of two photodiodes illuminated by a monochromatic coherent state. We show, that to the leading order the BHD's output measures the expectation value of the quantum electric field, in the state without the LO, restricted to the frequency of the LO. The square of the output measures the two-point function of the quantum field. This shows that the BHDs provide tools for measurements of sub-vacuum (negative) expectation values of the squares quantum fields and thus for test of Quantum Energy Inequality - like bounds, or other QFT effects under the influence of external conditions.

id: quant-ph/0703077
title: Sudden death and long-lived entanglement of two three-level trapped ions
authors: Mahmoud Abdel-Aty, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 369, Issues 5-6, 1 October 2007, Pages 372-376
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703077
abstract: The dynamical properties of quantum entanglement in two three-level trapped ions interacting with a laser field are studied in terms of the negative eigenvalues of the partial transposition of the density operator. In contrast to the usual belief that destroying the entanglement can be observed due to the environment, it is found that the Stark shift can also produce sudden death of entanglement and long-lived entanglement between the qubits that are prepared initially in separable states or mixed states.

id: quant-ph/0703078
title: Energy-levels crossing and radial Dirac equation: Supersymmetry and quasi-parity spectral signatures
authors: Omar Mustafa
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 47, 1300 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703078
abstract: The (3+1)-dimensional Dirac equation with position dependent mass in 4-vector electromagnetic fields is considered. Using two over-simplified examples (the Dirac-Coulomb and Dirac-oscillator fields), we report energy-levels crossing as a spectral property or as an effect of the hidden supersymmetric quantum mechanical language and/or quasi-parity signatures. Under different settings of the related interactions' way-of-coupling into Dirac equation, it is observed that the two ultimate/effective descendents, Dirac-Coulomb and Dirac-oscillator, exhibit different conditions on the energy-levels crossings.

id: quant-ph/0703079
title: Phase-covariant cloning of coherent states
authors: Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures; updated references and minor corrections; in press on Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042328 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703079
abstract: We consider the problem of phase-covariant cloning for coherent states. We show that an experimental scheme based on ideal phase measurement and feedforward outperforms the semiclassical procedure of ideal phase measurement and preparation in terms of fidelity. A realistic scheme where the ideal phase measurement is replaced with double-homodyne detection is shown to be unable to overcome the semiclassical cloning strategy. On the other hand, such a realistic scheme is better than semiclassical cloning based on double-homodyne phase measurement and preparation.

id: quant-ph/0703080
title: Quantum bit string commitment protocol using polarization of mesoscopic coherent states
authors: Fabio Alencar Mendonca, Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 10 pages and 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703080
abstract: In this work, we propose a quantum bit string commitment protocol using polarization of mesoscopic coherent states. The protocol is described and its security against brute force and quantum cloning machine attack is analyzed.

id: quant-ph/0703081
title: Decoherence-free quantum-information processing using dipole-coupled qubits
authors: Peter G. Brooke
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 022320 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703081
abstract: We propose a quantum-information processor that consists of decoherence-free logical qubits encoded into arrays of dipole-coupled qubits. High-fidelity single-qubit operations are performed deterministically within a decoherence-free subsystem without leakage via global addressing of bichromatic laser fields. Two-qubit operations are realized locally with four physical qubits, and between separated logical qubits using linear optics. We show how to prepare cluster states using this method. We include all non-nearest-neighbor effects in our calculations, and we assume the qubits are not located in the Dicke limit. Although our proposal is general to any system of dipole-coupled qubits, throughout the paper we use nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond as an experimental context for our theoretical results.

id: quant-ph/0703082
title: On the Quantum Circuit Complexity Equivalence
authors: Milosh Drezgich, Shankar Sastry
comments: QIP 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703082
abstract: Nielsen \cite{Nielsen05} recently asked the following question: "What is the minimal size quantum circuit required to exactly implement a specified $% \mathit{n}$-qubit unitary operation $U$, without the use of ancilla qubits?" Nielsen was able to prove that a lower bound on the minimal size circuit is provided by the length of the geodesic between the identity $I$ and $U$, where the length is defined by a suitable Finsler metric on $SU(2^{n})$. We prove that the minimum circuit size that simulates $U$ is in linear relation with the geodesic length and simulation parameters, for the given Finsler structure $F$. As a corollary we prove the highest lower bound of $O(\frac{% n^{4}}{p}d_{F_{p}}^{2}(I,U)L_{F_{p}}(I,\tilde{U})) $and the lowest upper bound of $\Omega (n^{4}d_{F_{p}}^{3}(I,U))$, for the standard simulation technique. Therefore, our results show that by standard simulation one can not expect a better then $n^{2}$ times improvement in the upper bound over the result from Nielsen, Dowling, Gu and Doherty \cite{Nielsen06}. Moreover, our equivalence result can be applied to the arbitrary path on the manifold including the one that is generated adiabatically.

id: quant-ph/0703083
title: Negative Entanglement Measure, and What It Implies
authors: Ting Yu, J. H. Eberly
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Special Issue in Journal of Modern Optics in honor of Peter Knight
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 54, 2289-2296 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703083
abstract: In this paper, we extract from concurrence its variable part, denoted $\Lambda$, and use $\Lambda$ as a time-dependent measure of "distance", either postive or negative, from the separability boundary. We use it to investigate entanglement dynamics of two isolated but initially entangled qubits, each coupled to its own environment.

id: quant-ph/0703084
title: Phase Controlled Continuously Entangled Two-Photon Laser with Double $¦«$ Scheme
authors: C. H. Raymond Ooi
comments: 6 pages (two-column), 4 figures. submitted to a journal on 14 February 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703084
abstract: We show that an absolute coherent phase of a laser can be used to manipulate the entanglement of photon pairs of two-photon laser. Our focus is on the generation of a continuous source of entangled photon pairs in the double $\Lambda $ (or Raman) scheme. We study the dependence of steady state entanglement on the phase and laser parameters. We obtain a relationship between entanglement and two-photon correlation. We derive conditions that give steady state entanglement for the Raman-EIT scheme and use it to identify region of steady state macroscopic entanglement. No entanglement is found for the double resonant Raman scheme for any laser parameters.

id: quant-ph/0703085
title: Discrete squeezed states for finite-dimensional spaces
authors: Marcelo A. Marchiolli, Maurizio Ruzzi, Diogenes Galetti
comments: 16 pages; 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 76 (2007) 032102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703085
abstract: We show how discrete squeezed states in an $N^{2}$-dimensional phase space can be properly constructed out of the finite-dimensional context. Such discrete extensions are then applied to the framework of quantum tomography and quantum information theory with the aim of establishing an initial study on the interference effects between discrete variables in a finite phase-space. Moreover, the interpretation of the squeezing effects is seen to be direct in the present approach, and has some potential applications in different branches of physics.

id: quant-ph/0703086
title: Wick's theorem for q-deformed boson operators
authors: Toufik Mansour, Matthias Schork, Simone Severini
comments: 9 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 8393-8401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703086
abstract: In this paper combinatorial aspects of normal ordering arbitrary words in the creation and annihilation operators of the q-deformed boson are discussed. In particular, it is shown how by introducing appropriate q-weights for the associated ``Feynman diagrams'' the normally ordered form of a general expression in the creation and annihilation operators can be written as a sum over all q-weighted Feynman diagrams, representing Wick's theorem in the present context.

id: quant-ph/0703087
title: Determining the equivalence for 1-way quantum finite automata
authors: Lvzhou Li, Daowen Qiu
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703087
abstract: In this paper, we focus on determining the equivalence for {\it 1-way quantum finite automata with control language} (CL-1QFAs) defined by Bertoni et al and {\it measure-many 1-way quantum finite automata} (MM-1QFAs) introduced by Kondacs and Watrous. More specifically, we obtain that: \begin{enumerate} \item[(i)] Two CL-1QFAs ${\cal A}_1$ and ${\cal A}_2$ with control languages (regular languages) ${\cal L}_1$ and ${\cal L}_2$, respectively, are equivalent if and only if they are $(c_1n_1^2+c_2n_2^2-1)$-equivalent. Furthermore, if ${\cal L}_1$ and ${\cal L}_2$ are given in the form of DFAs, with $m_1$ and $m_2$ states, respectively, then there exists a polynomial-time algorithm running in time $O ((m_1n_1^2+m_2n_2^2)^4)$ that takes as input ${\cal A}_1$ and ${\cal A}_2$ and determines whether they are equivalent. \item[(ii)] Two MM-1QFAs ${\cal A}_1$ and ${\cal A}_2$ with $n_1$ and $n_2$ states, respectively, are equivalent if and only if they are $(3n_1^2+3n_2^2-1)$-equivalent. Furthermore, there is a polynomial-time algorithm running in time $O ((3n_1^2+3n_2^2)^4)$ that takes as input ${\cal A}_1$ and ${\cal A}_2$ and determines whether ${\cal A}_1$ and ${\cal A}_2$ are equivalent.

id: quant-ph/0703088
title: Exact Master Equation and Quantum Decoherence of Two Coupled Harmonic Oscillators in a General Environment
authors: Chung-Hsien Chou, Ting Yu, B. L. Hu
comments: 35 pages, revtex, no figures, 2nd version, references added, to appear in PRE
journal: Phys.Rev.E77:011112,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703088
abstract: In this paper we derive an exact master equation for two coupled quantum harmonic oscillators interacting via bilinear coupling with a common environment at arbitrary temperature made up of many harmonic oscillators with a general spectral density function. We first show a simple derivation based on the observation that the two-harmonic oscillator model can be effectively mapped into that of a single harmonic oscillator in a general environment plus a free harmonic oscillator. Since the exact one harmonic oscillator master equation is available [Hu, Paz and Zhang, Phys. Rev. D \textbf{45}, 2843 (1992)], the exact master equation with all its coefficients for this two harmonic oscillator model can be easily deduced from the known results of the single harmonic oscillator case. In the second part we give an influence functional treatment of this model and provide explicit expressions for the evolutionary operator of the reduced density matrix which are useful for the study of decoherence and disentanglement issues. We show three applications of this master equation: on the decoherence and disentanglement of two harmonic oscillators due to their interaction with a common environment under Markovian approximation, and a derivation of the uncertainty principle at finite temperature for a composite object, modeled by two interacting harmonic oscillators. The exact master equation for two, and its generalization to $N$, harmonic oscillators interacting with a general environment are expected to be useful for the analysis of quantum coherence, entanglement, fluctuations and dissipation of mesoscopic objects towards the construction of a theoretical framework for macroscopic quantum phenomena.

id: quant-ph/0703089
title: Generating entanglement between quantum dots with different resonant frequencies based on Dipole Induced Transparency
authors: Deepak Sridharan, Edo Waks
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703089
abstract: We describe a method for generating entanglement between two spatially separated dipoles coupled to optical micro-cavities. The protocol works even when the dipoles have different resonant frequencies and radiative lifetimes. This method is particularly important for solid-state emitters, such as quantum dots, which suffer from large inhomogeneous broadening. We show that high fidelities can be obtained over a large dipole detuning range without significant loss of efficiency. We analyze the impact of higher order photon number states and cavity resonance mismatch on the performance of the protocol.

id: quant-ph/0703090
title: Simple unconventional geometric scenario of one-way quantum computation with superconducting qubits inside a cavity
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue, Z. D. Wang
comments: Accepted version with minor amendments. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 064303 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703090
abstract: We propose a simple unconventional geometric scenario to achieve a kind of nontrivial multi-qubit operations with superconducting charge qubits placed in a microwave cavity. The proposed quantum operations are insensitive not only to the thermal state of cavity mode but also to certain random operation errors, and thus may lead to high-fidelity quantum information processing. Executing the designated quantum operations, a class of highly entangled cluster states may be generated efficiently in the present scalable solid-state system, enabling one to achieve one-way quantum computation.

id: quant-ph/0703091
title: Quantum estimation of a damping constant
authors: Hannah Venzl, Matthias Freyberger
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042322 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703091
abstract: We discuss an interferometric approach to the estimation of quantum mechanical damping. We study specific classes of entangled and separable probe states consisting of superpositions of coherent states. Based on the assumption of limited quantum resources we show that entanglement improves the estimation of an unknown damping constant.

id: quant-ph/0703092
title: Thermodynamics of Pseudo-Hermitian Systems in Equilibrium
authors: Vit Jakubsky
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Mod.Phys.Lett. A; historical part of sec. 2.1 reformulated, references corrected; typos corrected
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A22, 1075 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703092
abstract: In study of pseudo(quasi)-hermitian operators, the key role is played by the positive-definite metric operator. It enables physical interpretation of the considered systems. In the article, we study the pseudo-hermitian systems with constant number of particles in equilibrium. We show that the explicit knowledge of the metric operator is not essential for study of thermodynamic properties of the system. We introduce a simple example where the physically relevant quantities are derived without explicit calculation of either metric operator or spectrum of the Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0703093
title: Generalized measurement of the non-normal two-boson operator $Z_¦Ã= a_1 + ¦Ãa_2^?$
authors: Matteo G A Paris, Giulio Landolfi, Giulio Soliani
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, slightly revised version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) F531-F537.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703093
abstract: We address the generalized measurement of the two-boson operator $Z_\gamma= a_1 + \gamma a_2^\dag$ which, for $|\gamma|^2 \neq 1$, is not normal and cannot be detected by a joint measurement of quadratures on the two bosons. We explicitly construct the minimal Naimark extension, which involves a single additional bosonic system, and present its decomposition in terms of two-boson linear SU(2) interactions. The statistics of the measurement and the added noise are analyzed in details. Results are exploited to revisit the Caves-Shapiro concept of generalized phase observable based on heterodyne detection.

id: quant-ph/0703094
title: Laser theory in manifest Lindblad form
authors: C. Henkel
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures, to be published in J Phys B (minor revision)
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 40 (2007) 2359-71
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703094
abstract: We discuss the laser theory for a single-mode laser with nonlinear gain. We focus in particular on a micromaser which is pumped with a dilute beam of excited atoms crossing the laser cavity. In the weak-coupling regime, an expansion in the coupling strength is developed that preserves the Lindblad form of the master equation, securing the positivity of the density matrix. This expansion breaks rapidly down above threshold. This can be improved with an alternative approach, not restricted to weak coupling: the Lindblad operators are expanded in orthogonal polynomials adapted to the probability distribution for the atom-laser interaction time. Results for the photon statistics and the laser linewidth illustrate the theory.

id: quant-ph/0703095
title: Entanglement-swapping boxes and their communication properties
authors: Andrzej Grudka, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki, Marco Piani
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A as a Rapid Communication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 060307(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703095
abstract: We pose the fundamental question of communication properties of primitives irrespectively of their implementation. To illustrate the idea we introduce the concept of entanglement-swapping boxes, i.e. we consider any quantum operations which perform entanglement swapping, not necessarily via simple quantum teleportation. We ask a question about the properties of such boxes., i.e. what local operations and how much classical communication are needed to perform them. We also ask if any box which performs entanglement swapping can be used to establish classical communication. We show that each box needs at least two bits of classical communication to perform it. It is also shown that each box can be used for classical communication and, most importantly, that there exist boxes which allow to communicate at most one bit. Surprisingly we find basic irreversibility in the process of entanglement swapping with respect to its communication properties.

id: quant-ph/0703096
title: Ultracompact Generation of Continuous-Variable Cluster States
authors: Nicolas C. Menicucci, Steven T. Flammia, Hussain Zaidi, Olivier Pfister
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; v2 improved discussion of the implications of our result; added discussion of finite squeezing effects
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 010302(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703096
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme that has the potential for large-scale realization of continuous-variable (CV) cluster states for universal quantum computation. We do this by mapping CV cluster-state graphs onto two-mode squeezing graphs, which can be engineered into a single optical parametric oscillator (OPO). The desired CV cluster state is produced directly from a joint squeezing operation on the vacuum using a multi-frequency pump beam. This method has potential for ultracompact experimental implementation. As an illustration, we detail an experimental proposal for creating a four-mode square CV cluster state with a single OPO.

id: quant-ph/0703097
title: Separability in terms of a single entanglement witness
authors: Piotr Badzi\kag, Pawe? Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki, Remigiusz Augusiak
comments: 4.4 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Physical Review A 88, 010301(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703097
abstract: The separability problem is formulated in terms of a characterization of a single entanglement witness. More specifically, we show that any (in general multipartite) state \varrho is separable if and only if a specially constructed entanglement witness W_{\varrho} is weakly optimal, i.e., its expectation value vanishes on at least one product vector. Interestingly, the witness can always be chosen to be decomposable. Our result changes the conceptual aspect of the separability problem and rises some questions about properties of positive maps.

id: quant-ph/0703098
title: Multipartite quantum correlation and entanglement in four-qubit pure states
authors: Yan-Kui Bai, Dong Yang, Z. D. Wang
comments: 7 pages, 3 figues
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022336 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703098
abstract: Based on the quantitative complementarity relations, we analyze thoroughly the properties of multipartite quantum correlations and entanglement in four-qubit pure states. We find that, unlike the three-qubit case, the single residual correlation, the genuine three- and four-qubit correlations are not suited to quantify entanglement. More interestingly, from our qualitative and numerical analysis, it is conjectured that the sum of all the residual correlations may constitute a good measure for the total multipartite entanglement in the system.

id: quant-ph/0703099
title: Dilemma that cannot be resolved by biased quantum coin flipping
authors: Satoshi Ishizaka
comments: 5 pages and 1 figure. Accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 070501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703099
abstract: We show that a biased quantum coin flip (QCF) cannot provide the performance of a black-boxed biased coin flip, if it satisfies some fidelity conditions. Although such a QCF satisfies the security conditions of a biased coin flip, it does not realize the ideal functionality, and therefore, does not fulfill the demands for universally composable security. Moreover, through a comparison within a small restricted bias range, we show that an arbitrary QCF is distinguishable from a black-boxed coin flip unless it is unbiased on both sides of parties against insensitive cheating. We also point out the difficulty in developing cheat-sensitive quantum bit commitment in terms of the uncomposability of a QCF.

id: quant-ph/0703100
title: Time Dependent Entropy of Constant Force Motion
authors: O. Ozcan, E. Akturk, R. Sever
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703100
abstract: Time dependent entropy of constant force motion is investigated. Their joint entropy so called Leipnik's entropy is obtained. The main purpose of this work is to calculate Leipnik's entropy by using time dependent wave function which is obtained by the Feynman path integral method. It is found that, in this case, the Leipnik's entropy increase with time and this result has same behavior free particle case.

id: quant-ph/0703101
title: Analytical Solutions to the Hulthen and the Morse Potentials by using the Asymptotic Iteration Method
authors: O. Bayrak, I. Boztosun
comments: 13 pages and 2 tables
journal: Journal of Molecular Structure: THEOCHEM 802 (2007) 17
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703101
abstract: We present the exact analytical solution of the radial Schr\"{o}dinger equation for the deformed Hulth\'{e}n and the Morse potentials within the framework of the Asymptotic Iteration Method. The bound state energy eigenvalues and corresponding wave functions are obtained explicitly. Our results are in excellent agreement with the findings of the other methods.

id: quant-ph/0703102
title: The Energy Eigenvalues of the Two Dimensional Hydrogen Atom in a Magnetic Field
authors: A. Soylu, O. Bayrak, I. Boztosun
comments: 13 pages and 5 tables
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. E 15 (2006) 1263
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703102
abstract: In this paper, the energy eigenvalues of the two dimensional hydrogen atom are presented for the arbitrary Larmor frequencies by using the asymptotic iteration method. We first show the energy eigenvalues for the no magnetic field case analytically, and then we obtain the energy eigenvalues for the strong and weak magnetic field cases within an iterative approach for $n=2-10$ and $m=0-1$ states for several different arbitrary Larmor frequencies. The effect of the magnetic field on the energy eigenvalues is determined precisely. The results are in excellent agreement with the findings of the other methods and our method works for the cases where the others fail.

id: quant-ph/0703103
title: "Quantumness" versus "Classicality" of Quantum States
authors: Berry Groisman, Dan Kenigsberg, Tal Mor
comments: 4 and a bit pages, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703103
abstract: Entanglement is one of the pillars of quantum mechanics and quantum information processing, and as a result the quantumness of nonentangled states has typically been overlooked and unrecognized. We give a robust definition for the classicality versus quantumness of a single multipartite quantum state, a set of states, and a protocol using quantum states. We show a variety of nonentangled (separable) states that exhibit interesting quantum properties, and we explore the ``zoo'' of separable states; several interesting subclasses are defined based on their diagonalizing bases, and their non-classical behavior is investigated.

id: quant-ph/0703104
title: Semiclassical analysis of Wigner $3j$-symbol
authors: Vincenzo Aquilanti, Hal M. Haggard, Robert G. Littlejohn, Liang Yu
comments: 7 figure files
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 5637 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703104
abstract: We analyze the asymptotics of the Wigner $3j$-symbol as a matrix element connecting eigenfunctions of a pair of integrable systems, obtained by lifting the problem of the addition of angular momenta into the space of Schwinger's oscillators. A novel element is the appearance of compact Lagrangian manifolds that are not tori, due to the fact that the observables defining the quantum states are noncommuting. These manifolds can be quantized by generalized Bohr-Sommerfeld rules and yield all the correct quantum numbers. The geometry of the classical angular momentum vectors emerges in a clear manner. Efficient methods for computing amplitude determinants in terms of Poisson brackets are developed and illustrated.

id: quant-ph/0703105
title: A bird's eye view of quantum computers
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Giuliano Strini
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Quantum Biosystems 1, 21 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703105
abstract: Quantum computers are discussed in the general framework of computation, the laws of physics and the foundations of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0703106
title: Bell-states diagonal entanglement witnesses for relativistic and non-relativistic multispinor systems in arbitrary dimensions
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, R. Sufiani
comments: 62 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703106
abstract: Two kinds of Bell-states diagonal (BSD) entanglement witnesses (EW) are constructed by using the algebra of Dirac $\gamma$ matrices in the space-time of arbitrary dimension $d$, where the first kind can detect some BSD relativistic and non-relativistic $m$-partite multispinor bound entangled states in Hilbert space of dimension $2^{m\lfloor d/2\rfloor}$, including the bipartite Bell-type and iso-concurrence type states in the four-dimensional space-time ($d=4$). By using the connection between Hilbert-Schmidt measure and the optimal EWs associated with states, it is shown that as far as the spin quantum correlations is concerned, the amount of entanglement is not a relativistic scalar and has no invariant meaning. The introduced EWs are manipulated via the linear programming (LP) which can be solved exactly by using simplex method. The decomposability or non-decomposability of these EWs is investigated, where the region of non-decomposable EWs of the first kind is partially determined and it is shown that, all of the EWs of the second kind are decomposable. These EWs have the preference that in the bipartite systems, they can determine the region of separable states, i.e., bipartite non-detectable density matrices of the same type as the EWs of the first kind are necessarily separable. Also, multispinor EWs with non-polygon feasible regions are provided, where the problem is solved by approximate LP, and in contrary to the exactly manipulatable EWs, both the first and second kind of the optimal approximate EWs can detect some bound entangled states. Keywords: Relativistic entanglement, Entanglement Witness, Multispinor, Linear Programming, Feasible Region. PACs Index: 03.65.Ud

id: quant-ph/0703107
title: Quantum Key Distribution with Classical Bob
authors: Michel Boyer, Dan Kenigsberg, Tal Mor
comments: 4 and a bit pages, 1 figure, RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703107
abstract: Secure key distribution among two remote parties is impossible when both are classical, unless some unproven (and arguably unrealistic) computation-complexity assumptions are made, such as the difficulty of factorizing large numbers. On the other hand, a secure key distribution is possible when both parties are quantum. What is possible when only one party (Alice) is quantum, yet the other (Bob) has only classical capabilities? We present a protocol with this constraint, and prove its robustness against attacks: we prove that any attempt of an adversary to obtain information (and even a tiny amount of information) necessarily induces some errors that the legitimate users could notice.

id: quant-ph/0703108
title: State reconstruction for composite systems of two spatial qubits
authors: G. Lima, F. A. Torres-Ruiz, L. Neves, A. Delgado, C. Saavedra, S. P¨¢dua
comments: 3 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703108
abstract: Pure entangled states of two spatial qudits have been produced by using the momentum transverse correlation of the parametric down-converted photons [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{94} 100501]. Here we show a generalization of this process to enable the creation of mixed states of spatial qudits and by using the technique proposed we generate mixed states of spatial qubits. We also report how the process of quantum tomography is experimentally implemented to characterize these states. This tomographic reconstruction is based on the free evolution of spatial qubits, coincidence detection and a filtering process. The reconstruction method can be generalized for the case of two spatial qudits.

id: quant-ph/0703109
title: Signatures of non-locality in the first-order coherence of the scattered light
authors: Priscilla Ca?izares, Tobias G?rler, Juan Pablo Paz, Giovanna Morigi, Wolfgang Schleich
comments: 5 pages, one figure, submitted to Laser Physics, special issue in memory of Herbert Walther
journal: Laser Physics 17, 903-907 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703109
abstract: The spatial coherence of an atomic wavepacket can be detected in the scattered photons, even when the center-of-mass motion is in the quantum coherent superposition of two distant, non-overlapping wave packets. Spatial coherence manifests itself in the power spectrum of the emitted photons, whose spectral components can exhibit interference fringes as a function of the emission angle. The contrast and the phase of this interference pattern provide information about the quantum state of the center of mass of the scattering atom.

id: quant-ph/0703110
title: Realization of continuous-outcome measurements on finite dimensional quantum systems
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, D. M. Schlingemann
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703110
abstract: This note contains the complete mathematical proof of the main Theorem of the paper "How continuous measurements in finite dimension are actually discrete" (quant-ph/0702068), thus showing that in finite dimension any measurement with continuous set of outcomes can be simply realized by randomizing some classical parameter and conditionally performing a measurement with finite outcomes.

id: quant-ph/0703111
title: Strong low-frequency quantum correlations from a four-wave mixing amplifier
authors: C. F. McCormick, A. M. Marino, V. Boyer, P. D. Lett
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Major rewrite of the previous version. New experimental results and further analysis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703111
abstract: We show that a simple scheme based on nondegenerate four-wave mixing in a hot atomic vapor behaves like a near-perfect phase-insensitive optical amplifier, which can generate bright twin beams with a measured quantum noise reduction in the intensity difference of more than 8 dB, close to the best optical parametric amplifiers and oscillators. The absence of a cavity makes the system immune to external perturbations, and the strong quantum noise reduction is observed over a large frequency range.

id: quant-ph/0703112
title: Graphs, Quadratic Forms, and Quantum Codes
authors: Markus Grassl, Andreas Klappenecker, Martin Roetteler
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, paper presented at the 2002 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory
journal: Proceedings 2002 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2002), Lausanne, Switzerland, June/July 2002, p. 45
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703112
abstract: We show that any stabilizer code over a finite field is equivalent to a graphical quantum code. Furthermore we prove that a graphical quantum code over a finite field is a stabilizer code. The technique used in the proof establishes a new connection between quantum codes and quadratic forms. We provide some simple examples to illustrate our results.

id: quant-ph/0703113
title: Quantum Convolutional BCH Codes
authors: Salah A. Aly, Markus Grassl, Andreas Klappenecker, Martin Roetteler, Pradeep Kiran Sarvepalli
comments: 4 pages, minor changes, accepted for publication at the 10th Canadian Workshop on Information Theory (CWIT'07)
journal: Proceedings 2007 Canadian Workshop on Information Theory (CWIT 2007), Edmonton, Canada, June 2007, pp. 180-183
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703113
abstract: Quantum convolutional codes can be used to protect a sequence of qubits of arbitrary length against decoherence. We introduce two new families of quantum convolutional codes. Our construction is based on an algebraic method which allows to construct classical convolutional codes from block codes, in particular BCH codes. These codes have the property that they contain their Euclidean, respectively Hermitian, dual codes. Hence, they can be used to define quantum convolutional codes by the stabilizer code construction. We compute BCH-like bounds on the free distances which can be controlled as in the case of block codes, and establish that the codes have non-catastrophic encoders.

id: quant-ph/0703114
title: Geometric Phase for degenerate states of spin-1 and spin-1/2 pair
authors: Guo-Qiang Zhu
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703114
abstract: The geometric phase of a bi-particle model is discussed. For different initial states, especially when the initial state is pure or mixed, the geometric phase will show different properties. The relationship between the geometric phase and the entanglement or mixedness of the initial state is considered.

id: quant-ph/0703115
title: Control of photon propagation via electromagnetically induced transparency in lossless media
authors: Liang He, Yu-xi Liu, S. Yi, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 063818 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703115
abstract: We study the influence of a lossless material medium on the coherent storage and quantum state transfer of a quantized probe light in an ensemble of $\Lambda $-type atoms. The medium is modeled as uniformly distributed two-level atoms with same energy level spacing, coupling to a probe light. This coupled system can be simplified to a collection of two-mode polaritons which couple to one transition of the $\Lambda$-type atoms. We show that, when the other transition of $\Lambda$-type atoms is controlled by a classical light, the electromagnetically induced transparency can also occur for the polaritons. In this case the coherent storage and quantum transfer for photon states are achievable through the novel dark states with respect to the polaritons. By calculating the corresponding dispersion relation, we find the ensemble of the three-level atoms with $\Lambda$-type transitions may serve as quantum memory for it slows or even stops the light propagation through the mechanism of electromagnetically induced transparency. the corresponding dispersion relation, we find the ensemble of the three-level atoms with $\Lambda$-type transitions may serve as quantum memory for it slows or even stops the light propagation through the mechanism of electromagnetically induced transparency.

id: quant-ph/0703116
title: Efficient and High-Fidelity Generation of Atomic Cluster State with Cavity-QED and Linear Optics
authors: X.L. Zhang, K.L. Gao, M. Feng
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703116
abstract: We propose a scheme to generate cluster states of atomic qubits by using cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) and linear optics, in which each atom is confined in a resonant optical cavity with two orthogonally polarized modes. Our scheme is robust to imperfect factors such as dissipation, photon loss, and detector inefficiency. Discussions are made for experimental feasibility of our scheme.

id: quant-ph/0703117
title: Hyperentangled Bell-state analysis
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Julio T. Barreiro, Paul G. Kwiat
comments: typos corrected, to appear in PRA, 5 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 060305(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703117
abstract: It is known that it is impossible to unambiguously distinguish the four Bell states encoded in pairs of photon polarizations using only linear optics. However, hyperentanglement, the simultaneous entanglement in more than one degree of freedom, has been shown to assist the complete Bell analysis of the four Bell states (given a fixed state of the other degrees of freedom). Yet introducing other degrees of freedom also enlarges the total number of Bell-like states. We investigate the limits for unambiguously distinguishing these Bell-like states. In particular, when the additional degree of freedom is qubit-like, we find that the optimal one-shot discrimination schemes are to group the 16 states into 7 distinguishable classes, and that an unambiguous discrimination is possible with two identical copies.

id: quant-ph/0703118
title: The incompatibility relation between visibility of interference and distinguishability of paths
authors: Shogo Tanimura
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures. Corrections are made. References are added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703118
abstract: A model of the Young double-slit experiment is formulated in a fully quantum theoretical setting. The state and dynamics of a movable wall which has the double slits in it, as well as the state of a particle incoming to the double slits, are described in quantum theoretical terms. We study incompatibility between producing the interference pattern and distinguishing the particle path. It is argued that the uncertainty relation involved in the double-slit experiment is not the Ozawa-type uncertainty relation but the Kennard-type uncertainty relation of the position and the momentum of the double-slit wall. A possible experiment to test the incompatibility relation is suggested. It is also argued that various phenomena which occur at the interface of a quantum system and a classical system, including measurement, decoherence, interference and distinguishability, can be understood as different aspects of entanglement.

id: quant-ph/0703119
title: Quantum-Noise Power Spectrum of Fields with Discrete Classical Components
authors: J. Harms, P. Cochrane, A. Freise
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703119
abstract: We present an algorithmic approach to calculate the quantum-noise spectral density of photocurrents generated by optical fields with arbitrary discrete classical spectrum in coherent or squeezed states. The measurement scheme may include an arbitrary number of demodulations of the photocurrent. Thereby, our method is applicable to the general heterodyne detection scheme which is implemented in many experiments. For some of these experiments, e.g. in laser-interferometric gravitational-wave detectors, a reliable prediction of the quantum noise of fields in coherent and squeezed states plays a decisive role in the design phase and detector characterization. Still, our investigation is limited in two ways. First, we only consider coherent and squeezed states of the field and second, we demand that the photocurrent depends linearly on the field's vacuum amplitudes which means that at least one of the classical components is comparatively strong.

id: quant-ph/0703120
title: Comment on "A local realist model for correlations of the singlet state'' (De Raedt et al., Eur. Phys. J. B 53: 139-142, 2006)
authors: Michael Seevinck, Jan-Ake Larsson
comments: 3 pages
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 58, 51-53 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703120
abstract: De Raedt et al. (Eur. Phys. J. B 53: 139-142, 2006) have claimed to provide a local realist model for correlations of the singlet state in the familiar Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm (EPRB) experiment when time-coincidence is used to decide which detection events should count in the analysis, and furthermore that this suggests that it is possible to construct local realistic models that can reproduce the quantum mechanical expectation values. In this letter we show that these conclusions cannot be upheld since their model exploits the so-called coincidence-time loophole. When this is properly taken into account no startling conclusions can be drawn about local realist modelling of quantum mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0703121
title: The Geometry of Entanglement Sudden Death
authors: Marcelo O. Terra Cunha
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, references added, initial paragraph corrected, sectioning adopted, some parts rewritten; accepted by New J. Phys
journal: New Journal of Physics 9 (2007) 237
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703121
abstract: In open quantum systems, entanglement can vanish faster than coherence. This phenomenon is usually called sudden death of entanglement. In this paper sudden death of entanglement is discussed from a geometrical point of view, in the context of two qubits. A classification of possible scenarios is presented, with important known examples classified. Theoretical and experimental construction of other examples is suggested as well as large dimensional and multipartite versions of the effect.

id: quant-ph/0703122
title: Quantum key distribution with entangled photon sources
authors: Xiongfeng Ma, Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: comments are most welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012307 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703122
abstract: A parametric down-conversion (PDC) source can be used as either a triggered single photon source or an entangled photon source in quantum key distribution (QKD). The triggering PDC QKD has already been studied in the literature. On the other hand, a model and a post-processing protocol for the entanglement PDC QKD are still missing. In this paper, we fill in this important gap by proposing such a model and a post-processing protocol for the entanglement PDC QKD. Although the PDC model is proposed to study the entanglement-based QKD, we emphasize that our generic model may also be useful for other non-QKD experiments involving a PDC source. Since an entangled PDC source is a basis independent source, we apply Koashi-Preskill's security analysis to the entanglement PDC QKD. We also investigate the entanglement PDC QKD with two-way classical communications. We find that the recurrence scheme increases the key rate and Gottesman-Lo protocol helps tolerate higher channel losses. By simulating a recent 144km open-air PDC experiment, we compare three implementations -- entanglement PDC QKD, triggering PDC QKD and coherent state QKD. The simulation result suggests that the entanglement PDC QKD can tolerate higher channel losses than the coherent state QKD. The coherent state QKD with decoy states is able to achieve highest key rate in the low and medium-loss regions. By applying Gottesman-Lo two-way post-processing protocol, the entanglement PDC QKD can tolerate up to 70dB combined channel losses (35dB for each channel) provided that the PDC source is placed in between Alice and Bob. After considering statistical fluctuations, the PDC setup can tolerate up to 53dB channel losses.

id: quant-ph/0703123
title: The effect of self-affine fractal roughness of wires on atom chips
authors: Z. Moktadir, B. Darqui¨¦, M. Kraft, E. A. Hinds
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 54, 2149 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703123
abstract: Atom chips use current flowing in lithographically patterned wires to produce microscopic magnetic traps for atoms. The density distribution of a trapped cold atom cloud reveals disorder in the trapping potential, which results from meandering current flow in the wire. Roughness in the edges of the wire is usually the main cause of this behaviour. Here, we point out that the edges of microfabricated wires normally exhibit self-affine roughness. We investigate the consequences of this for disorder in atom traps. In particular, we consider how closely the trap can approach the wire when there is a maximum allowable strength of the disorder. We comment on the role of roughness in future atom--surface interaction experiments.

id: quant-ph/0703124
title: Immeasurability of Zero-point Energy in the Cosmological Constant problem
authors: Daegene Song
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703124
abstract: A huge discrepancy between the zero-point energy calculated from quantum theory and the observed quantity in the Universe has been one of the most illusive problems in physics. In order to examine the measurability of zero-point energy, we construct reference frames in a given measurement using observables. Careful and explicit construction of the reference frames surprisingly reveals that not only is the harmonic oscillator fluctuating at the ground level, but so is the reference frame when the measurement is realized. The argument is then extended to examine the measurability of vacuum energy for a quantized electromagnetic field, and it is shown that while zero-point energy calculated from quantum theory diverges to infinity, it is not measurable.

id: quant-ph/0703125
title: Hidden Variables and Quantum Statistics Nature
authors: T. F. Kamalov
comments: 5 pages
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research, V. 22, N. 5, 2001, p. 475-479
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703125
abstract: It is shown that the nature of quantum statistics can be clarified by assuming the existence of a background of random gravitational fields and waves, distributed isotropically in the space. This background is responsible for correlating phases of oscillations of identical microobjects. If such a background of random gravitational fields and waves is considered as hidden variables then taking it into account leads to the Bell-type inequalities that are fairly consistent with the experimental data.

id: quant-ph/0703126
title: Quantum interference with slits
authors: Thomas V Marcella
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: earlier version Eur. J. Phys. 23 (2002) 615-621
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703126
abstract: In the experiments considered here, we measure the y-component of momentum for a particle passing through a system of slits. The source-slit system is the preparation apparatus that determines the state vector. Recognizing that a system of slits is a position-measuring device allows us to ascertain that the state vector is a position state. Then, writing the state vector in momentum space provides a straightforward calculation for the probability amplitude and its corresponding probability function. Interference effects, if any, are inherent in the probability function We determine the statistical distribution of scattered particles for four different slit systems. The results are in agreement with the well-known interference patterns obtained in classical wave optics.

id: quant-ph/0703127
title: Three-Body Recombination in One Dimension
authors: N. P. Mehta, B. D. Esry, C. H. Greene
comments: 15 pages 7 figures Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703127
abstract: We study the three-body problem in one dimension for both zero and finite range interactions using the adiabatic hyperspherical approach. Particular emphasis is placed on the threshold laws for recombination, which are derived for all combinations of the parity and exchange symmetries. For bosons, we provide a numerical demonstration of several universal features that appear in the three-body system, and discuss how certain universal features in three dimensions are different in one dimension. We show that the probability for inelastic processes vanishes as the range of the pair-wise interaction is taken to zero and demonstrate numerically that the recombination threshold law manifests itself for large scattering length.

id: quant-ph/0703128
title: Coherent State Distinguishability in Continuous Variable Quantum Cryptography
authors: Christian Weedbrook, Mile Gu, Andrew M. Lance, Thomas Symul, Ping Koy Lam, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: QCMC 2006 Proceedings Article
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703128
abstract: We use the probability of error as a measure of distinguishability between two pure and two mixed symmetric coherent states in the context of continuous variable quantum cryptography. We show that the two mixed symmetric coherent states (in which the various components have the same real part) never give an eavesdropper more information than two pure coherent states.

id: quant-ph/0703129
title: When Do Superfluidity and Long Range Order Imply Entanglement?
authors: Vlatko Vedral
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703129
abstract: We investigate tacitly assumed relationships between the concepts of super-fluidity (-conductivity), long range order and entanglement. We prove that the three are by no means equivalent, but that notwithstanding, some rigorous implication can be established between them. This leads to three different, albeit frequently related, notions of "criticality", all of which are exemplified within the Hubbard model in the low density regime. We use Peierls' method of twisted Hamiltonians to link the existence of entanglement to superfluidity and (quasi)-long range order. As an application of our formalism, we show that recent experiments with cold atoms already prove the existence of the field theoretic, spatial entanglement in two dimensions. More interestingly, the appearance of entanglement in these experiments seems to be intimately related to the phase transition of the Kosterlitz Thouless type.

id: quant-ph/0703130
title: Upper bound on our knowledge about noncommuting observables for a qubit system
authors: Yuji Kurotani, Takahiro Sagawa, Masahito Ueda
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022325 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703130
abstract: A trade-off relation on our knowledge about two noncommuting observables of a qubit system in simultaneous measurement is formulated. The obtained inequality offers a quantitative information-theoretic representation of Bohr's principle of complementarity, and can be interpreted as a trade-off relation on the asymptotic accuracy of the maximum-likelihood estimation of the probability distributions of observables.

id: quant-ph/0703131
title: Exact solutions of the Schrodinger equation in D-dimensions for the pseudoharmonic potential plus ring-shaped potential
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 17 pages
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys. 6, 685(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703131
abstract: We present analytically the exact energy bound-states solutions of the Schrodinger equation in $D$-dimensions for a pseudoharmonic potential plus ring-shaped potential of the form $V(r,\theta)=D_{e}(\frac{r}{% r_{e}}-\frac{r_{e}}{r}) ^{2}+\frac{\beta \cos ^{2}\theta}{r^{2}\sin ^{2}\theta}$ by means of the conventional Nikiforov-Uvarov method. We also give a clear recipe of how to obtain an explicit solution to the radial and angular parts of the wave functions in terms of orthogonal polynomials. The total energy of the system is different from the pseudoharmonic potential because of the contribution of the angular part. The general results obtained in this work can be reduced to the standard forms given in the literature.

id: quant-ph/0703132
title: Nonlocality improves Deutsch algorithm
authors: Koji Nagata, Sangkyung Lee, Jaewook Ahn
comments: International Journal of Quantum Information, (2008), (accepted for publication)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703132
abstract: Recently, [{arXiv:0810.3134}] is accepted and published. We show that the Bell inequalities lead to a new type of linear-optical Deutsch algorithms. We have considered a use of entangled photon pairs to determine simultaneously and probabilistically two unknown functions. The usual Deutsch algorithm determines one unknown function and exhibits a two to one speed up in a certain computation on a quantum computer rather than on a classical computer. We found that the violation of Bell locality in the Hilbert space formalism of quantum theory predicts that the proposed {\it probabilistic} Deutsch algorithm for computing two unknown functions exhibits at least a $2\sqrt{2}(\simeq 2.83)$ to one speed up.

id: quant-ph/0703133
title: Nonclassical correlation in a multipartite quantum system: two measures and evaluation
authors: Akira SaiToh, Robabeh Rahimi, Mikio Nakahara
comments: v1: 10 pages, 8 figures, IOPART, v2: introduction modified, figure 7 replaced, v3: 10 pages, 10 figures, RevTeX4, major revision with an additional measure introduced, title changed (previous title: Non-classical correlation in a multi-partite quantum system reconsidered), to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052101 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703133
abstract: There is a commonly recognized paradigm in which a multipartite quantum system described by a density matrix having no product eigenbasis is considered to possess nonclassical correlation. Supporting this paradigm, we define two entropic measures of nonclassical correlation of a multipartite quantum system. One is defined as the minimum uncertainty about a joint system after we collect outcomes of particular local measurements. The other is defined by taking the maximum over all local systems about the minimum distance between a genuine set and a mimic set of eigenvalues of a reduced density matrix of a local system. The latter measure is based on an artificial game to create mimic eigenvalues of a reduced density matrix of a local system from eigenvalues of a density matrix of a global system. Numerical computation of these measures for several examples is performed.

id: quant-ph/0703134
title: Local commutativity versus Bell inequality violation for entangled states and versus non-violation for separable states
authors: Michael Seevinck, Jos Uffink
comments: V2: Most important change: we have greatly extended the discussion of the theoretical and experimental relevance of the results. v3: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042105 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703134
abstract: By introducing a quantitative `degree of commutativity' in terms of the angle between spin-observables we present two tight quantitative trade-off relations in the case of two qubits: First, for entangled states, between the degree of commutativity of local observables and the maximal amount of violation of the Bell inequality: if both local angles increase from zero to \pi/2 (i.e., the degree of local commutativity decreases), the maximum violation of the Bell inequality increases. Secondly, a converse trade-off relation holds for separable states: if both local angles approach \pi/2 the maximal value obtainable for the correlations in the Bell inequality decreases and thus the non-violation increases. As expected, the extremes of these relations are found in the case of anti-commuting local observables where respectively the bounds of 2\sqrt{2} and \sqrt{2} hold for the expectation of the Bell operator. The trade-off relations show that non-commmutativity gives ``a more than classical result" for entangled states, whereas "a less than classical result" is obtained for separable states. The experimental relevance of the trade-off relation for separable states is that it provides an experimental test for two qubit entanglement. Its advantages are twofold: in comparison to violations of Bell inequalities it is a stronger criterion and in comparison to entanglement witnesses it needs to make less strong assumptions about the observables implemented in the experiment.

id: quant-ph/0703135
title: Non Thermal Equilibrium States of Closed Bipartite Systems
authors: Harry Schmidt, Guenter Mahler
comments: RevTeX, 8 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703135
abstract: We investigate a two-level system in resonant contact with a larger environment. The environment typically is in a canonical state with a given temperature initially. Depending on the precise spectral structure of the environment and the type of coupling between both systems, the smaller part may relax to a canonical state with the same temperature as the environment (i.e. thermal relaxation) or to some other quasi equilibrium state (non thermal relaxation). The type of the (quasi) equilibrium state can be related to the distribution of certain properties of the energy eigenvectors of the total system. We examine these distributions for several abstract and concrete (spin environment) Hamiltonian systems, the significant aspect of these distributions can be related to the relative strength of local and interaction parts of the Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0703136
title: Joint Entropy of the Harmonic Oscillator with Time Dependent Mass and Frequency
authors: E. Akturk, O. Ozcan, R. Sever
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703136
abstract: Time dependent entropy of harmonic oscillator with time dependent mass and frequency are investigated. The joint entropy so called Leipnik's entropy is calculated by using time dependent wave function obtained by the Feynman path integral method. It is shown that, Leipnik's entropy fluctuates with time. However in constant mass and time dependent frequency case, entropy increases monotonically with time.

id: quant-ph/0703137
title: Generation of Symmetric Dicke States of Remote Qubits with Linear Optics
authors: C. Thiel, J. von Zanthier, T. Bastin, E. Solano, G. S. Agarwal
comments: New version, a few modifications and a new figure, accepted in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 193602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703137
abstract: We propose a method for generating all symmetric Dicke states, either in the long-lived internal levels of N massive particles or in the polarization degrees of freedom of photonic qubits, using linear optical tools only. By means of a suitable multiphoton detection technique, erasing Welcher-Weg information, our proposed scheme allows the generation and measurement of an important class of entangled multiqubit states.

id: quant-ph/0703138
title: Entanglement and its dynamics in open, dissipative systems
authors: L. Hartmann, W. D¨¹r, H.-J. Briegel
comments: 30 pages, 15 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 230 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703138
abstract: Quantum mechanical entanglement can exist in noisy open quantum systems at high temperature. A simple mechanism, where system particles are randomly reset to some standard initial state, can counteract the deteriorating effect of decoherence, resulting in an entangled steady state far from thermodynamical equilibrium. We present models for both gas-type systems and for strongly coupled systems. We point out in which way the entanglement resulting from such a reset mechanism is different from the entanglement that one can find in thermal states. We develop master equations to describe the system and its interaction with an environment, study toy models with two particles (qubits), where the master equation can often be solved analytically, and finally examine larger systems with possibly fluctuating particle numbers. We find that in gas-type systems, the reset mechanism can produce an entangled steady state for an arbitrary temperature of the environment, while this is not true in strongly coupled systems. But even then, the temperature range where one can find entangled steady states is typically much higher with the reset mechanism.

id: quant-ph/0703139
title: Kramers-Kronig relations for plasma-like permittivities and the Casimir force
authors: G.L.Klimchitskaya, U.Mohideen, V.M.Mostepanenko
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, 1 table; to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. (fast track communication)
journal: J.Phys.A40:F339-F346,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703139
abstract: The Kramers-Kronig relations are derived for the permittivity of the usual plasma model which neglects dissipation and of a generalized model which takes into account the interband transitions. The generalized plasma model is shown to be consistent with all precision experiments on the measurement of the Casimir force.

id: quant-ph/0703140
title: Effects of many-electron atom polarization in electron-hole formalism
authors: Halina V. Grushevskaya, Leonid I. Gurskii
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703140
abstract: The method has been developed to calculate effects of polarization not only for a atomic core in a field of valent electron, but also polarization of atom as a whole in the electron-hole formalism. A secondary quantized density matrix for many-electron system was used to find the Green function of a quasiparticle and its effective mass due to many-particle effects.

id: quant-ph/0703141
title: Semidefinite programming characterization and spectral adversary method for quantum complexity with noncommuting unitary queries
authors: Howard N. Barnum
comments: Dagstuhl Seminar Proceedings 06391, "Algorithms and Complexity for Continuous Problems," ed. S. Dahlke, K. Ritter, I. H. Sloan, J. F. Traub (2006), available electronically at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703141
abstract: Generalizing earlier work characterizing the quantum query complexity of computing a function of an unknown classical ``black box'' function drawn from some set of such black box functions, we investigate a more general quantum query model in which the goal is to compute functions of N by N ``black box'' unitary matrices drawn from a set of such matrices, a problem with applications to determining properties of quantum physical systems. We characterize the existence of an algorithm for such a query problem, with given error and number of queries, as equivalent to the feasibility of a certain set of semidefinite programming constraints, or equivalently the infeasibility of a dual of these constraints, which we construct. Relaxing the primal constraints to correspond to mere pairwise near-orthogonality of the final states of a quantum computer, conditional on black-box inputs having distinct function values, rather than bounded-error determinability of the function value via a single measurement on the output states, we obtain a relaxed primal program the feasibility of whose dual still implies the nonexistence of a quantum algorithm. We use this to obtain a generalization, to our not-necessarily-commutative setting, of the ``spectral adversary method'' for quantum query lower bounds.

id: quant-ph/0703142
title: Correlated errors can lead to better performance of quantum codes
authors: A. Shabani
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Replaced by the published version. Title changed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022323 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703142
abstract: A formulation for evaluating the performance of quantum error correcting codes for a general error model is presented. In this formulation, the correlation between errors is quantified by a Hamiltonian description of the noise process. We classify correlated errors using the system-bath interaction: local versus nonlocal and two-body versus many-body interactions. In particular, we consider Calderbank-Shor-Steane codes and observe a better performance in the presence of correlated errors depending on the timing of the error recovery. We also find this timing to be an important factor in the design of a coding system for achieving higher fidelities.

id: quant-ph/0703143
title: Topological fault-tolerance in cluster state quantum computation
authors: Robert Raussendorf, Jim Harrington, Kovid Goyal
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 9, 199 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703143
abstract: We describe a fault-tolerant version of the one-way quantum computer using a cluster state in three spatial dimensions. Topologically protected quantum gates are realized by choosing appropriate boundary conditions on the cluster. We provide equivalence transformations for these boundary conditions that can be used to simplify fault-tolerant circuits and to derive circuit identities in a topological manner. The spatial dimensionality of the scheme can be reduced to two by converting one spatial axis of the cluster into time. The error threshold is 0.75% for each source in an error model with preparation, gate, storage and measurement errors. The operational overhead is poly-logarithmic in the circuit size.

id: quant-ph/0703144
title: Generating and Revealing a Quantum Superposition of Electromagnetic Field Binomial States in a Cavity
authors: R. Lo Franco, G. Compagno, A. Messina, A. Napoli
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Title changed (published version)
journal: Physical Review A 76, 011804(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703144
abstract: We introduce the $N$-photon quantum superposition of two orthogonal generalized binomial states of electromagnetic field. We then propose, using resonant atom-cavity interactions, non-conditional schemes to generate and reveal such a quantum superposition for the two-photon case in a single-mode high-$Q$ cavity. We finally discuss the implementation of the proposed schemes.

id: quant-ph/0703145
title: Efficient atomic quantum memory for photonic qubits in cavity QED
authors: Hiroyuki Yamada, Katsuji Yamamoto
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures, an extended version of quant-ph/0506215, to be published in Optics Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703145
abstract: We investigate a scheme of atomic quantum memory to store photonic qubits of polarization in cavity QED. It is observed that the quantum-state swapping between a single-photon pulse and a $ \Lambda $-type atom can be made via scattering in an optical cavity [T. W. Chen, C. K. Law, P. T. Leung, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 69} (2004) 063810]. This swapping operates limitedly in the strong coupling regime for $ \Lambda $-type atoms with equal dipole couplings. We extend this scheme in cavity QED to present a more feasible and efficient method for quantum memory combined with projective measurement. This method works without requiring such a condition on the dipole couplings. The fidelity is significantly higher than that of the swapping, and even in the moderate coupling regime it reaches almost unity by narrowing sufficiently the photon-pulse spectrum. This high performance is rather unaffected by the atomic loss, cavity leakage or detunings, while a trade-off is paid in the success probability for projective measurement.

id: quant-ph/0703146
title: Probabilistic Simulation of Quantum Computation
authors: T. F. Kamalov, Yu. P. Rybakov
comments: 12 pages
journal: Quantum Computers and Computing, 2006, v. 6, n. 1, p. 125-136
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703146
abstract: Special stochastic representation of the wave function in Quantum Mechanics (QM), based on soliton realization of extended particles, is suggested with the aim to model quantum states via classical computer. Entangled solitons construction being introduced in the nonlinear spinor field model, the Einstein, Podolsky, Rosen (EPR) spin correlation is calculated and shown to coincide with the quantum mechanical one for the spin-1/2 particles in the singlet state. The concept of stochastic qubits is used for quantum computing modelling.

id: quant-ph/0703147
title: Variable-frequency-controlled coupling in charge qubit circuits: Effects of microwave field on qubit-state readout
authors: Xiao-Ling He, Yu-xi Liu, J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022317 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703147
abstract: To implement quantum information processing, microwave fields are often used to manipulate superconuducting qubits. We study how the coupling between superconducting charge qubits can be controlled by variable-frequency magnetic fields. We also study the effects of the microwave fields on the readout of the charge-qubit states. The measurement of the charge-qubit states can be used to demonstrate the statistical properties of photons.

id: quant-ph/0703148
title: Kicked Bose-Hubbard systems and kicked tops -- destruction and stimulation of tunneling
authors: M P Strzys, E M Graefe, H J Korsch
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 013024 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703148
abstract: In a two-mode approximation, Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) in a double-well potential can be described by a many particle Hamiltonian of Bose-Hubbard type. We focus on such a BEC whose interatomic interaction strength is modulated periodically by $\delta$-kicks which represents a realization of a kicked top. In the (classical) mean-field approximation it provides a rich mixed phase space dynamics with regular and chaotic regions. By increasing the kick-strength a bifurcation leads to the appearance of self-trapping states localized on regular islands. This self-trapping is also found for the many particle system, however in general suppressed by coherent many particle tunneling oscillations. The tunneling time can be calculated from the quasi-energy splitting of the corresponding Floquet states. By varying the kick-strength these quasi-energy levels undergo both avoided and even actual crossings. Therefore stimulation or complete destruction of tunneling can be observed for this many particle system.

id: quant-ph/0703149
title: Open-Loop Control of Quantum Particle Motion: Effective Splitting in Momentum Space
authors: Babar Ahmad, Sergei Borisenok, Saifullah, Yuri Rozhdestvensky
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Prime Research in Mathematics, Vol. 2 (2006), P: 208-216
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703149
abstract: In this paper an effective quantum particle beam-splitter in the momentum space is realized in the frame of open-loop control scheme. We demonstrate for small interaction time that the splitting effect $\pm40\hbar k$ with summarized relative intensity in both main components is about 50 per cent from initial intensity of the atomic beam.

id: quant-ph/0703150
title: H-Infinity Control of Linear Quantum Stochastic Systems
authors: M.R. James, H.I. Nurdin, I.R. Petersen
comments: 23 pages
journal: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 53(8), 1787-1803, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703150
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to formulate and solve a H-infinity controller synthesis problem for a class of non-commutative linear stochastic systems which includes many examples of interest in quantum technology. The paper includes results on the class of such systems for which the quantum commutation relations are preserved (such a requirement must be satisfied in a physical quantum system). A quantum version of standard (classical) dissipativity results are presented and from this a quantum version of the Strict Bounded Real Lemma is derived. This enables a quantum version of the two Riccati solution to the H-infinity control problem to be presented. This result leads to controllers which may be realized using purely quantum, purely classical or a mixture of quantum and classical elements. This issue of physical realizability of the controller is examined in detail, and necessary and sufficient conditions are given. Our results are constructive in the sense that we provide explicit formulas for the Hamiltonian function and coupling operator corresponding to the controller.

id: quant-ph/0703151
title: Nonlocal properties of entangled two-photon generalized binomial states in two separate cavities
authors: R. Lo Franco, G. Compagno, A. Messina, A. Napoli
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Optics & Spectroscopy 103, 890 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703151
abstract: We consider entangled two-photon generalized binomial states of the electromagnetic field in two separate cavities. The nonlocal properties of this entangled field state are analyzed by studying the electric field correlations between the two cavities. A Bell's inequality violation is obtained using an appropriate dichotomic cavity operator, that is in principle measurable.

id: quant-ph/0703152
title: Quantum thermodynamic functions for an oscillator coupled to a heat bath
authors: G. W. Ford, R. F. O'Connell
comments: Phys. Rev. B, in press
journal: Phys. Rev. B 75, 134301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703152
abstract: Small systems (of interest in the areas of nanophysics, quantum information, etc.) are particularly vulnerable to environmental effects. Thus, we determine various thermodynamic functions for an oscillator in an arbitrary heat bath at arbitrary temperatures. Explicit results are presented for the most commonly discussed heat bath models: Ohmic, single relaxation time and blackbody radiation.

id: quant-ph/0703153
title: Decoherence in the dynamical quantum phase transition of the transverse Ising chain
authors: Sarah Mostame, Gernot Schaller, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, minor clarifications
journal: Physical Review A 76, 030304(R), 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703153
abstract: For the prototypical example of the Ising chain in a transverse field, we study the impact of decoherence on the sweep through a second-order quantum phase transition. Apart from the advance in the general understanding of the dynamics of quantum phase transitions, these findings are relevant for adiabatic quantum algorithms due to the similarities between them. It turns out that (in contrast to first-order transitions studied previously) the impact of decoherence caused by a weak coupling to a rather general environment increases with system size (i.e., number of spins/qubits), which might limit the scalability of the system.

id: quant-ph/0703154
title: Pauli graph and finite projective lines/geometries
authors: Michel R. P. Planat, Metod Saniga
comments: 12 pages
journal: Dans Photon Counting Applications, Quantum Optics and Quantum Cryptography - Optics and Optoelectronics, Prague : Tch\`eque, R\'epublique (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703154
abstract: The commutation relations between the generalized Pauli operators of N-qudits (i. e., N p-level quantum systems), and the structure of their maximal sets of commuting bases, follow a nice graph theoretical/geometrical pattern. One may identify vertices/points with the operators so that edges/lines join commuting pairs of them to form the so-called Pauli graph P_{p^N} . As per two-qubits (p = 2, N = 2) all basic properties and partitionings of this graph are embodied in the geometry of the symplectic generalized quadrangle of order two, W(2). The structure of the two-qutrit (p = 3, N = 2) graph is more involved; here it turns out more convenient to deal with its dual in order to see all the parallels with the two-qubit case and its surmised relation with the geometry of generalized quadrangle Q(4, 3), the dual of W(3). Finally, the generalized adjacency graph for multiple (N > 3) qubits/qutrits is shown to follow from symplectic polar spaces of order two/three. The relevance of these mathematical concepts to mutually unbiased bases and to quantum entanglement is also highlighted in some detail.

id: quant-ph/0703155
title: Trapping cold atoms near carbon nanotubes: thermal spin flips and Casimir-Polder potential
authors: Rachele Fermani, Stefan Scheel, Peter L. Knight
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703155
abstract: We investigate the possibility to trap ultracold atoms near the outside of a metallic carbon nanotube (CN) which we imagine to use as a miniaturized current-carrying wire. We calculate atomic spin flip lifetimes and compare the strength of the Casimir-Polder potential with the magnetic trapping potential. Our analysis indicates that the Casimir-Polder force is the dominant loss mechanism and we compute the minimum distance to the carbon nanotube at which an atom can be trapped.

id: quant-ph/0703156
title: Deterministic loading of individual atoms to a high-finesse optical cavity
authors: Kevin M. Fortier, Soo Y. Kim, Michael J. Gibbons, Peyman Ahmadi, Michael S. Chapman
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703156
abstract: Individual laser cooled atoms are delivered on demand from a single atom magneto-optic trap to a high-finesse optical cavity using an atom conveyor. Strong coupling of the atom with the cavity field allows simultaneous cooling and detection of individual atoms for time scales exceeding 15 s. The single atom scatter rate is studied as a function of probe-cavity detuning and probe Rabi frequency, and the experimental results are in good agreement with theoretical predictions. We demonstrate the ability to manipulate the position of a single atom relative to the cavity mode with excellent control and reproducibility.

id: quant-ph/0703157
title: Cavity cooling of internal molecular motion
authors: Giovanna Morigi, Pepijn W.H. Pinkse, Markus Kowalewski, Regina de Vivie-Riedle
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. To appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 073001 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703157
abstract: We predict that it is possible to cool rotational, vibrational and translational degrees of freedom of molecules by coupling a molecular dipole transition to an optical cavity. The dynamics is numerically simulated for a realistic set of experimental parameters using OH molecules. The results show that the translational motion is cooled to few $\mu$K and the internal state is prepared in one of the two ground states of the two decoupled rotational ladders in few seconds. Shorter cooling times are expected for molecules with larger polarizability.

id: quant-ph/0703158
title: Fidelity criterion for quantum-domain transmission and storage of coherent states beyond unit-gain constraint
authors: Ryo Namiki, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 4pages, No figures, Accepted for publication in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 100502 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703158
abstract: We generalize the experimental success criterion for quantum teleportation/memory in continuous-variable quantum systems to be suitable for non-unit-gain condition by considering attenuation/amplification of the coherent-state amplitude. The new criterion can be used for a non-ideal quantum memory and long distance quantum communication as well as quantum devices with amplification process. It is also shown that the framework to measure the average fidelity is capable of detecting all Gaussian channels in quantum domain.

id: quant-ph/0703159
title: Single qubit quantum secret sharing with improved security
authors: Guang Ping He, Z. D. Wang
comments: Published version
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. 10, 28 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703159
abstract: Analyzing carefully an experimentally feasible non-entangled single qubit quantum secret sharing protocol and its modified version [Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 230505 (2005); ibid. 98, 028902 (2007)], it is found that both versions are insecure against coherent attacks though the original idea is so remarkable. To overcome this fatal flaw, here we propose a protocol with a distinct security checking strategy, which still involves single qubit operations only, making it possible to achieve better security of quantum secret sharing with current technology.

id: quant-ph/0703160
title: Quantum origin of quantum jumps: Breaking of unitary symmetry induced by information transfer and the transition from quantum to classical
authors: Wojciech Hubert Zurek
comments: For comments see Seth Lloyd, NATURE 450, 1167 (2007)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052110 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703160
abstract: Measurements transfer information about a system to the apparatus, and then further on -- to observers and (often inadvertently) to the environment. I show that even imperfect copying essential in such situations restricts possible unperturbed outcomes to an orthogonal subset of all possible states of the system, thus breaking the unitary symmetry of its Hilbert space implied by the quantum superposition principle. Preferred outcome states emerge as a result. They provide framework for the ``wavepacket collapse'', designating terminal points of quantum jumps, and defining the measured observable by specifying its eigenstates. In quantum Darwinism, they are the progenitors of multiple copies spread throughout the environment -- the fittest quantum states that not only survive decoherence, but subvert it into carrying information about them -- into becoming a witness.

id: quant-ph/0703161
title: Aspects of nonlocality from a quantum trajectory perspective: A WKB approach to Bohmian mechanics
authors: A. S. Sanz, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 11 pages (very slightly revised), 1 figure
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 445, 350 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703161
abstract: Nonlocality is a property of paramount importance both conceptually and computationally exhibited by quantum systems, which has no classical counterpart. Conceptually, it is important because it implies that the evolving system has information on what happens at any space point and time. Computationally, because such a knowledge makes any calculation intractable as the number of degrees of freedom involved increases beyond a few of them. Bohmian mechanics, with its trajectory-based formalism in real configuration space, can help to better understand nonlocality. A detailed analysis of how nonlocal information is transmitted to quantum trajectories in simple systems (free particle and harmonic oscillator) turns out to be very interesting when compared to analogous systems in classical mechanics.

id: quant-ph/0703162
title: Time Asymmetry in Quantum Physics - I. Theoretical Conclusion from Resonance and Decay-Phenomenology
authors: A. Bohm, H. Kaldass, S. Komy
comments: LaTeX file, 19 pages, no figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703162
abstract: It is explained how the unification of resonance and decay phenomena into a consistent mathematical theory leads to quantum mechanical time-asymmetry. This provides the theoretical basis for a subsequent paper II in which the interpretation and experimental demonstration of this time-asymmetry is discussed.

id: quant-ph/0703163
title: Time Asymmetry in Quantum Physics - II. Experimental Demonstration Using a Single Ion
authors: A. Bohm, H. Kaldass, S. Komy, W.P. Schleich
comments: pdfLaTeX with 1 latex-fig and 2 fig files in pdf; total 3 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703163
abstract: Quantum physics involves an ensemble of quantum systems, usually one thinks of a large ensemble of identical quantum systems at one single time. In single ion experiments one has a single quantum system at an ensemble of different times. This provides the means of demonstrating the beginning of time of a semigroup evolution for a decaying state.

id: quant-ph/0703164
title: Deformed quantum harmonic oscillator with diffusion and dissipation
authors: A. Isar, W. Scheid
comments: 14 pages
journal: Physica A 310, 364 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703164
abstract: A master equation for the deformed quantum harmonic oscillator interacting with a dissipative environment, in particular with a thermal bath, is derived in the microscopic model by using perturbation theory. The coefficients of the master equation and of equations of motion for observables depend on the deformation function. The steady state solution of the equation for the density matrix in the number representation is obtained and the equilibrium energy of the deformed harmonic oscillator is calculated in the approximation of small deformation.

id: quant-ph/0703165
title: Lindblad master equation for the damped harmonic oscillator with deformed dissipation
authors: A. Isar, A. Sandulescu, W. Scheid
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physica A 322, 233 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703165
abstract: In the framework of the Lindblad theory for open quantum systems, a master equation for the quantum harmonic oscillator interacting with a dissipative environment, in particular with a thermal bath, is derived for the case when the interaction is based on deformed algebra. The equations of motion for observables strongly depend on the deformation function. The expectation values of the number operator and squared number operator are calculated in the limit of a small deformation parameter for the case of zero temperature of the thermal bath. The steady state solution of the equation for the density matrix in the number representation is obtained and its independence of the deformation is shown.

id: quant-ph/0703166
title: Deformation of quantum oscillator and of its interaction with environment
authors: A. Isar, W. Scheid
comments: 15 pages
journal: Physica A 335, 79 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703166
abstract: A master equation for the deformed quantum harmonic oscillator interacting with a dissipative environment, in particular with a thermal bath, is derived in the microscopic model by using perturbation theory, for the case when the interaction is deformed. The coefficients of the master equation and of equations of motion for observables depend on the deformation function. The steady state solution of the equation for the density matrix in the number representation is obtained and shown that it satisfies the detailed balance condition. The equilibrium energy of the deformed harmonic oscillator, calculated in the approximation of small deformation, does not depend on the deformation of interaction operators.

id: quant-ph/0703167
title: A Continuously Observed Two-level System Interacting with a Vacuum Field
authors: R.Kullock, N.F.Svaiter
comments: 25 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703167
abstract: A discussion of the quantum Zeno effect and paradox is given. The quantum Zeno paradox claims that a continuously observed system, prepared in a state which is not an eigenstate of the Hamiltonian operator, never decays. To recover the classical behavior of unstable systems we consider a two-level system interacting with a Bose field, respectively prepared in the excited state and in the Poincare invariant vacuum state. Using time-dependent perturbation theory, we evaluate for a finite time interval the probability of spontaneous decay of the two-level system. Using the standard argument to obtain the quantum Zeno paradox, we consider N measurements where N goes to infinity and we obtain that the non-decay probability law is a pure exponential, therefore recovering the classical behavior.

id: quant-ph/0703168
title: Determination of the domain of the admissible matrix elements in the four-dimensional PT-symmetric anharmonic model
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 367 (2007) 300-306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703168
abstract: Many manifestly non-Hermitian Hamiltonians (typically, PT-symmetric complex anharmonic oscillators) possess a strictly real, "physical" bound-state spectrum. This means that they are (quasi-)Hermitian with respect to a suitable non-standard metric. The domain D of the existence of this metric is studied here for a nontrivial though still non-numerical four-parametric "benchmark" matrix model.

id: quant-ph/0703169
title: Periodically driven Quantum Ratchets: Symmetries and Resonances
authors: S. Denisov, L. Morales-Molina, S. Flach, P. Hanggi
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 75 (2007) 063424
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703169
abstract: We study the quantum version of a tilting and flashing Hamiltonian ratchets, consisting of a periodic potential and a time-periodic driving field. The system dynamics is governed by a Floquet evolution matrix bearing the symmetry of the corresponding Hamiltonian. The dc-current appears due to the desymmetrization of Floquet eigenstates, which become transporting when all the relevant symmetries are violated. Those eigenstates which mostly contribute to a directed transport reside in phase space regions corresponding to classical resonances. Quantum dynamics leads to the dependence of the average velocity on the initial phase of the ac-field. A resonant enhancement (or suppression) of the dc-current, due to avoided crossings between different Floquet states takes place upon tuning some control parameters. Our studies are predominantly aimed at experimental realizations of ac-driven quantum ratchets with cold atoms.

id: quant-ph/0703170
title: The frictional Schr?dinger-Newton equation in models of wave function collapse
authors: Lajos Di¨®si
comments: 6pp LaTeX for J.Phys.Conf.Ser.+2 figs. Talk given at the Int. Workshop DICE2006 "Quantum Mechanics between Decoherence and Determinism: new aspects from particle physics to cosmology" Piombino, Sept 11-15, 2006
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser. 67 (2007) 012024-(6)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703170
abstract: Replacing the Newtonian coupling G by -iG, the Schrodinger-Newton equation becomes ``frictional''. Instead of the reversible Schrodinger-Newton equation, we advocate its frictional version to generate the set of pointer states for macroscopic quantum bodies.

id: quant-ph/0703171
title: Erasable and unerasable correlations
authors: G. M. D'Ariano, R. Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, P. Perinotti, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 070501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703171
abstract: We address the problem of removing correlation from sets of states while preserving as much local quantum information as possible. We prove that states obtained from universal cloning can only be decorrelated at the expense of complete erasure of local information (i.e. information about the copied state). We solve analytically the problem of decorrelation for two qubits and two qumodes (harmonic oscillators in Gaussian states), and provide sets of decorrelable states and the minimum amount of noise to be added for decorrelation.

id: quant-ph/0703172
title: On the quantization of nonlocal theory
authors: K. Bolonek, P.Kosinski
comments: 9 pages, no figures; Introduction, Sec.III anf Final Remarks added; references updated;
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703172
abstract: A simple nonlocal theory is put into Hamiltonian form and quantized by using the modern version of Ostrogradski approach.

id: quant-ph/0703173
title: Ultraslow propagation of matched pulses by four-wave mixing in an atomic vapor
authors: V. Boyer, C. F. McCormick, E. Arimondo, P. D. Lett
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703173
abstract: We have observed the ultraslow propagation of matched pulses in nondegenerate four-wave mixing in a hot atomic vapor. Probe pulses as short as 70 ns can be delayed by a tunable time of up to 40 ns with little broadening or distortion. During the propagation, a probe pulse is amplified and generates a conjugate pulse which is faster and separates from the probe pulse before getting locked to it at a fixed delay. The precise timing of this process allows us to determine the key coefficients of the susceptibility tensor. The presence of gain in this system makes this system very interesting in the context of all-optical information processing.

id: quant-ph/0703174
title: Analytical and Numerical Verification of the Nernst Theorem for Metals
authors: Johan S. H?ye, Iver Brevik, Simen A. Ellingsen, Jan B. Aarseth
comments: 19 pages latex, 3 figures. v4: Figures updated. This is the final version, accepted for publication in Physical Review E
journal: Phys.Rev.E75:051127,2007; Phys.Rev.E77:023102,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703174
abstract: In view of the current discussion on the subject, an effort is made to show very accurately both analytically and numerically how the Drude dispersion model gives consistent results for the Casimir free energy at low temperatures. Specifically, for the free energy near T=0 we find the leading term to be proportional to T^2 and the next-to-leading term proportional to T^{5/2}. These terms give rise to zero Casimir entropy as T approaches zero, and is thus in accordance with Nernst's theorem.

id: quant-ph/0703175
title: Quantum states transfer by the analogous Bell states
authors: Di Mei, Chong Li, Guo-Hui Yang, He-Shan Song
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703175
abstract: Transmitting quantum states by channels of analogous Bell states is studied in this paper. We analyse the transmitting process, constructed the probabilitic unitary operator, and gain the largest successful transfer quantum state probability.

id: quant-ph/0703176
title: A single photon produces general W state of N qubits and its application
authors: Di Mei, Chong Li, He-Shan Song
comments: 
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. V48, pp. 75-78, (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703176
abstract: Based on the Wu's scheme[1], We prepare the general N-qubit W state. We find that the concurrence of two qubits in general N-qubit W state is only related to their coefficients and we successfully apply the general N-qubit W state to quantum state transfer and quantum state prepare like that in two-qubit system.

id: quant-ph/0703177
title: Transport and Entanglement Generation in the Bose-Hubbard Model
authors: O. Romero-Isart, K. Eckert, C. Rod¨®, A. Sanpera
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 8019-8031
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703177
abstract: We study entanglement generation via particle transport across a one-dimensional system described by the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian. We analyze how the competition between interactions and tunneling affects transport properties and the creation of entanglement in the occupation number basis. Alternatively, we propose to use spatially delocalized quantum bits, where a quantum bit is defined by the presence of a particle either in a site or in the adjacent one. Our results can serve as a guidance for future experiments to characterize entanglement of ultracold gases in one-dimensional optical lattices.

id: quant-ph/0703178
title: Quantum phases of interacting phonons in ion traps
authors: X.-L. Deng, D. Porras, J.I. Cirac
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 033403 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703178
abstract: The vibrations of a chain of trapped ions can be considered, under suitable experimental conditions, as an ensemble of interacting phonons, whose quantum dynamics is governed by a Bose--Hubbard Hamiltonian. In this work we study the quantum phases which appear in this system, and show that thermodynamical properties, such as critical parameters and critical exponents, can be measured in experiments with a limited number of ions. Besides that, interacting phonons in trapped ions offer us the possibility to access regimes which are difficult to study with ultracold bosons in optical lattices, like models with attractive or site--dependent phonon-phonon interactions.

id: quant-ph/0703179
title: Disproof of Bell's Theorem by Clifford Algebra Valued Local Variables
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 4 pages; RevTeX4; Further elaborations may be found in arXiv:0904.4259, arXiv:0806.3078, arXiv:0707.1333, and arXiv:quant-ph/0703244
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703179
abstract: It is shown that Bell's theorem fails for the Clifford algebra valued local realistic variables. This is made evident by exactly reproducing quantum mechanical expectation value for the EPR-Bohm type spin correlations observable by means of a local, deterministic, Clifford algebra valued variable, without necessitating either remote contextuality or backward causation. Since Clifford product of multivector variables is non-commutative in general, the spin correlations derived within our locally causal model violate the CHSH inequality just as strongly as their quantum mechanical counterparts.

id: quant-ph/0703180
title: Update for "The collapse of Bell determinism"
authors: James D. Malley
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703180
abstract: We update our paper: The collapse of Bell determinism (Physics Letters A, 359 (2006): 122-125; available online 16 June 2006). First, we point out that Olivier Brunet, using lattice theoretic methods, has recently, and quite independently, derived the core technical lemma of our paper; see: A priori knowledge and the Kochen-Specker theorem (Physics Letters A, available online 5 January 2007). He has also kindly pointed out a misstep in the last line of one of our results. We discuss the correction and comment on slightly revised notions of how Bell determinism collapses. We also correct a few typos in the original paper.

id: quant-ph/0703181
title: Quantum Block and Convolutional Codes from Self-orthogonal Product Codes
authors: Markus Grassl, Martin Roetteler
comments: 5 pages, paper presented at the 2005 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory
journal: Proceedings 2005 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2005), Adelaide, Australia, September 2005, pp. 1018-1022
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703181
abstract: We present a construction of self-orthogonal codes using product codes. From the resulting codes, one can construct both block quantum error-correcting codes and quantum convolutional codes. We show that from the examples of convolutional codes found, we can derive ordinary quantum error-correcting codes using tail-biting with parameters [[42N,24N,3]]_2. While it is known that the product construction cannot improve the rate in the classical case, we show that this can happen for quantum codes: we show that a code [[15,7,3]]_2 is obtained by the product of a code [[5,1,3]]_2 with a suitable code.

id: quant-ph/0703182
title: Constructions of Quantum Convolutional Codes
authors: Markus Grassl, Martin Roetteler
comments: 5 pages, to appear in the Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory
journal: Proceedings 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2007), Nice, France, June 2007, pp. 816-820
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703182
abstract: We address the problems of constructing quantum convolutional codes (QCCs) and of encoding them. The first construction is a CSS-type construction which allows us to find QCCs of rate 2/4. The second construction yields a quantum convolutional code by applying a product code construction to an arbitrary classical convolutional code and an arbitrary quantum block code. We show that the resulting codes have highly structured and efficient encoders. Furthermore, we show that the resulting quantum circuits have finite depth, independent of the lengths of the input stream, and show that this depth is polynomial in the degree and frame size of the code.

id: quant-ph/0703183
title: Distinguishability of apparatus states in quantum measurement in the Stern-Gerlach experiment
authors: Dipankar Home, Alok Kumar Pan, Md. Manirul Ali, A. S. Majumdar
comments: 8 pages, Revtex, 7 eps figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, 13975 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703183
abstract: In the context of the quantum mechanical modelling of a measurement process using the Stern-Gerlach setup, we critically examine the relationship between the notion of `distinguishability' of apparatus states defined in terms of the inner product and spatial separation among the emerging wave packets. We show that, in general, the mutual orthogonality of these wave packets does not necessarily imply their unambiguous spatial separation even in the asymptotic limit. A testable scheme is formulated to quantify such departures from `idealness' for a range of relevant parameters.

id: quant-ph/0703184
title: Suppression of Bragg scattering by collective interference of spatially ordered atoms with a high-Q cavity mode
authors: Stefano Zippilli, Giovanna Morigi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 123002 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703184
abstract: When N driven atoms emit in phase into a high-Q cavity mode, the intracavity field generated by collective scattering interferes destructively with the pump driving the atoms. Hence atomic fluorescence is suppressed and cavity loss becomes the dominant decay channel for the whole ensemble. Microscopically 3D light-intensity minima are formed in the vicinity of the atoms that prevent atomic excitation and form a regular lattice. The effect gets more pronounced for large atom numbers, when the sum of the atomic decay rates exceeds the rate of cavity losses and one would expect the opposite behaviour. These results provide new insight into recent experiments on collective atomic dynamics in cavities.

id: quant-ph/0703185
title: Addressing individual atoms in optical lattices with standing-wave driving fields
authors: Jaeyoon Cho
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 020502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703185
abstract: A scheme for addressing individual atoms in one- or two-dimensional optical lattices loaded with one atom per site is proposed. The scheme is based on position-dependent atomic population transfer induced by several standing-wave driving fields. This allows various operations important in quantum information processing, such as manipulation and measurement of any single atom, two-qubit operations between any pair of adjacent atoms, and patterned loading of the lattice with one atom per every nth site for arbitrary n. The proposed scheme is robust against considerable imperfections and actually within reach of current technology.

id: quant-ph/0703186
title: Atom-wall dispersive forces from master equation formalism
authors: T.N.C. Mendes, C. Farina
comments: 19 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703186
abstract: Using the general expressions for level shifts obtained from the master equation for a small system interacting with a large one considered as a reservoir, we calculate the dispersive potentials between an atom and a wall in the dipole approximation. We analyze in detail the particular case of a two-level atom in the presence of a perfectly conducting wall. We study the van der Waals as well as the resonant interactions. All distance regimes as well as the high and low temperature regimes are considered. We show that the Casimir-Polder interaction can not be considered as a direct result of the vacuum fluctuations only. Concerning the interaction between the atom and the wall at high temperature, which show that a saturation of the potential for all distances occurs. This saturated potential coincides exactly with that obtained in the London-van der Waals limit.

id: quant-ph/0703187
title: The conservation of orbital angular momentum and the two-photon detection amplitude in spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Sheng Feng, Chao-Hsiang Chen, Geraldo A. Barbosa, Prem Kumar
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703187
abstract: We study the two-photon detection amplitude of the down-converted beams in spontaneous parametric down-conversion when the physical variable of orbital angular momentum is involved, taking into account both conservation and non-conservation of angular momentum. Agreeing with experimental observations, our theoretical calculation shows that spatial structure of the two-photon detection amplitude of the down-converted beams carries important information about conservation or non-conservation of orbital angular momentum in spontaneous parametric down-conversion.

id: quant-ph/0703188
title: Synchronized Independent Narrow-band Single Photons and Efficient Generation of Photonic Entanglement
authors: Zhen-Sheng Yuan, Yu-Ao Chen, Shuai Chen, Bo Zhao, Markus Koch, Thorsten Strassel, Yong Zhao, Gan-Jun Zhu, J?rg Schmiedmayer, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 180503 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703188
abstract: We create independent, synchronized single-photon sources with built-in quantum memory based on two remote cold atomic ensembles. The synchronized single photons are used to demonstrate efficient generation of entanglement. The resulting entangled photon pairs violate a Bell's Inequality by 5 standard deviations. Our synchronized single photons with their long coherence time of 25 ns and the efficient creation of entanglement serve as an ideal building block for scalable linear optical quantum information processing.

id: quant-ph/0703189
title: Quantum synapse for cold atoms
authors: G.A. Kouzaev, K.J. Sand
comments: 3 figures
journal: 5th Int. Conf. Physics, Technology and Applications of Wave processes, Samara, Russia,Sept. 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703189
abstract: In this paper, the quantum synaptic effect is studied that arisen in the system of two crossed wires excited by the static (DC) and radio-frequency (RF) currents. The potential barrier between the two orthogonal atom streams is controlled electronically and the atoms can be transferred from one wire to another under certain critical values of the RF and DC currents. The results are interesting in the study of quantum interferometry and quantum registering of cold atoms.

id: quant-ph/0703190
title: Decoherence of an $n$-qubit quantum memory
authors: Thomas Gorin, Carlos Pineda, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 240405 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703190
abstract: We analyze decoherence of a quantum register in the absence of non-local operations i.e. of $n$ non-interacting qubits coupled to an environment. The problem is solved in terms of a sum rule which implies linear scaling in the number of qubits. Each term involves a single qubit and its entanglement with the remaining ones. Two conditions are essential: first decoherence must be small and second the coupling of different qubits must be uncorrelated in the interaction picture. We apply the result to a random matrix model, and illustrate its reach considering a GHZ state coupled to a spin bath.

id: quant-ph/0703191
title: Realization and characterization of a 2-photon 4-qubit linear cluster state
authors: Giuseppe Vallone, Enrico Pomarico, Paolo Mataloni, Francesco De Martini, Vincenzo Berardi
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 180502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703191
abstract: We report on the experimental realization of a 4-qubit linear cluster state via two photons entangled both in polarization and linear momentum. This state was investigated by performing tomographic measurements and by evaluating an entanglement witness. By use of this state we carried out a novel nonlocality proof, the so-called ``stronger two observer all versus nothing'' test of quantum nonlocality.

id: quant-ph/0703192
title: On EPR paradox, Bell's inequalities and experiments which prove nothing
authors: V. K. Ignatovich
comments: 27 pages, 8 figures. I edited a little the text and abstract I corrected equations (49) and (50)
journal: Concepts of Physics, the old and new, v. 5, No 2, pp. 227-272, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703192
abstract: This article shows that the there is no paradox. Violation of Bell's inequalities should not be identified with a proof of non locality in quantum mechanics. A number of past experiments is reviewed, and it is concluded that the experimental results should be re-evaluated. The results of the experiments with atomic cascade are shown not to contradict the local realism. The article points out flaws in the experiments with down-converted photons. The experiments with neutron interferometer on measuring the "contextuality" and Bell-like inequalities are analyzed, and it is shown that the experimental results can be explained without such notions. Alternative experiment is proposed to prove the validity of local realism.

id: quant-ph/0703193
title: Effects of imperfect noise correlations on decoherence-free subsystems: SU(2) diffusion model
authors: Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, Piotr Kolenderski, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, improved clarity, more discussion, many new references and the title changed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022302 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703193
abstract: We present a model of an N-qubit channel where consecutive qubits experience correlated random rotations. Our model is an extension to the standard decoherence-free subsystems approach (DFS) which assumes that all the qubits experience the same disturbance. The variation of rotations acting on consecutive qubits is modeled as diffusion on the SU(2) group. The model may be applied to spins traveling in a varying magnetic field, or to photons passing through a fiber whose birefringence fluctuates over the time separation between photons. We derive an explicit formula describing the action of the channel on an arbitrary N-qubit state. For N=3 we investigate the effects of diffusion on both classical and quantum capacity of the channel. We observe that nonorthogonal states are necessary to achieve the optimal classical capacity. Furthermore we find the threshold for the diffusion parameter above which coherent information of the channel vanishes.

id: quant-ph/0703194
title: Cooling algorithms based on the 3-bit majority
authors: Phillip Kaye
comments: 25 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703194
abstract: Algorithmic cooling is a potentially important technique for making scalable NMR quantum computation feasible in practice. Given the constraints imposed by this approach to quantum computing, the most likely cooling algorithms to be practicable are those based on simple reversible polarization compression (RPC) operations acting locally on small numbers of bits. Several different algorithms using 2- and 3-bit RPC operations have appeared in the literature, and these are the algorithms I consider in this note. Specifically, I show that the RPC operation used in all these algorithms is essentially a majority vote of 3 bits, and prove the optimality of the best such algorithm. I go on to derive some theoretical bounds on the performance of these algorithms under some specific assumptions about errors.

id: quant-ph/0703195
title: Efficient Quantum Algorithm for Hidden Quadratic and Cubic Polynomial Function Graphs
authors: Thomas Decker, Pawel Wocjan
comments: (v2) formulated the Hidden Polynomial Function Graph Problem for multivariate polynomials, added results on quantum query complexity, simplified POVM substantially, (v3) derived quantum algorithm for cubic case; 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703195
abstract: We introduce the Hidden Polynomial Function Graph Problem as a natural generalization of an abelian Hidden Subgroup Problem (HSP) where the subgroups and their cosets correspond to graphs of linear functions over the finite field F_p. For the Hidden Polynomial Function Graph Problem the functions are not restricted to be linear but can also be multivariate polynomial functions of higher degree. For a fixed number of indeterminates and bounded total degree the Hidden Polynomial Function Graph Problem is hard on a classical computer as its black box query complexity is polynomial in p. In contrast, this problem can be reduced to a quantum state identification problem so that the resulting quantum query complexity does not depend on p. For univariate polynomials we construct a von Neumann measurement for distinguishing the states. We relate the success probability and the implementation of this measurement to certain classical problems involving polynomial equations. We present an efficient algorithm for hidden quadratic and cubic function graphs by establishing that the success probability of the measurement is lower bounded by a constant and that it can be implemented efficiently.

id: quant-ph/0703196
title: Topological-Like Features in Diagrammatical Quantum Circuits
authors: Yong Zhang, Louis H. Kauffman
comments: v1: Latex. v2,v3: original proposals in v1 are stated in a physical style. This manuscript is a formal written version of Y. Zhang's talk at the workshop "Cats, Kets and Cloisters", Computing Laboratory, Oxford University, July 17-23, 2006
journal: Quant.Inf.Proc.7:3-32,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703196
abstract: In this paper, we revisit topological-like features in the extended Temperley--Lieb diagrammatical representation for quantum circuits including the teleportation, dense coding and entanglement swapping. We perform these quantum circuits and derive characteristic equations for them with the help of topological-like operations. Furthermore, we comment on known diagrammatical approaches to quantum information phenomena from the perspectives of both tensor categories and topological quantum field theories. Moreover, we remark on the proposal for categorical quantum physics and information to be described by dagger ribbon categories.

id: quant-ph/0703197
title: Generalized Quantum Telecloning
authors: Goren Gordon, Gustavo Rigolin
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, RevTex4; v2: published version, 8 pages, 4 figures, RevTex4, to appear at Eur. Phys. J. D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 45, 347 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703197
abstract: We present a generalized telecloning (GTC) protocol where the quantum channel is non-optimally entangled and we study how the fidelity of the telecloned states depends on the entanglement of the channel. We show that one can increase the fidelity of the telecloned states, achieving the optimal value in some situations, by properly choosing the measurement basis at Alice's, albeit turning the protocol to a probabilistic one. We also show how one can convert the GTC protocol to the teleportation protocol via proper unitary operations.

id: quant-ph/0703198
title: Low-Threshold Surface-Passivated Photonic Crystal Nanocavity Laser
authors: Dirk Englund, Hatice Altug, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703198
abstract: The efficiency and operating range of a photonic crystal laser is improved by passivating the InGaAs quantum well (QW) gain medium and GaAs membrane using an (NH4)S treatment. The passivated laser shows a four-fold reduction in nonradiative surface recombination rate, resulting in a four-fold reduction in lasing threshold. A three-level carrier dynamics model explains the results and shows that lasing threshold is as much determined by surface recombination losses as by the cavity quality factor (Q). Surface passivation therefore appears crucial in operating such lasers under practical conditions.

id: quant-ph/0703199
title: Bose-Einstein condensate coupled to a nanomechanical resonator on an atom chip
authors: Philipp Treutlein, David Hunger, Stephan Camerer, Theodor W. H?nsch, Jakob Reichel
comments: published version (5 pages, 3 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 140403 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703199
abstract: We theoretically study the coupling of Bose-Einstein condensed atoms to the mechanical oscillations of a nanoscale cantilever with a magnetic tip. This is an experimentally viable hybrid quantum system which allows one to explore the interface of quantum optics and condensed matter physics. We propose an experiment where easily detectable atomic spin-flips are induced by the cantilever motion. This can be used to probe thermal oscillations of the cantilever with the atoms. At low cantilever temperatures, as realized in recent experiments, the backaction of the atoms onto the cantilever is significant and the system represents a mechanical analog of cavity quantum electrodynamics. With high but realistic cantilever quality factors, the strong coupling regime can be reached, either with single atoms or collectively with Bose-Einstein condensates. We discuss an implementation on an atom chip.

id: quant-ph/0703200
title: An analytical relation between entropy production and quantum Lyapunov exponents for Gaussian bipartite systems
authors: K. M. Fonseca Romero, J. E. Parreira, L. A. M. Souza, M. C. Nemes, W. F. Wreszinski
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 115303 (9pp) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703200
abstract: We study and compare the information loss of a large class of Gaussian bipartite systems. It includes the usual Caldeira-Leggett type model as well as Anosov models (parametric oscillators, the inverted oscillator environment, etc), which exhibit instability, one of the most important characteristics of chaotic systems. We establish a rigorous connection between the quantum Lyapunov exponents and coherence loss, and show that in the case of unstable environments coherence loss is completely determined by the upper quantum Lyapunov exponent, a behavior which is more universal than that of the Caldeira-Leggett type model.

id: quant-ph/0703201
title: Covariant path integral formalism of relativistic quantum mechanics along proper time
authors: H. Y. Geng
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703201
abstract: A space-time symmetric and explicitly Lorentz covariant path integral formalism of relativistic quantum mechanics is proposed, which produces partial locally correlations of quantum processes of massive particles with the velocity of light at low energy limits. A superluminal correlation is also possible if anti-particles that moving along reverse time direction are excited. This provides a new point of view to interpret EPR experiments, also leaks a light of hope for hidden variable theories.

id: quant-ph/0703202
title: Qubit Teleportation and Transfer across Antiferromagnetic Spin Chains
authors: L. Campos Venuti, C. Degli Esposti Boschi, M. Roncaglia
comments: 5 pages, 4 .eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 060401 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703202
abstract: We explore the capability of spin-1/2 chains to act as quantum channels for both teleportation and transfer of qubits. Exploiting the emergence of long-distance entanglement in low-dimensional systems [Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 247206 (2006)], here we show how to obtain high communication fidelities between distant parties. An investigation of protocols of teleportation and state transfer is presented, in the realistic situation where temperature is included. Basing our setup on antiferromagnetic rotationally invariant systems, both protocols are represented by pure depolarizing channels. We propose a scheme where channel fidelity close to one can be achieved on very long chains at moderately small temperature.

id: quant-ph/0703203
title: Generalized spectroscopy; coherence, superposition, and loss
authors: Johan Aberg, Daniel K. L. Oi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703203
abstract: We analyze single particle coherence and interference in the presence of particle loss and derive an inequality that relates the preservation of coherence, the creation of superposition with the vacuum, and the degree of particle loss. We find that loss channels constructed using linear optics form a special subclass. We suggests a generalized spectroscopy where, in analogy with the absorption spectrum, we measure a "coherence loss spectrum" and a "superposition creation spectrum". The theory is illustrated with examples.

id: quant-ph/0703204
title: von Neumann-Landau equation for wave functions, wave-particle duality and collapses of wave functions
authors: Zeqian Chen
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703204
abstract: It is shown that von Neumann-Landau equation for wave functions can present a mathematical formalism of motion of quantum mechanics. The wave functions of von Neumann-Landau equation for a single particle are `bipartite', in which the associated Schr\"{o}dinger's wave functions correspond to those `bipartite' wave functions of product forms. This formalism establishes a mathematical expression of wave-particle duality and that von Neumann's entropy is a quantitative measure of complementarity between wave-like and particle-like behaviors. Furthermore, this extension of Schr\"{o}dinger's form suggests that collapses of Schr\"{o}dinger's wave functions can be regarded as the simultaneous transition of the particle from many levels to one.

id: quant-ph/0703205
title: The effect of atmospheric turbulence on entangled orbital angular momentum states
authors: C. Gopaul, R. Andrews
comments: To appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703205
abstract: We analyze the effect of atmospheric Kolmogorov turbulence on entangled orbital angular momentum states generated by parametric down-conversion. We calculate joint and signal photon detection probabilities and obtain numerically their dependence on the mode-width-to-Fried-parameter ratio. We demonstrate that entangled photons are less robust to the effects of Kolmogorov turbulence compared to single photons. In contrast, signal photons are more robust than single photons in the lowest-order mode. We also obtain numerically a scaling relation between the value of the mode-width-to-Fried-parameter ratio for which the joint detection probabilities is a maximum and the momentum mismatch between signal and idler photons after propagation through the medium.

id: quant-ph/0703206
title: A local hidden variables model for the measured EPR-type flavour entanglement in upsilon(4S)->B0B0bar decays
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703206
abstract: A local hidden variables model is exhibited which gives predictions in agreement with the quantum ones for the recent experiment by Go et al. quant-ph/0702267

id: quant-ph/0703207
title: Spin chains with electrons in Penning traps
authors: G. Ciaramicoli, I. Marzoli, P. Tombesi
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure, accepted for publication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703207
abstract: We demonstrate that spin chains are experimentally feasible using electrons confined in micro-Penning traps, supplemented with local magnetic field gradients. The resulting Heisenberg-like system is characterized by coupling strengths showing a dipolar decay. These spin chains can be used as a channel for short distance quantum communication. Our scheme offers high accuracy in reproducing an effective spin chain with relatively large transmission rate.

id: quant-ph/0703208
title: Controlled-NOT gate design for Josephson phase qubits with tunable inductive coupling: Weyl chamber steering and area theorem
authors: Andrei Galiautdinov, Michael Geller
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703208
abstract: Superconducting qubits with tunable coupling are ideally suited for fast and accurate implementation of quantum logic. Here we present a simple approach, based on Weyl chamber steering, to CNOT gate design for inductively coupled phase qubits with tunable coupling strength g. In the presence of simultaneous rf pulses on the individual qubits that appropriately track the coupling strength as it is varied, we show that an infinite family of switching sequences preserving the time integral or "area" of g can be used to generate CNOT logic. We demonstrate our approach by considering time-dependencies most likely to be used in actual implementations: trapezoidal, sine, and soft quartic (also known as Landau's hat).

id: quant-ph/0703209
title: Bounds on Information Propagation in Disordered Quantum Spin Chains
authors: Christian K. Burrell, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 4 pages, pdflatex, 1 pdf figure. Corrected the bound for the localised propagator and quantified the probability it bound occurs
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 167201 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703209
abstract: We investigate the propagation of information through the disordered XY model. We find, with a probability that increases with the size of the system, that all correlations, both classical and quantum, are suppressed outside of an effective lightcone whose radius grows at most polylogarithmically with |t|.

id: quant-ph/0703210
title: A most compendious and facile quantum de Finetti theorem
authors: Robert Koenig, Graeme Mitchison
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 012105 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703210
abstract: In its most basic form, the finite quantum de Finetti theorem states that the reduced k-partite density operator of an n-partite symmetric state can be approximated by a convex combination of k-fold product states. Variations of this result include Renner's "exponential" approximation by "almost-product" states, a theorem which deals with certain triples of representations of the unitary group, and D'Cruz et al.'s result for infinite-dimensional systems. We show how these theorems follow from a single, general de Finetti theorem for representations of symmetry groups, each instance corresponding to a particular choice of symmetry group and representation of that group. This gives some insight into the nature of the set of approximating states, and leads to some new results, including an exponential theorem for infinite-dimensional systems.

id: quant-ph/0703211
title: Linear Depth Stabilizer and Quantum Fourier Transformation Circuits with no Auxiliary Qubits in Finite Neighbor Quantum Architectures
authors: D. Maslov
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. Extended discussions, improved presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052310 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703211
abstract: In this paper, we investigate how quantum architectures affect the efficiency of the execution of the quantum Fourier transform (QFT) and linear transformations, which are essential parts of the stabilizer/Clifford group circuits. In particular, we show that in most common and realistic physical architectures including the linear nearest neighbor, two-dimensional lattice, and bounded degree graph (containing a chain of length n), n-qubit QFT and n-qubit stabilizer circuits can be parallelized to linear depth using no auxiliary qubits. We construct lower bounds that show the efficiency of our approach.

id: quant-ph/0703212
title: Is orbital angular momentum always conserved in spontaneous parametric down-conversion?
authors: Sheng Feng, Chao-Hsiang Chen, Geraldo A. Barbosa, Prem Kumar
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett. Revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703212
abstract: In the non-linear optical process of type-II spontaneous parametric down-conversion, we present on an experiment showing that the two-photon detection amplitude of the down-converted beams does not generally reproduce the transverse profile of the pump beam that carries non-zero orbital angular momentum. We explain this observation by that orbital angular momentum is not conserved in the type-II non-linear process due to the broken rotational symmetry of the Hamiltonian.

id: quant-ph/0703213
title: On Subsystem Codes Beating the Hamming or Singleton Bound
authors: Andreas Klappenecker, Pradeep Kiran Sarvepalli
comments: 18 pages more densely packed than classically possible
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703213
abstract: Subsystem codes are a generalization of noiseless subsystems, decoherence free subspaces, and quantum error-correcting codes. We prove a Singleton bound for GF(q)-linear subsystem codes. It follows that no subsystem code over a prime field can beat the Singleton bound. On the other hand, we show the remarkable fact that there exist impure subsystem codes beating the Hamming bound. A number of open problems concern the comparison in performance of stabilizer and subsystem codes. One of the open problems suggested by Poulin's work asks whether a subsystem code can use fewer syndrome measurements than an optimal MDS stabilizer code while encoding the same number of qudits and having the same distance. We prove that linear subsystem codes cannot offer such an improvement under complete decoding.

id: quant-ph/0703214
title: Comment on ``Analytical and numerical verification of the Nernst heat theorem for metals''
authors: G.L.Klimchitskaya, V.M.Mostepanenko
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.E77:023101,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703214
abstract: Recently, H{\o}ye, Brevik, Ellingsen and Aarseth (quant-ph/0703174) claimed that the use of the Drude dielectric function leads to zero Casimir entropy at zero temperature in accordance with Nernst's theorem. We demonstrate that their proof is not applicable to metals with perfect crystal lattices having no impurities. Thus there is no any contradiction with previous results in the literature proving that the Drude dielectric function violates the Nernst theorem for the Casimir entropy in the case of perfect crystal lattices. We also indicate mistakes in the coefficients of their asymptotic expressions for metals with impurities.

id: quant-ph/0703215
title: Classical Interaction Cannot Replace a Quantum Message
authors: Dmitry Gavinsky
comments: Corrected typos, improved readability
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703215
abstract: We demonstrate a two-player communication problem that can be solved in the one-way quantum model by a 0-error protocol of cost O (log n) but requires exponentially more communication in the classical interactive (bounded error) model.

id: quant-ph/0703216
title: Disentanglement and decoherence in two-spin and three-spin systems under dephasing
authors: Kevin Ann, Gregg Jaeger
comments: 17 pages
journal: Physical Review B 75, 115307 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703216
abstract: We compare disentanglement and decoherence rates within two-spin and three-spin entangled systems subjected to all possible combinations of local and collective pure dephasing noise combinations. In all cases, the bipartite entanglement decay rate is found to be greater than or equal to the dephasing-decoherence rates and often significantly greater. This sharpens previous results for two-spin systems [T. Yu and J. H. Eberly Phys. Rev. B 68, 165322 (2003)] and extends them to the three-spin context.

id: quant-ph/0703217
title: Semi-classical theory of quiet lasers. Short version
authors: Jacques Arnaud, Laurent Chusseau, Fabrice Philippe
comments: Submitted to European Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703217
abstract: This article is the shorten version of quant-phys/0610106 with a supplemented theory and new results concerning a single-electron laser driven by a constant-potentiel battery. "Quiet (or sub-Poissonian) oscillators generate a number of dissipation events whose variance is less than the mean. It was shown in 1984 by Golubev and Sokolov that lasers driven by regular pumps are quiet in that sense. We consider in the present paper two oscillators that should exhibit in principle the same property. First, a reflex klystron, a vacuum tube operating in the microwave range of frequency. Second a laser involving a single electron permanently interacting with the field. It is unnecessary to quantize the optical field, that is, the theory is semi-classical, yet exact. As an example, the battery-driven one-electron laser delivers a detected noise of 7/8 of the shot-noise level, and is therefore sub-Poissonian. Our calculations are related to resonance-fluorescence treatments but with a different physical interpretation. Previous theories considering excited-state atoms regularly-injected in low-loss resonators, on the other hand, do require light quantization. The theory presented here is restricted to above-threshold stationary single-mode oscillators. The paper is written in such a way that readers should be able to follow it without having to refer to quantum-optics texts."

id: quant-ph/0703218
title: Comment on: Disproof of Bell's Theorem by Clifford Algebra Valued Local Variables
authors: Marcin Pawlowski
comments: 1 page, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703218
abstract: We ''save'' Bell's Theorem by showing a flaw in Christian's argument.

id: quant-ph/0703219
title: Strongly Correlated Polaritons in a Two-Dimensional Array of Photonic Crystal Microcavities
authors: Y.C. Neil Na, Shoko Utsunomiya, Lin Tian, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 031803(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703219
abstract: We propose a practical scheme to observe the polaritonic quantum phase transition (QPT) from the superfluid (SF) to Bose-glass (BG) to Mott-insulator (MI) states. The system consists of a two-dimensional array of photonic crystal microcavities doped with substitutional donor/acceptor impurities. Using realistic parameters, we show that such strongly correlated polaritonic systems can be constructed using the state-of-art semiconductor technology.

id: quant-ph/0703220
title: Overcoming the su(2^n) sufficient condition for the coherent control of n-qubit systems
authors: R. Cabrera, C. Rangan, W. E. Baylis
comments: 13 pp., 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703220
abstract: We study quantum systems with even numbers N of levels that are completely state-controlled by unitary transformations generated by Lie algebras isomorphic to sp(N) of dimension N(N+1)/2. These Lie algebras are smaller than the respective su(N) with dimension N^2-1. We show that this reduction constrains the Hamiltonian to have symmetric energy levels. An example of such a system is an n-qubit system. Using a geometric representation for the quantum wave function of a finite system, we present an explicit example that shows a two-qubit system can be controlled by the elements of the Lie algebra sp(4) (isomorphic to spin(5) and so(5)) with dimension ten rather than su(4) with dimension fifteen. These results enable one to envision more efficient algorithms for the design of fields for quantum-state engineering, and they provide more insight into the fundamental structure of quantum control.

id: quant-ph/0703221
title: Microscopic physics of quantum self-organisation of optical lattices in cavities
authors: Andr¨¢s Vukics, Christoph Maschler, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 14 pages 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 255
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703221
abstract: We study quantum particles at zero temperature in an optical lattice coupled to a resonant cavity mode. The cavity field substantially modifies the particle dynamics in the lattice, and for strong particle-field coupling leads to a quantum phase with only every second site occupied. We study the growth of this new order out of a homogeneous initial distribution for few particles as the microscopic physics underlying a quantum phase transition. Simulations reveal that the growth dynamics crucially depends on the initial quantum many-body state of the particles and can be monitored via the cavity fluorescence. Studying the relaxation time of the ordering reveals inhibited tunnelling, which indicates that the effective mass of the particles is increased by the interaction with the cavity field. However, the relaxation becomes very quick for large coupling.

id: quant-ph/0703222
title: Quantum mechanics, Bayes' theorem and the conjunction fallacy
authors: R. Franco
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703222
abstract: In the present article we consider the conjunction fallacy, a well known cognitive heuristic experimentally tested in cognitive science, which occurs for intuitive judgments in situations of bounded rationality. We show that the quantum formalism can be used to describe in a very simple way this fallacy in terms of interference effect. We evidence that the quantum formalism leads quite naturally to violations of Bayes' rule when considering the probability of the conjunction of two events. Thus we suggest that in cognitive science the formalism of quantum mechanics can be used to describe a \textit{quantum regime}, the bounded-rationality regime, where the cognitive heuristics are valid.

id: quant-ph/0703223
title: Quantum algorithm for the hidden subgroup problem on a class of semidirect product groups
authors: Carlos Magno M. Cosme, Renato Portugal
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703223
abstract: We present efficient quantum algorithms for the hidden subgroup problem (HSP) on the semidirect product of cyclic groups $\Z_{p^r}\rtimes_{\phi}\Z_{p^2}$, where $p$ is any odd prime number and $r$ is any integer such that $r>4$. We also address the HSP in the group $\Z_{N}\rtimes_{\phi}\Z_{p^2}$, where $N$ is an integer with a special prime factorization. These quantum algorithms are exponentially faster than any classical algorithm for the same purpose.

id: quant-ph/0703224
title: Cascade atom in high-Q cavity: The spectrum for non-Markovian decay
authors: B.J.Dalton, B.M.Garraway
comments: 29 pages, 14 figures; v2: very minor correction to two equations, thicker lines in some figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 54, 2049 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703224
abstract: The spontaneous emission spectrum for a three level cascade configuration atom in a single mode high-Q cavity coupled to a zero temperature reservoir of continuum external modes is determined from the atom-cavity mode master equation using the quantum regression theorem. Initially the atom is in its upper state and the cavity mode empty of photons. Following Glauber, the spectrum is defined via the response of a detector atom. Spectra are calculated for the detector located inside the cavity (case A), outside the cavity end mirror (Case B-end emission), or placed for emission out the side of the cavity (Case C). The spectra for case A and case B are found to be essentially the same. In all the cases the predicted lineshapes are free of instrumental effects and only due to cavity decay. Spectra are presented for intermediate and strong coupling regime situations (where both atomic transitions are resonant with the cavity frequency), for cases of non-zero cavity detuning, and for cases where the two atomic transition frequencies differ. The spectral features for Cases B(A) and C are qualitatively similar, with six spectral peaks for resonance cases and eight for detuned cases. These general features of the spectra can be understood via the dressed atom model. However, Case B and C spectra differ in detail, with the latter exhibiting a deep spectral hole at the cavity frequency due to quantum interference effects.

id: quant-ph/0703225
title: Gaussian quantum marginal problem
authors: J. Eisert, T. Tyc, T. Rudolph, B.C. Sanders
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure, material added, references updated, except from figure identical with version to appear in Commun. Math. Phys
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 280, 263 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703225
abstract: The quantum marginal problem asks what local spectra are consistent with a given spectrum of a joint state of a composite quantum system. This setting, also referred to as the question of the compatibility of local spectra, has several applications in quantum information theory. Here, we introduce the analogue of this statement for Gaussian states for any number of modes, and solve it in generality, for pure and mixed states, both concerning necessary and sufficient conditions. Formally, our result can be viewed as an analogue of the Sing-Thompson Theorem (respectively Horn's Lemma), characterizing the relationship between main diagonal elements and singular values of a complex matrix: We find necessary and sufficient conditions for vectors (d1, ..., dn) and (c1, ..., cn) to be the symplectic eigenvalues and symplectic main diagonal elements of a strictly positive real matrix, respectively. More physically speaking, this result determines what local temperatures or entropies are consistent with a pure or mixed Gaussian state of several modes. We find that this result implies a solution to the problem of sharing of entanglement in pure Gaussian states and allows for estimating the global entropy of non-Gaussian states based on local measurements. Implications to the actual preparation of multi-mode continuous-variable entangled states are discussed. We compare the findings with the marginal problem for qubits, the solution of which for pure states has a strikingly similar and in fact simple form.

id: quant-ph/0703226
title: Correlation coefficients and the Robertson-Schroedinger uncertainty relations
authors: Gordon N. Fleming
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703226
abstract: Calling the quantity; 2delta(A)delta(B)/|<[A, B]>|, with non-zero denominator, the uncertainty product ratio or UPR for the pair of observables, (A, B), it is shown that any non-zero correlation coefficient between two observables raises, above unity, the lower bound of the UPR for each member of an infinite collection of pairs of incompatible observables. Conversely, any UPR is subject to lower bounds above unity determined by each of an infinite collection of correlation coefficients. This result generalizes the well known Schroedinger strengthening of the Robertson uncertainty relations (with the former expressed in terms of the correlation coefficient rather than the anticommutator) where the UPR and the correlation coefficient both involve the same pair of observables. Two, independent, derivations of the result are presented to clarify its origins and some examples of its use are examined.

id: quant-ph/0703227
title: Regional versus Global Entanglement in Resonating-Valence-Bond states
authors: Anushya Chandran, Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages, no figures, RevTeX4; v2: improved result in the multiparty case, presentation improved (5 pages, one figure); v3: further changes in presentation, results unchanged, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 170502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703227
abstract: We investigate the entanglement properties of resonating-valence-bond states on two and higher dimensional lattices, which play a significant role in our understanding of various many-body systems. We show that these states are genuinely multipartite entangled, while there is only a negligible amount of two-site entanglement. We comment on possible physical implications of our findings.

id: quant-ph/0703228
title: Quantum Decoherence Modulated by Special Relativity
authors: Jian-Ming Cai, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Ye-Fei Yuan, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042101 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703228
abstract: By investigating the evolution of a moving spin-1/2 Dirac electron coupled with a background magnetic noise, we demonstrate that the effects of special relativity will significantly modify the decoherence properties of the spin state. The dephasing could be much suppressed, and for a sufficiently long time the decoherence even seems to halt. This interesting phenomenon stems from the dressed environment induced by special relativity.

id: quant-ph/0703229
title: The lateral Casimir force beyond the proximity force approximation: a nontrivial interplay between geometry and quantum vacuum
authors: Robson B. Rodrigues, Paulo A. Maia Neto, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures. Accepted version with minor amendments. To appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062108 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703229
abstract: The lateral Casimir force between two corrugated metallic plates makes possible a study of the nontrivial interplay of geometry and Casimir effect appearing beyond the regime of validity of the Proximity Force Approximation (PFA). Quantitative evaluations can be obtained by using scattering theory in a perturbative expansion valid when the corrugation amplitudes are smaller than the three other length scales: the mean separation distance $L$ of the plates, the corrugation period $\lambda_\C$ and the plasma wavelength $\lambda_\P$. Within this perturbative expansion, evaluations are obtained for arbitrary relative values of $L$, $\lambda_\C$ and $\lambda_\P$ while limiting cases, some of them already known, are recovered when these values obey some specific orderings. The consequence of these results for comparison with existing experiments is discussed in the end of the paper.

id: quant-ph/0703230
title: Level Reduction and the Quantum Threshold Theorem
authors: Panos Aliferis
comments: 125 pages, Ph.D. thesis, Caltech, 2007; pdf file fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703230
abstract: The quantum threshold theorem shows that a noisy quantum computer can accurately and efficiently simulate any ideal quantum computation provided that noise is weakly correlated and its strength is below a critical value known as the quantum accuracy threshold. This thesis provides a simpler and more transparent non-inductive proof of this theorem based on the concept of level reduction. This concept is also used in proving the quantum threshold theorem for coherent and leakage noise and for quantum computation by measurements. In addition, the proof provides a methodology which allows us to establish improved rigorous lower bounds on the value of the quantum accuracy threshold.

id: quant-ph/0703231
title: Quantum Search in an Ordered List via Adaptive Learning
authors: M. Ben-Or, Avinatan Hassidim
comments: 10 pages no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703231
abstract: We use a Bayesian approach to optimally solve problems in noisy binary search. We deal with two variants: 1. Each comparison can be erroneous with some probability $1 - p$. 2. At each stage $k$ comparisons can be performed in parallel and a noisy answer is returned We present a (classic) algorithm which optimally solves both variants together, up to an additive term of O(\log \log(n)), and prove matching information theoretic lower bounds. We use the algorithm to improve the results of Farhi et al \cite{FGGS99} presenting a quantum (error free) search algorithm in an ordered list of expected complexity less than (\log_2n) / 3.

id: quant-ph/0703232
title: Electrino bubbles and relational entanglement
authors: Italo Vecchi
comments: Corrected typos, improved presentation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703232
abstract: We argue that the phenomena exhibited by bubbles forming around free electrons in liquid helium and examined by Maris in his controversial 2000 paper point to the experimental relevance of relational entanglement. An experiment to verify/disprove the relevant argument is suggested.

id: quant-ph/0703233
title: Decoherence and relaxation of a qubit coupled to an Ohmic bath directly and via an intermediate harmonic oscillator
authors: Xian-Ting Liang
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 449 (2007) 296-303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703233
abstract: Using the numerical path integral method we investigate the decoherence and relaxation of qubits coupled to an Ohmic bath directly and via an intermediate harmonic oscillator (IHO). Here, we suppose the oscillation frequencies of the bath modes are higher than the IHO's. When we choose suitable parameters the qubits in the two models may have almost same decoherence and relaxation times. However, the decoherence and relaxation times of the qubit in the qubit-IHO-bath model can be modulated through changing the coupling coefficients of the qubit-IHO and IHO-bath and the oscillation frequency of the IHO.

id: quant-ph/0703234
title: Inverted Oscillator
authors: C. Yuce, A. Kilic, A. Coruh
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Scr. 74 114 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703234
abstract: The inverted harmonic oscillator problem is investigated quantum mechanically. The exact wave function for the confined inverted oscillator is obtained and it is shown that the associated energy eigenvalues are discrete and it is given as a linear function of the quantum number $n$.

id: quant-ph/0703235
title: Complex Spectrum of a Spontaneously Unbroken PT Symmetric Hamiltonian
authors: C. Yuce
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703235
abstract: It is believed that unbroken PT symmetry is sufficient to guarantee that the spectrum of a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian is real. We prove that this is not true. We study a Hamiltonian with complex spectrum for which PT symmetry is not spontaneously broken.

id: quant-ph/0703236
title: Parameters of Integral Circulant Graphs and Periodic Quantum Dynamics
authors: Nitin Saxena, Simone Severini, Igor Shparlinski
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703236
abstract: The intention of the paper is to move a step towards a classification of network topologies that exhibit periodic quantum dynamics. We show that the evolution of a quantum system, whose hamiltonian is identical to the adjacency matrix of a circulant graph, is periodic if and only if all eigenvalues of the graph are integers (that is, the graph is integral). Motivated by this observation, we focus on relevant properties of integral circulant graphs. Specifically, we bound the number of vertices of integral circulant graphs in terms of their degree, characterize bipartiteness and give exact bounds for their diameter. Additionally, we prove that circulant graphs with odd order do not allow perfect state transfer.

id: quant-ph/0703237
title: The Multiplicative Quantum Adversary
authors: Robert Spalek
comments: 15 pages, v2: removed an incorrect claim, v3: cleaned up, commented better, added stronger bound for OR
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703237
abstract: We present a new variant of the quantum adversary method. All adversary methods give lower bounds on the quantum query complexity of a function by bounding the change of a progress function caused by one query. All previous variants upper-bound the_difference_ of the progress function, whereas our new variant upper-bounds the_ratio_ and that is why we coin it the multiplicative adversary. The new method generalizes to all functions the new quantum lower-bound method by Ambainis [Amb05, ASW06] based on the analysis of eigenspaces of the density matrix. We prove a strong direct product theorem for all functions that have a multiplicative adversary lower bound.

id: quant-ph/0703238
title: Improving the fidelity of single photon preparation from conditional down-conversion via asymmetric multiport detection
authors: Peter P Rohde
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703238
abstract: We discuss the conditional preparation of single photons via parametric down-conversion. This technique is commonly used as a single photon source in modern quantum optics experiments. A significant problem facing this technique is the inability of present day photo-detectors to resolve photon number. This results in mixing with higher photon number terms. To overcome this several techniques have been proposed, including multi-port detection and time-division multiplexing. These techniques help approximate number resolving detection even when using non-number resolving detectors. In this paper we focus on 2-port detection, the simplest such scheme. We show that by making the 2-port device asymmetric the fidelity of prepared photons can be improved.

id: quant-ph/0703239
title: Eliminating interactions between non-neighboring qubits in the preparation of cluster states in quantum molecules
authors: Guo-Ping Guo, Xiao-Jie Hao, Tao Tu, Zhi-Cheng Zhu, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables
journal: European Journal of Physics B, 61, 141-146 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703239
abstract: We propose a scheme to eliminate the effect of non-nearest-neighbor qubits in preparing cluster state with double-dot molecules. As the interaction Hamiltonians between qubits are Ising-model and mutually commute, we can get positive and negative effective interactions between qubits to cancel the effect of non-nearest-neighbor qubits by properly changing the electron charge states of each quantum dot molecule. The total time for the present multi-step cluster state preparation scheme is only doubled for one-dimensional qubit chain and tripled for two-dimensional qubit array comparing with the time of previous protocol leaving out the non-nearest-neighbor interactions.

id: quant-ph/0703240
title: A Decomposition of Separable Werner States
authors: R.G. Unanyan, H. Kampermann, D. Bruss
comments: 7 pages, 1 figures
journal: J. Phys. A, 40: F483 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703240
abstract: We derive an integral convex combination of product states for a range of separable Werner states. Our method consists of expanding the sought-after local density operators in terms of Wigner operators. For dimension d=2, our decomposition holds for the whole separable range of Werner states, while for d>2 it is valid for a subset of separable Werner states. We illustrate the general method with the explicit examples d=2 and d=3.

id: quant-ph/0703241
title: Irreversible decay of nonlocal entanglement via a reservoir of a single degree of freedom
authors: A. Vaglica, G. Vetri
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, improved presentation, v2: title changed, references added, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A (Fundamental concepts)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703241
abstract: Recently, it has been realized that nonlocal disentanglement may take a finite time as opposite to the asymptotic decay of local coherences. We find in this paper that a sudden irreversible death of entanglement takes place in a two atom optical Stern-Gerlach model. In particular, the one degree non dissipative environment here considered suddenly destroys the initial entanglement of any Bell's states $\ket{\phi^{\pm}}$ superposition.

id: quant-ph/0703242
title: On the implementation of a deterministic secure coding protocol using polarization entangled photons
authors: Martin Ostermeyer, Nino Walenta
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Optics Communications 281 4540 - 4544 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703242
abstract: We demonstrate a prototype-implementation of deterministic information encoding for quantum key distribution (QKD) following the ping-pong coding protocol [K. Bostroem, T. Felbinger, Phys. Rev. Lett. 89 (2002) 187902-1]. Due to the deterministic nature of this protocol the need for post-processing the key is distinctly reduced compared to non-deterministic protocols. In the course of our implementation we analyze the practicability of the protocol and discuss some security aspects of information transfer in such a deterministic scheme.

id: quant-ph/0703243
title: Ensemble averaged entanglement of two-particle states in Fock space
authors: Jan Naudts, Tobias Verhulst
comments: 19 pages Latex, changed title, references added in the conclusions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703243
abstract: Recent results, extending the Schmidt decomposition theorem to wavefunctions of identical particles, are reviewed. They are used to give a definition of reduced density operators in the case of two identical particles. Next, a method is discussed to calculate time averaged entanglement. It is applied to a pair of identical electrons in an otherwise empty band of the Hubbard model, and to a pair of bosons in the the Bose-Hubbard model with infinite range hopping. The effect of degeneracy of the spectrum of the Hamiltonian on the average entanglement is emphasised.

id: quant-ph/0703244
title: Disproof of Bell's Theorem: Reply to Critics
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 12 pages; One more response added: See also arXiv:quant-ph/0703179 and arXiv:0707.1333
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703244
abstract: This is a collection of my responses to the criticisms of my argument against the impossibility proof of John Bell, which aims to undermine any conceivable local realistic completion of quantum mechanics. I plan to periodically update this preprint instead of creating a new one for each response.

id: quant-ph/0703245
title: On Entropy Transmission for Quantum Channels
authors: Nasir Ganikhodjaev, Farrukh Mukhamedov
comments: 11 pages. Applied Math. & Inform. Sciences (in accepted)
journal: Appl. Math. & Inform. Sci} 1 (2007), 3, 12 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703245
abstract: In this paper a notion of entropy transmission of quantum channels is introduced as a natural extension of Ohya's entropy. Here by quantum channel is meant unital completely positive mappings (ucp) of $B(H)$ into itself, where $H$ is an infinite dimensional Hilbert space. Using a representation theorem of ucp mapping we associate to every ucp map a uniquely determined state, and prove that entropy of ucp map is less then Ohya's entropy of the associated state.

id: quant-ph/0703246
title: How many ebits can be unlocked with one classical bit?
authors: Gilad Gour
comments: 3 pages, Brief Report, Comments are Welcome
journal: Physical Review A 75, 054301 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703246
abstract: We find an upper bound on the rate at which entanglement can be unlocked by classical bits. In particular, we show that for quantum information sources that are specified by ensambles of pure bipartite states, one classical bit can unlock at most one ebit.

id: quant-ph/0703247
title: Coherent atom-trimer conversion in a repulsive Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: H. Jing, J. Cheng, P. Meystre
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703247
abstract: We show that the use of a generalized atom-molecule dark state permits the enhanced coherent creation of triatomic molecules in a repulsive atomic Bose-Einstein condensate, with further enhancement being possible in the case of heteronuclear trimers via the constructive interference between two chemical reaction channels.

id: quant-ph/0703248
title: Vacuum Energy and Repulsive Casimir Forces in Quantum Star Graphs
authors: S. A. Fulling, L. Kaplan, J. H. Wilson
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures; REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012118 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703248
abstract: Casimir pistons are models in which finite Casimir forces can be calculated without any suspect renormalizations. It has been suggested that such forces are always attractive, but we present several counterexamples, notably a simple type of quantum graph in which the sign of the force depends upon the number of edges. We also show that Casimir forces in quantum graphs can be reliably computed by summing over the classical orbits, and study the rate of convergence of the periodic orbit expansion. In generic situations where no analytic expression is available, the sign and approximate magnitude of Casimir forces can often be obtained using only the shortest classical orbits.

id: quant-ph/0703249
title: Bipartite entanglement measure based on covariances
authors: Isabel Sainz Abascal, Gunnar Bj?rk
comments: We have changed a preprint reference for the correspondent published
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062317 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703249
abstract: We propose an entanglement measure for two qudits based on the covariances of a set of generators of the su(N) algebra. In particular, we represent this measure in terms of the mutually unbiased projectors for N prime. For pure states this measure quantify entanglement, we obtain an explicit expression which relates it to the concurrence hierarchy, specifically the I-concurrence and the 3-concurrence. For mixed states we propose a separability criterion.

id: quant-ph/0703250
title: Instantaneous processing of "slow light": amplitude-duration control, storage, and splitting
authors: R. N. Shakhmuratov, A. A. Kalachev, J. Odeurs
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, submitted to PRL on 18, December, 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703250
abstract: Nonadiabatic change of the control field or of the low-frequency coherence allows for an almost instantaneous change of the signal field propagating in a thick resonant absorber where electromagnetically induced transparency is realized. This finding is applied for the storage and retrieval of the signal, for the creation of a signal copy and separation of this copy from the original pulse without its destruction.

id: quant-ph/0703251
title: Classical statistical distributions can violate Bell-type inequalities
authors: A. Matzkin
comments: v3: Extended version. To be published in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 085303, 2008.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703251
abstract: We investigate two-particle phase-space distributions in classical mechanics characterized by a well-defined value of the total angular momentum. We construct phase-space averages of observables related to the projection of the particles' angular momenta along axes with different orientations. It is shown that for certain observables, the correlation function violates Bell's inequality. The key to the violation resides in choosing observables impeding the realization of the counterfactual event that plays a prominent role in the derivation of the inequalities. This situation can have statistical (detection related) or dynamical (interaction related) underpinnings, but non-locality does not play any role.

id: quant-ph/0703252
title: Improved practical decoy state method in quantum key distribution with parametric down conversion source
authors: Qin Wang, Xiang-Bin Wang, Gunnar Bjork, Anders Karlsson
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703252
abstract: In this paper, a new decoy-state scheme for quantum key distribution with parametric down-conversion source is proposed. We use both three-intensity decoy states and their triggered and nontriggered components to estimate the fraction of single-photon counts and quantum bit-error rate of single-photon, and then deduce a more accurate value of key generation rate. The final key rate over transmission distance is simulated, which shows that we can obtain a higher key rate than that of the existing methods, including our own earlier work.

id: quant-ph/0703253
title: Narrowband polarization-entangled photon pairs distributed over a WDM link for qubit networks
authors: S. Sauge, M. Swillo, S. Albert-Seifried, G. B. Xavier, J. Waldeback, M. Tengner, D. Ljunggren, A. Karlsson
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Opt. Express 15, 6926-6933 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703253
abstract: We present a bright, narrowband, portable, quasi-phase-matched two-crystal source generating polarization-entangled photon pairs at 809 nm and 1555 nm at a maximum rate of 1.2 10^6 s-1 THz-1 mW-1 after coupling to single-mode fiber. The quantum channel at 1555 nm and the synchronization signal gating the single photon detector are multiplexed in the same optical fiber of length 27 km by means of wavelength division multiplexers (WDM) having 100 GHz (0.8 nm) spacing between channels. This implementation makes quantum communication applications compatible with current high-speed optical networks.

id: quant-ph/0703254
title: The quantum brachistochrone problem for non-Hermitian Hamiltonians
authors: Paulo E.G. Assis, Andreas Fring
comments: 7 pages Latex, 2 figures
journal: J.Phys.A41:244002,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703254
abstract: Recently Bender, Brody, Jones and Meister found that in the quantum brachistochrone problem the passage time needed for the evolution of certain initial states into specified final states can be made arbitrarily small, when the time-evolution operator is taken to be non-Hermitian but PT-symmetric. Here we demonstrate that such phenomena can also be obtained for non-Hermitian Hamiltonians for which PT-symmetry is completely broken, i.e. dissipative systems. We observe that the effect of a tunable passage time can be achieved by projecting between orthogonal eigenstates by means of a time-evolution operator associated to a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. It is not essential that this Hamiltonian is PT-symmetric.

id: quant-ph/0703255
title: Quantum Communication
authors: Nicolas Gisin, Rob Thew
comments: Submitted version, 8 pg (2 cols) 5 figs
journal: Nature Photonics, vol 1, No. 3, pp165-171 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703255
abstract: Quantum communication, and indeed quantum information in general, has changed the way we think about quantum physics. In 1984 and 1991, the first protocol for quantum cryptography and the first application of quantum non-locality, respectively, attracted a diverse field of researchers in theoretical and experimental physics, mathematics and computer science. Since then we have seen a fundamental shift in how we understand information when it is encoded in quantum systems. We review the current state of research and future directions in this new field of science with special emphasis on quantum key distribution and quantum networks.

id: quant-ph/0703256
title: Quantum Circuit Placement
authors: D. Maslov, S. M. Falconer, M. Mosca
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures. Improved theory and software implementation, new experimental results
journal: IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems 27(4):752-763, April 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703256
abstract: We study the problem of the practical realization of an abstract quantum circuit when executed on quantum hardware. By practical, we mean adapting the circuit to particulars of the physical environment which restricts/complicates the establishment of certain direct interactions between qubits. This is a quantum version of the classical circuit placement problem. We study the theoretical aspects of the problem and also present empirical results that match the best known solutions that have been developed by experimentalists. Finally, we discuss the efficiency of the approach and scalability of its implementation with regards to the future development of quantum hardware.

id: quant-ph/0703257
title: Space-like energy momentum in quantum electrodynamics
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703257
abstract: A common assumption in quantum field theory is that the energy-momentum 4-vector of any quantum state must be time-like. However it has been recently shown [4] that this is not the case for a Dirac-Maxwell field in the coulomb gauge. Here we will present a proof that is simpler then the proof of Ref. [4] that there must exist quantum states which are space-like for a Dirac-Maxwell field in the coulomb gauge.

id: quant-ph/0703258
title: Correctable noise of Quantum Error Correcting Codes under adaptive concatenation
authors: Jesse Fern
comments: 5 pages, no figures, RevTex4, minor changes, similar to final publication version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 010301(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703258
abstract: We examine the transformation of noise under a quantum error correcting code (QECC) concatenated repeatedly with itself, by analyzing the effects of a quantum channel after each level of concatenation using recovery operators that are optimally adapted to use error syndrome information from the previous levels of the code. We use the Shannon entropy of these channels to estimate the thresholds of correctable noise for QECCs and find considerable improvements under this adaptive concatenation. Similar methods could be used to increase quantum fault tolerant thresholds.

id: quant-ph/0703259
title: Bell inequalities, classical cryptography and fractals
authors: E. Shchukin
comments: 26 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703259
abstract: The relation between the boolean functions and Bell inequalities for qubits is analyzed. The connection between the maximal quantum violation of a Bell inequality and the nonlinearity of the corresponding boolean function is discussed. A visualization scheme of boolean functions is proposed. An attempt to classify Bell inequalities for qubits is made, a weaker result (classification with respect to Jevons group) is obtained. The fractal structure of the classification is shown. All constructs are illustrated by Mathematica code.

id: quant-ph/0703260
title: Reinterpreting Quantum Probabilities in a Realistic and Local Framework: The Modified BCHSH Inequalities
authors: Claudio Garola, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 34 pages, revision of footnote 8, minor changes in the terminology, standard Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703260
abstract: Most physicists uphold that the tests of the Bell inequalities (BI) performed up to now confirm the predictions of standard quantum mechanics (SQM) and refute local realism. But some scholars criticize this conviction, defending local realism in various ways. We present here a new viewpoint based on an improved version of the extended semantic realism (ESR) model that has been recently worked out by one of the authors. The ESR model embodies the mathematical formalism of SQM into a more general framework in which not only local realism but also objectivity of physical properties holds, and the probabilities of SQM are reinterpreted as conditional instead of absolute. Hence the ESR model provides some predictions that are formally identical to those of SQM but have a different physical interpretation, and further predictions that differ also formally from those of SQM. In particular, we show here that the BI introduced by Clauser, Horne, Shimony and Holt (BCHSH inequalities) must be replaced by modified BCHSH inequalities. These depend on detection probabilities which may be such that the new inequalities are never violated by the conditional expectation values predicted by the model. The condition that no violation occurs implies the existence of upper bounds on detection probabilities, which makes the ESR model falsifiable. These results admit an intuitive explanation in terms of unfair sampling but basically differ from the seemingly similar results obtained by other approaches in which the efficiency problem is discussed in order to vindicate some kind of local realism.

id: quant-ph/0703261
title: Quantum thermodynamic Carnot and Otto-like cycles for a two-level system
authors: Gian Paolo Beretta
comments: RevTex4, 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: EPL, 99, 20005 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703261
abstract: From the thermodynamic equilibrium properties of a two-level system with variable energy-level gap $\Delta$, and a careful distinction between the Gibbs relation $dE = T dS + (E/\Delta) d\Delta$ and the energy balance equation $dE = \delta Q^\leftarrow - \delta W^\to$, we infer some important aspects of the second law of thermodynamics and, contrary to a recent suggestion based on the analysis of an Otto-like thermodynamic cycle between two values of $\Delta$ of a spin-1/2 system, we show that a quantum thermodynamic Carnot cycle, with the celebrated optimal efficiency $1 - (T_{low}/T_{high})$, is possible in principle with no need of an infinite number of infinitesimal processes, provided we cycle smoothly over at least three (in general four) values of $\Delta$, and we change $\Delta$ not only along the isoentropics, but also along the isotherms, e.g., by use of the recently suggested maser-laser tandem technique. We derive general bounds to the net-work to high-temperature-heat ratio for a Carnot cycle and for the 'inscribed' Otto-like cycle, and represent these cycles on useful thermodynamic diagrams.

id: quant-ph/0703262
title: Solving the Anharmonic Oscillator: Tuning the Boundary Condition
authors: David Leonard, Paul Mansfield
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. V3 contains minor changes made before final publication
journal: J.Phys.A40:10291-10300,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703262
abstract: We outline a remarkably efficient method for generating solutions to quantum anharmonic oscillators with an x^{2M} potential. We solve the Schroedinger equation in terms of a free parameter which is then tuned to give the correct boundary condition by generating a power series expansion of the wavefunction in x and applying a modified Borel resummation technique to obtain the large x behaviour. The process allows us to calculate energy eigenvalues to an arbitrary level of accuracy. High degrees of precision are achieved even with modest computing power. Our technique extends to all levels of excitation and produces the correct solution to the double well oscillators even though they are dominated by non-perturbative effects.

id: quant-ph/0703263
title: Overlapping resonances in the control of intramolecular vibrational redistribution
authors: D. Gerbasi, A. S. Sanz, P. S. Christopher, M. Shapiro, P. Brumer
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 126, 124307 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703263
abstract: Coherent control of bound state processes via the interfering overlapping resonances scenario [Christopher et al., J. Chem. Phys. 123, 064313 (2006)] is developed to control intramolecular vibrational redistribution (IVR). The approach is applied to the flow of population between bonds in a model of chaotic OCS vibrational dynamics, showing the ability to significantly alter the extent and rate of IVR by varying quantum interference contributions.

id: quant-ph/0703264
title: Accuracy threshold for postselected quantum computation
authors: Panos Aliferis, Daniel Gottesman, John Preskill
comments: 54 pages, 26 figures, uses qic.sty. (v2): minor revisions
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. 8 (2008) 181-244
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703264
abstract: We prove an accuracy threshold theorem for fault-tolerant quantum computation based on error detection and postselection. Our proof provides a rigorous foundation for the scheme suggested by Knill, in which preparation circuits for ancilla states are protected by a concatenated error-detecting code and the preparation is aborted if an error is detected. The proof applies to independent stochastic noise but (in contrast to proofs of the quantum accuracy threshold theorem based on concatenated error-correcting codes) not to strongly-correlated adversarial noise. Our rigorously established lower bound on the accuracy threshold, 1.04 \times 10^{-3}, is well below Knill's numerical estimates.

id: quant-ph/0703265
title: Local Quantum Dot Tuning on Photonic Crystal Chips
authors: Andrei Faraon, Dirk Englund, Ilya Fushman, Nick Stoltz, Pierre Petroff, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703265
abstract: Quantum networks based on InGaAs quantum dots embedded in photonic crystal devices rely on QDs being in resonance with each other and with the cavities they are embedded in. We developed a new technique based on temperature tuning to spectrally align different quantum dots located on the same chip. The technique allows for up to 1.8nm reversible on-chip quantum dot tuning.

id: quant-ph/0703266
title: Quantum mechanics with respect to different reference frames
authors: L.Mangiarotti, G.Sardanashvily
comments: 16 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. v.48 (2007) 082104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703266
abstract: Geometric (Schrodinger) quantization of nonrelativistic mechanics with respect to different reference frames is considered. In classical nonrelativistic mechanics, a reference frame is represented by a connection on a configuration space fibered over a time axis. Under quantization, it yields a connection on the quantum algebra of Schrodinger operators. The operators of energy with respect to different reference frames are examined.

id: quant-ph/0703267
title: Algebraic approach to the Hulthen potential
authors: Mohammad R. Setare, Ebrahim Karimi
comments: 8 Pages, 1 Table
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 46, 1381 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703267
abstract: In this paper the energy eigenvalues and the corresponding eigenfunctions are calculated for Hulthen potential. Then we obtain the ladder operators and show that these operators satisfy SU(2) commutation relation.

id: quant-ph/0703268
title: All bipartite entangled states display some hidden nonlocality
authors: Lluis Masanes, Yeong-Cherng Liang, Andrew C. Doherty
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review Letters, vol 100, art. 090403 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703268
abstract: We show that a violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality can be demonstrated in a certain kind of Bell experiment for all bipartite entangled states. Our protocol allows local filtering measurements and involves shared ancilla states that do not themselves violate CHSH. Our result follows from two main steps. We first provide a simple characterization of the states that violate the CHSH-inequality after local filtering operations in terms of witness-like operators. Second, we prove that for each entangled state $\sigma$, there exists another state $\rho$ not violating CHSH, such that $\rho\otimes\sigma$ violates CHSH. Hence, in this scenario, $\sigma$ cannot be substituted by classical correlations without changing the statistics of the experiment; we say that $\sigma$ is not simulable by classical correlations and our result is that entanglement is equivalent to non-simulability.

id: quant-ph/0703269
title: Corrections to the ns-levels of hydrogen atom in deformed space with minimal length
authors: M. M. Stetsko
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 062105, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703269
abstract: We investigated the hydrogen atom problem with deformed Heisenberg algebra leading to the existence of minimal length. Using modified perturbation theory developed in our previous work [M. M. Stetsko and V. M. Tkachuk, Phys. Rev. A 74, 012101 (2006)] we calculated the corrections to the arbitrary s-levels for hydrogen atom. We received a simple relation for the estimation of minimal length. We also compared the estimation of minimal length obtained here with the results obtained in the preceding investigations.

id: quant-ph/0703270
title: Topologically decoherence-protected qubits with trapped ions
authors: P¨¦rola Milman, Wilfried Maineult, Samuel Guibal, Luca Guidoni, Beno?t Dou?ot, Lev Ioffe, Thomas Coudreau
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physical Review Letters 99, 2 (13/07/2007) 020503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703270
abstract: We show that trapped ions can be used to simulate a highly symmetrical Hamiltonian with eingenstates naturally protected against local sources of decoherence. This Hamiltonian involves long range coupling between particles and provides a more efficient protection than nearest neighbor models discussed in previous works. Our results open the perspective of experimentally realizing in controlled atomic systems, complex entangled states with decoherence times up to nine orders of magnitude longer than isolated quantum systems.

id: quant-ph/0703271
title: A local model violating Bell's inequalities
authors: A. Matzkin
comments: This preprint is now replaced by arXiv:0808.2420
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703271
abstract: A model for two entangled systems in an EPR setting is shown to reproduce the quantum-mechanical outcomes and expectation values. Each system is represented by a small sphere containing a point-like particle embedded in a field. A quantum state appears as an equivalence class of several possible particle-field configurations. Contrarily to Bell-type hidden variables models, the fields account for the non-commutative aspects of the measurements and deny the simultaneous reality of incompatible physical quantities, thereby allowing to escape EPR's "completeness or locality" dilemma.

id: quant-ph/0703272
title: Optimal Resources for Topological 2D Stabilizer Codes: Comparative Study
authors: H. Bombin, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: revtex, 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012305 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703272
abstract: We study the resources needed to construct topological 2D stabilizer codes as a way to estimate in part their efficiency and this leads us to perform a comparative study of surface codes and color codes. This study clarifies the similarities and differences between these two types of stabilizer codes. We compute the error correcting rate $C:=n/d^2$ for surface codes $C_s$ and color codes $C_c$ in several instances. On the torus, typical values are $C_s=2$ and $C_c=3/2$, but we find that the optimal values are $C_s=1$ and $C_c=9/8$. For planar codes, a typical value is $C_s=2$, while we find that the optimal values are $C_s=1$ and $C_c=3/4$. In general, a color code encodes twice as much logical qubits as a surface code does.

id: quant-ph/0703273
title: Interference of Fock states in a single measurement
authors: Andrzej Dragan, Pawel Zin
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703273
abstract: We study analytically the structure of an arbitrary order correlation function for a pair of Fock states and prove without any approximations that in a single measurement of particle positions interference effects must occur as experimentally observed with Bose-Einstein condensates. We also show that the noise level present in the statistics is slightly lower than for a respective measurement of phase states.

id: quant-ph/0703274
title: Robust Quantum Error Correction via Convex Optimization
authors: R.L. Kosut, A. Shabani, D.A. Lidar
comments: 4 pages, including 3 figures. v2: new examples
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 020502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703274
abstract: We present a semidefinite program optimization approach to quantum error correction that yields codes and recovery procedures that are robust against significant variations in the noise channel. Our approach allows us to optimize the encoding, recovery, or both, and is amenable to approximations that significantly improve computational cost while retaining fidelity. We illustrate our theory numerically for optimized 5-qubit codes, using the standard [5,1,3] code as a benchmark. Our optimized encoding and recovery yields fidelities that are uniformly higher by 1-2 orders of magnitude against random unitary weight-2 errors compared to the [5,1,3] code with standard recovery. We observe similar improvement for a 4-qubit decoherence-free subspace code.

id: quant-ph/0703275
title: Supersymmetry and quantum games
authors: Jaroslav Hruby
comments: QIP 07
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703275
abstract: In this paper we show the connection between the supersymmetry and quantum games.

id: quant-ph/0703276
title: An exercise in "anhomomorphic logic"
authors: Rafael D. Sorkin
comments: plainTeX, 14 pages, no figures. To appear in a special volume of {\it Journal of Physics}, edited by L. Diosi, H-T Elze, and G. Vitiello. Most current version is available at this http URL (or wherever my home-page may be)
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.67:012018,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703276
abstract: A classical logic exhibits a threefold inner structure comprising an algebra of propositions `A', a space of ``truth values'' `V', and a distinguished family of mappings `phi' from propositions to truth values. Classically A is a Boolean algebra, V=Z_2, and the admissible maps phi:A-->Z_2 are {\it homomorphisms}. If one admits a larger set of maps, one obtains an anhomomorphic logic that seems better suited to quantal reality (and the needs of quantum gravity). I explain these ideas and illustrate them with three simple examples.

id: quant-ph/0703277
title: Strong Monogamy of Bipartite and Genuine Multipartite Entanglement: The Gaussian Case
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Final version, published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 150501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703277
abstract: We demonstrate the existence of general constraints on distributed quantum correlations, which impose a trade-off on bipartite and multipartite entanglement at once. For all N-mode Gaussian states under permutation invariance, we establish exactly a monogamy inequality, stronger than the traditional one, that by recursion defines a proper measure of genuine N-partite entanglement. Strong monogamy holds as well for subsystems of arbitrary size, and the emerging multipartite entanglement measure is found to be scale invariant. We unveil its operational connection with the optimal fidelity of continuous variable teleportation networks.

id: quant-ph/0703278
title: Graphical description of the action of Clifford operators on stabilizer states
authors: Matthew B. Elliott, Bryan Eastin, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures. Version 2 contains significant changes. Submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042307 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0703278
abstract: We introduce a graphical representation of stabilizer states and translate the action of Clifford operators on stabilizer states into graph operations on the corresponding stabilizer-state graphs. Our stabilizer graphs are constructed of solid and hollow nodes, with (undirected) edges between nodes and with loops and signs attached to individual nodes. We find that local Clifford transformations are completely described in terms of local complementation on nodes and along edges, loop complementation, and change of node type or sign. Additionally, we show that a small set of equivalence rules generates all graphs corresponding to a given stabilizer state; we do this by constructing an efficient procedure for testing the equality of any two stabilizer graphs.

id: cond-mat/0703002
title: Charge insensitive qubit design derived from the Cooper pair box
authors: Jens Koch, Terri M. Yu, Jay Gambetta, A. A. Houck, D. I. Schuster, J. Majer, Alexandre Blais, M. H. Devoret, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 21 pages, 12 figures; title changed, small changes in the text, additional figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042319 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703002
abstract: Short dephasing times pose one of the main challenges in realizing a quantum computer. Different approaches have been devised to cure this problem for superconducting qubits, a prime example being the operation of such devices at optimal working points, so-called "sweet spots." This latter approach led to significant improvement of $T_2$ times in Cooper pair box qubits [D. Vion et al., Science 296, 886 (2002)]. Here, we introduce a new type of superconducting qubit called the "transmon." Unlike the charge qubit, the transmon is designed to operate in a regime of significantly increased ratio of Josephson energy and charging energy $E_J/E_C$. The transmon benefits from the fact that its charge dispersion decreases exponentially with $E_J/E_C$, while its loss in anharmonicity is described by a weak power law. As a result, we predict a drastic reduction in sensitivity to charge noise relative to the Cooper pair box and an increase in the qubit-photon coupling, while maintaining sufficient anharmonicity for selective qubit control. Our detailed analysis of the full system shows that this gain is not compromised by increased noise in other known channels.

id: cond-mat/0703005
title: Phase-space theory for dispersive detectors of superconducting qubits
authors: I. Serban, E. Solano, F. K. Wilhelm
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 104510 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703005
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments, we study the dynamics of a qubit quadratically coupled to its detector, a damped harmonic oscillator. We use a complex-environment approach, explicitly describing the dynamics of the qubit and the oscillator by means of their full Floquet state master equations in phase-space. We investigate the backaction of the environment on the measured qubit and explore several measurement protocols, which include a long-term full read-out cycle as well as schemes based on short time transfer of information between qubit and oscillator. We also show that the pointer becomes measurable before all information in the qubit has been lost.

id: cond-mat/0703027
title: Valence Bond Entanglement Entropy
authors: Fabien Alet, Sylvain Capponi, Nicolas Laflorencie, Matthieu Mambrini
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, v2: small corrections, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 117204 (2007)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703027
abstract: We introduce for SU(2) quantum spin systems the Valence Bond Entanglement Entropy as a counting of valence bond spin singlets shared by two subsystems. For a large class of antiferromagnetic systems, it can be calculated in all dimensions with Quantum Monte Carlo simulations in the valence bond basis. We show numerically that this quantity displays all features of the von Neumann entanglement entropy for several one-dimensional systems. For two-dimensional Heisenberg models, we find a strict area law for a Valence Bond Solid state and multiplicative logarithmic corrections for the Neel phase.

id: cond-mat/0703037
title: Quantum Impurity Entanglement
authors: Erik S. S?rensen, Ming-Shyang Chang, Nicolas Laflorencie, Ian Affleck
comments: 62 pages, 27 figures, JSTAT macros
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2007) P08003
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703037
abstract: Entanglement in J_1-J_2, S=1/2 quantum spin chains with an impurity is studied using analytic methods as well as large scale numerical density matrix renormalization group methods. The entanglement is investigated in terms of the von Neumann entropy, S=-Tr rho_A log rho_A, for a sub-system A of size r of the chain. The impurity contribution to the uniform part of the entanglement entropy, S_{imp}, is defined and analyzed in detail in both the gapless, J_2 <= J_2^c, as well as the dimerized phase, J_2>J_2^c, of the model. This quantum impurity model is in the universality class of the single channel Kondo model and it is shown that in a quite universal way the presence of the impurity in the gapless phase, J_2 <= J_2^c, gives rise to a large length scale, xi_K, associated with the screening of the impurity, the size of the Kondo screening cloud. The universality of Kondo physics then implies scaling of the form S_{imp}(r/xi_K,r/R) for a system of size R. Numerical results are presented clearly demonstrating this scaling. At the critical point, J_2^c, an analytic Fermi liquid picture is developed and analytic results are obtained both at T=0 and T>0. In the dimerized phase an appealing picure of the entanglement is developed in terms of a thin soliton (TS) ansatz and the notions of impurity valence bonds (IVB) and single particle entanglement (SPE) are introduced. The TS-ansatz permits a variational calculation of the complete entanglement in the dimerized phase that appears to be exact in the thermodynamic limit at the Majumdar-Ghosh point, J_2=J_1/2, and surprisingly precise even close to the critical point J_2^c. In appendices the relation between the finite temperature entanglement entropy, S(T), and the thermal entropy, S_{th}(T), is discussed and <S^z_r> and <S_r S_{r+1}> calculated at the MG-point using the TS-ansatz.

id: cond-mat/0703075
title: Incomplete pure dephasing of N-qubit entangled W states
authors: Roland Doll, Martijn Wubs, Peter Hanggi, Sigmund Kohler
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures, revised version, to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 045317 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703075
abstract: We consider qubits in a linear arrangement coupled to a bosonic field which acts as a quantum heat bath and causes decoherence. By taking the spatial separation of the qubits explicitly into account, the reduced qubit dynamics acquires an additional non-Markovian element. We investigate the time evolution of an entangled many-qubit W state, which for vanishing qubit separation remains robust under pure dephasing. For finite separation, by contrast, the dynamics is no longer decoherence-free. On the other hand, spatial noise correlations may prevent a complete dephasing. While a standard Bloch-Redfield master equation fails to describe this behavior even qualitatively, we propose instead a widely applicable causal master equation. Here we employ it to identify and characterize decoherence-poor subspaces. Consequences for quantum error correction are discussed.

id: cond-mat/0703108
title: Noise-resistant entanglement of strongly interacting spin systems
authors: A. M. Rey, L. Jiang, M. Fleischhauer, E. Demler, M.D. Lukin
comments: 5 Pages, 3 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703108
abstract: We propose and analyze a scheme that makes use of interactions between spins to protect certain correlated many-body states from decoherence. The method exploits the finite energy gap of properly designed Hamiltonians to generate a manifold insensitive to local noise fluctuations. We apply the scheme to achieve decoherence-resistant generation of many particle GHZ states and show that it can improve the sensitivity in precision spectroscopy with trapped ions. Finally we also show that cold atoms in optical lattices interacting via short range interactions can be utilized to engineer the required long range interactions for a robust generation of entangled states.

id: cond-mat/0703115
title: Stochastic quantization of interacting classical particles system
authors: A.M. Scarfone
comments: 16 pages, IOP macro style, version accepted on Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory and Experiment
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2007) P03012
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703115
abstract: Starting from a many-body classical system governed by a trace-form entropy we derive, in the stochastic quantization picture, a family of non linear and non-Hermitian Schroedinger equations describing, in the mean filed approximation, a quantum system of interacting particles. The time evolution of the main physical observables is analyzed by means of the Ehrenfest equations showing that, in general, this family of equations takes into account dissipative and damped effects due to the interaction of the system with the background. We explore the presence of steady states by means of solitons, describing conservative solutions. The results are specialized to the case of a system governed by the Boltzmann-Gibbs entropy.

id: cond-mat/0703147
title: Information dynamics: Temporal behavior of uncertainty measures
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski
comments: Incorporates cond-mat/0604538, title, abstract changed, text modified, to appear in Cent. Eur. J. Phys
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys. 6(1), (2008), 158-170
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703147
abstract: We carry out a systematic study of uncertainty measures that are generic to dynamical processes of varied origins, provided they induce suitable continuous probability distributions. The major technical tool are the information theory methods and inequalities satisfied by Fisher and Shannon information measures. We focus on a compatibility of these inequalities with the prescribed (deterministic, random or quantum) temporal behavior of pertinent probability densities.

id: cond-mat/0703158
title: Signatures of a quantum dynamical phase transition in a three-spin system in presence of a spin environment
authors: Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Patricia R. Levstein, Horacio M. Pastawski
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. To be published in Physica B
journal: Physica B 398, 438-441 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703158
abstract: We have observed an environmentally induced quantum dynamical phase transition in the dynamics of a two spin experimental swapping gate [J. Chem. Phys. 124, 194507 (2006)]. There, the exchange of the coupled states |+,-> and ,+> gives an oscillation with a Rabi frecuency b/$\hbar$ (the spins coupling). The interaction, $\hbar$/tSE with a spin-bath degrades the oscillation with a characteristic decoherence time. We showed that the swapping regime is restricted only to b\tSE>$hbar$. However, beyond a critical interaction with the environment the swapping freezes and the system enters to a Quantum Zeno dynamical phase where relaxation decreases as coupling with the environment increases. Here, we solve the quantum dynamics of a two spin system coupled to a spin-bath within a Liouville-von Neumann quantum master equation and we compare the results with our previous work within the Keldysh formalism. Then, we extend the model to a three interacting spin system where only one is coupled to the environment. Beyond a critical interaction the two spins not coupled to the environment oscillate with the bare Rabi frequency and relax more slowly. This effect is more pronounced when the anisotropy of the system-environment interaction goes from a purely XY to an Ising interaction form.

id: cond-mat/0703204
title: Indeterminacy relations in random dynamics
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski
comments: revised and expanded, 10 pages
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 60, No 2, (2007), 289-297
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703204
abstract: We analyze various uncertainty measures for spatial diffusion processes. In this manifestly non-quantum setting, we focus on the existence issue of complementary pairs whose joint dispersion measure has strictly positive lower bound.

id: cond-mat/0703229
title: Numerical methods for fluctuation driven interactions between dielectrics
authors: S. Pasquali, F. Nitti, A. C. Maggs
comments: revtex, 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703229
abstract: We develop a discretized theory of thermal Casimir interactions to numerically calculate the interactions between fluctuating dielectrics. From a constrained partition function we derive a surface free energy, while handling divergences that depend on system size and discretization. We derive analytic results for parallel plate geometry in order to check the convergence of the numerical methods. We use the method to calculate vertical and lateral Casimir forces for a set of grooves.

id: cond-mat/0703291
title: Deformed multi-variable Fokker-Planck equations
authors: Choon-Lin Ho, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: J.Math.Phys.48:073302,2007
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703291
abstract: In this paper new multi-variable deformed Fokker-Planck (FP) equations are presented. These deformed FP equations are associated with the Ruijsenaars-Schneider-van Diejen (RSvD) type systems in the same way that the usual one variable FP equation is associated with the one particle Schr\"odinger equation. As the RSvD systems are the "discrete" counterparts of the celebrated exactly solvable many-body Calogero-Sutherland-Moser systems, the deformed FP equations presented here can be considered as "discrete" deformations of the ordinary multi-variable FP equations.

id: cond-mat/0703311
title: Coherence and Entanglement in Two-Qubit Dynamics: Interplay of the Induced Exchange Interaction and Quantum Noise due to Thermal Bosonic Environment
authors: V. Privman, D. Solenov
comments: Invited Review, 17 pages in LaTeX, with 4 EPS figures
journal: Proc. SPIE 6573, Article 657303, 17 pages (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703311
abstract: We present a review of our recent results for the comparative evaluation of the induced exchange interaction and quantum noise mediated by the bosonic environment in two-qubit systems. We report new calculations for P-donor-electron spins in Si-Ge type materials. Challenges and open problems are discussed.

id: cond-mat/0703314
title: Exact relaxation in a class of non-equilibrium quantum lattice systems
authors: M. Cramer, C.M. Dawson, J. Eisert, T.J. Osborne
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, replaced with final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 030602 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703314
abstract: A reasonable physical intuition in the study of interacting quantum systems says that, independent of the initial state, the system will tend to equilibrate. In this work we study a setting where relaxation to a steady state is exact, namely for the Bose-Hubbard model where the system is quenched from a Mott quantum phase to the strong superfluid regime. We find that the evolving state locally relaxes to a steady state with maximum entropy constrained by second moments, maximizing the entanglement, to a state which is different from the thermal state of the new Hamiltonian. Remarkably, in the infinite system limit this relaxation is true for all large times, and no time average is necessary. For large but finite system size we give a time interval for which the system locally "looks relaxed" up to a prescribed error. Our argument includes a central limit theorem for harmonic systems and exploits the finite speed of sound. Additionally, we show that for all periodic initial configurations, reminiscent of charge density waves, the system relaxes locally. We sketch experimentally accessible signatures in optical lattices as well as implications for the foundations of quantum statistical mechanics.

id: cond-mat/0703342
title: Creation of Entanglement between Two Electron Spins Induced by Many Spin Ensemble Excitations
authors: Qing Ai, Yong Li, Guilu Long, C. P. Sun
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 48, 293-300 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703342
abstract: We theoretically explore the possibility of creating spin entanglement by simultaneously coupling two electronic spins to a nuclear ensemble. By microscopically modeling the spin ensemble with a single mode boson field, we use the time-dependent Fr\"{o}hlich transformation (TDFT) method developed most recently [Yong Li, C. Bruder, and C. P. Sun, Phys. Rev. A \textbf{75}, 032302 (2007)] to calculate the effective coupling between the two spins. Our investigation shows that the total system realizes a solid state based architecture for cavity QED. Exchanging such kind effective boson in a virtual process can result in an effective interaction between two spins. It is discovered that a maximum entangled state can be obtained when the velocity of the electrons matches the initial distance between them in a suitable way. Moreover, we also study how the number of collective excitations influences the entanglement. It is shown that the larger the number of excitation is, the less the two spins entangle each other.

id: cond-mat/0703351
title: Error Correction and Digitalization Concepts in Biochemical Computing
authors: L. Fedichkin, E. Katz, V. Privman
comments: 14 pages in PDF
journal: Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience 5, 36-43 (2008)
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703351
abstract: We offer a theoretical design of new systems that show promise for digital biochemical computing, including realizations of error correction by utilizing redundancy, as well as signal rectification. The approach includes information processing using encoded DNA sequences, DNAzyme biocatalyzed reactions and the use of DNA-functionalized magnetic nanoparticles. Digital XOR and NAND logic gates and copying (fanout) are designed using the same components.

id: cond-mat/0703366
title: Renormalisation Flow and Universality for Ultracold Fermionic Atoms
authors: S. Diehl, H. Gies, J. M. Pawlowski, C. Wetterich
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures, to be published in PRA
journal: Phys.Rev.A76:053627,2007
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703366
abstract: A functional renormalisation group study for the BEC-BCS crossover for ultracold gases of fermionic atoms is presented. We discuss the fixed point which is at the origin of universality for broad Feshbach resonances. All macroscopic quantities depend only on one relevant parameter, the concentration a k_F, besides their dependence on the temperature in units of the Fermi energy. In particular, we compute the universal ratio between molecular and atomic scattering length in vacuum. We also present an estimate to which level of accuracy universality holds for gases of Li and K atoms.

id: cond-mat/0703453
title: Suppression of electron spin decoherence in a quantum dot
authors: Wenxian Zhang, V. V. Dobrovitski, Lea F. Santos, Lorenza Viola, B. N. Harmon
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Invited talk at the XXXVII Winter Colloquium on the Physics of Quantum Electronics, Snowbird, Jan 2007. Submitted to J. Mod. Opt
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 54, 2629 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703453
abstract: The dominant source of decoherence for an electron spin in a quantum dot is the hyperfine interaction with the surrounding bath of nuclear spins. The decoherence process may be slowed down by subjecting the electron spin to suitable sequences of external control pulses. We investigate the performance of a variety of dynamical decoupling protocols using exact numerical simulation. Emphasis is given to realistic pulse delays and the long-time limit, beyond the domain where available analytical approaches are guaranteed to work. Our results show that both deterministic and randomized protocols are capable to significantly prolong the electron coherence time, even when using control pulse separations substantially larger than what expected from the {\em upper cutoff} frequency of the coupling spectrum between the electron and the nuclear spins. In a realistic parameter range, the {\em total width} of such a coupling spectrum appears to be the physically relevant frequency scale affecting the overall quality of the decoupling.

id: cond-mat/0703469
title: Quantum interference in the classically forbidden region: a parametric oscillator
authors: M. Marthaler, M. I. Dykman
comments: Submitted to PRA
journal: Physical Review A 76, 010102 R (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703469
abstract: We study tunneling between period two states of a parametrically modulated oscillator. The tunneling matrix element is shown to oscillate with the varying frequency of the modulating field. The effect is due to spatial oscillations of the wave function and the related interference in the classically forbidden region. The oscillations emerge already in the ground state of the oscillator Hamiltonian in the rotating frame, which is quartic in the momentum.

id: cond-mat/0703490
title: The Thermodynamical Limit of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick Model
authors: P. Ribeiro, J. Vidal, R. Mosseri
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.99:050402,2007
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703490
abstract: A method based on the analyzis of the Majorana polynomial roots is introduced to compute the spectrum of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model in the thermodynamical limit. A rich structure made of four qualitatively different regions is revealed in the parameter space whereas the ground state study only distinguishes between two phases.

id: cond-mat/0703527
title: Entanglement entropy in aperiodic singlet phases
authors: R¨®bert Juh¨¢sz, Zolt¨¢n Zimbor¨¢s
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2007) P04004
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703527
abstract: We study the average entanglement entropy of blocks of contiguous spins in aperiodic XXZ chains which possess an aperiodic singlet phase at least in a certain limit of the coupling ratios. In this phase, where the ground state constructed by a real space renormalization group method, consists (asymptotically) of independent singlet pairs, the average entanglement entropy is found to be a piecewise linear function of the block size. The enveloping curve of this function is growing logarithmically with the block size, with an effective central charge in front of the logarithm which is characteristic for the underlying aperiodic sequence. The aperiodic sequence producing the largest effective central charge is identified, and the latter is found to exceed the central charge of the corresponding homogeneous model. For marginal aperiodic modulations, numerical investigations performed for the XX model show a logarithmic dependence, as well, with an effective central charge varying continuously with the coupling ratio.

id: cond-mat/0703552
title: Rabi oscillations in a quantum dot-cavity system coupled to a non-zero temperature phonon bath
authors: Jonas Larson, Hector Moya-Cessa
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures; Revised version
journal: Phys. Scr. 77, 065704 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703552
abstract: We study a quantum dot strongly coupled to a single high-finesse optical microcavity mode. We use a rotating wave approximation method, commonly used in ion-laser interactions, tegether with the Lamb-Dicke approximation to obtain an analytic solution of this problem. The decay of Rabi oscillations because of the electron-phonon coupling are studied at arbitrary temperature and analytical expressions for the collapse and revival times are presented. Analyses without the rotating wave approximation are presented by means of investigating the energy spectrum.

id: cond-mat/0703595
title: Design parameters for a nano-optical Yagi-Uda antenna
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Terukazu Kosako, Yutaka Kadoya
comments: 14 pages, including 7 figures and 3 tables
journal: New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 217
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703595
abstract: We investigate the possibility of directing optical emissions using a Yagi-Uda antenna composed of a finite linear array of nanoparticles. The relevant parameters characterizing the plasma resonances of the nanoparticles are identified and the interaction between the array elements is formulated accordingly. It is shown that the directionality of the optical emission can be observed even in the presence of non-negligible absorption losses in the nanoparticles. We conclude that a finite array of gold nanorods may be sufficient for the realization of a working nano-optical Yagi-Uda antenna.

id: cond-mat/0703630
title: Integrable spin-boson models descending from rational six-vertex models
authors: L. Amico, H. Frahm, A. Osterloh, G.A.P. Ribeiro
comments: 16 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: Nucl.Phys.B787:283-300,2007
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703630
abstract: We construct commuting transfer matrices for models describing the interaction between a single quantum spin and a single bosonic mode using the quantum inverse scattering framework. The transfer matrices are obtained from certain inhomogeneous rational vertex models combining bosonic and spin representations of SU(2), subject to non-diagonal toroidal and open boundary conditions. Only open boundary conditions are found to lead to integrable Hamiltonians combining both rotating and counter-rotating terms in the interaction. If the boundary matrices can be brought to triangular form simultaneously, the spectrum of the model can be obtained by means of the algebraic Bethe ansatz after a suitable gauge transformation; the corresponding Hamiltonians are found to be non-hermitian. Alternatively, a certain quasi-classical limit of the transfer matrix is considered where hermitian Hamiltonians are obtained as members of a family of commuting operators; their diagonalization, however, remains an unsolved problem.

id: cond-mat/0703688
title: Three-body interactions with cold polar molecules
authors: H.P. B¨¹chler, A. Micheli, P. Zoller
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 3, 726 - 731 (2007)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703688
abstract: We show that polar molecules driven by microwave fields give naturally rise to strong three-body interactions, while the two-particle interaction can be independently controlled and even switched off. The derivation of these effective interaction potentials is based on a microscopic understanding of the underlying molecular physics, and follows from a well controlled and systematic expansion into many-body interaction terms. For molecules trapped in an optical lattice, we show that these interaction potentials give rise to Hubbard models with strong nearest-neighbor two-body and three-body interaction. As an illustration, we study the one-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model with dominant three-body interaction and derive its phase diagram.

id: cond-mat/0703690
title: Control of electron spin decoherence caused by electron-nuclear spin dynamics in a quantum dot
authors: Ren-Bao Liu, Wang Yao, L. J. Sham
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 9 (2007) 226
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703690
abstract: Control of electron spin decoherence in contact with a mesoscopic bath of many interacting nuclear spins in an InAs quantum dot is studied by solving the coupled quantum dynamics. The nuclear spin bath, because of its bifurcated evolution predicated on the electron spin up or down state, measures the which-state information of the electron spin and hence diminishes its coherence. The many-body dynamics of nuclear spin bath is solved with a pair-correlation approximation. In the relevant timescale, nuclear pair-wise flip-flops, as elementary excitations in the mesoscopic bath, can be mapped into the precession of non-interacting pseudo-spins. Such mapping provides a geometrical picture for understanding the decoherence and for devising control schemes. A close examination of nuclear bath dynamics reveals a wealth of phenomena and new possibilities of controlling the electron spin decoherence. For example, when the electron spin is flipped by a $\pi$-pulse at $\tau$, its coherence will partially recover at $\sqrt{2}\tau$ as a consequence of quantum disentanglement from the mesoscopic bath. In contrast to the re-focusing of inhomogeneously broadened phases by conventional spin-echoes, the disentanglement is realized through shepherding quantum evolution of the bath state via control of the quantum object. A concatenated construction of pulse sequences can eliminate the decoherence with arbitrary accuracy, with the nuclear-nuclear spin interaction strength acting as the controlling small parameter.

id: cs/0703129
title: A theorem on the quantum evaluation of Weight Enumerators for a certain class of Cyclic Codes with a note on Cyclotomic cosets
authors: Joseph Geraci, Frank Van Bussel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0703129
abstract: This note is a stripped down version of a published paper on the Potts partition function, where we concentrate solely on the linear coding aspect of our approach. It is meant as a resource for people interested in coding theory but who do not know much of the mathematics involved and how quantum computation may provide a speed up in the computation of a very important quantity in coding theory. We provide a theorem on the quantum computation of the Weight Enumerator polynomial for a restricted family of cyclic codes. The complexity of obtaining an exact evaluation is $O(k^{2s}(\log q)^{2})$, where $s$ is a parameter which determines the class of cyclic codes in question, $q$ is the characteristic of the finite field over which the code is defined, and $k$ is the dimension of the code. We also provide an overview of cyclotomic cosets and discuss applications including how they can be used to speed up the computation of the weight enumerator polynomial (which is related to the Potts partition function). We also give an algorithm which returns the coset leaders and the size of each coset from the list $\{0,1,2,...,N-1\}$, whose time complexity is soft-O(N). This algorithm uses standard techniques but we include it as a resource for students. Note that cyclotomic cosets do not improve the asymptotic complexity of the computation of weight enumerators.

id: gr-qc/0703082
title: Where are the black hole entropy degrees of freedom ?
authors: Saurya Das, S. Shankaranarayanan
comments: 5 pages, 3 eps figures, uses Revtex4, References added, Minor changes to match published version
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.24:5299-5306,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0703082
abstract: Understanding the area-proportionality of black hole entropy (the `Area Law') from an underlying fundamental theory has been one of the goals of all models of quantum gravity. A key question that one asks is: where are the degrees of freedom giving rise to black hole entropy located? Taking the point of view that entanglement between field degrees of freedom inside and outside the horizon can be a source of this entropy, we show that when the field is in its ground state, the degrees of freedom near the horizon contribute most to the entropy, and the area law is obeyed. However, when it is in an excited state, degrees of freedom far from the horizon contribute more significantly, and deviations from the area law are observed. In other words, we demonstrate that horizon degrees of freedom are responsible for the area law.

id: hep-ph/0703152
title: Quantum Mechanics with Neutral Kaons
authors: A. Bramon, G. Garbarino, B. C. Hiesmayr
comments: 13 pages, Invited Talk at the Final EURIDICE Meeting 'Effective Theories of Colour and Flavour: from EURODAPHNE to EURIDICE', Kazimierz (Poland), August 24-27, 2006
journal: ActaPhys.Polon.B38:2763-2776,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0703152
abstract: We briefly illustrate a few tests of quantum mechanics which can be performed with entangled neutral kaon pairs at a Phi-factory. This includes a quantitative formulation of Bohr's complementarity principle, the quantum eraser phenomenon and various forms of Bell inequalities.

id: hep-ph/0703290
title: Tests of new physics from precise measurements of the Casimir pressure between two gold-coated plates
authors: R.S.Decca, D.L¨®pez, E.Fischbach, G.L.Klimchitskaya, D.E.Krause, V.M.Mostepanenko
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D75:077101,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0703290
abstract: A micromechanical torsion oscillator has been used to strengthen the limits on new Yukawa forces by determining the Casimir pressure between two gold-coated plates. By significantly reducing the random errors and obtaining the electronic parameters of the gold coatings, we were able to conclusively exclude the predictions of large thermal effects below 1 $\mu$m and strengthen the constraints on Yukawa corrections to Newtonian gravity in the interaction range from 29.5 nm to 86 nm.

id: hep-th/0703038
title: Cryptoreality of nonanticommutative Hamiltonians
authors: E.A. Ivanov, A.V. Smilga
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: JHEP 0707:036,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0703038
abstract: We note that, though nonanticommutative (NAC) deformations of Minkowski supersymmetric theories do not respect the reality condition and seem to lead to non-Hermitian Hamiltonians H, the latter belong to the class of ``cryptoreal'' Hamiltonians considered recently by Bender and collaborators. They can be made manifestly Hermitian via the similarity transformation H -> exp{R} H exp{-R} with a properly chosen R. The deformed model enjoys the same supersymmetry algebra as the undeformed one, though being realized differently on the involved canonical variables. Besides quantum-mechanical models, we treat, along similar lines, some NAC deformed field models in 4D Minkowski space.

id: hep-th/0703052
title: Dual oscillators and Quantum Pendulums: spectrum and correlators
authors: A. A. Andrianov
comments: 12 pages, substantial changes: calculation of correlators added
journal: Phys.Rev.D76:025003,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0703052
abstract: We outline the nonlinear transformation in the path integral representation for partition function of O(N) symmetric oscillator systems bringing their duality to certain one-dimensional oscillators with unstable potential shapes. This duality transformation realizes the equivalence between spectra of a Hermitian and a non-Hermitian Hamiltonians. It is exploited to calculate exactly the spectra of quantum rotators . The zero-temperature limit is considered and the dual representation of n-point correlators of coordinate operators is obtained.

id: hep-th/0703073
title: Direct quantization of equations of motion: from classical dynamics to transition amplitudes via strings
authors: Denis Kochan
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, comments are welcome, author is looking for postdoctoral position
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys.07:1385-1405,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-th/0703073
abstract: New method of quantization is presented. It is based on classical Newton-Lagrange equations of motion (representing the fundamental physical law of mechanics) rather than on their traditional Lagrangian and/or Hamiltonian precursors. It is shown that classical dynamics is governed by canonical two-form $\Omega$, which embodies kinetic energy and forces acting within the system. New type of variational principle employing differential two-form $\Omega$ and ''umbilical strings'' is introduced. The Feynman path integral over histories of the system is then rearranged to ''umbilical world-sheet'' functional integral in accordance with the proposed variational principle. In the case of potential-generated forces, world-sheet approach reduces to the standard quantum mechanics. As an example Quantum Mechanics with friction is analyzed in detail.

id: math-ph/0703011
title: The mathematical role of (commutative and noncommutative) infinitesimal random walks over (commutative and noncommutative) riemannian manifolds in Quantum Physics
authors: Gavriel Segre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0703011
abstract: Anderson's nonstandard construction of brownian motion as an infinitesimal random walk on the euclidean line is generalized to an Hausdorff riemannian manifold. A nonstandard Feynman-Kac formula holding on such an Hausdorff riemannian manifold is derived. Indications are given on how these (radically elementary) results could allow to formulate a nonstandard version of Stochastic Mechanics (avoiding both the explicitly discussed bugs of Internal Set Theory as well as the controversial renormalization of the stochastic action). It is anyway remarked how this would contribute to hide the basic feature of Quantum Mechanics, i.e. the noncommutativity of the observables' algebra, whose structure is naturally captured in the language of Noncommutative Probability and Noncommutative Geometry. With this respect some preliminary consideration concerning the notion of infinitesimal quantum random walk on a noncommutative riemannian manifold, the notion obtained by the Sinha-Goswami's definition of quantum brownian motion on a noncommutative riemannian manifold replacing a continuous time interval with an hyperfinite time interval, is presented.

id: math-ph/0703030
title: Complex WKB Analysis of a PT Symmetric Eigenvalue Problem
authors: Mark Sorrell
comments: 22 pages, 13 figures. Added references, minor revisions
journal: J.Phys.A40:10319-10336,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0703030
abstract: The spectra of a particular class of PT symmetric eigenvalue problems has previously been studied, and found to have an extremely rich structure. In this paper we present an explanation for these spectral properties in terms of quantisation conditions obtained from the complex WKB method. In particular, we consider the relation of the quantisation conditions to the reality and positivity properties of the eigenvalues. The methods are also used to examine further the pattern of eigenvalue degeneracies observed by Dorey et al. in [1,2].

id: math-ph/0703041
title: The spherically symmetric alpha2-dynamo and some of its spectral peculiarities
authors: Uwe Guenther, Oleg N. Kirillov, Boris F. Samsonov, Frank Stefani
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, Conf. Proc., 1st DI micro-conference "Analytic and algebraic methods in physics", Doppler Institute for mathematical physics and applied mathematics, Prague, February 20, 2007
journal: Acta Polytechnica 47, issue 2-3, (2007), 75-81
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0703041
abstract: A brief overview is given over recent results on the spectral properties of spherically symmetric MHD alpha2-dynamos. In particular, the spectra of sphere-confined fluid or plasma configurations with physically realistic boundary conditions (BCs) (surrounding vacuum) and with idealized BCs (super-conducting surrounding) are discussed. The subjects comprise third-order branch points of the spectrum, self-adjointness of the dynamo operator in a Krein space as well as the resonant unfolding of diabolical points. It is sketched how certain classes of dynamos with a strongly localized alpha-profile embedded in a conducting surrounding can be mode decoupled by a diagonalization of the dynamo operator matrix. A mapping of the dynamo eigenvalue problem to that of a quantum mechanical Hamiltonian with energy dependent potential is used to obtain qualitative information about the spectral behavior. Links to supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics and to the Dirac equation are indicated.

id: math-ph/0703045
title: Qualitative Analysis of the Classical and Quantum Manakov Top
authors: Evguenii Sinitsyn, Boris Zhilinskii
comments: This is a contribution to the Vadim Kuznetsov Memorial Issue on Integrable Systems and Related Topics, published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 3 (2007), 046, 23 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0703045
abstract: Qualitative features of the Manakov top are discussed for the classical and quantum versions of the problem. Energy-momentum diagram for this integrable classical problem and quantum joint spectrum of two commuting observables for associated quantum problem are analyzed. It is demonstrated that the evolution of the specially chosen quantum cell through the joint quantum spectrum can be defined for paths which cross singular strata. The corresponding quantum monodromy transformation is introduced.

id: math-ph/0703061
title: Quantization of Contact Manifolds and Thermodynamics
authors: S. G. Rajeev
comments: Additional references; typos fixed; a clarifying remark added
journal: AnnalsPhys.323:768-782,2008
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0703061
abstract: The physical variables of classical thermodynamics occur in conjugate pairs such as pressure/volume, entropy/temperature, chemical potential/particle number. Nevertheless, and unlike in classical mechanics, there are an odd number of such thermodynamic co-ordinates. We review the formulation of thermodynamics and geometrical optics in terms of contact geometry. The Lagrange bracket provides a generalization of canonical commutation relations. Then we explore the quantization of this algebra by analogy to the quantization of mechanics. The quantum contact algebra is associative, but the constant functions are not represented by multiples of the identity: a reflection of the classical fact that Lagrange brackets satisfy the Jacobi identity but not the Leibnitz identity for derivations. We verify that this `quantization' describes correctly the passage from geometrical to wave optics as well. As an example, we work out the quantum contact geometry of odd-dimensional spheres.

id: math-ph/0703085
title: PT Symmetry on the Lattice: The Quantum Group Invariant XXZ Spin-Chain
authors: Christian Korff, Robert A. Weston
comments: 32 pages with figures, v2: some minor changes and added references, version published in JPA
journal: J.Phys.A40:8845-8872,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math-ph/0703085
abstract: We investigate the PT-symmetry of the quantum group invariant XXZ chain. We show that the PT-operator commutes with the quantum group action and also discuss the transformation properties of the Bethe wavefunction. We exploit the fact that the Hamiltonian is an element of the Temperley-Lieb algebra in order to give an explicit and exact construction of an operator that ensures quasi-Hermiticity of the model. This construction relys on earlier ideas related to quantum group reduction. We then employ this result in connection with the quantum analogue of Schur-Weyl duality to introduce a dual pair of C-operators, both of which have closed algebraic expressions. These are novel, exact results connecting the research areas of integrable lattice systems and non-Hermitian Hamiltonians.

id: math/0703448
title: A matrix generalization of Euler identity e^(ix) = cosx + i sinx
authors: Gianluca Argentini
comments: 5 pages, research work done at R&D Dept. of Company Institution
journal: 
subjects: Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Mathematics (math.GM); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0703448
abstract: In this work we present a matrix generalization of the Euler identity about exponential representation of a complex number. The concept of matrix exponential is used in a fundamental way. We define a notion of matrix imaginary unit which generalizes the usual complex imaginary unit. The Euler-like identity so obtained is compatible with the classical one. Also, we derive some exponential representation for matrix real and imaginary unit, and for the first Pauli matrix.

id: math/0703751
title: Noncommutative Spectral Decomposition with Quasideterminant
authors: Tatsuo Suzuki
comments: 18 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0703751
abstract: We develop a noncommutative analogue of the spectral decomposition with the quasideterminant defined by I. Gelfand and V. Retakh. In this theory, by introducing a noncommutative Lagrange interpolating polynomial and combining a noncommutative Cayley-Hamilton's theorem and an identity given by a Vandermonde-like quasideterminant, we can systematically calculate a function of a matrix even if it has noncommutative entries. As examples, the noncommutative spectral decomposition and the exponential matrices of a quaternionic matrix and of a matrix with entries being harmonic oscillators are given.

id: math/0703772
title: Typical support and Sanov large deviations of correlated states
authors: I. Bjelakovic, J.-D. Deuschel, T. Krueger, R. Seiler, Ra. Siegmund-Schultze, A. Szkola
comments: 29 pages, no figures, references added
journal: 
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0703772
abstract: Discrete stationary classical processes as well as quantum lattice states are asymptotically confined to their respective typical support, the exponential growth rate of which is given by the (maximal ergodic) entropy. In the iid case the distinguishability of typical supports can be asymptotically specified by means of the relative entropy, according to Sanov's theorem. We give an extension to the correlated case, referring to the newly introduced class of HP-states.

id: nlin/0703024
title: Spectral properties of Bunimovich mushroom billiards
authors: B. Dietz, T. Friedrich, M. Miski-Oglu, A. Richter, F. Schaefer
comments: 4 pages, 7 .eps-figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 75, 035203(R) (2007)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0703024
abstract: Properties of a quantum mushroom billiard in the form of a superconducting microwave resonator have been investigated. They reveal unexpected nonuniversal features such as, e.g., a supershell effect in the level density and a dip in the nearest-neighbor spacing distribution. Theoretical predictions for the quantum properties of mixed systems rely on the sharp separability of phase space - an unusual property met by mushroom billiards. We however find deviations which are ascribed to the presence of dynamic tunneling.

id: nucl-th/0703086
title: Predictions of Alpha Decay Half lives of Heavy and Superheavy Elements
authors: C. Samanta, P. Roy Chowdhury, D.N. Basu
comments: 18 pages including 5 figures and 1 table
journal: Nucl.Phys.A789:142-154,2007
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/nucl-th/0703086
abstract: Theoretical estimates for the lifetimes of several isotopes of heavy elements with Z=102-120 are presented by calculating the quantum mechanical tunneling probability in a WKB framework and using microscopic nucleus-nucleus potential obtained by folding the densities of interacting nuclei with the DDM3Y effective nuclear interaction. The $\alpha$-decay half lives calculated in this formalism using the experimental $Q$-values are in good agreement over a wide range of experimental data. Half lives are also calculated using $Q$-values extracted from two mass formulae. The Viola-Seaborg-Sobiczewski (VSS) estimates of $\alpha$-decay half lives with the same $Q$-values are presented for comparison. The half life calculations are found to be quite sensitive to the choice of $Q$-values. Comparison with the experimental data delineates the inadequacies of older mass predictions in the domain of heavy and superheavy elements as compared to the newer one by Muntian-Hofmann-Patyk-Sobiczewski, and highlights necessity of a more accurate mass formula which can predict $Q$-values with even higher precision.

id: physics/0703042
title: Terahertz and Infrared Uncooled Detector Based on a Microcantilever as a Radiation Pressure Sensor
authors: Gennady P. Berman, Boris M. Chernobrod, Alan R. Bishop, Vyacheslav N. Gorshkov
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0703042
abstract: We consider a far infrared (terahertz), room-temperature detector based on a microcantilever sensor of the radiation pressure. This system has a significantly higher sensitivity than existing uncooled detectors in the far infrared (terahertz) spectral region. The significant enhancement of sensitivity is due the combination non-absorption detection method and high quality optical microcavity. Our theoretical analysis of the detector sensitivity and numerical simulations demonstrate that the narrowband heterodyne detector with the band width 30 MHz has a minimal measurable intensity by three orders of magnitude less than conventional uncooled detectors. In the case of the broadband detector, the noise equivalent temperature difference (NETD) is 7.6 mK, which is significantly smaller than for conventional uncooled thermal detectors.

id: physics/0703067
title: Observation of the 1S0 - 3P0 clock transition in 27Al+
authors: T. Rosenband, P.O. Schmidt, D.B. Hume, W.M. Itano, T.M. Fortier, J.E. Stalnaker, K. Kim, S.A. Diddams, J.C.J. Koelemeij, J.C. Bergquist, D.J. Wineland
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; updated author list
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0703067
abstract: We report for the first time, laser spectroscopy of the 1S0 - 3P0 clock transition in 27Al+. A single aluminum ion and a single beryllium ion are simultaneously confined in a linear Paul trap, coupled by their mutual Coulomb repulsion. This coupling allows the beryllium ion to sympathetically cool the aluminum ion, and also enables transfer of the aluminum's electronic state to the beryllium's hyperfine state, which can be measured with high fidelity. These techniques are applied to a measurement of the clock transition frequency, \nu = 1 121 015 393 207 851(8) Hz. They are also used to measure the lifetime of the metastable clock state, \tau = 20.6 +/- 1.4 s, the ground state 1S0 g-factor, g_S = -0.00079248(14), and the excited state 3P0 g-factor, g_P = -0.00197686(21), in units of the Bohr magneton.

id: physics/0703080
title: Propagation of Electromagnetic Waves in Linear Media and Pseudo-Hermiticity
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh, Farhang Loran
comments: Slightly expanded published version, 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 81, 10007 (2008)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0703080
abstract: We express the electromagnetic field propagating in an arbitrary time-independent non-dispersive medium in terms of an operator that turns out to be pseudo-Hermitian for Hermitian dielectric and magnetic permeability tensors Epsilon and Mu. We exploit this property to determine the propagating field. In particular, we obtain an explicit expression for a planar field in an isotropic medium with Epsilon and Mu varying along the direction of the propagation. We also study the scattering of plane waves due to a localized inhomogeneity.

id: physics/0703126
title: The Laplace-Jaynes approach to induction
authors: P. G. L. Porta Mana, A. M?nsson, G. Bj?rk
comments: 38 pages, 1 figure. V2: altered discussion on some points, corrected typos, added references
journal: 
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0703126
abstract: An approach to induction is presented, based on the idea of analysing the context of a given problem into `circumstances'. This approach, fully Bayesian in form and meaning, provides a complement or in some cases an alternative to that based on de Finetti's representation theorem and on the notion of infinite exchangeability. In particular, it gives an alternative interpretation of those formulae that apparently involve `unknown probabilities' or `propensities'. Various advantages and applications of the presented approach are discussed, especially in comparison to that based on exchangeability. Generalisations are also discussed.

id: math/0703333
title: Generation of mutually unbiased bases as powers of a unitary matrix in 2-power dimensions
authors: Rod Gow
comments: 9 pages, some earlier questions resolved
journal: 
subjects: Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0703333
abstract: Let q be a power of 2. We show by representation theory that there exists a q x q unitary matrix of multiplicative order q+1 whose powers generate q+1 pairwise mutually unbiased base in C^q. When q is a power of an odd prime, there is a q x q unitary matrix of multiplicative order q+1 whose first (q+1)/2 powers generate (q+1)/2 pairwise mutually unbiased bases. We also show how the existence of these matrices implies the existence of a special type of orthogonal decomposition with respect to the Killing form of the special linear and symplectic Lie algebras.

id: cond-mat/0703012
title: Switchable coupling between charge and flux qubits
authors: Xiao-Ling He, J. Q. You, Yu-xi Liu, L. F. Wei, Franco Nori
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 024517 (2007)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703012
abstract: We propose a hybrid quantum circuit with both charge and flux qubits connected to a large Josephson junction that gives rise to an effective inter-qubit coupling controlled by the external magnetic flux. This switchable inter-qubit coupling can be used to transfer back and forth an arbitrary superposition state between the charge qubit and the flux qubit working at the optimal point. The proposed hybrid circuit provides a promising quantum memory because the flux qubit at the optimal point can store the tranferred quantum state for a relatively long time.

id: cond-mat/0703632
title: Sideband Transitions and Two-Tone Spectroscopy of a Superconducting Qubit Strongly Coupled to an On-Chip Cavity
authors: A. Wallraff, D. I. Schuster, A. Blais, J. M. Gambetta, J. Schreier, L. Frunzio, M. H. Devoret, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, version with high resolution figures available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 050501 (2007)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703632
abstract: Sideband transitions are spectroscopically probed in a system consisting of a Cooper pair box strongly but non-resonantly coupled to a superconducting transmission line resonator. When the Cooper pair box is operated at the optimal charge bias point the symmetry of the hamiltonian requires a two photon process to access sidebands. The observed large dispersive ac-Stark shifts in the sideband transitions induced by the strong non-resonant drives agree well with our theoretical predictions. Sideband transitions are important in realizing qubit-photon and qubit-qubit entanglement in the circuit quantum electrodynamics architecture for quantum information processing.

id: cond-mat/0703192
title: Coherent control of interacting electrons in quantum dots via navigation in the energy spectrum
authors: G. E. Murgida, D. A. Wisniacki, P. I. Tamborenea
comments: Published version. 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 036806 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703192
abstract: Quantum control of the wave function of two interacting electrons confined in quasi-one-dimensional double-well semiconductor structures is demonstrated. The control strategies are based on the knowledge of the energy spectrum as a function of an external uniform electric field. When two low-lying levels have avoided crossings our system behaves dynamically to a large extent as a two-level system. This characteristic is exploited to implement coherent control strategies based on slow (adiabatic passage) and rapid (diabatic Landau-Zener transition) changes of the external field. We apply this method to reach desired target states that lie far in the spectrum from the initial state.

id: cond-mat/0703361
title: Charged particle motion in a time-dependent flux-driven ring: an exactly solvable model
authors: Pi-Gang Luan, Chi-Shung Tang
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 19 (2007) 176224
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0703361
abstract: We consider a charged particle driven by a time-dependent flux threading a quantum ring. The dynamics of the charged particle is investigated using classical treatment, Fourier expansion technique, time-evolution method, and Lewis-Riesenfeld approach. We have shown that, by properly managing the boundary conditions, a time-dependent wave function can be obtained using a general non-Hermitian time-dependent invariant, which is a specific linear combination of initial angular-momentum and azimuthal-angle operators. It is shown that the linear invariant eigenfunction can be realized as a Gaussian-type wave packet with a peak moving along the classical angular trajectory, while the distribution of the wave packet is determined by the ratio of the coefficient of the initial angle to that of the initial canonical angular momentum. From the topologically nontrivial nature as well as the classical trajectory and angular momentum, one can determine the dynamical motion of the wave packet. It should be noted that the peak position is no longer an expectation value of the angle operator, and hence the Ehrenfest theorem is not directly applicable in such a topologically nontrivial system.

id: physics/0703028
title: Generation of Polarization Squeezing with Periodically Poled KTP at 1064 nm
authors: Mikael Lassen, Metin Sabuncu, Preben Buchhave, Ulrik L.Andersen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0703028
abstract: We report the experimental demonstration of directly produced polarization squeezing at 1064 nm from a type I optical parametric amplifier (OPA) based on a periodically poled KTP crystal (PPKTP). The orthogonal polarization modes of the polarization squeezed state are both defined by the OPA cavity mode, and the birefringence induced by the PPKTP crystal is compensated for by a second, but inactive, PPKTP crystal. Stokes parameter squeezing of 3.6 dB and anti squeezing of 9.4 dB is observed.

