id: 0704.0042
title: General System theory, Like-Quantum Semantics and Fuzzy Sets
authors: Ignazio Licata
comments: 12 pages,3 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0042
abstract: It is outlined the possibility to extend the quantum formalism in relation to the requirements of the general systems theory. It can be done by using a quantum semantics arising from the deep logical structure of quantum theory. It is so possible taking into account the logical openness relationship between observer and system. We are going to show how considering the truth-values of quantum propositions within the context of the fuzzy sets is here more useful for systemics . In conclusion we propose an example of formal quantum coherence.

id: 0704.0046
title: A limit relation for entropy and channel capacity per unit cost
authors: I. Csiszar, F. Hiai, D. Petz
comments: LATEX file, 11 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48(2007), 092102.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0046
abstract: In a quantum mechanical model, Diosi, Feldmann and Kosloff arrived at a conjecture stating that the limit of the entropy of certain mixtures is the relative entropy as system size goes to infinity. The conjecture is proven in this paper for density matrices. The first proof is analytic and uses the quantum law of large numbers. The second one clarifies the relation to channel capacity per unit cost for classical-quantum channels. Both proofs lead to generalization of the conjecture.

id: 0704.0117
title: Lower ground state due to counter-rotating wave interaction in trapped ion system
authors: T. Liu, K.L. Wang, M. Feng
comments: Complete solution of a trapped ion in both strong and weak excitation regimes and beyond Lamb-Dicke limit. Also applicable to JC model relevant problems
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0117
abstract: We consider a single ion confined in a trap under radiation of two traveling waves of lasers. In the strong-excitation regime and without the restriction of Lamb-Dicke limit, the Hamiltonian of the system is similar to a driving Jaynes-Cummings model without rotating wave approximation (RWA). The approach we developed enables us to present a complete eigensolutions, which makes it available to compare with the solutions under the RWA. We find that, the ground state in our non-RWA solution is energically lower than the counterpart under the RWA. If we have the ion in the ground state, it is equivalent to a spin dependent force on the trapped ion. Discussion is made for the difference between the solutions with and without the RWA, and for the relevant experimental test, as well as for the possible application in quantum information processing.

id: 0704.0135
title: A Single Trapped Ion as a Time-Dependent Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Nicolas C. Menicucci, G. J. Milburn
comments: 5 pages (two-column format), no figures, added introductory material, other minor content revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052105 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0135
abstract: We show how a single trapped ion may be used to test a variety of important physical models realized as time-dependent harmonic oscillators. The ion itself functions as its own motional detector through laser-induced electronic transitions. Alsing et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 220401 (2005)] proposed that an exponentially decaying trap frequency could be used to simulate (thermal) Gibbons-Hawking radiation in an expanding universe, but the Hamiltonian used was incorrect. We apply our general solution to this experimental proposal, correcting the result for a single ion and showing that while the actual spectrum is different from the Gibbons-Hawking case, it nevertheless shares an important experimental signature with this result.

id: 0704.0137
title: Topological defects, geometric phases, and the angular momentum of light
authors: S C Tiwari
comments: No figures
journal: Optik-International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, 120, 414-417 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0137
abstract: Recent reports on the intriguing features of vector vortex bearing beams are analyzed using geometric phases in optics. It is argued that the spin redirection phase induced circular birefringence is the origin of topological phase singularities arising in the inhomogeneous polarization patterns. A unified picture of recent results is presented based on this proposition. Angular momentum shift within the light beam (OAM) has exact equivalence with the angular momentum holonomy associated with the geometric phase consistent with our conjecture.

id: 0704.0179
title: Experimental nonclassicality of single-photon-added thermal light states
authors: Alessandro Zavatta, Valentina Parigi, Marco Bellini
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 75, 052106 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0179
abstract: We report the experimental realization and tomographic analysis of novel quantum light states obtained by exciting a classical thermal field by a single photon. Such states, although completely incoherent, possess a tunable degree of quantumness which is here exploited to put to a stringent experimental test some of the criteria proposed for the proof and the measurement of state non-classicality. The quantum character of the states is also given in quantum information terms by evaluating the amount of entanglement that they can produce.

id: 0704.0202
title: Towards Minimal Resources of Measurement-based Quantum Computation
authors: Simon Perdrix
comments: 8 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 9 206 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0202
abstract: We improve the upper bound on the minimal resources required for measurement-based quantum computation. Minimizing the resources required for this model is a key issue for experimental realization of a quantum computer based on projective measurements. This new upper bound allows also to reply in the negative to the open question about the existence of a trade-off between observable and ancillary qubits in measurement-based quantum computation.

id: 0704.0214
title: A schematic model of scattering in PT-symmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 16 pp., a part of the talk to be presented during the 2nd Int. Doppler-Institute Microconference on the Analytic and Algebraic Methods: Prague, Villa Lanna, April 3rd, 2007, cf. this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0214
abstract: One-dimensional scattering problem admitting a complex, PT-symmetric short-range potential V(x) is considered. Using a Runge-Kutta-discretized version of Schroedinger equation we derive the formulae for the reflection and transmission coefficients and emphasize that the only innovation emerges in fact via a complexification of one of the potential-characterizing parameters.

id: 0704.0251
title: Entanglement of Subspaces and Error Correcting Codes
authors: Gilad Gour, Nolan R. Wallach
comments: 8 pages, Published Version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042309 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0251
abstract: We introduce the notion of entanglement of subspaces as a measure that quantify the entanglement of bipartite states in a randomly selected subspace. We discuss its properties and in particular we show that for maximally entangled subspaces it is additive. Furthermore, we show that maximally entangled subspaces can play an important role in the study of quantum error correction codes. We discuss both degenerate and non-degenerate codes and show that the subspace spanned by the logical codewords of a non-degenerate code is a 2k-totally (maximally) entangled subspace. As for non-degenerate codes, we provide a mathematical definition in terms of subspaces and, as an example, we analyze Shor's nine qubits code in terms of 22 mutually orthogonal subspaces.

id: 0704.0268
title: Automated Generation of Layout and Control for Quantum Circuits
authors: Mark Whitney, Nemanja Isailovic, Yatish Patel, John Kubiatowicz
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures, To appear in ACM Computing Frontiers 2007, this version contains expanded related work
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0268
abstract: We present a computer-aided design flow for quantum circuits, complete with automatic layout and control logic extraction. To motivate automated layout for quantum circuits, we investigate grid-based layouts and show a performance variance of four times as we vary grid structure and initial qubit placement. We then propose two polynomial-time design heuristics: a greedy algorithm suitable for small, congestion-free quantum circuits and a dataflow-based analysis approach to placement and routing with implicit initial placement of qubits. Finally, we show that our dataflow-based heuristic generates better layouts than the state-of-the-art automated grid-based layout and scheduling mechanism in terms of latency and potential pipelinability, but at the cost of some area.

id: 0704.0323
title: General sequential quantum cloning
authors: Gui-Fang Dang, Heng Fan
comments: 4 pages
journal: J.Phys.A 41, 155303 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0323
abstract: Some multipartite quantum states can be generated in a sequential manner which may be implemented by various physical setups like microwave and optical cavity QED, trapped ions, and quantum dots etc. We analyze the general N to M qubits Universal Quantum Cloning Machine (UQCM) within a sequential generation scheme. We show that the N to M sequential UQCM is available. The case of d-level quantum states sequential cloning is also presented.

id: 0704.0340
title: Phonon-mediated decay of an atom in a surface-induced potential
authors: Fam Le Kien, S. Dutta Gupta, K. Hakuta
comments: 14 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0340
abstract: We study phonon-mediated transitions between translational levels of an atom in a surface-induced potential. We present a general master equation governing the dynamics of the translational states of the atom. In the framework of the Debye model, we derive compact expressions for the rates for both upward and downward transitions. Numerical calculations for the transition rates are performed for a deep silica-induced potential allowing for a large number of bound levels as well as free states of a cesium atom. The total absorption rate is shown to be determined mainly by the bound-to-bound transitions for deep bound levels and by bound-to-free transitions for shallow bound levels. Moreover, the phonon emission and absorption processes can be orders of magnitude larger for deep bound levels as compared to the shallow bound ones. We also study various types of transitions from free states. We show that, for thermal atomic cesium with temperature in the range from 100 $\mu$K to 400 $\mu$K in the vicinity of a silica surface with temperature of 300 K, the adsorption (free-to-bound decay) rate is about two times larger than the heating (free-to-free upward decay) rate, while the cooling (free-to-free downward decay) rate is negligible.

id: 0704.0372
title: Levy-Lieb constrained-search formulation as a minimization of the correlation functional
authors: L.Delle Site
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: Journal of Physics A:Math.Theor.40, 2787 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0372
abstract: The constrained-search formulation of Levy and Lieb, which formally defines the exact Hohenberg-Kohn functional for any N-representable electron density, is here shown to be equivalent to the minimization of the correlation functional with respect to the N-1 conditional probability density, where N is number of electrons of the system. The consequences and implications of such a result are here analyzed and discussed via a practical example.

id: 0704.0373
title: Reality of linear and angular momentum expectation values in bound states
authors: Utpal Roy, Suranjana Ghosh, T. Shreecharan, Kaushik Bhattacharya
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0373
abstract: In quantum mechanics textbooks the momentum operator is defined in the Cartesian coordinates and rarely the form of the momentum operator in spherical polar coordinates is discussed. Consequently one always generalizes the Cartesian prescription to other coordinates and falls in a trap. In this work we introduce the difficulties one faces when the question of the momentum operator in spherical polar coordinate comes. We have tried to point out most of the elementary quantum mechanical results, related to the momentum operator, which has coordinate dependence. We explicitly calculate the momentum expectation values in various bound states and show that the expectation value really turns out to be zero, a consequence of the fact that the momentum expectation value is real. We comment briefly on the status of the angular variables in quantum mechanics and the problems related in interpreting them as dynamical variables. At the end, we calculate the Heisenberg's equation of motion for the radial component of the momentum for the Hydrogen atom.

id: 0704.0376
title: Environmental noise reduction for holonomic quantum gates
authors: Daniele Parodi, Maura Sassetti, Paolo Solinas, Nino Zangh¨¬
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0376
abstract: We study the performance of holonomic quantum gates, driven by lasers, under the effect of a dissipative environment modeled as a thermal bath of oscillators. We show how to enhance the performance of the gates by suitable choice of the loop in the manifold of the controllable parameters of the laser. For a simplified, albeit realistic model, we find the surprising result that for a long time evolution the performance of the gate (properly estimated in terms of average fidelity) increases. On the basis of this result, we compare holonomic gates with the so-called stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) gates.

id: 0704.0386
title: Quantum non-local effects with Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Franck Lalo?, William J. Mullin
comments: version published, with a shorter abstract to fit into the 9 lines of PRL, one more reference, and minor changes
journal: Physical Review Letters 99 (2007) 150401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0386
abstract: We study theoretically the properties of two Bose-Einstein condensates in different spin states, represented by a double Fock state. Individual measurements of the spins of the particles are performed in transverse directions, giving access to the relative phase of the condensates. Initially, this phase is completely undefined, and the first measurements provide random results. But a fixed value of this phase rapidly emerges under the effect of the successive quantum measurements, giving rise to a quasi-classical situation where all spins have parallel transverse orientations. If the number of measurements reaches its maximum (the number of particles), quantum effects show up again, giving rise to violations of Bell type inequalities. The violation of BCHSH inequalities with an arbitrarily large number of spins may be comparable (or even equal) to that obtained with two spins.

id: 0704.0397
title: Conditional generation of path-entangled optical NOON states
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, v2: added references and minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 063803 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0397
abstract: We propose a measurement protocol to generate path-entangled NOON states conditionally from two pulsed type II optical parametric oscillators. We calculate the fidelity of the produced states and the success probability of the protocol. The trigger detectors are assumed to have finite dead time, and for short pulse trigger fields they are modeled as on/off detectors with finite efficiency. Continuous-wave operation of the parametric oscillators is also considered.

id: 0704.0403
title: Review: Semiconductor Quantum Light Sources
authors: Andrew J Shields
comments: preprint version
journal: Nature Photonics 1, 215 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0403
abstract: Lasers and LEDs display a statistical distribution in the number of photons emitted in a given time interval. New applications exploiting the quantum properties of light require sources for which either individual photons, or pairs, are generated in a regulated stream. Here we review recent research on single-photon sources based on the emission of a single semiconductor quantum dot. In just a few years remarkable progress has been made in generating indistinguishable single-photons and entangled photon pairs using such structures. It suggests it may be possible to realise compact, robust, LED-like semiconductor devices for quantum light generation.

id: 0704.0409
title: On the over-barrier reflection in quantum mechanics with multiple degrees of freedom
authors: D.G. Levkov, A.G. Panin, S.M. Sibiryakov
comments: Journal version. Introduction expanded, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032114 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0409
abstract: We present an analytic example of two dimensional quantum mechanical system, where the exponential suppression of the probability of over-barrier reflection changes non-monotonically with energy. The suppression is minimal at certain "optimal" energies where reflection occurs with exponentially larger probability than at other energies.

id: 0704.0420
title: The Hourglass - Consequences of Pure Hamiltonian Evolution of a Radiating System
authors: Donald McCartor
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0420
abstract: Hourglass is the name given here to a formal isolated quantum system that can radiate. Starting from a time when it defines the system it represents clearly and no radiation is present, it is given straightforward Hamiltonian evolution. The question of what significance hourglasses have is raised, and this question is proposed to be more consequential than the measurement problem.

id: 0704.0461
title: Entanglement increase from local interactions with not-completely-positive maps
authors: Thomas F. Jordan, Anil Shaji, E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 6 Pages, new title, substantially revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0461
abstract: Simple examples are constructed that show the entanglement of two qubits being both increased and decreased by interactions on just one of them. One of the two qubits interacts with a third qubit, a control, that is never entangled or correlated with either of the two entangled qubits and is never entangled, but becomes correlated, with the system of those two qubits. The two entangled qubits do not interact, but their state can change from maximally entangled to separable or from separable to maximally entangled. Similar changes for the two qubits are made with a swap operation between one of the qubits and a control; then there are compensating changes of entanglement that involve the control. When the entanglement increases, the map that describes the change of the state of the two entangled qubits is not completely positive. Combination of two independent interactions that individually give exponential decay of the entanglement can cause the entanglement to not decay exponentially but, instead, go to zero at a finite time.

id: 0704.0476
title: Geometric phase of an atom inside an adiabatic radio frequency potential
authors: P. Zhang, L. You
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0476
abstract: We investigate the geometric phase of an atom inside an adiabatic radio frequency (rf) potential created from a static magnetic field (B-field) and a time dependent rf field. The spatial motion of the atomic center of mass is shown to give rise to a geometric phase, or Berry's phase, to the adiabatically evolving atomic hyperfine spin along the local B-field. This phase is found to depend on both the static B-field along the semi-classical trajectory of the atomic center of mass and an ``effective magnetic field'' of the total B-field, including the oscillating rf field. Specific calculations are provided for several recent atom interferometry experiments and proposals utilizing adiabatic rf potentials.

id: 0704.0482
title: Implementation of holonomic quantum computation through engineering and manipulating environment
authors: Zhang-qi Yin, Fu-li Li, Peng Peng
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; v2, We have maken considerable changes. New model to engineer effective reservoir without broadband squeezing light is proposed, which makes the scheme more practical. Main results are not changed; v3, accepted for PRA. Change style to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 062311 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0482
abstract: We consider an atom-field coupled system, in which two pairs of four-level atoms are respectively driven by laser fields and trapped in two distant cavities that are connected by an optical fiber. First, we show that an effective squeezing reservoir can be engineered under appropriate conditions. Then, we show that a two-qubit geometric CPHASE gate between the atoms in the two cavities can be implemented through adiabatically manipulating the engineered reservoir along a closed loop. This scheme that combines engineering environment with decoherence-free space and geometric phase quantum computation together has the remarkable feature: a CPHASE gate with arbitrary phase shift is implemented by simply changing the strength and relative phase of the driving fields.

id: 0704.0489
title: Relativistic treatment in D-dimensions to a spin-zero particle with noncentral equal scalar and vector ring-shaped Kratzer potential
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 20 pages
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys. 6, 141(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0489
abstract: The Klein-Gordon equation in D-dimensions for a recently proposed Kratzer potential plus ring-shaped potential is solved analytically by means of the conventional Nikiforov-Uvarov method. The exact energy bound-states and the corresponding wave functions of the Klein-Gordon are obtained in the presence of the noncentral equal scalar and vector potentials. The results obtained in this work are more general and can be reduced to the standard forms in three-dimensions given by other works.

id: 0704.0495
title: The Veldkamp Space of Two-Qubits
authors: Metod Saniga, Michel Planat, Petr Pracna, Hans Havlicek
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables; Version 2 - math nomenclature fine-tuned and two references added; Version 3 - published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 3 (2007) 075, 7 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0495
abstract: Given a remarkable representation of the generalized Pauli operators of two-qubits in terms of the points of the generalized quadrangle of order two, W(2), it is shown that specific subsets of these operators can also be associated with the points and lines of the four-dimensional projective space over the Galois field with two elements - the so-called Veldkamp space of W(2). An intriguing novelty is the recognition of (uni- and tri-centric) triads and specific pentads of the Pauli operators in addition to the "classical" subsets answering to geometric hyperplanes of W(2).

id: 0704.0511
title: A unified approach to SIC-POVMs and MUBs
authors: O. Albouy, M. R. Kibler
comments: 15 pages
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research 28 (2007) 429-438
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0511
abstract: A unified approach to (symmetric informationally complete) positive operator valued measures and mutually unbiased bases is developed in this article. The approach is based on the use of operator equivalents expanded in the enveloping algebra of SU(2). Emphasis is put on similarities and differences between SIC-POVMs and MUBs.

id: 0704.0516
title: Effects of Imperfect Gate Operations in Shor's Prime Factorization Algorithm
authors: Hao Guo, Gui Lu Long, Yang Sun
comments: 8 pages 4 figures
journal: Journal of the Chinese Chemical Society, 2001, 48: 449-454
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0516
abstract: The effects of imperfect gate operations in implementation of Shor's prime factorization algorithm are investigated. The gate imperfections may be classified into three categories: the systematic error, the random error, and the one with combined errors. It is found that Shor's algorithm is robust against the systematic errors but is vulnerable to the random errors. Error threshold is given to the algorithm for a given number $N$ to be factorized.

id: 0704.0520
title: A critical theory of quantum entanglement for the Hydrogen molecule
authors: Tina A.C. Maiolo, Luigi Martina, Giulio Soliani
comments: 14 pages, 14 figures, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0520
abstract: In this paper we investigate some entanglement properties for the Hydrogen molecule considered as a two interacting spin 1/2 (qubit) model. The entanglement related to the $H_{2}$ molecule is evaluated both using the von Neumann entropy and the Concurrence and it is compared with the corresponding quantities for the two interacting spin system. Many aspects of these functions are examinated employing in part analytical and, essentially, numerical techniques. We have compared analogous results obtained by Huang and Kais a few years ago. In this respect, some possible controversial situations are presented and discussed.

id: 0704.0523
title: Quantum superpositions and entanglement of thermal states at high temperatures and their applications to quantum information processing
authors: Hyunseok Jeong, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures, minor corrections, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042103 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0523
abstract: We study characteristics of superpositions and entanglement of thermal states at high temperatures and discuss their applications to quantum information processing. We introduce thermal-state qubits and thermal-Bell states, which are a generalization of pure-state qubits and Bell states to thermal mixtures. A scheme is then presented to discriminate between the four thermal-Bell states without photon number resolving detection but with Kerr nonlinear interactions and two single-photon detectors. This enables one to perform quantum teleportation and gate operations for quantum computation with thermal-state qubits.

id: 0704.0573
title: Elativistic treatment in}$D$ - Dimensions to a spin-zero particle with noncentral equal scalar and vector ring-shaped Kratzer potential
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0573
abstract: The Klein-Gordon equation in D-dimensions for a recently proposed Kratzer potential plus ring-shaped potential is solved analytically by means of the conventional Nikiforov-Uvarov method. The exact energy bound-states and the corresponding wave functions of the Klein-Gordon are obtained in the presence of the noncentral equal scalar and vector potentials. The results obtained in this work are more general and can be reduced to the standard forms in three-dimensions given by other works.

id: 0704.0606
title: Three-dimensional effects in "atom diodes": atom-optical devices for one-way motion
authors: A. Ruschhaupt, J. G. Muga
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0606
abstract: The ``atom diode'' is a laser device that lets the ground state atom pass in one direction but not in the opposite direction. We examine three-dimensional effects of that device for arbitrary atomic incidence angles on flat laser sheets and set breakdown limiting angles and velocities. It is found that a correct diodic behavior independent of the incident angle can be obtained with blue detuned lasers.

id: 0704.0609
title: The effectiveness of quantum operations for eavesdropping on sealed messages
authors: Paul A Lopata, Thomas B Bahder
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. Third Feynman Festival, 25 -- 29 August 2006, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, U.S.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0609
abstract: A quantum protocol is described which enables a user to send sealed messages and that allows for the detection of active eavesdroppers. We examine a class of eavesdropping strategies, those that make use of quantum operations, and we determine the information gain versus disturbance caused by these strategies. We demonstrate this tradeoff with an example and we compare this protocol to quantum key distribution, quantum direct communication, and quantum seal protocols.

id: 0704.0639
title: A measure of the non-Gaussian character of a quantum state
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Matteo G. A. Paris, Konrad Banaszek
comments: revised and enlarged version, 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042327 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0639
abstract: We address the issue of quantifying the non-Gaussian character of a bosonic quantum state and introduce a non-Gaussianity measure based on the Hilbert-Schmidt distance between the state under examination and a reference Gaussian state. We analyze in details the properties of the proposed measure and exploit it to evaluate the non-Gaussianity of some relevant single- and multi-mode quantum states. The evolution of non-Gaussianity is also analyzed for quantum states undergoing the processes of Gaussification by loss and de-Gaussification by photon-subtraction. The suggested measure is easily computable for any state of a bosonic system and allows to define a corresponding measure for the non-Gaussian character of a quantum operation.

id: 0704.0641
title: Quantum engineering of photon states with entangled atomic ensembles
authors: D. Porras, J.I. Cirac
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0641
abstract: We propose and analyze a new method to produce single and entangled photons which does not require cavities. It relies on the collective enhancement of light emission as a consequence of the presence of entanglement in atomic ensembles. Light emission is triggered by a laser pulse, and therefore our scheme is deterministic. Furthermore, it allows one to produce a variety of photonic entangled states by first preparing certain atomic states using simple sequences of quantum gates. We analyze the feasibility of our scheme, and particularize it to: ions in linear traps, atoms in optical lattices, and in cells at room temperature.

id: 0704.0663
title: Decoherence of Quantum-Enhanced Timing Accuracy
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 063809 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0663
abstract: Quantum enhancement of optical pulse timing accuracy is investigated in the Heisenberg picture. Effects of optical loss, group-velocity dispersion, and Kerr nonlinearity on the position and momentum of an optical pulse are studied via Heisenberg equations of motion. Using the developed formalism, the impact of decoherence by optical loss on the use of adiabatic soliton control for beating the timing standard quantum limit [Tsang, Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 023902 (2006)] is analyzed theoretically and numerically. The analysis shows that an appreciable enhancement can be achieved using current technology, despite an increase in timing jitter mainly due to the Gordon-Haus effect. The decoherence effect of optical loss on the transmission of quantum-enhanced timing information is also studied, in order to identify situations in which the enhancement is able to survive.

id: 0704.0678
title: Generation of Large Number-Path Entanglement Using Linear Optics and Feed-Forward
authors: Hugo Cable, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 163604 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0678
abstract: We show how an idealised measurement procedure can condense photons from two modes into one, and how, by feeding forward the results of the measurement, it is possible to generate efficiently superpositions of components for which only one mode is populated, commonly called ``N00N states''. For the basic procedure, sources of number states leak onto a beam splitter, and the output ports are monitored by photodetectors. We find that detecting a fixed fraction of the input at one output port suffices to direct the remainder to the same port with high probability, however large the initial state. When instead photons are detected at both ports, Schr\"{o}dinger cat states are produced. We describe a circuit for making the components of such a state orthogonal, and another for subsequent conversion to a N00N state. Our approach scales exponentially better than existing proposals. Important applications include quantum imaging and metrology.

id: 0704.0709
title: Braiding transformation, entanglement swapping and Berry phase in entanglement space
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Kang Xue, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042324 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0709
abstract: We show that braiding transformation is a natural approach to describe quantum entanglement, by using the unitary braiding operators to realize entanglement swapping and generate the GHZ states as well as the linear cluster states. A Hamiltonian is constructed from the unitary $\check{R}_{i,i+1}(\theta,\phi)$-matrix, where $\phi=\omega t$ is time-dependent while $\theta$ is time-independent. This in turn allows us to investigate the Berry phase in the entanglement space.

id: 0704.0757
title: Bounds on Negativity of Superpositions
authors: Yong-Cheng Ou, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages
journal: Physical Review A 76,022320(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0757
abstract: The entanglement quantified by negativity of pure bipartite superposed states is studied. We show that if the entanglement is quantified by the concurrence two pure states of high fidelity to one another still have nearly the same entanglement. Furthermore this conclusion can be guaranteed by our obtained inequality, and the concurrence is shown to be a continuous function even in infinite dimensions. The bounds on the negativity of superposed states in terms of those of the states being superposed are obtained. These bounds can find useful applications in estimating the amount of the entanglement of a given pure state.

id: 0704.0758
title: Entangling Independent Photons by Time Measurement
authors: Matthaeus Halder, Alexios Beveratos, Nicolas Gisin, Valerio Scarani, Christoph Simon, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Physics 3, 692 - 695 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0758
abstract: A quantum system composed of two or more subsystems can be in an entangled state, i.e. a state in which the properties of the global system are well defined but the properties of each subsystem are not. Entanglement is at the heart of quantum physics, both for its conceptual foundations and for applications in information processing and quantum communication. Remarkably, entanglement can be "swapped": if one prepares two independent entangled pairs A1-A2 and B1-B2, a joint measurement on A1 and B1 (called a "Bell-State Measurement", BSM) has the effect of projecting A2 and B2 onto an entangled state, although these two particles have never interacted or shared any common past[1,2]. Experiments using twin photons produced by spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) have already demonstrated entanglement swapping[3-6], but here we present its first realization using continuous wave (CW) sources, as originally proposed[2]. The challenge was to achieve sufficiently sharp synchronization of the photons in the BSM. Using narrow-band filters, the coherence time of the photons that undergo the BSM is significantly increased, exceeding the temporal resolution of the detectors. Hence pulsed sources can be replaced by CW sources, which do not require any synchronization[6,7], allowing for the first time the use of completely autonomous sources. Our experiment exploits recent progress in the time precision of photon detectors, in the efficiency of photon pair production by SPDC with waveguides in nonlinear crystals[8], and in the stability of narrow-band filters. This approach is independent of the form of entanglement; we employed time-bin entangled photons[9] at telecom wavelengths. Our setup is robust against thermal or mechanical fluctuations in optical fibres thanks to cm-long coherence lengths.

id: 0704.0763
title: Coherent control of atomic tunneling
authors: John Martin, Daniel Braun
comments: 6 pages revtex, 4 figures, extended version including numerical results taking into account higher vibrationnal levels
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41, 115502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0763
abstract: We study the tunneling of a two-level atom in a double well potential while the atom is coupled to a single electromagnetic field mode of a cavity. The coupling between internal and external degrees of freedom, due to the mechanical effect on the atom from photon emission into the cavity mode, can dramatically change the tunneling behavior. We predict that in general the tunneling process becomes quasiperiodic. In a certain regime of parameters a collapse and revival of the tunneling occurs. Accessing the internal degrees of freedom of the atom with a laser allows to coherently manipulate the atom position, and in particular to prepare the atom in one of the two wells. The effects described should be observable with atoms in an optical double well trap.

id: 0704.0766
title: Local de Broglie-Bohm Trajectories from Entangled Wavefunctions
authors: Michael Clover
comments: 11 pages, no figures v2: fix minor grammatical infelicities, added some references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0766
abstract: We present a local interpretation of what is usually considered to be a nonlocal de Broglie-Bohm trajectory prescription for an entangled singlet state of massive particles. After reviewing various meanings of the term ``nonlocal'', we show that by using appropriately retarded wavefunctions (i.e., the locality loophole) this local model can violate Bell's inequality, without making any appeal to detector inefficiencies. We analyze a possible experimental configuration appropriate to massive two-particle singlet wavefunctions and find that as long as the particles are not ultra-relativistic, a locality loophole exists and Dirac wave(s) can propagate from Alice or Bob's changing magnetic field, through space, to the other detector, arriving before the particle and thereby allowing a local interpretation to the 2-particle de Broglie-Bohm trajectories. We also propose a physical effect due to changing magnetic fields in a Stern-Gerlach EPR setup that will throw away events and create a detector loophole in otherwise perfectly efficient detectors, an effect that is only significant for near-luminal particles that might otherwise close the locality loophole.

id: 0704.0771
title: Suppression of 1/f noise in one-qubit systems
authors: Pekko Kuopanportti, Mikko Mottonen, Ville Bergholm, Olli-Pentti Saira, Jun Zhang, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032334 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0771
abstract: We investigate the generation of quantum operations for one-qubit systems under classical noise with 1/f^\alpha power spectrum, where 2>\alpha > 0. We present an efficient way to approximate the noise with a discrete multi-state Markovian fluctuator. With this method, the average temporal evolution of the qubit density matrix under 1/f^\alpha noise can be feasibly determined from recently derived deterministic master equations. We obtain qubit operations such as quantum memory and the NOT}gate to high fidelity by a gradient based optimization algorithm. For the NOT gate, the computed fidelities are qualitatively similar to those obtained earlier for random telegraph noise. In the case of quantum memory however, we observe a nonmonotonic dependency of the fidelity on the operation time, yielding a natural access rate of the memory.

id: 0704.0796
title: A density tensor hierarchy for open system dynamics: retrieving the noise
authors: Stephen L. Adler
comments: TeX, 58 pages v2: minor editing and typos corrected; v3: some significant revisions and shortening; v4: has final corrections in published version
journal: J.Phys.A40:8959-8990,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0796
abstract: We introduce a density tensor hierarchy for open system dynamics, that recovers information about fluctuations lost in passing to the reduced density matrix. For the case of fluctuations arising from a classical probability distribution, the hierarchy is formed from expectations of products of pure state density matrix elements, and can be compactly summarized by a simple generating function. For the case of quantum fluctuations arising when a quantum system interacts with a quantum environment in an overall pure state, the corresponding hierarchy is defined as the environmental trace of products of system matrix elements of the full density matrix. Only the lowest member of the quantum noise hierarchy is directly experimentally measurable. The unit trace and idempotence properties of the pure state density matrix imply descent relations for the tensor hierarchies, that relate the order $n$ tensor, under contraction of appropriate pairs of tensor indices, to the order $n-1$ tensor. As examples to illustrate the classical probability distribution formalism, we consider a quantum system evolving by It\^o stochastic and by jump process Schr\"odinger equations. As examples to illustrate the corresponding trace formalism in the quantum fluctuation case, we consider collisional Brownian motion of an infinite mass Brownian particle, and the weak coupling Born-Markov master equation. In different specializations, the latter gives the hierarchies generalizing the quantum optical master equation and the Caldeira--Leggett master equation. As a further application of the density tensor, we contrast stochastic Schr\"odinger equations that reduce and that do not reduce the state vector, and discuss why a quantum system coupled to a quantum environment behaves like the latter.

id: 0704.0800
title: Quantum Auctions
authors: Tad Hogg, Pavithra Harsha, Kay-Yut Chen
comments: 38 pages, 3 figures
journal: Intl. J. of Quantum Information 5:751-780 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0800
abstract: We present a quantum auction protocol using superpositions to represent bids and distributed search to identify the winner(s). Measuring the final quantum state gives the auction outcome while simultaneously destroying the superposition. Thus non-winning bids are never revealed. Participants can use entanglement to arrange for correlations among their bids, with the assurance that this entanglement is not observable by others. The protocol is useful for information hiding applications, such as partnership bidding with allocative externality or concerns about revealing bidding preferences. The protocol applies to a variety of auction types, e.g., first or second price, and to auctions involving either a single item or arbitrary bundles of items (i.e., combinatorial auctions). We analyze the game-theoretical behavior of the quantum protocol for the simple case of a sealed-bid quantum, and show how a suitably designed adiabatic search reduces the possibilities for bidders to game the auction. This design illustrates how incentive rather that computational constraints affect quantum algorithm choices.

id: 0704.0803
title: Geometric Phase and Superconducting Flux Quantization
authors: Walter A. Simmons, Sandip S. Pakvasa
comments: 5 pages, pdf format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0803
abstract: In a ring of s-wave superconducting material the magnetic flux is quantized in units of $\Phi_0 = \frac{h}{2e}$. It is well known from the theory of Josephson junctions that if the ring is interrupted with a piece of d-wave material, then the flux is quantized in one-half of those units due to a additional phase shift of $\pi$. We reinterpret this phenomenon in terms of geometric phase. We consider an idealized hetero-junction superconductor with pure s-wave and pure d-wave electron pairs. We find, for this idealized configuration, that the phase shift of $\pi$ follows from the discontinuity in the geometric phase and is thus a fundamental consequence of quantum mechanics.

id: 0704.0814
title: Photons as quasi-charged particles
authors: K.-P. Marzlin, Juergen Appel, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 043813 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0814
abstract: The Schrodinger motion of a charged quantum particle in an electromagnetic potential can be simulated by the paraxial dynamics of photons propagating through a spatially inhomogeneous medium. The inhomogeneity induces geometric effects that generate an artificial vector potential to which signal photons are coupled. This phenomenon can be implemented with slow light propagating through an a gas of double-Lambda atoms in an electromagnetically-induced transparency setting with spatially varied control fields. It can lead to a reduced dispersion of signal photons and a topological phase shift of Aharonov-Bohm type.

id: 0704.0815
title: Exchange of quantum states between coupled oscillators
authors: D. Portes Jr., H. Rodrigues, S. B. Duarte, B. Baseia
comments: 10 pages, no figure, Latex file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0815
abstract: Exchange of quantum states between two interacting harmonic oscillator along their evolution time is discussed. It is analyzed the conditions for such exchange starting from a generic initial state and demonstrating that the effect occurs exactly only for the particular states C0|0>+Cn|N>, which includes the interesting qubits components |0>,|1>. It is also determined the relation between the coupling constant and characteristic frequencies of the oscillators to have the complete exchange.

id: 0704.0893
title: Topological phase for spin-orbit transformations on a laser beam
authors: C.E.R. Souza, J.A.O. Huguenin, P. Milman, A.Z. Khoury
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 160401 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0893
abstract: We investigate the topological phase associated with the double connectedness of the SO(3) representation in terms of maximally entangled states. An experimental demonstration is provided in the context of polarization and spatial mode transformations of a laser beam carrying orbital angular momentum. The topological phase is evidenced through interferometric measurements and a quantitative relationship between the concurrence and the fringes visibility is derived. Both the quantum and the classical regimes were investigated.

id: 0704.0960
title: Generating Squeezed States of Nanomechanical Resonator
authors: Wen Yi Huo, Gui Lu Long
comments: 4 pages 1 figure. One figure added, squeezing efficiency added. Noise considered
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0960
abstract: We propose a scheme for generating squeezed states in solid state circuits consisting of a nanomechanical resonator (NMR), a superconducting Cooper-pair box (CPB) and a superconducting transmission line resonator (STLR). The nonlinear interaction between the NMR and the STLR can be implemented by setting the external biased flux of the CPB at certain values. The interaction Hamiltonian between the NMR and the STLR is derived by performing Fr$\rm\ddot o$hlich transformation on the total Hamiltonian of the combined system. Just by adiabatically keeping the CPB at the ground state, we get the standard parametric down-conversion Hamiltonian. The CPB plays the role of ``nonlinear media", and the squeezed states of the NMR can be easily generated in a manner similar to the three-wave mixing in quantum optics. This is the three-wave mixing in a solid-state circuit.

id: 0704.0964
title: Upper bounds on entangling rates of bipartite Hamiltonians
authors: Sergey Bravyi
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052319 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0964
abstract: We discuss upper bounds on the rate at which unitary evolution governed by a non-local Hamiltonian can generate entanglement in a bipartite system. Given a bipartite Hamiltonian H coupling two finite dimensional particles A and B, the entangling rate is shown to be upper bounded by c*log(d)*norm(H), where d is the smallest dimension of the interacting particles, norm(H) is the operator norm of H, and c is a constant close to 1. Under certain restrictions on the initial state we prove analogous upper bound for the ancilla-assisted entangling rate with a constant c that does not depend upon dimensions of local ancillas. The restriction is that the initial state has at most two distinct Schmidt coefficients (each coefficient may have arbitrarily large multiplicity). Our proof is based on analysis of a mixing rate -- a functional measuring how fast entropy can be produced if one mixes a time-independent state with a state evolving unitarily.

id: 0704.0965
title: Separability Criterion for Multipartite Pure States
authors: Zongwen Yu, Su Hu
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0965
abstract: In this paper, we give out some effective criterions which can be used to judge the separability of multipartite pure states. We obtain the relationship between separability and Schmidt decomposable of multipartite pure states in Theorem1. The first criterion derived from Theorem2 dose not need the Schmidt decomposition which is hard to find for multipartite states. Theorem3 is more profound which can be used to deduce Corollary1 which is one of the main results in [1]. Finally, we give out an algorithm which can be used to judge the separability of multipartite pure states effectively.

id: 0704.0969
title: The Necessary and Sufficient Conditions of Separability for Bipartite Pure States in Infinite Dimensional Hilbert Spaces
authors: Su Hu, Zongwen Yu
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0969
abstract: In this paper, we present the necessary and sufficient conditions of separability for bipartite pure states in infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces. Let $M$ be the matrix of the amplitudes of $\ket\psi$, we prove $M$ is a compact operator. We also prove $\ket\psi$ is separable if and only if $M$ is a bounded linear operator with rank 1, that is the image of $M$ is a one dimensional Hilbert space. So we have related the separability for bipartite pure states in infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces to an important class of bounded linear operators in Functional analysis which has many interesting properties.

id: 0704.0984
title: Transfer of a Polaritonic Qubit through a Coupled Cavity Array
authors: Sougato Bose, Dimitris G. Angelakis, Daniel Burgarth
comments: Contribution to Special Issue in Journal of Modern Optics celebrating the 60th birthday of Peter L. Knight
journal: Journ. of Mod. Opt. vol. 54, 2307 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0984
abstract: We demonstrate a scheme for quantum communication between the ends of an array of coupled cavities. Each cavity is doped with a single two level system (atoms or quantum dots) and the detuning of the atomic level spacing and photonic frequency is appropriately tuned to achieve photon blockade in the array. We show that in such a regime, the array can simulate a dual rail quantum state transfer protocol where the arrival of quantum information at the receiving cavity is heralded through a fluorescence measurement. Communication is also possible between any pair of cavities of a network of connected cavities.

id: 0704.1037
title: Controlled collisions of a single atom and ion guided by movable trapping potentials
authors: Z. Idziaszek, T. Calarco, P. Zoller
comments: 17 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 033409 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1037
abstract: We consider a system composed of a trapped atom and a trapped ion. The ion charge induces in the atom an electric dipole moment, which attracts it with an r^{-4} dependence at large distances. In the regime considered here, the characteristic range of the atom-ion interaction is comparable or larger than the characteristic size of the trapping potential, which excludes the application of the contact pseudopotential. The short-range part of the interaction is described in the framework of quantum-defect theory, by introducing some short-range parameters, which can be related to the s-wave scattering length. When the separation between traps is changed we observe trap-induced shape resonances between molecular bound states and vibrational states of the external trapping potential. Our analysis is extended to quasi-one-dimensional geometries, when the scattering exhibit confinement-induced resonances, similar to the ones studied before for short-range interactions. For quasi-one-dimensional systems we investigate the effects of coupling between the center of mass and relative motion, which occurs for different trapping frequencies of atom and ion traps. Finally, we show how the two types of resonances can be employed for quantum state control and spectroscopy of atom-ion molecules.

id: 0704.1040
title: Recent Results on Thermal Casimir Force between Dielectrics and Related Problems
authors: B. Geyer, G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M. Mostepanenko
comments: 35 pages, 3 figures, ws-ijmpa.cls is used
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A, v.21, N25, p.5007-5042 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1040
abstract: We review recent results obtained in the physics of the thermal Casimir force acting between two dielectrics, dielectric and metal, and between metal and semiconductor. The detailed derivation for the low-temperature behavior of the Casimir free energy, pressure and entropy in the configuration of two real dielectric plates is presented. For dielectrics with finite static dielectric permittivity it is shown that the Nernst heat theorem is satisfied. Hence, the Lifshitz theory of the van der Waals and Casimir forces is demonstrated to be consistent with thermodynamics. The nonzero dc conductivity of dielectric plates is proved to lead to a violation of the Nernst heat theorem and, thus, is not related to the phenomenon of dispersion forces. The low-temperature asymptotics of the Casimir free energy, pressure and entropy are derived also in the configuration of one metal and one dielectric plate. The results are shown to be consistent with thermodynamics if the dielectric plate possesses a finite static dielectric permittivity. If the dc conductivity of a dielectric plate is taken into account this results in the violation of the Nernst heat theorem. We discuss both the experimental and theoretical results related to the Casimir interaction between metal and semiconductor with different charge carrier density. Discussions in the literature on the possible influence of spatial dispersion on the thermal Casimir force are analyzed. In conclusion, the conventional Lifshitz theory taking into account only the frequency dispersion remains the reliable foundation for the interpretation of all present experiments.

id: 0704.1042
title: Entangling and disentangling capacities of nonlocal maps
authors: Berry Groisman
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1042
abstract: Entangling and disentangling capacities are the key manifestation of the nonlocal content of a quantum operation. A lot of effort has been put recently into investigating (dis)entangling capacities of unitary operations, but very little is known about capacities of non-unitary operations. Here we investigate (dis)entangling capacities of unital CPTP maps acting on two qubits.

id: 0704.1069
title: Optical Zeno Gate: Bounds for Fault Tolerant Operation
authors: Patrick M. Leung, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1069
abstract: In principle the Zeno effect controlled-sign gate of Franson et al's (PRA 70, 062302, 2004) is a deterministic two-qubit optical gate. However, when realistic values of photon loss are considered its fidelity is significantly reduced. Here we consider the use of measurement based quantum processing techniques to enhance the operation of the Zeno gate. With the help of quantum teleportation, we show that it is possible to achieve a Zeno CNOT gate (GC-Zeno gate) that gives (near) unit fidelity and moderate probability of success of 0.76 with a one-photon to two-photon transmission ratio $\kappa=10^4$. We include some mode-mismatch effects and estimate the bounds on the mode overlap and $\kappa$ for which fault tolerant operation would be possible.

id: 0704.1080
title: The solutions of the N-identical quantum harmonic oscillators interacting with each other through the harmonic potential
authors: Phongpichit Channuie
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1080
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to some mistakes

id: 0704.1087
title: EPR, Bell, Schrodinger's cat, and the Monty Hall Paradox
authors: Doron Cohen
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1087
abstract: The purpose of this manuscript is to provide a short pedagogical explanation why "quantum collapse" is not a metaphysical event, by pointing out the analogy with a "classical collapse" which is associated with the Monty Hall Paradox.

id: 0704.1092
title: Simplifying additivity problems using direct sum constructions
authors: Motohisa Fukuda, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 5 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48, 072101 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1092
abstract: We study the additivity problems for the classical capacity of quantum channels, the minimal output entropy and its convex closure. We show for each of them that additivity for arbitrary pairs of channels holds iff it holds for arbitrary equal pairs, which in turn can be taken to be unital. In a similar sense, weak additivity is shown to imply strong additivity for any convex entanglement monotone. The implications are obtained by considering direct sums of channels (or states) for which we show how to obtain several information theoretic quantities from their values on the summands. This provides a simple and general tool for lifting additivity results.

id: 0704.1172
title: Disentanglement in a quantum critical environment
authors: Zhe Sun, Xiaoguang Wang, C. P. Sun
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062312 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1172
abstract: We study the dynamical process of disentanglement of two qubits and two qutrits coupled to an Ising spin chain in a transverse field, which exhibits a quantum phase transition. We use the concurrence and negativity to quantify entanglement of two qubits and two qutrits, respectively. Explicit connections between the concurrence (negativity) and the decoherence factors are given for two initial states, the pure maximally entangled state and the mixed Werner state. We find that the concurrence and negativity decay exponentially with fourth power of time in the vicinity of critical point of the environmental system.

id: 0704.1177
title: Temperature effects on quantum cloning of states and entanglement
authors: S. Baghbanzadeh, A. T. Rezakhani
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373, 821 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1177
abstract: Performances of the symmetric universal and phase-covariant cloning transformations and entanglement cloners -- qubit case -- are investigated when the initial state of the hardware or the original state to be cloned is weakly coupled to a thermal environment. Different behaviors of each of these transformations are analyzed and contrasted with the ideal cases.

id: 0704.1180
title: Full Additivity of the Entanglement of Formation
authors: Gerardo A. Paz-Silva, John H. Reina
comments: Paper withdrawn. The result regarding the additivity of EoF was not as general as initially considered. Apologies to our colleagues
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1180
abstract: We present a general strategy that allows a more flexible method for the construction of fully additive multipartite entanglement monotones than the ones so far reported in the literature of axiomatic entanglement measures. Within this framework we give a proof of a conjecture of outstanding implications in information theory: the full additivity of the Entanglement of Formation.

id: 0704.1181
title: Simulation of four-body interaction in a nuclear magnetic resonance quantum information processor
authors: Wen-Zhang Liu, Jin-Fu Zhang, Gui Lu Long
comments: 4 pages 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1181
abstract: Four-body interaction plays an important role in many-body systems, and it can exhibit interesting phase transition behaviors. Historically it was the need to efficiently simulate quantum systems that lead the idea of a quantum computer. In this Letter, we report the experimental demonstration of a four-body interaction in a four- qubit nuclear magnetic resonance quantum information processor. The strongly modulating pulse is used to implement spin selective excitation. The results show a good agreement between theory and experiment.

id: 0704.1184
title: Sufficiency Criterion for the Validity of the Adiabatic Approximation
authors: D M Tong, K Singh, L C Kwek, C H OH
comments: 9 pages, no figure,appearing in PRL98(2007)150402
journal: Physical Review Letters 98, 150402, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1184
abstract: We examine the quantitative condition which has been widely used as a criterion for the adiabatic approximation but was recently found insufficient. Our results indicate that the usual quantitative condition is sufficient for a special class of quantum mechanical systems. For general systems, it may not be sufficient, but it along with additional conditions is sufficient. The usual quantitative condition and the additional conditions constitute a general criterion for the validity of the adiabatic approximation, which is applicable to all $N-$dimensional quantum systems. Moreover, we illustrate the use of the general quantitative criterion in some physical models.

id: 0704.1263
title: The Measurement Calculus
authors: Vincent Danos, Elham Kashefi, Prakash Panangaden
comments: 46 pages, 2 figures, Replacement of quant-ph/0412135v1, the new version also include formalization of several other measurement-based models: Teleportation, Phase and Pauli models and present compositional embeddings of them into and from the one-way model. To appear in Journal of ACM
journal: Journal of the ACM, Volume 54, Issue 2 (April 2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1263
abstract: Measurement-based quantum computation has emerged from the physics community as a new approach to quantum computation where the notion of measurement is the main driving force of computation. This is in contrast with the more traditional circuit model which is based on unitary operations. Among measurement-based quantum computation methods, the recently introduced one-way quantum computer stands out as fundamental. We develop a rigorous mathematical model underlying the one-way quantum computer and present a concrete syntax and operational semantics for programs, which we call patterns, and an algebra of these patterns derived from a denotational semantics. More importantly, we present a calculus for reasoning locally and compositionally about these patterns. We present a rewrite theory and prove a general standardization theorem which allows all patterns to be put in a semantically equivalent standard form. Standardization has far-reaching consequences: a new physical architecture based on performing all the entanglement in the beginning, parallelization by exposing the dependency structure of measurements and expressiveness theorems. Furthermore we formalize several other measurement-based models: Teleportation, Phase and Pauli models and present compositional embeddings of them into and from the one-way model. This allows us to transfer all the theory we develop for the one-way model to these models. This shows that the framework we have developed has a general impact on measurement-based computation and is not just particular to the one-way quantum computer.

id: 0704.1277
title: Discrete phase space and minimum-uncertainty states
authors: William K. Wootters, Daniel M. Sussman
comments: Submitted to the proceedings of QCMC06
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1277
abstract: The quantum state of a system of qubits can be represented by a Wigner function on a discrete phase space, each axis of the phase space taking values in a finite field. Within this framework, we show that one can make sense of the notion of a "rotationally invariant state" of any collection of qubits, and that any such state is, in a well defined sense, a state of minimum uncertainty.

id: 0704.1280
title: Controllable Quantum Switchboard
authors: D. Kaszlikowski, L. C. Kwek, C. H. Lai, V. Vedral
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1280
abstract: All quantum information processes inevitably requires the explicit state preparation of an entangled state. Here we present the construction of a quantum switchboard which can act both as an optimal quantum cloning machine and a quantum demultiplexer based on the preparation of a four-qubit state.

id: 0704.1287
title: Realizable Hamiltonians for Universal Adiabatic Quantum Computers
authors: Jacob D. Biamonte, Peter J. Love
comments: Paper revised and extended to improve clarity; to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012352 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1287
abstract: It has been established that local lattice spin Hamiltonians can be used for universal adiabatic quantum computation. However, the 2-local model Hamiltonians used in these proofs are general and hence do not limit the types of interactions required between spins. To address this concern, the present paper provides two simple model Hamiltonians that are of practical interest to experimentalists working towards the realization of a universal adiabatic quantum computer. The model Hamiltonians presented are the simplest known QMA-complete 2-local Hamiltonians. The 2-local Ising model with 1-local transverse field which has been realized using an array of technologies, is perhaps the simplest quantum spin model but is unlikely to be universal for adiabatic quantum computation. We demonstrate that this model can be rendered universal and QMA-complete by adding a tunable 2-local transverse XX coupling. We also show the universality and QMA-completeness of spin models with only 1-local Z and X fields and 2-local ZX interactions.

id: 0704.1309
title: Quantum State Transfer with Spin Chains
authors: Daniel Burgarth
comments: PhD thesis, December 2006, University College London, 142 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1309
abstract: The thesis covers various aspects of quantum state transfer in permanently coupled spin systems.

id: 0704.1359
title: Hamiltonian Quantum Dynamics With Separability Constraints
authors: Nikola Buric
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1359
abstract: Schroedinger equation on a Hilbert space ${\cal H}$, represents a linear Hamiltonian dynamical system on the space of quantum pure states, the projective Hilbert space $P {\cal H}$. Separable states of a bipartite quantum system form a special submanifold of $P {\cal H}$. We analyze the Hamiltonian dynamics that corresponds to the quantum system constrained on the manifold of separable states, using as an important example the system of two interacting qubits. The constraints introduce nonlinearities which render the dynamics nontrivial. We show that the qualitative properties of the constrained dynamics clearly manifest the symmetry of the qubits system. In particular, if the quantum Hamilton's operator has not enough symmetry, the constrained dynamics is nonintegrable, and displays the typical features of a Hamiltonian dynamical system with mixed phase space. Possible physical realizations of the separability constraints are discussed.

id: 0704.1365
title: Geometry and Dynamics of Quantum State Diffusion
authors: Nikola Buric
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1365
abstract: Riemannian metric on real 2n-dimensional space associated with the equation governing complex diffusion of pure states of an open quantum system is introduced and studied. Examples of a qubit under the influence of dephasing and thermal environments are used to show that the curvature of the diffusion metric is a good indicator of the properties of the environment dominated evolution and its stability.

id: 0704.1368
title: Anisotropy and Magnetic Field Effects on the Genuine Multipartite Entanglement of Multi-Qubit Heisenberg {\it XY} Chains
authors: Chang Chi Kwong, Ye Yeo
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1368
abstract: It has been shown that, for the two-qubit Heisenberg XY model, anisotropy and magnetic field may together be used to produce entanglement for any finite temperature by adjusting the external magnetic field beyond some finite critical strength. This interesting result arises from an analysis employing the Wootters concurrence, a computable measure of entanglement for two-qubit states. Recently, Mintert {\em et al.} proposed generalizations of Wootters concurrence for multipartite states. These MKB concurrences possess a mathematical property that enables one to understand the origin of this characteristic behavior. Here, we first study the effect of anisotropy and magnetic field on the multipartite thermal entanglement of a four-qubit Heisenberg XY chain using the MKB concurrences. We show that this model exhibits characteristic behavior similar to that of the two-qubit model. In addition, we show that this can again be understood using the same mathematical property. Next, we show that the six-qubit Heisenberg XY chain possesses properties necessary for it to have the characteristic behavior too. Most importantly, it is possible to directly measure the multipartite MKB concurrences of pure states. This may provide an experimental verification of our conjecture that for a Heisenberg XY chain of any even number of qubits, it is always possible to obtain non-zero genuine multipartite entanglement at any finite temperature by applying a sufficiently large magnetic field.

id: 0704.1370
title: Time dependence of joint entropy of oscillating quantum systems
authors: O. Ozcan, E. Akturk, R. Sever
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1370
abstract: The time dependent entropy (or Leipnik's entropy) of harmonic and damped harmonic oscillators is extensively investigated by using time dependent wave function obtained by the Feynman path integral method. Our results for simple harmonic oscillator are in agrement with the literature. However, the joint entropy of damped harmonic oscillator shows remarkable discontinuity with time for certain values of damping factor. According to the results, the envelop of the joint entropy curve increases with time monotonically. This results is the general properties of the envelop of the joint entropy curve for quantum systems.

id: 0704.1371
title: Tight bound on coherent states quantum key distribution with heterodyne detection
authors: Jerome Lodewyck, Philippe Grangier
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022332 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1371
abstract: We propose a new upper bound for the eavesdropper's information in the direct and reverse reconciliated coherent states quantum key distribution protocols with heterodyne detection. This bound is derived by maximizing the leaked information over the symplectic group of transformations that spans every physical Gaussian attack on individual pulses. We exhibit four different attacks that reach this bound, which shows that this bound is tight. Finally, we compare the secret key rate obtained with this new bound to the homodyne rate.

id: 0704.1375
title: Decrease of entanglement by local operations in the D¨¹r-Cirac method
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Motoyuki Yoshida, Ichiro Ohba
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1375
abstract: One cannot always obtain information about entanglement by the D\"ur-Cirac (DC) method. The impracticality is attributed to the decrease of entanglement by local operations in the DC method. We show that, even in 2--qubit systems, there exist states whose entangled property the DC method never evaluates. The class of such states in 2--qubit systems is completely characterized by the value of the fully entangled fraction. Actually, a state whose fully entangled fraction is less than or equal to 1/2 is always transformed into a separable state by local operations in the DC method, even if it has negative partial transposition.

id: 0704.1464
title: Distributed quantum information processing with minimal local resources
authors: Earl T. Campbell
comments: 4 pages of main paper with an additional 1 page appendix, 5 figures. Please contact me with any comments
journal: Phys. Rev. A (Rapid Comm) 76, 040302(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1464
abstract: We present a protocol for growing graph states, the resource for one-way quantum computing, when the available entanglement mechanism is highly imperfect. The distillation protocol is frugal in its use of ancilla qubits, requiring only a single ancilla qubit when the noise is dominated by one Pauli error, and two for a general noise model. The protocol works with such scarce local resources by never post-selecting on the measurement outcomes of purification rounds. We find that such a strategy causes fidelity to follow a biased random walk, and that a target fidelity is likely to be reached more rapidly than for a comparable post-selecting protocol. An analysis is presented of how imperfect local operations limit the attainable fidelity. For example, a single Pauli error rate of 20% can be distilled down to $\sim 10$ times the imperfection in local operations.

id: 0704.1468
title: Generation of Entanglement Outside of the Light Cone
authors: J.D. Franson
comments: 25 pages, 7 figures. Additional references and figure
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 55, 2117-2140 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1468
abstract: The Feynman propagator has nonzero values outside of the forward light cone. That does not allow messages to be transmitted faster than the speed of light, but it is shown here that it does allow entanglement and mutual information to be generated at space-like separated points. These effects can be interpreted as being due to the propagation of virtual photons outside of the light cone or as a transfer of pre-existing entanglement from the quantum vacuum. The differences between these two interpretations are discussed.

id: 0704.1471
title: The Generalized PT-Symmetric Sinh-Gordon Potential Solvable within Quantum Hamilton-Jacobi Formalism
authors: Ozlem Yesiltas, S. Bilge Ocak
comments: 10 pages appear to in IJTP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1471
abstract: The generalized Sinh-Gordon potential is solved within quantum Hamiltonian Jacobi approach in the framework of PT symmetry. The quasi exact solutions of energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the generalized Sinh-Gordon potential are found for n=0,1 states.

id: 0704.1473
title: Existence of Universal Entangler
authors: Jianxin Chen, Runyao Duan, Zhengfeng Ji, Mingsheng Ying, Jun Yu
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1473
abstract: A gate is called entangler if it transforms some (pure) product states to entangled states. A universal entangler is a gate which transforms all product states to entangled states. In practice, a universal entangler is a very powerful device for generating entanglements, and thus provides important physical resources for accomplishing many tasks in quantum computing and quantum information. This Letter demonstrates that a universal entangler always exists except for a degenerated case. Nevertheless, the problem how to find a universal entangler remains open.

id: 0704.1484
title: One-time pad booster for Internet
authors: Geraldo A. Barbosa
comments: 5 pgs, 2 figs. Submitted to PLA on January 15, 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1484
abstract: One-time pad encrypted files can be sent through Internet channels using current Internet protocols. However, the need for renewing shared secret keys make this method unpractical. This work shows how users can use a fast physical random generator based on fluctuations of a light field and the Internet channel to directly boost key renewals. The transmitted signals are deterministic but carries imprinted noise that cannot be eliminated by the attacker. Thus, a one-time pad for Internet can be made practical. Security is achieved without third parties and not relying on the difficulty of factoring numbers in primes. An informational fragility to be avoided is discussed. Information-theoretic analysis is presented and bounds for secure operation are determined.

id: 0704.1506
title: Measuring two-photon orbital angular momentum entanglement
authors: G. F. Calvo, A. Pic¨®n, A. Bramon
comments: Extended paper of a published version in PRA, with some extra appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012319 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1506
abstract: We put forward an approach to estimate the amount of bipartite spatial entanglement of down-converted photon states correlated in orbital angular momentum and the magnitude of the transverse (radial) wave vectors. Both degrees of freedom are properly considered in our framework, which only requires azimuthal local linear optical transformations and mode selection analysis with two fiber detectors. The coincidence distributions predicted by our approach give an excellent fit to the distributions measured in a recent experiment aimed to show the very high-dimensional transverse entanglement of twin photons from a down-conversion source. Our estimate for the Schmidt number is substantially lower but still confirms the presence of high-dimensional entanglement.

id: 0704.1551
title: Quantum Zeno Effect in the Decoherent Histories
authors: Petros Wallden
comments: 7 pages, To appear in DICE 2006 (Decoherence Information Complexity and Entropy) conference proceedings
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 67, 012043 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1551
abstract: The quantum Zeno effect arises due to frequent observation. That implies the existence of some experimenter and its interaction with the system. In this contribution, we examine what happens for a closed system if one considers a quantum Zeno type of question, namely: "what is the probability of a system, remaining always in a particular subspace". This has implications to the arrival time problem that is also discussed. We employ the decoherent histories approach to quantum theory, as this is the better developed formulation of closed system quantum mechanics, and in particular, dealing with questions that involve time in a non-trivial way. We get a very restrictive decoherence condition, that implies that even if we do introduce an environment, there will be very few cases that we can assign probabilities to these histories, but in those cases, the quantum Zeno effect is still present.

id: 0704.1560
title: Generating entanglement of photon-number states with coherent light via cross-Kerr nonlinearity
authors: Zhi-Ming Zhang, Jian Yang, Yafei Yu
comments: 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1560
abstract: We propose a scheme for generating entangled states of light fields. This scheme only requires the cross-Kerr nonlinear interaction between coherent light-beams, followed by a homodyne detection. Therefore, this scheme is within the reach of current technology. We study in detail the generation of the entangled states between two modes, and that among three modes. In addition to the Bell states between two modes and the W states among three modes, we find plentiful new kinds of entangled states. Finally, the scheme can be extend to generate the entangled states among more than three modes.

id: 0704.1580
title: Optical implementation and entanglement distribution in Gaussian valence bond states
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Marie Ericsson
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures. To appear in Optics and Spectroscopy, special issue for ICQO'2006 (Minsk). This preprint contains extra material with respect to the journal version
journal: Optics & Spectroscopy 103, 178 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1580
abstract: We study Gaussian valence bond states of continuous variable systems, obtained as the outputs of projection operations from an ancillary space of M infinitely entangled bonds connecting neighboring sites, applied at each of $N$ sites of an harmonic chain. The entanglement distribution in Gaussian valence bond states can be controlled by varying the input amount of entanglement engineered in a (2M+1)-mode Gaussian state known as the building block, which is isomorphic to the projector applied at a given site. We show how this mechanism can be interpreted in terms of multiple entanglement swapping from the chain of ancillary bonds, through the building blocks. We provide optical schemes to produce bisymmetric three-mode Gaussian building blocks (which correspond to a single bond, M=1), and study the entanglement structure in the output Gaussian valence bond states. The usefulness of such states for quantum communication protocols with continuous variables, like telecloning and teleportation networks, is finally discussed.

id: 0704.1585
title: Fixed Phase Quantum Search Algorithm
authors: Ahmed Younes
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1585
abstract: Building quantum devices using fixed operators is a must to simplify the hardware construction. Quantum search engine is not an exception. In this paper, a fixed phase quantum search algorithm that searches for M matches in an unstructured search space of size N will be presented. Selecting phase shifts of 1.91684\pi in the standard amplitude amplification will make the technique perform better so as to get probability of success at least 99.58% in O(sqrt(N/M)) better than any know fixed operator quantum search algorithms. The algorithm will be able to handle either a single match or multiple matches in the search space. The algorithm will find a match in O(sqrt(N/M)) whether the number of matches is known or not in advance.

id: 0704.1605
title: Total Quantum Zeno Effect beyond Zeno Time
authors: D. Mundarain, M. Orszag, J. Stephany
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, Contributed to Quantum Optics III, Pucon, Chile, November 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1605
abstract: In this work we show that is possible to obtain Total Quantum Zeno Effect in an unstable systems for times larger than the correlation time of the bath. The effect is observed for some particular systems in which one can chose appropriate observables which frequent measurements freeze the system into the initial state. For a two level system in a squeezed bath one can show that there are two bath dependent observables displaying Total Zeno Effect when the system is initialized in some particular states. We show also that these states are intelligent states of two conjugate observables associated to the electromagnetic fluctuations of the bath.

id: 0704.1613
title: Reply to ``Comment on `On the inconsistency of the Bohm-Gadella theory with quantum mechanics'''
authors: R. de la Madrid
comments: 13 pages
journal: J.Phys.A40:4671-4681,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1613
abstract: In this reply, we show that when we apply standard distribution theory to the Lippmann-Schwinger equation, the resulting spaces of test functions would comply with the Hardy axiom only if classic results of Paley and Wiener, of Gelfand and Shilov, and of the theory of ultradistributions were wrong. As well, we point out several differences between the ``standard method'' of constructing rigged Hilbert spaces in quantum mechanics and the method used in Time Asymmetric Quantum Theory.

id: 0704.1645
title: Non-Relativistic Propagators via Schwinger's Method
authors: A. Aragao, H. Boschi-Filho, C. Farina, F.A. Barone
comments: 9 pages and no figures
journal: Braz.J.Phys.37:1260-1268,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1645
abstract: In order to popularize the so called Schwinger's method we reconsider the Feynman propagator of two non-relativistic systems: a charged particle in a uniform magnetic field and a charged harmonic oscillator in a uniform magnetic field. Instead of solving the Heisenberg equations for the position and the canonical momentum operators, ${\bf R}$ and ${\bf P}$, we apply this method by solving the Heisenberg equations for the gauge invariant operators ${\bf R}$ and $\mathversion{bold}${\pi}$ = {\bf P}-e{\bf A}$, the latter being the mechanical momentum operator. In our procedure we avoid fixing the gauge from the beginning and the result thus obtained shows explicitly the gauge dependence of the Feynman propagator.

id: 0704.1686
title: Effect of atomic beam alignment on photon correlation measurements in cavity QED
authors: L. Horvath, H. J. Carmichael
comments: 15 pages and 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 043821 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1686
abstract: Quantum trajectory simulations of a cavity QED system comprising an atomic beam traversing a standing-wave cavity are carried out. The delayed photon coincident rate for forwards scattering is computed and compared with the measurements of Rempe et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 67, 1727 (1991)] and Foster et al. [Phys. Rev. A 61, 053821 (2000)]. It is shown that a moderate atomic beam misalignment can account for the degradation of the predicted correlation. Fits to the experimental data are made in the weak-field limit with a single adjustable parameter--the atomic beam tilt from perpendicular to the cavity axis. Departures of the measurement conditions from the weak-field limit are discussed.

id: 0704.1712
title: Borromean Entanglement Revisited
authors: Ayumu Sugita
comments: Proceedings of the International Workshop on "Knot Theory for Scientic Objects" held in Osaka (Japan), March 8-10, 2006. 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1712
abstract: An interesting analogy between quantum entangled states and topological links was suggested by Aravind. In particular, he emphasized a connection between the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state and the Borromean rings. However, he made the connection in a way that depends on the choice of measurement basis. We reconsider it in a basis-independent way by using the reduced density matrix.

id: 0704.1726
title: On de Broglie's quantum particle as the soliton solution of linear Schr?dinger equation
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: 14 pages, content changed
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1726
abstract: We develop a class of soliton solution of {\it linear} Schr\"odinger equation without external potential. The quantum probability density generates its own boundary inside which there is internal vibration whose wave number is determined by the velocity of the particle as firstly conjectured by de Broglie. Assuming resonance of the internal vibration will lead to quantization of particle's momentum in term of wave number of the envelope quantum probability density. We further show that the linearity of the Schr\"odinger equation allows us to have non-interacting many solitons solution through superposition, each describing a particle with equal mass.

id: 0704.1736
title: Parallelizing Quantum Circuits
authors: Anne Broadbent, Elham Kashefi
comments: 34 pages, 14 figures; depth complexity, measurement-based quantum computing and parallel computing
journal: Theoretical Computer Science, Volume 410, Issue 26, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1736
abstract: We present a novel automated technique for parallelizing quantum circuits via forward and backward translation to measurement-based quantum computing patterns and analyze the trade off in terms of depth and space complexity. As a result we distinguish a class of polynomial depth circuits that can be parallelized to logarithmic depth while adding only polynomial many auxiliary qubits. In particular, we provide for the first time a full characterization of patterns with flow of arbitrary depth, based on the notion of influencing paths and a simple rewriting system on the angles of the measurement. Our method leads to insightful knowledge for constructing parallel circuits and as applications, we demonstrate several constant and logarithmic depth circuits. Furthermore, we prove a logarithmic separation in terms of quantum depth between the quantum circuit model and the measurement-based model.

id: 0704.1737
title: Quantum memory for images - a quantum hologram
authors: Denis V. Vasilyev, Ivan V. Sokolov, Eugene S. Polzik
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 020302(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1737
abstract: Matter-light quantum interface and quantum memory for light are important ingredients of quantum information protocols, such as quantum networks, distributed quantum computation, etc. In this Letter we present a spatially multimode scheme for quantum memory for light, which we call a quantum hologram. Our approach uses a multi-atom ensemble which has been shown to be efficient for a single spatial mode quantum memory. Due to the multi-atom nature of the ensemble it is capable of storing many spatial modes, a feature critical for the present proposal. A quantum hologram has a higher storage capacity compared to a classical hologram, and is capable of storing quantum features of an image, such as multimode superposition and entangled quantum states, something that a standard hologram is unable to achieve. Due to optical parallelism, the information capacity of the quantum hologram will obviously exceed that of a single-mode scheme.

id: 0704.1754
title: The No-Broadcasting Theorem and its Classical Counterpart
authors: A. Kalev, I. Hen
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1754
abstract: Although it is widely accepted that `no-broadcasting' -- the nonclonability of quantum information -- is a fundamental principle of quantum mechanics, an impossibility theorem for the broadcasting of general density matrices has not yet been formulated. In this paper, we present a general proof for the no-broadcasting theorem, which applies to arbitrary density matrices. The proof relies on entropic considerations, and as such can also be directly linked to its classical counterpart, which applies to probabilistic distributions of statistical ensembles.

id: 0704.1809
title: All tight multipartite Bell correlation inequalities for an arbitrary number of dichotomic observables per observer
authors: Piotr Badziag, Marek Zukowski
comments: there is a mistake in the proof, and even worse... one can find a counterexample
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1809
abstract: Derivation of the full set of Bell inequalities involving correlation functions, for two parties, with binary observables, and N possible local settings is not as easy as it seemed. The proof of v1 is wrong. Additionaly one can find a counterexample, which will be presented soon. Thus our thesis is dead. Still the series of Bell inequalities discussed in the manuscript (v1) form a necessary condition for local realism, and are tight. They are tight and complete (sufficient) only for N=3 settings per observer (as shown in quant-ph/0611086, fortunately using an entirely different approach).

id: 0704.1844
title: A New Algebraic Structure of Finite Quantum Systems and the Modified Bessel Functions
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex ; 14 pages ; no figure ; minor changes. To appear in International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics, (Vo.4, No.7), 2007
journal: Int.G.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys. 4(2007) 1205-1215
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1844
abstract: In this paper we present a new algebraic structure (a super hyperbolic system in our terminology) for finite quantum systems, which is a generalization of the usual one in the two-level system. It fits into the so-called generalized Pauli matrices, so they play an important role in the theory. Some deep relation to the modified Bessel functions of integer order is pointed out. By taking a skillful limit finite quantum systems become quantum mechanics on the circle developed by Ohnuki and Kitakado.

id: 0704.1864
title: High purity bright single photon source
authors: J. S. Neergaard-Nielsen, B. Melholt Nielsen, H. Takahashi, A. I. Vistnes, E. S. Polzik
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures; minor changes, added reference
journal: Opt. Express 15, 7940-7949 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1864
abstract: Using cavity-enhanced non-degenerate parametric downconversion, we have built a frequency tunable source of heralded single photons with a narrow bandwidth of 8 MHz, making it compatible with atomic quantum memories. The photon state is 70% pure single photon as characterized by a tomographic measurement and reconstruction of the quantum state, revealing a clearly negative Wigner function. Furthermore, it has a spectral brightness of ~1,500 photons/s per MHz bandwidth, making it one of the brightest single photon sources available. We also investigate the correlation function of the down-converted fields using a combination of two very distinct detection methods; photon counting and homodyne measurement.

id: 0704.1869
title: On the energy spectrum of the one-dimensional Klein-Gordon Oscillator
authors: Nagalakshmi A Rao, B. A. Kagali
comments: Latex, 9 Pages, 1 Table, Added Reference
journal: Physica Scripta Phys.Scr 77(2008) 015003 (4pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1869
abstract: In the present article, we describe a method of introducing the harmonic potential into the Klein-Gordon equation, leading to genuine bound states. The eigenfunctions and eigenenergies are worked out explicitly.

id: 0704.1881
title: Statistical Properties of Many Particle Eigenfunctions
authors: Eric J. Heller, Brian R. Landry
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1881
abstract: Wavefunction correlations and density matrices for few or many particles are derived from the properties of semiclassical energy Green functions. Universal features of fixed energy (microcanonical) random wavefunction correlation functions appear which reflect the emergence of the canonical ensemble as the number of particles approaches infinity. This arises through a little known asymptotic limit of Bessel functions. Constraints due to symmetries, boundaries, and collisions between particles can be included.

id: 0704.1896
title: Path Distinguishability in Double Scattering of Light by Atoms
authors: Christian Miniatura, Cord A. M¨¹ller, Yin Lu, Guangquan Wang, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; version 2: address correction
journal: Physical Review A 76 (2007) 022101 (4 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1896
abstract: Wave-particle duality finds a natural application for electrons or light propagating in disordered media where coherent corrections to transport are given by two-wave interference. For scatterers with internal degrees of freedom, these corrections are observed to be much smaller than would be expected for structureless scatterers. By examining the basic example of the scattering of one photon by two spin-1/2 atoms--a case-study for coherent backscattering--we demonstrate that the loss of interference strength is associated with which-path information stored by the scattering atoms.

id: 0704.1901
title: Classical Information Capacity of the Bosonic Broadcast Channel
authors: Saikat Guha, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Proceedings of ISIT 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1901
abstract: We show that when coherent-state encoding is employed in conjunction with coherent detection, the Bosonic broadcast channel is equivalent to a classical degraded Gaussian broadcast channel whose capacity region is dual to that of the classical Gaussian multiple-access channel. We further show that if a minimum output-entropy conjecture holds true, then the ultimate classical information capacity of the Bosonic broadcast channel can be achieved by a coherent-state encoding. We provide some evidence in support of the conjecture.

id: 0704.1918
title: Quantum Filtering of Optical Coherent States
authors: C. Wittmann, D. Elser, U. L. Andersen, R. Filip, P. Marek, G. Leuchs
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1918
abstract: We propose and experimentally demonstrate non-destructive and noiseless removal (filtering) of vacuum states from an arbitrary set of coherent states of continuous variable systems. Errors i.e. vacuum states in the quantum information are diagnosed through a weak measurement, and on that basis, probabilistically filtered out. We consider three different filters based on on/off detection phase stabilized and phase randomized homodyne detection. We find that on/off etection, optimal in the ideal theoretical setting, is superior to the homodyne strategy in a practical setting.

id: 0704.1921
title: Quantum molecular dynamics study of the pressure dependence of the ammonia inversion transition
authors: I.M.Herbauts, D.J.Dunstan
comments: pdf format, 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A (Vol.76, No.6, December 2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1921
abstract: The mechanism of the shift, broadening and quenching of the ammonia inversion frequency with gas pressure has been a problem of lively interest for over seventy years. A simple quantum model of the ammonia molecule perturbed by collisions with ideal gas molecules displays the essential features of the experimental data for NH3 and for ND3. The model does not display the behaviour expected from theories of quantum localisation such as quantum state diffusion and decoherence. On the other hand, models of perturbed classical oscillators do display similar behaviour to our model. The quenching of the ammonia inversion transition cannot therefore be interpreted as spatial localisation of the wavefunction.

id: 0704.1931
title: Weak non-linearities and cluster states
authors: Sebastien G.R. Louis, Kae Nemoto, W.J. Munro, T.P. Spiller
comments: 5 pages, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 042323 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1931
abstract: We propose a scalable approach to building cluster states of matter qubits using coherent states of light. Recent work on the subject relies on the use of single photonic qubits in the measurement process. These schemes have a low initial success probability and low detector efficiencies cause a serious blowup in resources. In contrast, our approach uses continuous variables and highly efficient measurements. We present a two-qubit scheme, with a simple homodyne measurement system yielding an entangling operation with success probability 1/2. Then we extend this to a three-qubit interaction, increasing this probability to 3/4. We discuss the important issues of the overhead cost and the time scaling, showing how these can be vastly improved with access to this new probability range.

id: 0704.1934
title: On the measurement problem for a two-level quantum system
authors: Alexey A. Kryukov
comments: for related papers, see this http URL
journal: Found. Phys. 37, 3 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1934
abstract: A geometric approach to quantum mechanics with unitary evolution and non-unitary collapse processes is developed. In this approach the Schrodinger evolution of a quantum system is a geodesic motion on the space of states of the system furnished with an appropriate Riemannian metric. The measuring device is modeled by a perturbation of the metric. The process of measurement is identified with a geodesic motion of state of the system in the perturbed metric. Under the assumption of random fluctuations of the perturbed metric, the Born rule for probabilities of collapse is derived. The approach is applied to a two-level quantum system to obtain a simple geometric interpretation of quantum commutators, the uncertainty principle and Planck's constant. In light of this, a lucid analysis of the double-slit experiment with collapse and an experiment on a pair of entangled particles is presented.

id: 0704.1939
title: Entanglement condition via su(2) and su(1,1) algebra using Schr{?}dinger-Robertson uncertainty relation
authors: Hyunchul Nha
comments: published version, 3.5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 014305 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1939
abstract: The Schr{\"o}dinger-Robertson inequality generally provides a stronger bound on the product of uncertainties for two noncommuting observables than the Heisenberg uncertainty relation, and as such, it can yield a stricter separability condition in conjunction with partial transposition. In this paper, using the Schr{\"o}dinger-Robertson uncertainty relation, the separability condition previously derived from the su(2) and the su(1,1) algebra is made stricter and refined to a form invariant with respect to local phase shifts. Furthermore, a linear optical scheme is proposed to test this invariant separability condition.

id: 0704.1957
title: Entanglement Cost for Sequences of Arbitrary Quantum States
authors: Garry Bowen, Nilanjana Datta
comments: Published version
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Theor. vol.44, (2011) 045302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1957
abstract: The entanglement cost of arbitrary sequences of bipartite states is shown to be expressible as the minimization of a conditional spectral entropy rate over sequences of separable extensions of the states in the sequence. The expression is shown to reduce to the regularized entanglement of formation when the n-th state in the sequence consists of n copies of a single bipartite state.

id: 0704.1962
title: A simple test of quantumness for a single system
authors: Robert Alicki, Nicholas Van Ryn
comments: 3 pages, no figures, corrected typos, text essentially amended
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 062001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1962
abstract: We propose a simple test of quantumness which can decide whether for the given set of accessible experimental data the classical model is insufficient. Take two observables $ A,B$ such that for any state $\psi$ their mean values satisfy $0\leq <\psi|A|\psi>\leq <\psi|B|\psi>\leq 1$. If there exists a state $\phi$ such that the second moments fulfill the inequality $<\phi|A^2|\phi> ><\phi|B^2|\phi>$ then the system cannot be described by the classical probabilistic scheme. An example of an optimal triple $(A,B,\phi)$ in the case of a qubit is given.

id: 0704.1965
title: Quantum entanglement of decohered two-mode squeezed states in absorbing and amplifying environment
authors: Phoenix S. Y. Poon, C. K. Law
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012333 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1965
abstract: We investigate the properties of quantum entanglement of two-mode squeezed states interacting with linear baths with general gain and loss parameters. By explicitly solving for \rho from the master equation, we determine analytical expressions of eigenvalues and eigenvectors of \rho^{T_A} (the partial transposition of density matrix \rho). In Fock space, \rho^{T_A} is shown to maintain a block diagonal structure as the system evolves. In addition, we discover that the decoherence induced by the baths would break the degeneracy of \rho^{T_A}, and leads to a novel set of eigenvectors for the construction of entanglement witness operators. Such eigenvectors are shown to be time-independent, which is a signature of robust entanglement of two-mode squeezed states in the presence of noise.

id: 0704.2019
title: Probabilit¨¦s et fluctuations quantiques (Probabilities and quantum fluctuations)
authors: Michel Fliess
comments: 
journal: Comptes rendus de l'acad\'emie des sciences, Math\'ematiques 344 (2007) 663-668
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Logic (math.LO); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2019
abstract: This note is sketching a simple and natural mathematical construction for explaining the probabilistic nature of quantum mechanics. It employs nonstandard analysis and is based on Feynman's interpretation of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, i.e., of the quantum fluctuations, which was brought to the forefront in some fractal approaches. It results, as in Nelson's stochastic mechanics, in stochastic differential equations which are deduced from infinitesimal random walks. An extended english abstract gives most of the details.

id: 0704.2027
title: Quantum teleportation with atoms: quantum process tomography
authors: M. Riebe, M. Chwalla, J. Benhelm, H. Haeffner, W. Haensel, C. F. Roos, R. Blatt
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 211 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2027
abstract: The performance of a quantum teleportation algorithm implemented on an ion trap quantum computer is investigated. First the algorithm is analyzed in terms of the teleportation fidelity of six input states evenly distributed over the Bloch sphere. Furthermore, a quantum process tomography of the teleportation algorithm is carried out which provides almost complete knowledge about the algorithm.

id: 0704.2033
title: The Quantum Interference Computer: an experimental proposal
authors: A.Y. Shiekh
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Int. Jour. of Theo. Phys., 47, 2176, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2033
abstract: An experiment is proposed to test the interference aspect of the Quantum Interference Computer approach

id: 0704.2035
title: Vacuum as a less hostile environment to entanglement
authors: Petr Marek, Jinhyoung Lee, M. S. Kim
comments: Replaced by the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032302 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2035
abstract: We derive sufficient conditions for infinite-dimensional systems whose entanglement is not completely lost in a finite time during its decoherence by a passive interaction with local vacuum environments. The sufficient conditions allow us to clarify a class of bipartite entangled states which preserve their entanglement or, in other words, are tolerant against decoherence in a vacuum. We also discuss such a class for entangled qubits.

id: 0704.2038
title: Non-Viability of a Counter-Argument to Bell's Theorem
authors: M. Holman
comments: 2 pages, no figures; v2, two minor semantical changes - in order to resolve some apparent confusion in the mind of some reader - conclusion remains unaffected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2038
abstract: It is demonstrated that a recently suggested model for the EPR-Bohm spin experiment, based on Clifford algebra valued local variables and observables, runs into very serious difficulties and can therefore not be taken as constituting a viable counter-example to Bell's theorem.

id: 0704.2065
title: Comment on "NMR Experiment Factors Numbers with Gauss Sums"
authors: J. A. Jones
comments: 1 page RevTex4; submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2065
abstract: Mehring et al. have recently described an elegant nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) experiment implementing an algorithm to factor numbers based on the properties of Gauss sums. Similar experiments have also been described by Mahesh et al. In fact these algorithms do not factor numbers directly, but rather check whether a trial integer $\ell$ is a factor of a given integer $N$. Here I show that these NMR schemes cannot be used for factor checking without first implicitly determining whether or not $\ell$ is a factor of $N$.

id: 0704.2066
title: Lower bounds for communication capacities of two-qudit unitary operations
authors: Dominic W. Berry
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2066
abstract: We show that entangling capacities based on the Jamiolkowski isomorphism may be used to place lower bounds on the communication capacities of arbitrary bipartite unitaries. Therefore, for these definitions, the relations which have been previously shown for two-qubit unitaries also hold for arbitrary dimensions. These results are closely related to the theory of the entanglement-assisted capacity of channels. We also present more general methods for producing ensembles for communication from initial states for entanglement creation.

id: 0704.2078
title: Quantum theory from Hamilton's Principle with imperfect information
authors: John Hegseth
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2078
abstract: Many quantization schemes rely on analogs of classical mechanics where the connections with classical mechanics are indirect. In this work I propose a new and direct connection between classical mechanics and quantum mechanics where the quantum mechanical propagator is derived from a variational principle. This principle allows a physical system to have imperfect information, i.e., there is incomplete knowledge of the physical state, and many paths are allowed.

id: 0704.2087
title: The SLOCC invariant and the residual entanglement for n-qubits
authors: D. Li, X. Li, H. Huang, X. Li
comments: 22 pages, no figure, lemma 4 and corollary 3 and the conjecture for odd n-qubits in the previous version were deleted because they are not always true
journal: PRA 76, 032304 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2087
abstract: In this paper, we find the invariant for $n$-qubits and propose the residual entanglement for $n$-qubits by means of the invariant. Thus, we establish a relation between SLOCC entanglement and the residual entanglement. The invariant and the residual entanglement can be used for SLOCC entanglement classification for $n$-qubits.

id: 0704.2091
title: Discrete quantum Fourier transform in coupled semiconductor double quantum dot molecules
authors: Ping Dong, Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 3 pages,2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 373 (2008) 30-32
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2091
abstract: In this Letter, we present a physical scheme for implementing the discrete quantum Fourier transform in a coupled semiconductor double quantum dot system. The main controlled-R gate operation can be decomposed into many simple and feasible unitary transformations. The current scheme would be a useful step towards the realization of complex quantum algorithms in the quantum dot system.

id: 0704.2097
title: Effects of Measurement back-action in the stabilization of a Bose-Einstein condensate through feedback
authors: S.D.Wilson, A.R.R.Carvalho, J.J.Hope, M.R.James
comments: 1 Tex, 4 PS pictures, 1 bbl file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2097
abstract: We apply quantum filtering and control to a particle in a harmonic trap under continuous position measurement, and show that a simple static feedback law can be used to cool the system. The final steady state is Gaussian and dependent on the feedback strength and coupling between the system and probe. In the limit of weak coupling this final state becomes the ground state. An earlier model by Haine et. al. (PRA 69, 2004) without measurement back-action showed dark states: states that did not display error signals, thus remaining unaffected by the control. This paper shows that for a realistic measurement process this is not true, which indicates that a Bose-Einstein condensate may be driven towards the ground state from any arbitrary initial state.

id: 0704.2105
title: Entanglement and interference between different degrees of freedom of photons states
authors: F. W. Sun, B. H. Liu, Y. F. Huang, Y. S. Zhang, Z. Y. Ou, G. C. Guo
comments: 11 pages and 2 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 76, 063805 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2105
abstract: In this paper, photonic entanglement and interference are described and analyzed with the language of quantum information process. Correspondingly, a photon state involving several degrees of freedom is represented in a new expression based on the permutation symmetry of bosons. In this expression, each degree of freedom of a single photon is regarded as a qubit and operations on photons as qubit gates. The two-photon Hong-Ou-Mandel interference is well interpreted with it. Moreover, the analysis reveals the entanglement between different degrees of freedom in a four-photon state from parametric down conversion, even if there is no entanglement between them in the two-photon state. The entanglement will decrease the state purity and photon interference visibility in the experiments on a four-photon polarization state.

id: 0704.2117
title: Quasienergy anholonomy and its application to adiabatic quantum state manipulation
authors: Atushi Tanaka, Manabu Miyamoto
comments: 10pages, 1figure. To be published in Phys. Rev. Lett.
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 160407 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2117
abstract: The parametric dependence of a quantum map under the influence of a rank-1 perturbation is investigated. While the Floquet operator of the map and its spectrum have a common period with respect to the perturbation strength $\lambda$, we show an example in which none of the quasienergies nor the eigenvectors obey the same period: After a periodic increment of $\lambda$, the quasienergy arrives at the nearest higher one, instead of the initial one, exhibiting an anholonomy, which governs another anholonomy of the eigenvectors. An application to quantum state manipulations is outlined.

id: 0704.2122
title: Nonadditive quantum error-correcting code
authors: Sixia Yu, Qing Chen, C. H. Lai, C. H. Oh
comments: 1 eps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2122
abstract: We report the first nonadditive quantum error-correcting code, namely, a $((9,12,3))$ code which is a 12-dimensional subspace within a 9-qubit Hilbert space, that outperforms the optimal stabilizer code of the same length by encoding more levels while correcting arbitrary single-qubit errors.

id: 0704.2194
title: Casimir Friction I: Friction of a vacuum on a spinning dielectric
authors: Yves Pomeau, David C. Roberts
comments: To appear in Modern Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics (MEMPhys); campanion article to cond-mat/0503757; v2 - minor editorial changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2194
abstract: We introduce the concept of Casimir friction, i.e. friction due to quantum fluctuations. In this first article we describe the calculation of a constant torque, arising from the scattering of quantum fluctuations, on a dielectric rotating in an electromagnetic vacuum.

id: 0704.2236
title: Squashed entanglement for multipartite states and entanglement measures based on the mixed convex roof
authors: Dong Yang, Karol Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim, Wei Song
comments: improved version, 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 55, 3375 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2236
abstract: New measures of multipartite entanglement are constructed based on two definitions of multipartite information and different methods of optimizing over extensions of the states. One is a generalization of the squashed entanglement where one takes the mutual information of parties conditioned on the state's extension and takes the infimum over such extensions. Additivity of the multipartite squashed entanglement is proved for both versions of the multipartite information which turn out to be related. The second one is based on taking classical extensions. This scheme is generalized, which enables to construct measures of entanglement based on the {\it mixed convex roof} of a quantity, which in contrast to the standard convex roof method involves optimization over all decompositions of a density matrix rather than just the decompositions into pure states. As one of the possible applications of these results we prove that any multipartite monotone is an upper bound on the amount of multipartite distillable key. The findings are finally related to analogous results in classical key agreement.

id: 0704.2241
title: Why should anyone care about computing with anyons?
authors: Gavin K. Brennen, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 22 pages, 13 figures. Some changes to existing sections, several references added, and a new section on criteria for TQO and TQC in lattice systems
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 10.1098/rspa.2007.0026 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2241
abstract: In this article we present a pedagogical introduction of the main ideas and recent advances in the area of topological quantum computation. We give an overview of the concept of anyons and their exotic statistics, present various models that exhibit topological behavior, and we establish their relation to quantum computation. Possible directions for the physical realization of topological systems and the detection of anyonic behavior are elaborated.

id: 0704.2246
title: Towards experimental entanglement connection with atomic ensembles in the single excitation regime
authors: J. Laurat, C.W. Chou, H. Deng, K.S. Choi, D. Felinto, H. de Riedmatten, H.J. Kimble
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 207 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2246
abstract: We present a protocol for performing entanglement connection between pairs of atomic ensembles in the single excitation regime. Two pairs are prepared in an asynchronous fashion and then connected via a Bell measurement. The resulting state of the two remaining ensembles is mapped to photonic modes and a reduced density matrix is then reconstructed. Our observations confirm for the first time the creation of coherence between atomic systems that never interacted, a first step towards entanglement connection, a critical requirement for quantum networking and long distance quantum communications.

id: 0704.2247
title: Chaos and Complexity of quantum motion
authors: Tomaz Prosen
comments: 45 pages, 22 figures, final version, at press in J. Phys. A, special issue on Quantum Information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2247
abstract: The problem of characterizing complexity of quantum dynamics - in particular of locally interacting chains of quantum particles - will be reviewed and discussed from several different perspectives: (i) stability of motion against external perturbations and decoherence, (ii) efficiency of quantum simulation in terms of classical computation and entanglement production in operator spaces, (iii) quantum transport, relaxation to equilibrium and quantum mixing, and (iv) computation of quantum dynamical entropies. Discussions of all these criteria will be confronted with the established criteria of integrability or quantum chaos, and sometimes quite surprising conclusions are found. Some conjectures and interesting open problems in ergodic theory of the quantum many problem are suggested.

id: 0704.2252
title: Negative differential conductivity in Heisenberg XXZ chain far from equilibrium
authors: Tomaz Prosen
comments: Unpublished notes, written up in February 2004, 5 pages with 3 .eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2252
abstract: Negative differential conductivity is reported for the far from equilibrium quantum spin transport in the insulating regime (J_x < J_z) of finite Heisenberg XXZ spin 1/2 chains. The phenomenon is reproduced analytically for small chains of N=4 spins and further analyzed numerically, for up to N=16, using an efficient pure-state simulation with stochastic spin baths.

id: 0704.2269
title: Temporal and diffraction effects in entanglement creation in an optical cavity
authors: S. Natali, Z. Ficek
comments: Phys. Rev. A75, 042307 (2007)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2269
abstract: A practical scheme for entanglement creation between distant atoms located inside a single-mode optical cavity is discussed. We show that the degree of entanglement and the time it takes for the entanglement to reach its optimum value is a sensitive function the initial conditions and the position of the atoms inside the cavity mode. It is found that the entangled properties of the two atoms can readily be extracted from dynamics of a simple two-level system. Effectively, we engineer two coupled qubits whose the dynamics are analogous to that of a driven single two-level system. It is found that spatial variations of the coupling constants actually help to create transient entanglement which may appear on the time scale much longer than that predicted for the case of equal coupling constants. When the atoms are initially prepared in an entangled state, they may remain entangled for all times. We also find that the entanglement exhibits an interesting phenomenon of diffraction when the the atoms are located between the nodes and antinodes of the cavity mode. The diffraction pattern of the entanglement varies with time and we explain this effect in terms of the quantum property of complementarity, which is manifested as a tradeoff between the knowledge of energy of the exchanged photon versus the evolution time of the system.

id: 0704.2297
title: Efficient scheme for one-way quantum computing in thermal cavities
authors: Wen-Xing Yang, Zhe-Xuan Gong
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, Volume 47, Number 11, 2997-3004 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2297
abstract: We propose a practical scheme for one-way quantum computing based on efficient generation of 2D cluster state in thermal cavities. We achieve a controlled-phase gate that is neither sensitive to cavity decay nor to thermal field by adding a strong classical field to the two-level atoms. We show that a 2D cluster state can be generated directly by making every two atoms collide in an array of cavities, with numerically calculated parameters and appropriate operation sequence that can be easily achieved in practical Cavity QED experiments. Based on a generated cluster state in Box$^{(4)}$ configuration, we then implement Grover's search algorithm for four database elements in a very simple way as an example of one-way quantum computing.

id: 0704.2315
title: Exact Mapping of the 2+1 Dirac Oscillator onto the Jaynes-Cummings Model: Ion-Trap Experimental Proposal
authors: A. Bermudez, M.A. Martin-Delgado, E. Solano
comments: Revtex4, submitted for publication
journal: Rap. Comm. PRA 76, 041801 (R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2315
abstract: We study the dynamics of the 2+1 Dirac oscillator exactly and find spin oscillations due to a {\it Zitterbewegung} of purely relativistic origin. We find an exact mapping of this quantum-relativistic system onto a Jaynes-Cummings model, describing the interaction of a two-level atom with a quantized single-mode field. This equivalence allows us to map a series of quantum optical phenomena onto the relativistic oscillator, and viceversa. We make a realistic experimental proposal, at reach with current technology, for studying the equivalence of both models using a single trapped ion.

id: 0704.2339
title: Scale invariant quantum potential leading to globally self-trapped wave function in Madelung fluid
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: 11 pages; changed content
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2339
abstract: We show in spatially one dimensional Madelung fluid that a simple requirement on local stability of the maximum of quantum probability density will, if combined with the global scale invariance of quantum potential, lead to a class of quantum probability densities globally being self-trapped by their own self-generated quantum potentials, possessing only a finite-size spatial support. It turns out to belong to a class of the most probable wave function given its energy through the maximum entropy principle. We proceed to show that there is a limiting case in which the quantum probability density becomes the stationary-moving soliton-like solution of the Schr\"odinger equation.

id: 0704.2347
title: Revival-collapse phenomenon in the quadrature squeezing of the multiphoton Jaynes-Cummings model with the binomial states
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, Comments are most welcome
journal: AnnalenPhys.17:424-432,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2347
abstract: In this paper we study the interaction between two-level atom and quantized single-mode field, namely, Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM). The field and the atom are initially prepared in the binomial state and the excited atomic state, respectively. For this system we prove that the revival-collapse phenomenon exhibited in the atomic inversion of the standard JCM can be numerically (naturally) manifested in the evolution of the squeezing factor of the three-photon (standard) JCM provided that the initial photon-number distribution of the radiation has a smooth envelope.

id: 0704.2352
title: A 2D quantum antiferromagnet with a four-fold degenerate valence-bond-solid ground state
authors: Alain Gell¨¦, Andreas L?uchli, Brijesh Kumar, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Mila
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2352
abstract: We study the competition between antiferromagnetic order and valence bond solid formation in a two-dimensional frustrated spin-1/2 model. The J1-J2 model on the square lattice is further frustrated by introducing products of three-spin projectors which stabilize four dimer-product states as degenerate ground states. These four states are reminiscent of the dimerized singlet ground state of the Shastry-Sutherland model. Using exact diagonalizations, we study the evolution of the ground state by varying theratio of interactions. For a large range of parameters (J2 > 0.25J1), our model shows a direct transition between the valence-bond-solid phase and the collinear antiferromagnetic phase. For small values of J2, several intermediate phases appear which are also analyzed.

id: 0704.2414
title: Multi-qubit stabilizer and cluster entanglement witnesses
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, G. Najarbashi, Y. Akbari, H. Habibian
comments: 57 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2414
abstract: One of the problems concerning entanglement witnesses (EWs) is the construction of them by a given set of operators. Here several multi-qubit EWs called stabilizer EWs are constructed by using the stabilizer operators of some given multi-qubit states such as GHZ, cluster and exceptional states. The general approach to manipulate the multi-qubit stabilizer EWs by exact(approximate) linear programming (LP) method is described and it is shown that the Clifford group play a crucial role in finding the hyper-planes encircling the feasible region. The optimality, decomposability and non-decomposability of constructed stabilizer EWs are discussed.

id: 0704.2425
title: Trapping and Cooling a mirror to its quantum mechanical ground state
authors: M. Bhattacharya, P. Meystre
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2425
abstract: We propose a technique aimed at cooling a harmonically oscillating mirror to its quantum mechanical ground state starting from room temperature. Our method, which involves the two-sided irradiation of the vibrating mirror inside an optical cavity, combines several advantages over the two-mirror arrangements being used currently. For comparable parameters the three-mirror configuration provides a stiffer trap for the oscillating mirror. Furthermore it prevents bistability from limiting the use of higher laser powers for mirror trapping, and also partially does so for mirror cooling. Lastly, it improves the isolation of the mirror from classical noise so that its dynamics are perturbed mostly by the vacuum fluctuations of the optical fields. These improvements are expected to bring the task of achieving ground state occupation for the mirror closer to completion.

id: 0704.2510
title: Controlling Phase Space Caustics in the Semiclassical Coherent State Propagator
authors: A. D. Ribeiro, M. A. M. de Aguiar
comments: 24 pages, to appear in Ann. of Phys
journal: Annals of Physics 323, 654-672 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2510
abstract: The semiclassical formula for the quantum propagator in the coherent state representation $<\mathbf{z}'' | e^{-i\hat{H}T/\hbar} | \mathbf{z}'>$ is not free from the problem of caustics. These are singular points along the complex classical trajectories specified by $\mathbf{z}'$, $\mathbf{z}''$ and $T$ where the usual quadratic approximation fails, leading to divergences in the semiclassical formula. In this paper we derive third order approximations for this propagator that remain finite in the vicinity of caustics. We use Maslov's method and the dual representation proposed in Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 95}, 050405 (2005) to derive uniform, regular and transitional semiclassical approximations for coherent state propagator in systems with two degrees of freedom.

id: 0704.2513
title: Reaching the Holevo Capacity via von Neumann measurement, and its use
authors: L. Farkas
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2513
abstract: In this article we show that the Holevo capacity of a classical quantum channel, can be reached not only by a POVM but by von Neumann measurement too. Furthermore we show two use of this fact 1) We can generalize the classical compound channel to quantum environment and with this new measure technique we can give an optimal coding/decoding algorithm to it. 2) We give an algorithm, with it a classical system can be decoded by quantum apparatus in linear time, which is a surprising result, because best known optimal classical decoding algorithm need n*log(n) time. This means that if a quantum machine can perform arbitrarily von Neumann measurement with only two possible outcome, then it can solve non-polynomial classical problems in linear time.

id: 0704.2529
title: An experimental test of non-local realism
authors: Simon Groeblacher, Tomasz Paterek, Rainer Kaltenbaek, Caslav Brukner, Marek Zukowski, Markus Aspelmeyer, Anton Zeilinger
comments: Minor corrections to the manuscript, the final inequality and all its conclusions do not change; description of corrections (Corrigendum) added as new Appendix III; Appendix II replaced by a shorter derivation
journal: Nature 446, 871-875 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2529
abstract: Most working scientists hold fast to the concept of 'realism' - a viewpoint according to which an external reality exists independent of observation. But quantum physics has shattered some of our cornerstone beliefs. According to Bell's theorem, any theory that is based on the joint assumption of realism and locality (meaning that local events cannot be affected by actions in space-like separated regions) is at variance with certain quantum predictions. Experiments with entangled pairs of particles have amply confirmed these quantum predictions, thus rendering local realistic theories untenable. Maintaining realism as a fundamental concept would therefore necessitate the introduction of 'spooky' actions that defy locality. Here we show by both theory and experiment that a broad and rather reasonable class of such non-local realistic theories is incompatible with experimentally observable quantum correlations. In the experiment, we measure previously untested correlations between two entangled photons, and show that these correlations violate an inequality proposed by Leggett for non-local realistic theories. Our result suggests that giving up the concept of locality is not sufficient to be consistent with quantum experiments, unless certain intuitive features of realism are abandoned.

id: 0704.2540
title: Quantum Measurements and Gates by Code Deformation
authors: H. Bombin, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: Revtex4, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 095302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2540
abstract: The usual scenario in fault tolerant quantum computation involves certain amount of qubits encoded in each code block, transversal operations between them and destructive measurements of ancillary code blocks. We introduce a new approach in which a single code layer is used for the entire computation, in particular a surface code. Qubits can be created, manipulated and non-destructively measured by code deformations that amount to `cut and paste' operations in the surface. All the interactions between qubits remain purely local in a two-dimensional setting.

id: 0704.2559
title: Is there a relativistic nonlinear generalization of quantum mechanics?
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: 10 pages; talk at DICE 2006 (Piombino, September 11-15, 2006); to appear in Journal of Physics: Conference Series (2007)
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.67:012016,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2559
abstract: Yes, there is. - A new kind of gauge theory is introduced, where the minimal coupling and corresponding covariant derivatives are defined in the space of functions pertaining to the functional Schroedinger picture of a given field theory. While, for simplicity, we study the example of an U(1) symmetry, this kind of gauge theory can accommodate other symmetries as well. We consider the resulting relativistic nonlinear extension of quantum mechanics and show that it incorporates gravity in the (0+1)-dimensional limit, where it leads to the Schroedinger-Newton equations. Gravity is encoded here into a universal nonlinear extension of quantum theory. The probabilistic interpretation, i.e. Born's rule, holds provided the underlying model has only dimensionless parameters.

id: 0704.2575
title: Strong photon non-linearities and photonic Mott insulators
authors: Michael J Hartmann, Martin B Plenio
comments: minor changes, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 103601 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2575
abstract: We show, that photon non-linearities in electromagnetically induced transparency can be at least one order of magnitude larger than predicted in all previous approaches. As an application we demonstrate that, in this regime they give rise to very strong photon - photon interactions which are strong enough to make an experimental realization of a photonic Mott insulator state feasible in arrays of coupled ultra high-Q micro-cavities.

id: 0704.2597
title: Separability, entanglement and full families of commuting normal matrices
authors: Jan Samsonowicz, Marek Kus, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 14 pages, some typos corrected, a reference added, in print in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2597
abstract: We reduce the question whether a given quantum mixed state is separable or entangled to the problem of existence of a certain full family of commuting normal matrices whose matrix elements are partially determined by components of the pure states constituting a decomposition of the considered mixture. The method reproduces many known entanglement and/or separability criteria, and provides yet another geometrical characterization of mixed separable states.

id: 0704.2602
title: Investigation of continuous-time quantum walks via spectral analysis and Laplace transform
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, R. Sufiani
comments: 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2602
abstract: Continuous-time quantum walk (CTQW) on a given graph is investigated by using the techniques of the spectral analysis and inverse Laplace transform of the Stieltjes function (Stieltjes transform of the spectral distribution) associated with the graph. It is shown that, the probability amplitude of observing the CTQW at a given site at time $t$ is related to the inverse Laplace transformation of the Stieltjes function, namely, one can calculate the probability amplitudes only by taking the inverse laplace transform of the function $iG_{\mu}(is)$, where $G_{\mu}(x)$ is the Stieltjes function of the graph. The preference of this procedure is that, there is no any need to know the spectrum of the graph

id: 0704.2648
title: Prospects for making polar molecules with microwave fields
authors: Svetlana Kotochigova
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2648
abstract: We propose a new mechanism to produce ultracold polar molecules with microwave fields. The proposed mechanism converts trapped ultracold atoms of different species into vibrationally excited molecules by a single microwave transition and entirely depends on the existence of a permanent dipole moment in the molecules. As opposed to production of molecules by photoassociation or magnetic-field Feshbach resonances our method does not rely on the structure and lifetime of excited states or existence of Feshbach resonances. In addition, we determine conditions for optimal creation of polar molecules in vibrationally excited states of the ground-state potential by changing frequency and intensity of the microwave field. We also explore the possibility to produce vibrationally cold molecules by combining the microwave field with an optical Raman transition or by applying a microwave field to Feshbach molecules. The production mechanism is illustrated for two polar molecules: KRb and RbCs.

id: 0704.2677
title: Entanglement induced Sub-Planck structures
authors: Jitesh R. Bhatt, Prasanta K. Panigrahi, Manan Vyas
comments: 6 pages 2 figures (revised version include more quantitative discussion)
journal: Phys. Rev. A78, 034101, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2677
abstract: We study Wigner function of a system describing entanglement of two cat-states. Quantum interferece arising due to entanglement is shown to produce sub-Planck structures in the phase-space plots of the Wigner function. Origin of these structures in our case depends on entanglement unlike those in Zurek \cite{Zurek}. It is argued that the entangled cat-states are better suited for carrying out precision measurements.

id: 0704.2757
title: Polaron Physics in Optical Lattices
authors: Martin Bruderer, Alexander Klein, Stephen R. Clark, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 011605(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2757
abstract: We investigate the effects of a nearly uniform Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) on the properties of immersed trapped impurity atoms. Using a weak-coupling expansion in the BEC-impurity interaction strength, we derive a model describing polarons, i.e., impurities dressed by a coherent state of Bogoliubov phonons, and apply it to ultracold bosonic atoms in an optical lattice. We show that, with increasing BEC temperature, the transport properties of the impurities change from coherent to diffusive. Furthermore, stable polaron clusters are formed via a phonon-mediated off-site attraction.

id: 0704.2759
title: Spectroscopic investigation of spin zero homonuclear and heteronuclear molecules
authors: Nagalakshmi A. Rao, B. A. Kagali
comments: Latex, 11 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2759
abstract: In the present article, we introduce a model to investigate the energy spectrum of a relativistic rotor by considering the Klein-Gordon Hamiltonian. Rotational spectral lines are a signature of homonuclear and heteronuclear systems and play a key role in understanding diatomic molecules. We show that the energy-correction term arising due to unequal masses influences the line separation. Determining the rotational constant enables one to calculate the moment of inertia and bond length of the molecule.

id: 0704.2765
title: Entanglement of localized states
authors: O. Giraud, J. Martin, B. Georgeot
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042333 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2765
abstract: We derive exact expressions for the mean value of Meyer-Wallach entanglement Q for localized random vectors drawn from various ensembles corresponding to different physical situations. For vectors localized on a randomly chosen subset of the basis, <Q> tends for large system sizes to a constant which depends on the participation ratio, whereas for vectors localized on adjacent basis states it goes to zero as a constant over the number of qubits. Applications to many-body systems and Anderson localization are discussed.

id: 0704.2770
title: A remark on helical waveguides
authors: Pavel Exner, Martin Fraas
comments: LaTeX, 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2770
abstract: Motivated by a proposal to create an optical helix-shaped waveguides for cold atoms and molecules, we discuss local perturbations which can create bound states in such a setting. This is known about a local slowdown of the twist; we show that a similar effect can result from a local tube protrusion or a change of the helix radius in correlation with its pitch angle.

id: 0704.2859
title: Theory of Two-Photon Interactions with Broadband Down-Converted Light and Entangled Photons
authors: Barak Dayan
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2859
abstract: When two-photon interactions are induced by down-converted light with a bandwidth that exceeds the pump bandwidth, they can obtain a behavior that is pulse-like temporally, yet spectrally narrow. At low photon fluxes this behavior reflects the time and energy entanglement between the down-converted photons. However, two-photon interactions such as two-photon absorption (TPA) and sum-frequency generation (SFG) can exhibit such a behavior even at high power levels, as long as the final state (i.e. the atomic level in TPA, or the generated light in SFG) is narrowband enough. This behavior does not depend on the squeezing properties of the light, is insensitive to linear losses, and has potential applications. In this paper we describe analytically this behavior for travelling-wave down-conversion with continuous or pulsed pumping, both for high- and low-power regimes. For this we derive a quantum-mechanical expression for the down-converted amplitude generated by an arbitrary pump, and formulate operators that represent various two-photon interactions induced by broadband light. This model is in excellent agreement with experimental results of TPA and SFG with high power down-converted light and with entangled photons [Dayan et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 023005 (2004), Dayan et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 043602, (2005), Pe'er et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 073601 (2005)].

id: 0704.2903
title: Entangled games are hard to approximate
authors: Julia Kempe, Hirotada Kobayashi, Keiji Matsumoto, Ben Toner, Thomas Vidick
comments: 26 pages, complete and much improved version with stronger results, supersedes the results in arXiv:quant-ph/0612063 proved with different techniques
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2903
abstract: We establish the first hardness results for the problem of computing the value of one-round games played by a verifier and a team of provers who can share quantum entanglement. In particular, we show that it is NP-hard to approximate within an inverse polynomial the value of a one-round game with (i) quantum verifier and two entangled provers or (ii) classical verifier and three entangled provers. Previously it was not even known if computing the value exactly is NP-hard. We also describe a mathematical conjecture, which, if true, would imply hardness of approximation to within a constant. We start our proof by describing two ways to modify classical multi-prover games to make them resistant to entangled provers. We then show that a strategy for the modified game that uses entanglement can be ``rounded'' to one that does not. The results then follow from classical inapproximability bounds. Our work implies that, unless P=NP, the values of entangled-prover games cannot be computed by semidefinite programs that are polynomial in the size of the verifier's system, a method that has been successful for more restricted quantum games.

id: 0704.2932
title: Controlling statistical properties of stored light
authors: A. Raczynski, K. Slowik, J. Zaremba, S. Zielinska-Kaniasty
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2932
abstract: Statistical properties of outgoing light pulses are studies after they have been stored in a medium of atoms in the tripod configuration. A generalized Hong-Ou-Mandel interference, storing of squeezed states and homodyne signal analysis are discussed in the context of their dependence on the parameters of the control fields used for light storage and release.

id: 0704.2935
title: Formation of Ultracold Heteronuclear Dimers in Electric Fields
authors: Rosario Gonz¨¢lez-F¨¦rez, Michael Mayle, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 78, 53001 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2935
abstract: The formation of ultracold molecules via stimulated emission followed by a radiative deexcitation cascade in the presence of a static electric field is investigated. By analyzing the corresponding cross sections, we demonstrate the possibility to populate the lowest rotational excitations via photoassociation. The modification of the radiative cascade due to the electric field leads to narrow rotational state distributions in the vibrational ground state. External fields might therefore represent an additional valuable tool towards the ultimate goal of quantum state preparation of molecules.

id: 0704.2937
title: Quantum Parrondo's game with random strategies
authors: J. Kosik, J. A. Miszczak, V. Buzek
comments: 
journal: J. Mod. Optics, Vol. 54, 13 (2007), pp. 2275 - 2287
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2937
abstract: We present a quantum implementation of Parrondo's game with randomly switched strategies using 1) a quantum walk as a source of ``randomness'' and 2) a completely positive (CP) map as a randomized evolution. The game exhibits the same paradox as in the classical setting where a combination of two losing strategies might result in a winning strategy. We show that the CP-map scheme leads to significantly lower net gain than the quantum walk scheme.

id: 0704.2941
title: Experimental Decoy Quantum Key Distribution Up To 130KM Fiber
authors: Zhen-Qiang Yin, Zheng-Fu Han, Wei Chen, Fang-Xing Xu, Qing-Lin Wu, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 2figures
journal: Chin.Phys.Lett 25, 3547 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2941
abstract: Decoy State Quantum Key Distribution (QKD), being capable of beating PNS attack and uncon- ditionally secure, have become an attractive one recently. But, in many QKD systems, disturbances of transmission channel make quantum bit error rate (QBER) increase which limits both security distance and key bit rate of real-life decoy state QKD systems. We demonstrate the two-intensity decoy QKD with one-way Faraday-Michelson phase modulation system, which is free of channel dis- turbance and keeps interference fringe visibility (99%) long period, near 130KM single mode optical fiber in telecom (1550 nm) wavelength. This is longest distance fiber decoy state QKD system based on two intensity protocol.

id: 0704.2952
title: Selective cloning of Gaussian states by linear optics
authors: Stefano Olivares
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022305 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2952
abstract: We investigate the performances of a selective cloning machine based on linear optical elements and Gaussian measurements, which allows to clone at will one of the two incoming input states. This machine is a complete generalization of a 1 to 2 cloning scheme demonstrated by U. L. Andersen et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. vol. 94, 240503 (2005)]. The input-output fidelity is studied for generic Gaussian input state and the effect of non-unit quantum efficiency is also taken into account. We show that if the states to be cloned are squeezed states with known squeezing parameter, then the fidelity can be enhanced using a third suitable squeezed state during the final stage of the cloning process. A binary communication protocol based on the selective cloning machne is also discussed.

id: 0704.2961
title: On maximal entanglement between two pairs in four-qubit pure states
authors: Stephen Brierley, Atsushi Higuchi
comments: Additional paragraph added referring to the proposed state in relation to bipartite entanglement and the concurrence. References added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 8455-8465
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2961
abstract: We show that the state with the highest known average two-particle von Neumann entanglement entropy proposed by Sudbery and one of the authors gives a local maximum of this entropy. We also show that this is not the case for an alternative highly entangled state proposed by Brown et al.

id: 0704.2973
title: Entanglement fidelity and measurement of entanglement preserving in quantum processes
authors: Yang Xiang, Shi-Jie Xiong
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. v2: repaired a severe oversight, removed an incorrect claim, added references; v3: version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 014301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2973
abstract: The entanglement fidelity provides a measure of how well the entanglement between two subsystems is preserved in a quantum process. By using a simple model we show that in some cases this quantity in its original definition fails in the measurement of the entanglement preserving. On the contrary, the modified entanglement fidelity, obtained by using a proper local unitary transformation on a subsystem, is shown to exhibit the behavior similar to that of the concurrence in the quantum evolution.

id: 0704.2981
title: Entanglement in the quantum Ising model
authors: Geoffrey Grimmett, Tobias Osborne, Petra Scudo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2981
abstract: We study the asymptotic scaling of the entanglement of a block of spins for the ground state of the one-dimensional quantum Ising model with transverse field. When the field is sufficiently strong, the entanglement grows at most logarithmically in the number of spins. The proof utilises a transformation to a model of classical probability called the continuum random-cluster model, and is based on a property of the latter model termed ratio weak-mixing. Our proof applies equally to a large class of disordered interactions.

id: 0704.2988
title: On solving systems of random linear disequations
authors: Gabor Ivanyos
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2988
abstract: An important subcase of the hidden subgroup problem is equivalent to the shift problem over abelian groups. An efficient solution to the latter problem would serve as a building block of quantum hidden subgroup algorithms over solvable groups. The main idea of a promising approach to the shift problem is reduction to solving systems of certain random disequations in finite abelian groups. The random disequations are actually generalizations of linear functions distributed nearly uniformly over those not containing a specific group element in the kernel. In this paper we give an algorithm which finds the solutions of a system of N random linear disequations in an abelian p-group A in time polynomial in N, where N=(log|A|)^{O(q)}, and q is the exponent of A.

id: 0704.3027
title: Full control by locally induced relaxation
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 100501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3027
abstract: We demonstrate a scheme for controlling a large quantum system by acting on a small subsystem only. The local control is mediated to the larger system by some fixed coupling Hamiltonian. The scheme allows to transfer arbitrary and unknown quantum states from a memory on the large system (``upload access'') as well as the inverse (``download access''). We study sufficient conditions of the coupling Hamiltonian and give lower bounds on the fidelities for downloading and uploading.

id: 0704.3047
title: Observation of atom pairs in spontaneous four wave mixing of two colliding Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: A. Perrin, H. Chang, V. Krachmalnicoff, M. Schellekens, D. Boiron, A. Aspect, C. I. Westbrook
comments: A few typos have been corrected
journal: Physical Review Letters 99, 15 (2007) 150405
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3047
abstract: We study atom scattering from two colliding Bose-Einstein condensates using a position sensitive, time resolved, single atom detector. In analogy to quantum optics, the process can also be thought of as spontaneous, degenerate four wave mixing of de Broglie waves. We find a clear correlation between atoms with opposite momenta, demonstrating pair production in the scattering process. We also observe a Hanbury Brown and Twiss correlation for collinear momenta, which permits an independent measurement of the size of the pair production source and thus the size of the spatial mode. The back to back pairs occupy very nearly two oppositely directed spatial modes, a promising feature for future quantum optics experiments.

id: 0704.3056
title: Effective spin systems in coupled micro-cavities
authors: Michael J. Hartmann, Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 160501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3056
abstract: We show that atoms trapped in micro-cavities that interact via exchange of virtual photons can model an anisotropic Heisenberg spin-1/2 chain in an external magnetic field. All parameters of the effective Hamiltonian can individually be tuned via external lasers. Since the occupation of excited atomic levels and photonic states are strongly suppressed, the effective model is robust against decoherence mechanisms, has a long lifetime and its implementation is feasible with current experimental technology. The model provides a feasible way to create cluster states in these devices.

id: 0704.3060
title: Open quantum dynamics via environmental monitoring
authors: Klaus Hornberger
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures. Talk at DICE 2006; to appear in J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. (2007)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3060
abstract: A general method is discussed to obtain Markovian master equations which describe the interaction with the environment in a microscopic and non-perturbative fashion. It is based on combining time-dependent scattering theory with the concept of continuous quantum measurements. The applications to the case of a Brownian point particle and to the case of a complex molecule, both in the presence of a gaseous environment, are outlined.

id: 0704.3070
title: On the Uniqueness of Quantum Equilibrium in Bohmian Mechanics
authors: S. Goldstein, W. Struyve
comments: 15 pages, no figures, LaTex
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 128, 1197-1209 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3070
abstract: In Bohmian mechanics the distribution $|\psi|^2$ is regarded as the equilibrium distribution. We consider its uniqueness, finding that it is the unique equivariant distribution that is also a local functional of the wave function $\psi$.

id: 0704.3075
title: Computation in Sofic Quantum Dynamical Systems
authors: Karoline Wiesner, James P. Crutchfield
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures; this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3075
abstract: We analyze how measured quantum dynamical systems store and process information, introducing sofic quantum dynamical systems. Using recently introduced information-theoretic measures for quantum processes, we quantify their information storage and processing in terms of entropy rate and excess entropy, giving closed-form expressions where possible. To illustrate the impact of measurement on information storage in quantum processes, we analyze two spin-1 sofic quantum systems that differ only in how they are measured.

id: 0704.3116
title: Combinatorics and Boson normal ordering: A gentle introduction
authors: P. Blasiak, A. Horzela, K. A. Penson, A. I. Solomon, G. H. E. Duchamp
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Am. J. Phys. 75, 639-646 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3116
abstract: We discuss a general combinatorial framework for operator ordering problems by applying it to the normal ordering of the powers and exponential of the boson number operator. The solution of the problem is given in terms of Bell and Stirling numbers enumerating partitions of a set. This framework reveals several inherent relations between ordering problems and combinatorial objects, and displays the analytical background to Wick's theorem. The methodology can be straightforwardly generalized from the simple example given herein to a wide class of operators.

id: 0704.3130
title: Hartree-Fock Approximation and Entanglement
authors: Luigi Martina, Giulio Soliani
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3130
abstract: The relation between the correlation energy and the entanglement is analytically constructed for the Moshinsky's model of two coupled harmonic oscillators. It turns out that the two quantities are far to be proportional, even at very small couplings. A comparison is made also with the 2-point Ising model.

id: 0704.3142
title: A QMA-Complete Translationally Invariant Hamiltonian Problem and the Complexity of Finding Ground State Energies in Physical Systems
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 4 pages. v2: Significantly revised interpretation of results. v3: updated references, added example class of Hamiltonians
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 030307(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3142
abstract: Here we present a problem related to the local Hamiltonian problem (identifying whether the ground state energy falls within one of two ranges) which is restricted to being translationally invariant. We prove that for problems with a fixed local dimension and O(\log(N))-body local terms, or local dimension N and 2-body terms, there are instances of the problem which are QMA-complete. We discuss the implications for the computational complexity of finding ground states of these systems, and hence for any classical approximation techniques that one could apply including DMRG, Matrix Product States and MERA. One important example is a 1D lattice of bosons with nearest-neighbor hopping at constant filling fraction i.e. a generalization of the Bose-Hubbard model.

id: 0704.3179
title: Measurement-induced manipulation of the quantum-classical border
authors: S. Maniscalco, J. Piilo, K.-A. Suominen
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3179
abstract: We demonstrate the possibility of controlling the border between the quantum and the classical world by performing nonselective measurements on quantum systems. We consider a quantum harmonic oscillator initially prepared in a Schroedinger cat state and interacting with its environment. We show that the environment induced decoherence transforming the cat state into a statistical mixture can be strongly inhibited by means of appropriate sequences of measurements.

id: 0704.3253
title: Quantum Hacking: Experimental demonstration of time-shift attack against practical quantum key distribution systems
authors: Yi Zhao, Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Bing Qi, Christine Chen, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Substantially revised version
journal: Physical Review A, 78, 042333 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3253
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) systems can send signals over more than 100 km standard optical fiber and are widely believed to be secure. Here, we show experimentally for the first time a technologically feasible attack, namely the time-shift attack, against a commercial QKD system. Our result shows that, contrary to popular belief, an eavesdropper, Eve, has a non-negligible probability (~4%) to break the security of the system. Eve's success is due to the well-known detection efficiency loophole in the experimental testing of Bell inequalities. Therefore, the detection efficiency loophole plays a key role not only in fundamental physics, but also in technological applications such as QKD.

id: 0704.3297
title: Breaking a quantum key distribution system through a timing side channel
authors: Antia Lamas-Linares, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Added additional references and extended analysis. Identical to published version
journal: Opt. Express 15, 9388 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3297
abstract: The security of quantum key distribution relies on the validity of quantum mechanics as a description of nature and on the non-existence of leaky degrees of freedom in the practical implementations. We experimentally demonstrate how, in some implementations, timing information revealed during public discussion between the communicating parties can be used by an eavesdropper to undetectably access a significant portion of the ``secret'' key.

id: 0704.3300
title: The effect of dissipation on quantum transmission resonance
authors: Kohkichi Konno, Munehiro Nishida, Satoshi Tanda, Noriyuki Hatakenaka
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, Accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A 368 (2007) 442-449
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3300
abstract: Quantum transmissions of a free particle passing through a rectangular potential barrier with dissipation are studied using a path decomposition technique. Dissipative processes strongly suppress the transmission probability at resonance just above the barrier resulting in an unexpected reduction of the mean traversal time through the potential barrier.

id: 0704.3306
title: Quantum mechanics on Hilbert manifolds: The principle of functional relativity
authors: Alexey A. Kryukov
comments: 45 pages, 9 figures, see arXiv:0704.3225v1 for mathematical considerations and this http URL for related papers
journal: Found. Phys. 36, 175 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3306
abstract: Quantum mechanics is formulated as a geometric theory on a Hilbert manifold. Images of charts on the manifold are allowed to belong to arbitrary Hilbert spaces of functions including spaces of generalized functions. Tensor equations in this setting, also called functional tensor equations, describe families of functional equations on various Hilbert spaces of functions. The principle of functional relativity is introduced which states that quantum theory is indeed a functional tensor theory, i.e., it can be described by functional tensor equations. The main equations of quantum theory are shown to be compatible with the principle of functional relativity. By accepting the principle as a hypothesis, we then analyze the origin of physical dimensions, provide a geometric interpretation of Planck's constant, and find a simple interpretation of the two-slit experiment and the process of measurement.

id: 0704.3322
title: A Geometrical Approach towards Entanglement
authors: B. Basu, P. Bandyopadhyay
comments: 7 pages, accepted in IJGMMP Vol 4, No. 5 (2007)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3322
abstract: We have studied the concurrence of two-site entanglement and have shown that it is related to the geometric phase accumulated due to a complete rotation of the entangled state. The geometric phase and hence the concurrence is evaluated for transverse Ising model and antiferromagnetic chain which is found to be in good agreement with that obtained by other methods.

id: 0704.3347
title: Universal dynamical decoherence control of noisy single-and multi-qubit systems
authors: Goren Gordon, Noam Erez, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 28 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 40 (2007) S75-S93
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3347
abstract: In this article we develop, step by step, the framework for universal dynamical control of two-level systems (TLS) or qubits experiencing amplitude- or phase-noise (AN or PN) due to coupling to a thermal bath. A comprehensive arsenal of modulation schemes is introduced and applied to either AN or PN, resulting in completely analogous formulae for the decoherence rates, thus underscoring the unified nature of this universal formalism. We then address the extension of this formalism to multipartite decoherence control, where symmetries are exploited to overcome decoherence.

id: 0704.3348
title: Extreme points of the set of density matrices with positive partial transpose
authors: Jon Magne Leinaas, Jan Myrheim, Eirik Ovrum
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 034304 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3348
abstract: We present a necessary and sufficient condition for a finite dimensional density matrix to be an extreme point of the convex set of density matrices with positive partial transpose with respect to a subsystem. We also give an algorithm for finding such extreme points and illustrate this by some examples.

id: 0704.3357
title: Statistical-mechanical description of quantum entanglement
authors: J. K. Korbicz, F. Hulpke, A. Osterloh, M. Lewenstein
comments: final version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 375301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3357
abstract: We present a description of finite dimensional quantum entanglement, based on a study of the space of all convex decompositions of a given density matrix. On this space we construct a system of real polynomial equations describing separable states. We further study this system using statistical mechanical methods. Finally, we apply our techniques to Werner states of two qubits and obtain a sufficient criterion for separability.

id: 0704.3362
title: Eigenfunctions of the two-dimensional Moshinsky-Szczepaniak Oscillator
authors: Nagalakshmi A. Rao, B. A. Kagali
comments: Latex, 8 Pages, No Figures
journal: Mod. Phy. Letters A, Vol.19, No.28 (2004) 2147 - 2153
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3362
abstract: While the usual harmonic oscillator potential gives discrete energies in the non-relativistic case, it does not however give genuine bound states in the relativistic case if the potential is treated in the usual way. In the present article, we have obtained the eigenfunctions of the Dirac oscillator in two spatial dimensions, adapting the prescription of Moshinsky.

id: 0704.3415
title: Quantum decoherence in the theory of open systems
authors: A. Isar
comments: 6 pages; talk at the 3rd International Workshop "Quantum Physics and Communication" (QPC 2005), Dubna, Russia, 2005
journal: Phys. Part. Nuclei Lett. 4, 133 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3415
abstract: In the framework of the Lindblad theory for open quantum systems, we determine the degree of quantum decoherence of a harmonic oscillator interacting with a thermal bath. It is found that the system manifests a quantum decoherence which is more and more significant in time. We calculate also the decoherence time scale and analyze the transition from quantum to classical behaviour of the considered system.

id: 0704.3420
title: Lie fields revisited
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: 13 pages; to appear in J.Math.Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48, 122302 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3420
abstract: A class of interacting classical random fields is constructed using deformed *-algebras of creation and annihilation operators. The fields constructed are classical random field versions of "Lie fields". A vacuum vector is used to construct linear forms over the algebras, which are conjectured to be states over the algebras. Assuming this conjecture is true, the fields constructed are "quantum random fields" in the sense that they have Poincare invariant vacua with a fluctuation scale determined by Planck's constant. A nonlocal particle interpretation of the formalism is shown to be the same as a particle interpretation of a quantum field theory.

id: 0704.3432
title: Quantum simulators, continuous-time automata, and translationally invariant systems
authors: K. G. H. Vollbrecht, J. I. Cirac
comments: partily rewritten and important references included
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 010501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3432
abstract: The general problem of finding the ground state energy of lattice Hamiltonians is known to be very hard, even for a quantum computer. We show here that this is the case even for translationally invariant systems. We also show that a quantum computer can be built in a 1D chain with a fixed, translationally invariant Hamitonian consisting of nearest--neighbor interactions only. The result of the computation is obtained after a prescribed time with high probability.

id: 0704.3460
title: Two-color atom guide and 1D optical lattice using evanescent fields of high-order transverse modes
authors: Jian Fu, Xiang Yin, Limin Tong
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3460
abstract: We propose a two-color scheme of atom guide and 1D optical lattice using evanescent light fields of different transverse modes. The optical waveguide carries a red-detuned light and a blue-detuned light, with both modes far from resonance. The atom guide and 1D optical lattice potentials can be transformed to each other by using a Mach-Zehnder interferometer to accurately control mode transformation. This might provide a new approach to realize flexible transition between the guiding and trapping states of atoms.

id: 0704.3463
title: Landau-Zener transition of a two-level system driven by spin chains near their critical points
authors: L. C. Wang, X. L. Huang, X. X. Yi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. European Physical Journals D accepted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3463
abstract: The Landau-Zener(LZ) transition of a two-level system coupling to spin chains near their critical points is studied in this paper. Two kinds of spin chains, the Ising spin chain and XY spin chain, are considered. We calculate and analyze the effects of system-chain coupling on the LZ transition. A relation between the LZ transition and the critical points of the spin chain is established. These results suggest that LZ transitions may serve as the witnesses of criticality of the spin chain. This may provide a new way to study quantum phase transitions as well as LZ transitions.

id: 0704.3470
title: Radiative properties of a linear chain of coupled qubits
authors: C. J. Mewton, Z. Ficek
comments: 20 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 40 (2007) S181-S197
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3470
abstract: We calculate the radiative properties for a linear dipole-coupled chain of qubits. Using the explicit energy eigenstates of the system, we find the radiation patterns for spontaneous transitions from the one-photon eigenstates to the ground state of the system. We show that depending on the excitation of a specific atom, the radiation tends to be focused either along or perpendicular to the chain. We conclude with a derivation of the total decay rate of the one-photon eigenstates, and find the interesting result that for systems where the photon wavenumber is not much larger than the interatomic spacing, up to 94% of the eigenstates are subradiant, that is, they decay significantly slower than a single atom in isolation.

id: 0704.3489
title: Dissipative dynamics of circuit-QED in the mesoscopic regime
authors: Valentin Bonzom, Hichem Bouzidi, Pascal Degiovanni
comments: 10 figures, 1 table
journal: European Physical Journal D 1, 47 (2008) 133
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3489
abstract: We investigate the behavior of a circuit QED device when the resonator is initially populated with a mesoscopic coherent field. The strong coupling between the cavity and the qubit produces an entangled state involving mesoscopic quasi-pointer states with respect to cavity dissipation. The overlap of the associated field components results in collapse and revivals for the Rabi oscillation. Although qubit relaxation and dephasing do not preserve these states, a simple analytical description of the dissipative dynamics of the circuit QED device including cavity relaxation as well as qubit dissipation is obtained from the Monte-Carlo approach. Explicit predictions for the spontaneous and induced Rabi oscillation signals are derived and sucessfully compared with exact calculations. We show that these interesting effects could be observed with a 10 photon field in forthcoming circuit QED experiments.

id: 0704.3504
title: Smooth R¨¦nyi Entropy of Ergodic Quantum Information Sources
authors: Berry Schoenmakers, Jilles Tjoelker, Pim Tuyls, Evgeny Verbitskiy
comments: 5 pages, no figures, ISIT 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3504
abstract: We prove that the average smooth Renyi entropy rate will approach the entropy rate of a stationary, ergodic information source, which is equal to the Shannon entropy rate for a classical information source and the von Neumann entropy rate for a quantum information source.

id: 0704.3506
title: Counting statistics in multiple path geometries and the fluctuations of the integrated current in a quantum stirring device
authors: Maya Chuchem, Doron Cohen
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, published version, Latex Eq# corrected
journal: J. Phys. A 41, 075302 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3506
abstract: The amount $Q$ of particles that are transported via a path of motion is characterized by its expectation value $<Q>$ and by its variance $Var(Q)$. We analyze what happens if a particle has two optional paths available to get from one site to another site, and in particular what is $Var(Q)$ for the current which is induced in a quantum stirring device. It turns out that coherent splitting and the stirring effect are intimately related and cannot be understood within the framework of the prevailing probabilistic theory.

id: 0704.3535
title: Quantum Simulations in Ion Traps -- Towards Simulating the Early Expanding Universe
authors: Lutz Petersen
comments: diploma thesis; 154 pages, 79 figures; v2: added references for introduction
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3535
abstract: This thesis provides an overview of an approach to quantum simulations using magnesium-25 ions stored in a linear Paul trap as the carriers of quantum information. Their quantum state is manipulated and read out using ultraviolet laser beams. Several important steps towards realising the first experiments have been undertaken, the most striking of which is cooling the ions to their motional ground state. We describe a first experiment simulating cosmological particle creation in the Early Universe and discuss the expected results.

id: 0704.3549
title: Semiclassical initial value calculations of collinear helium atom
authors: Celal Harabati, Kenneth G. Kay
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to J. Phys. B
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics, 127, 084104, (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3549
abstract: Semiclassical calculations using the Herman-Kluk initial value treatment are performed to determine energy eigenvalues of bound and resonance states of the collinear helium atom. Both the $eZe$ configuration (where the classical motion is fully chaotic) and the $Zee$ configuration (where the classical dynamics is nearly integrable) are treated. The classical motion is regularized to remove singularities that occur when the electrons collide with the nucleus. Very good agreement is obtained with quantum energies for bound and resonance states calculated by the complex rotation method.

id: 0704.3574
title: Space of Quantum Theory Representations of Natural Numbers, Integers, and Rational Numbers
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 32 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3574
abstract: This paper extends earlier work on quantum theory representations of natural numbers N, integers I, and rational numbers Ra to describe a space of these representations and transformations on the space. The space is parameterized by 4-tuple points in a parameter set. Each point, (k,m,h,g), labels a specific representation of X = N, I, Ra as a Fock space F^{X}_{k,m,h} of states of finite length strings of qukits q and a string state basis B^{X}_{k,m,h,g}. The pair (m,h) locates the q string in a square integer lattice I \times I, k is the q base, and the function g fixes the gauge or basis states for each q. Maps on the parameter set induce transformations on on the representation space. There are two shifts, a base change operator W_{k',k}, and a basis or gauge transformation function U_{k}. The invariance of the axioms and theorems for N, I, and Ra under any transformation is discussed along with the dependence of the properties of W_{k',k} on the prime factors of k' and k. This suggests that one consider prime number q's, q_{2}, q_{3}, q_{5}, etc. as elementary and the base k q's as composites of the prime number q's.

id: 0704.3615
title: Quantum Darwinism in quantum Brownian motion: the vacuum as a witness
authors: Robin Blume-Kohout, Wojciech H.Zurek
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.101:240405,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3615
abstract: We study quantum Darwinism -- the redundant recording of information about a decohering system by its environment -- in zero-temperature quantum Brownian motion. An initially nonlocal quantum state leaves a record whose redundancy increases rapidly with its spatial extent. Significant delocalization (e.g., a Schroedinger's Cat state) causes high redundancy: many observers can measure the system's position without perturbing it. This explains the objective (i.e. classical) existence of einselected, decoherence-resistant pointer states of macroscopic objects.

id: 0704.3628
title: A nearly optimal discrete query quantum algorithm for evaluating NAND formulas
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3628
abstract: We present an O(\sqrt{N}) discrete query quantum algorithm for evaluating balanced binary NAND formulas and an O(N^{{1/2}+O(\frac{1}{\sqrt{\log N}})}) discrete query quantum algorithm for evaluating arbitrary binary NAND formulas.

id: 0704.3630
title: Adiabatic Rotation, Quantum Search and Preparation of Superposition States
authors: M. Stewart Siu
comments: Expanded to 6 pages; Accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3630
abstract: We introduce the idea of using adiabatic rotation to generate superpositions of a large class of quantum states. For quantum computing this is an interesting alternative to the well-studied "straight line" adiabatic evolution. In ways that complement recent results, we show how to efficiently prepare three types of states: Kitaev's toric code state, the cluster state of the measurement-based computation model and the history state used in the adiabatic simulation of quantum circuit. We also show that the method, when adapted for quantum search, provides quadratic speedup as other optimal methods do with the advantages that the problem Hamiltonian is time-independent and that the energy gap above the ground state is strictly nondecreasing with time. Likewise the method can be used for optimization as an alternative to the usual adiabatic algorithm.

id: 0704.3661
title: Complementarity, distillable secret key, and distillable entanglement
authors: Masato Koashi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3661
abstract: We consider controllability of two conjugate observables Z and X by two parties with classical communication. The ability is specified by two alternative tasks, (i) agreement on Z and (ii) preparation of an eigenstate of X with use of an extra communication channel. We prove that their feasibility is equivalent to that of key distillation if the extra channel is quantum, and to that of entanglement distillation if it is classical. This clarifies the distinction between two entanglement measures, distillable key and distillable entanglement.

id: 0704.3663
title: Quantum storage on subradiant states in an extended atomic ensemble
authors: Alexey Kalachev
comments: V2: considerably revised (title, text). V3: minor changes - final version as published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 043812 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3663
abstract: A scheme for coherent manipulation of collective atomic states is developed such that total subradiant states, in which spontaneous emission is suppressed into all directions due to destructive interference between neighbor atoms, can be created in an extended atomic ensemble. The optimal conditions for creation of such states and suitability of them for quantum storage are discussed. It is shown that in order to achieve the maximum signal-to-noise ratio the shape of a light pulse to be stored and reconstructed using a homogeneously broadened absorbtion line of an atomic system should be a time-reversed regular part of the response function of the system. In the limit of high optical density, such pulses allow one to prepare collective subradiant atomic states with near flat spatial distribution of the atomic excitation in the medium.

id: 0704.3699
title: Wigner functions, coherent states, one-dimensional marginal probabilities and uncertainty structures of Landau levels
authors: B. Demircioglu, A. Vercin
comments: 20 pages. Submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3699
abstract: Following an approach based on generating function method phase space characteristics of Landau system are studied in the autonomous framework of deformation quantization. Coherent state property of generating functions is established and marginal probability densities along canonical coordinate lines are derived. Well defined analogs of inner product, Cauchy-Bunyakowsy-Schwarz inequality and state functional have been defined in phase space and they have been used in analyzing the uncertainty structures. The general form of the uncertainty relation for two real-valued functions is derived and uncertainty products are computed in states described by Wigner functions. Minimum uncertainty state property of the standard coherent states is presented and uncertainty structures in the case of phase space generalized coherent states are analyzed.

id: 0704.3705
title: QMC: A Model Checker for Quantum Systems
authors: Simon Gay, Rajagopal Nagarajan, Nikolaos Papanikolaou
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3705
abstract: We introduce a model-checking tool intended specially for the analysis of quantum information protocols. The tool incorporates an efficient representation of a certain class of quantum circuits, namely those expressible in the so-called stabiliser formalism. Models of protocols are described using a simple, imperative style simulation language which includes commands for the unitary operators in the Clifford group as well as classical integer and boolean variables. Formulas for verification are expressed using a subset of quantum computational tree logic (QCTL). The model-checking procedure treats quantum measurements as the source of non-determinism, leading to multiple protocol runs, one for each outcome. Verification is performed for each run.

id: 0704.3723
title: Dyson Indices and Hilbert-Schmidt Separability Functions and Probabilities
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 44 pages, 6 figures, modified title, trimmed abstract, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A Math. Theor. 40 (2007),14279-14308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3723
abstract: A confluence of numerical and theoretical results leads us to conjecture that the Hilbert-Schmidt separability probabilities of the 15- and 9-dimensional convex sets of complex and real two-qubit states (representable by 4 x 4 density matrices rho) are 8/33 and 8/17, respectively. Central to our reasoning are the modifications of two ansatze, recently advanced (quant-ph/0609006), involving incomplete beta functions B_{nu}(a,b), where nu= (rho_{11} rho_{44})/(rho_{22} rho_{33}). We, now, set the separability function S_{real}(nu) propto B_{nu}(nu,1/2},2) =(2/3) (3-nu) sqrt{nu}. Then, in the complex case -- conforming to a pattern we find, manifesting the Dyson indices (1, 2, 4) of random matrix theory-- we take S_{complex}(nu) propto S_{real}^{2} (nu). We also investigate the real and complex qubit-qutrit cases. Now, there are two Bloore ratio variables, nu_{1}= (rho_{11} rho_{55})(rho_{22} rho_{44}), nu_{2}= (rho_{22} rho_{66})(rho_{33} rho_{55}), but they appear to remarkably coalesce into the product, eta = nu_1 nu_2 = rho_{11} \rho_{66}}{\rho_{33} \rho_{44}}, so that the real and complex separability functions are again univariate in nature.

id: 0704.3763
title: Effects of frequency correlation in linear optical entangling gate operated with independent photons
authors: Marco Barbieri
comments: Replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 043825 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3763
abstract: Bose-Einstein coalescence of independent photons at the surface of a beam splitter is the physical process that allows linear optical quantum gates to be built. When distinct parametric down-conversion events are used as an independent photon source, distinguishability arises form the energy correlation of each photon with its twin. We find that increasing the pump bandwidth may help in improving the visibility of non-classical interference and reaching a level of near perfect indistinguishability. PACS: 03.67.Mn, 42.65.Lm, 42.50.St.

id: 0704.3796
title: Coherent control of broadband vacuum squeezing
authors: Simon Chelkowski, Henning Vahlbruch, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 75, 043814 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3796
abstract: We present the observation of optical fields carrying squeezed vacuum states at sideband frequencies from 10Hz to above 35MHz. The field was generated with type-I optical parametric oscillation below threshold at 1064nm. A coherent, unbalanced classical modulation field at 40MHz enabled the generation of error signals for stable phase control of the squeezed vacuum field with respect to a strong local oscillator. Broadband squeezing of approximately -4dB was measured with balanced homodyne detection. The spectrum of the squeezed field allows a quantum noise reduction of ground-based gravitational wave detectors over their full detection band, regardless of whether homodyne readout or radio-frequency heterodyne readout is used.

id: 0704.3818
title: Analytic approach to the thermal Casimir force between metal and dielectric
authors: B. Geyer, G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M. Mostepanenko
comments: 34 pages, 3 figures, elsart.cls is used, to appear in Ann. Phys. (N.Y.), 2007
journal: Annals of Physics, v.323, p.291-316 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3818
abstract: The analytic asymptotic expressions for the Casimir free energy, pressure and entropy at low temperature in the configuration of one metal and one dielectric plate are obtained. For this purpose we develop the perturbation theory in a small parameter proportional to the product of the separation between the plates and the temperature. This is done using both the simplified model of an ideal metal and of a dielectric with constant dielectric permittivity and for the realistic case of the metal and dielectric with frequency-dependent dielectric permittivities. The analytic expressions for all related physical quantities at high temperature are also provided. The obtained analytic results are compared with numerical computations and good agreement is found. We demonstrate for the first time that the Lifshitz theory, when applied to the configuration of metal-dielectric, satisfies the requirements of thermodynamics if the static dielectric permittivity of a dielectric plate is finite. If it is infinitely large, the Lifshitz formula is shown to violate the Nernst heat theorem. The implications of these results for the thermal quantum field theory in Matsubara formulation and for the recent measurements of the Casimir force between metal and semiconductor surfaces are discussed.

id: 0704.3823
title: Effect of Decoherence on the Dynamics of Bose-Einstein Condensates in a Double-well Potential
authors: W. Wang, L. B. Fu, X. X. Yi
comments: for color figures, see PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75,045601(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3823
abstract: We study the dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a double-well potential in the mean-field approximation. Decoherence effects are considered by analyzing the couplings of the condensate to environments. Two kinds of coupling are taken into account. With the first kind of coupling dominated, the decoherence can enhance the self-trapping by increasing the damping of the oscillations in the dynamics, while the decoherence from the second kind of condensate-environment coupling leads to spoiling of the quantum tunneling and self-trapping.

id: 0704.3833
title: Decoy State Quantum Key Distribution With Modified Coherent State
authors: Zhen-Qiang Yin, Zheng-Fu Han, Fang-Wen Sun, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 76, 014304 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3833
abstract: To beat PNS attack, decoy state quantum key distribution (QKD) based on coherent state has been studied widely. We present a decoy state QKD protocol with modified coherent state (MCS). By destruction quantum interference, MCS with fewer multi-photon events can be get, which may improve key bit rate and security distance of QKD. Through numerical simulation, we show about 2-dB increment on security distance for BB84 protocol.

id: 0704.3845
title: On the interaction of a charge with a thin plasma sheet
authors: M. Bordag
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3845
abstract: The interaction of the electromagnetic field with a two dimensional plasma sheet intended to describe the pi-electrons of a carbon nano-tube or a $C_{60}$ molecule is investigated. By integrating out first the displacement field of the plasma or first the electromagnetic field different representations for quantities like the Casimir energy are derived which are shown to be consistent with one another. Starting from the covariant gauge for the electromagnetic field it is shown that the matching conditions to which the presence of the plasma sheet can be reduced are different from the commonly used ones. The difference in the treatments does not show up in the Casimir force between two parallel sheets, but it is present in the Casimir-Polder force between a charge or a neutral atom and a sheet. At once, since the plasma sheet is a regularization of the conductor boundary conditions, this sheds light on the difference in physics found earlier in the realization of conductor boundary conditions as 'thin' or 'thick' boundary conditions in Phys.Rev.D70(2004)085010.

id: 0704.3906
title: Area laws in quantum systems: mutual information and correlations
authors: M.M. Wolf, F. Verstraete, M.B. Hastings, J.I. Cirac
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, published version with appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 070502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3906
abstract: The holographic principle states that on a fundamental level the information content of a region should depend on its surface area rather than on its volume. This counterintuitive idea which has its roots in the nonextensive nature of black-hole entropy serves as a guiding principle in the search for the fundamental laws of Planck-scale physics. In this paper we show that a similar phenomenon emerges from the established laws of classical and quantum physics: the information contained in part of a system in thermal equilibrium obeys an area law. While the maximal information per unit area depends classically only on the number of microscopic degrees of freedom, it may diverge as the inverse temperature in quantum systems. A rigorous relation between area laws and correlations is established and their explicit behavior is revealed for a large class of quantum many-body states beyond equilibrium systems.

id: 0704.3907
title: Developments in entanglement theory and applications to relevant physical systems
authors: Lucas Lamata
comments: Ph.D. Thesis, April 2007, Universidad Autonoma de Madrid
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3907
abstract: This Thesis is devoted to the analysis of entanglement in relevant physical systems. Entanglement is the conducting theme of this research, though I do not dedicate to a single topic, but consider a wide scope of physical situations. I have followed mainly three lines of research for this Thesis, with a series of different works each, which are, Entanglement and Relativistic Quantum Theory, Continuous-variable entanglement, and Multipartite entanglement.

id: 0704.3926
title: Stabilities of one-dimensional stationary states of Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Wenhua Hai, Guishu Chong, Jianwen Song
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A372, 2558 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3926
abstract: We explore the dynamical stabilities of a quasi-one dimensional (1D) Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) consisting of fixed $N$ atoms with time-independent external potential. For the stationary states with zero flow density the general solution of the perturbed time evolution equation is constructed, and the stability criterions concerning the initial conditions and system parameters are established. Taking the lattice potential case as an example, the stability and instability regions on the parameter space are found. The results suggest a method for selecting experimental parameters and adjusting initial conditions to suppress the instabilities.

id: 0704.3938
title: Classical dispersion-cancellation interferometry
authors: K.J. Resch, P. Puvanathasan, J.S. Lundeen, M.W. Mitchell, K. Bizheva
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Express 15, 8797 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3938
abstract: Even-order dispersion cancellation, an effect previously identified with frequency-entangled photons, is demonstrated experimentally for the first time with a linear, classical interferometer. A combination of a broad bandwidth laser and a high resolution spectrometer was used to measure the intensity correlations between anti-correlated optical frequencies. Only 14% broadening of the correlation signal is observed when significant material dispersion, enough to broaden the regular interferogram by 4250%, is introduced into one arm of the interferometer.

id: 0704.3942
title: Separability Criterion for multipartite quantum states based on the Bloch representation of density matrices
authors: Ali Saif M. Hassan, Pramod S. Joag
comments: 23 pages no figures comments are welcome
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, vol. 8, No. 8&9 (2008) 0773-0790
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3942
abstract: We give a new separability criterion, a necessary condition for separability of $N$-partite quantum states. The criterion is based on the Bloch representation of a $N$-partite quantum state and makes use of multilinear algebra, in particular, the matrization of tensors. Our criterion applies to {\it arbitrary} $N$-partite quantum states in $\mathcal{H}=\mathcal{H}^{d_1}\otimes \mathcal{H}^{d_2} \otimes ... \otimes \mathcal{H}^{d_N}.$ The criterion can test whether a $N$-partite state is entangled and can be applied to different partitions of the $N$-partite system. We provide examples that show the ability of this criterion to detect entanglement. We show that this criterion can detect bound entangled states. We prove a sufficiency condition for separability of a 3-partite state, straightforwardly generalizable to the case $N > 3,$ under certain condition. We also give a necessary and sufficient condition for separability of a class of $N$-qubit states which includes $N$-qubit PPT states.

id: 0704.3959
title: Optical Devices for Cold Atoms and Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Naceur Gaaloul, Amine Jaouadi, Mourad Telmini, Laurence Pruvost, Eric Charron
comments: Proceedings of the International Spectroscopy Conference ISC-2007, Sousse, Tunisia
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings 935 (2007) 10
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3959
abstract: The manipulation of cold atoms with optical fields is a very promising technique for a variety of applications ranging from laser cooling and trapping to coherent atom transport and matter wave interferometry. Optical fields have also been proposed as interesting tools for quantum information processing with cold atoms. In this paper, we present a theoretical study of the dynamics of a cold 87Rb atomic cloud falling in the gravity field in the presence of two crossing dipole guides. The cloud is either deflected or split between the two branches of this guide. We explore the possibilities of optimization of this device and present preliminary results obtained in the case of zero-temperature dilute Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: 0704.3961
title: Intrinsically universal one-dimensional quantum cellular automata in two flavours
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Renan Fargetton, Zizhu Wang
comments: 27 pages, revtex, 23 figures. V3: The results of V1-V2 are better explained and formalized, and a novel result about intrinsic universality with only finite initial configurations is given
journal: V1-V2: DCM 2007, Poland. V3: Fudam. Informaticae journal
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3961
abstract: We give a one-dimensional quantum cellular automaton (QCA) capable of simulating all others. By this we mean that the initial configuration and the local transition rule of any one-dimensional QCA can be encoded within the initial configuration of the universal QCA. Several steps of the universal QCA will then correspond to one step of the simulated QCA. The simulation preserves the topology in the sense that each cell of the simulated QCA is encoded as a group of adjacent cells in the universal QCA. The encoding is linear and hence does not carry any of the cost of the computation. We do this in two flavours: a weak one which requires an infinite but periodic initial configuration and a strong one which needs only a finite initial configuration. KEYWORDS: Quantum cellular automata, Intrinsic universality, Quantum computation.

id: 0704.0034
title: Origin of adaptive mutants: a quantum measurement?
authors: Vasily Ogryzko
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE); Cell Behavior (q-bio.CB); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0034
abstract: This is a supplement to the paper arXiv:q-bio/0701050, containing the text of correspondence sent to Nature in 1990.

id: 0704.0051
title: Visualizing Teleportation
authors: Scott M. Cohen
comments: This is a "teaching" article aimed at making teleportation understandable to undergraduate physics majors (and possibly others). Version 2 has previous appendix moved to early sections, and more clearly states aim is to present a way physicists can explain teleportation to non-scientists
journal: 
subjects: Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0051
abstract: A novel way of picturing the processing of quantum information is described, allowing a direct visualization of teleportation of quantum states and providing a simple and intuitive understanding of this fascinating phenomenon. The discussion is aimed at providing physicists a method of explaining teleportation to non-scientists. The basic ideas of quantum physics are first explained in lay terms, after which these ideas are used with a graphical description, out of which teleportation arises naturally.

id: 0704.0147
title: A POVM view of the ensemble approach to polarization optics
authors: Sudha, A. V. Gopala Rao, A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 14 pages, 1 table; RevTeX
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0147
abstract: Statistical ensemble formalism of Kim, Mandel and Wolf (J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 4, 433 (1987)) offers a realistic model for characterizing the effect of stochastic non-image forming optical media on the state of polarization of transmittedlight. With suitable choice of the Jones ensemble, various Mueller transformations - some of which have been unknown so far - are deduced. It is observed that the ensemble approach is formally identical to the positive operator valued measures (POVM) on the quantum density matrix. This observation, in combination with the recent suggestion by Ahnert and Payne (Phys. Rev. A 71, 012330, (2005)) - in the context of generalized quantum measurement on single photon polarization states - that linear optics elements can be employed in setting up all possible POVMs, enables us to propose a way of realizing different types of Mueller devices.

id: 0704.0194
title: Quantum mechanical approach to decoherence and relaxation generated by fluctuating environment
authors: S.A. Gurvitz, D. Mozyrsky
comments: 15 pages, typo errors corrected, version appeared in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B77, 075325 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0194
abstract: We consider an electrostatic qubit, interacting with a fluctuating charge of single electron transistor (SET) in the framework of exactly solvable model. The SET plays a role of the fluctuating environment affecting the qubit's parameters in a controllable way. We derive the rate equations describing dynamics of the entire system for both weak and strong qubit-SET coupling. Solving these equation we obtain decoherence and relaxation rates of the qubit, as well as the spectral density of the fluctuating qubit's parameters. We found that in the weak coupling regime the decoherence and relaxation rates are directly related to the spectral density taken at Rabi or at zero frequency, depending on what a particular qubit's parameters is fluctuating. This relation holds also in the presence of weak back-action of the qubit on the fluctuating environment. In the case of strong back-action, such simple relationship no longer holds, even if the qubit-SET coupling is small. It does not hold either in the strong-coupling regime, even in the absence of the back-action. In addition, we found that our model predicts localization of the qubit in the strong-coupling regime, resembling that of the spin-boson model.

id: 0704.0228
title: Einstein vs Maxwell: Is gravitation a curvature of space, a field in flat space, or both?
authors: Theo M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Europhys.Lett.78:10010,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0228
abstract: Starting with a field theoretic approach in Minkowski space, the gravitational energy momentum tensor is derived from the Einstein equations in a straightforward manner. This allows to present them as {\it acceleration tensor} = const. $\times$ {\it total energy momentum tensor}. For flat space cosmology the gravitational energy is negative and cancels the material energy. In the relativistic theory of gravitation a bimetric coupling between the Riemann and Minkowski metrics breaks general coordinate invariance. The case of a positive cosmological constant is considered. A singularity free version of the Schwarzschild black hole is solved analytically. In the interior the components of the metric tensor quickly die out, but do not change sign, leaving the role of time as usual. For cosmology the $\Lambda$CDM model is covered, while there appears a form of inflation at early times. Here both the total energy and the zero point energy vanish.

id: 0704.0353
title: Spin and pseudospin symmetries and the equivalent spectra of relativistic spin-1/2 and spin-0 particles
authors: P. Alberto, A. S. de Castro, M. Malheiro
comments: 5 pages, uses revtex macros
journal: Phys.Rev.C75:047303,2007
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0353
abstract: We show that the conditions which originate the spin and pseudospin symmetries in the Dirac equation are the same that produce equivalent energy spectra of relativistic spin-1/2 and spin-0 particles in the presence of vector and scalar potentials. The conclusions do not depend on the particular shapes of the potentials and can be important in different fields of physics. When both scalar and vector potentials are spherical, these conditions for isospectrality imply that the spin-orbit and Darwin terms of either the upper component or the lower component of the Dirac spinor vanish, making it equivalent, as far as energy is concerned, to a spin-0 state. In this case, besides energy, a scalar particle will also have the same orbital angular momentum as the (conserved) orbital angular momentum of either the upper or lower component of the corresponding spin-1/2 particle. We point out a few possible applications of this result.

id: 0704.0418
title: Entanglement entropy at infinite randomness fixed points in higher dimensions
authors: Yu-Cheng Lin, Ferenc Igloi, Heiko Rieger
comments: References updated; Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 147202 (2007)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0418
abstract: The entanglement entropy of the two-dimensional random transverse Ising model is studied with a numerical implementation of the strong disorder renormalization group. The asymptotic behavior of the entropy per surface area diverges at, and only at, the quantum phase transition that is governed by an infinite randomness fixed point. Here we identify a double-logarithmic multiplicative correction to the area law for the entanglement entropy. This contrasts with the pure area law valid at the infinite randomness fixed point in the diluted transverse Ising model in higher dimensions.

id: 0704.0440
title: Dynamics of a quantum phase transition in a ferromagnetic Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Bogdan Damski, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 4 pages & figures, significantly improved presentation with respect to the first submission
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.99:130402,2007
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0440
abstract: We discuss dynamics of a slow quantum phase transition in a spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate. We determine analytically the scaling properties of the system magnetization and verify them with numerical simulations in a one dimensional model.

id: 0704.0442
title: Quantum electromagnetic X-waves
authors: Alessandro Ciattoni, Claudio Conti
comments: 4 pages
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 24, Issue 9, pp. 2195-2198 (2007)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0442
abstract: We show that two distinct quantum states of the electromagnetic field can be associated to a classical vector X wave or a propagation-invariant solution of Maxwell equations. The difference between the two states is of pure quantum mechanical origin since they are internally entangled and disentangled, respectively and can be generated by different linear or nonlinear processes. Detection and generation of Schr\"odinger-cat states comprising two entangled X-waves and their possible applications are discussed.

id: 0704.0457
title: Quantum analysis of a linear DC SQUID mechanical displacement detector
authors: M. P. Blencowe, E. Buks
comments: 33 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Physical Review B 76, 014511 (2007)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0457
abstract: We provide a quantum analysis of a DC SQUID mechanical displacement detector within the sub-critical Josephson current regime. A segment of the SQUID loop forms the mechanical resonator and motion of the latter is transduced inductively through changes in the flux threading the loop. Expressions are derived for the detector signal response and noise, which are used to evaluate the position and force detection sensitivity. We also investigate cooling of the mechanical resonator due to back reaction noise from the detector.

id: 0704.0507
title: E_6 and the bipartite entanglement of three qutrits
authors: M. J. Duff, S. Ferrara
comments: 15 pages latex, 3 figures, minor corrections
journal: Phys.Rev.D76:124023,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0507
abstract: Recent investigations have established an analogy between the entropy of four-dimensional supersymmetric black holes in string theory and entanglement in quantum information theory. Examples include: (1) N=2 STU black holes and the tripartite entanglement of three qubits (2-state systems), where the common symmetry is [SL(2)]^3 and (2) N=8 black holes and the tripartite entanglement of seven qubits where the common symmetry is E_7 which contains [SL(2)]^7. Here we present another example: N=8 black holes (or black strings) in five dimensions and the bipartite entanglement of three qutrits (3-state systems), where the common symmetry is E_6 which contains [SL(3)]^3. Both the black hole (or black string) entropy and the entanglement measure are provided by the Cartan cubic E_6 invariant. Similar analogies exist for ``magic'' N=2 supergravity black holes in both four and five dimensions.

id: 0704.0593
title: Local-field effects in radiatively broadened magneto-dielectric media: negative refraction and absorption reduction
authors: J¨¹rgen K?stel, Michael Fleischhauer, Gediminas Juzeli¨±nas
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0593
abstract: We give a microscopic derivation of the Clausius-Mossotti relations for a homogeneous and isotropic magneto-dielectric medium consisting of radiatively broadened atomic oscillators. To this end the diagram series of electromagnetic propagators is calculated exactly for an infinite bi-cubic lattice of dielectric and magnetic dipoles for a lattice constant small compared to the resonance wavelength $\lambda$. Modifications of transition frequencies and linewidth of the elementary oscillators are taken into account in a selfconsistent way by a proper incorporation of the singular self-interaction terms. We show that in radiatively broadened media sufficiently close to the free-space resonance the real part of the index of refraction approaches the value -2 in the limit of $\rho \lambda^3 \gg 1$, where $\rho$ is the number density of scatterers. Since at the same time the imaginary part vanishes as $1/\rho$ local field effects can have important consequences for realizing low-loss negative index materials.

id: 0704.0631
title: Orthogonality criterion for banishing hydrino states from standard quantum mechanics
authors: Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys.Lett.A369:380-383,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0631
abstract: Orthogonality criterion is used to shown in a very simple and general way that anomalous bound-state solutions for the Coulomb potential (hydrino states) do not exist as bona fide solutions of the Schr\"{o}dinger, Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations.

id: 0704.0951
title: Correlation amplitude and entanglement entropy in random spin chains
authors: J. A. Hoyos, Andr¨¦ P. Vieira, Nicolas Laflorencie, E. Miranda
comments: v1: 16 pages, 15 figures; v2: 17 pages, improved discussions and statistics, references added, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 174425 (2007)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.0951
abstract: Using strong-disorder renormalization group, numerical exact diagonalization, and quantum Monte Carlo methods, we revisit the random antiferromagnetic XXZ spin-1/2 chain focusing on the long-length and ground-state behavior of the average time-independent spin-spin correlation function C(l)=\upsilon l^{-\eta}. In addition to the well-known universal (disorder-independent) power-law exponent \eta=2, we find interesting universal features displayed by the prefactor \upsilon=\upsilon_o/3, if l is odd, and \upsilon=\upsilon_e/3, otherwise. Although \upsilon_o and \upsilon_e are nonuniversal (disorder dependent) and distinct in magnitude, the combination \upsilon_o + \upsilon_e = -1/4 is universal if C is computed along the symmetric (longitudinal) axis. The origin of the nonuniversalities of the prefactors is discussed in the renormalization-group framework where a solvable toy model is considered. Moreover, we relate the average correlation function with the average entanglement entropy, whose amplitude has been recently shown to be universal. The nonuniversalities of the prefactors are shown to contribute only to surface terms of the entropy. Finally, we discuss the experimental relevance of our results by computing the structure factor whose scaling properties, interestingly, depend on the correlation prefactors.

id: 0704.1154
title: Information, information processing and gravity
authors: Stephen D.H. Hsu
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, revtex
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A22:2895-2908,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1154
abstract: I discuss fundamental limits placed on information and information processing by gravity. Such limits arise because both information and its processing require energy, while gravitational collapse (formation of a horizon or black hole) restricts the amount of energy allowed in a finite region. Specifically, I use a criterion for gravitational collapse called the hoop conjecture. Once the hoop conjecture is assumed a number of results can be obtained directly: the existence of a fundamental uncertainty in spatial distance of order the Planck length, bounds on information (entropy) in a finite region, and a bound on the rate of information processing in a finite region. In the final section I discuss some cosmological issues related to the total amount of information in the universe, and note that almost all detailed aspects of the late universe are determined by the randomness of quantum outcomes. This paper is based on a talk presented at a 2007 Bellairs Research Institute (McGill University) workshop on black holes and quantum information.

id: 0704.1260
title: Lapse of transmission phase and electron molecules in quantum dots
authors: S.A. Gurvitz
comments: Slightly expanded version, PRB Rapid Communications, in press
journal: Phys. Rev. B77, 201302(R) (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1260
abstract: The puzzling behavior of the transition phase through a quantum dot can be understood in a natural way via a formation of the electron molecule in the quantum dot. In this case the resonance tunneling takes place through the quasi-stationary (doorway) state, which emerges when the number of electrons occupying the dot reaches a certain ``critical'' value, $N_{cr}$. Our estimation of this quantity agrees with the experimental data. The dependence of $N_{cr}$ on the dot's size is predicted as well.

id: 0704.1291
title: Projective Hilbert space structures at exceptional points
authors: Uwe Guenther, Ingrid Rotter, Boris F. Samsonov
comments: 20 pages; discussion extended, refs added; to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J.Phys. A40 (2007) 8815
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1291
abstract: A non-Hermitian complex symmetric 2x2 matrix toy model is used to study projective Hilbert space structures in the vicinity of exceptional points (EPs). The bi-orthogonal eigenvectors of a diagonalizable matrix are Puiseux-expanded in terms of the root vectors at the EP. It is shown that the apparent contradiction between the two incompatible normalization conditions with finite and singular behavior in the EP-limit can be resolved by projectively extending the original Hilbert space. The complementary normalization conditions correspond then to two different affine charts of this enlarged projective Hilbert space. Geometric phase and phase jump behavior are analyzed and the usefulness of the phase rigidity as measure for the distance to EP configurations is demonstrated. Finally, EP-related aspects of PT-symmetrically extended Quantum Mechanics are discussed and a conjecture concerning the quantum brachistochrone problem is formulated.

id: 0704.1382
title: Effects of atomic interactions on Quantum Accelerator Modes
authors: Laura Rebuzzini, Roberto Artuso, Shmuel Fishman, Italo Guarneri
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 031603(R) (2007)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1382
abstract: We consider the influence of the inclusion of interatomic interactions on the delta-kicked accelerator model. Our analysis concerns in particular quantum accelerator modes, namely quantum ballistic transport near quantal resonances. The atomic interaction is modelled by a Gross-Pitaevskii cubic nonlinearity, and we address both attractive (focusing) and repulsive (defocusing) cases. The most remarkable effect is enhancement or damping of the accelerator modes, depending on the sign of the nonlinear parameter. We provide arguments showing that the effect persists beyond mean-field description, and lies within the experimentally accessible parameter range.

id: 0704.1435
title: On the failure of subadditivity of the Wigner-Yanase entropy
authors: Robert Seiringer
comments: LaTeX2e, 4 pages
journal: Lett. Math. Phys. 80, 285-288 (2007)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1435
abstract: It was recently shown by Hansen that the Wigner-Yanase entropy is, for general states of quantum systems, not subadditive with respect to decomposition into two subsystems, although this property is known to hold for pure states. We investigate the question whether the weaker property of subadditivity for pure states with respect to decomposition into more than two subsystems holds. This property would have interesting applications in quantum chemistry. We show, however, that it does not hold in general, and provide a counterexample.

id: 0704.1644
title: Circulating Current States in Bilayer Fermionic and Bosonic Systems
authors: Alexei Kolezhuk
comments: final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 020405 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1644
abstract: It is shown that fermionic polar molecules or atoms in a bilayer optical lattice can undergo the transition to a state with circulating currents, which spontaneously breaks the time reversal symmetry. Estimates of relevant temperature scales are given and experimental signatures of the circulating current phase are identified. Related phenomena in bosonic and spin systems with ring exchange are discussed.

id: 0704.1752
title: Van der Waals interaction between a microparticle and a single-wall carbon nanotube
authors: E.V. Blagov, G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M. Mostepanenko
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Physical Review B
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.75, N23, 235413-(1-8), 2007
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1752
abstract: The Lifshitz-type formulas describing the free energy and the force of the van der Waals interaction between an atom (molecule) and a single-wall carbon nanotube are obtained. The single-wall nanotube is considered as a cylindrical sheet carrying a two-dimensional free electron gas with appropriate boundary conditions on the electromagnetic field. The obtained formulas are used to calculate the van der Waals free energy and force between a hydrogen atom (molecule) and single-wall carbon nanotubes of different radia. Comparison studies of the van der Waals interaction of hydrogen atoms with single- and multi-wall carbon nanotubes show that depending on atom-nanotube separation distance the idealization of graphite dielectric permittivity is already applicable to nanotubes with only two or three walls.

id: 0704.1890
title: Computation and visualization of Casimir forces in arbitrary geometries: non-monotonic lateral forces and failure of proximity-force approximations
authors: Alejandro Rodriguez, Mihai Ibanescu, Davide Iannuzzi, Federico Capasso, John D. Joannopoulos, Steven G. Johnson
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters. (Expected publication: Vol. 99 (8) 2007)
journal: Physical Review Letters, Vol. 99, No. 8, 80401 (2007)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1890
abstract: We present a method of computing Casimir forces for arbitrary geometries, with any desired accuracy, that can directly exploit the efficiency of standard numerical-electromagnetism techniques. Using the simplest possible finite-difference implementation of this approach, we obtain both agreement with past results for cylinder-plate geometries, and also present results for new geometries. In particular, we examine a piston-like problem involving two dielectric and metallic squares sliding between two metallic walls, in two and three dimensions, respectively, and demonstrate non-additive and non-monotonic changes in the force due to these lateral walls.

id: 0704.1898
title: Electromagnetic Casimir densities for a wedge with a coaxial cylindrical shell
authors: A.A. Saharian
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C52:721-733,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1898
abstract: Vacuum expectation values of the field square and the energy-momentum tensor for the electromagnetic field are investigated for the geometry of a wedge with a coaxal cylindrical boundary. All boundaries are assumed to be perfectly conducting and both regions inside and outside the shell are considered. By using the generalized Abel-Plana formula, the vacuum expectation values are presented in the form of the sum of two terms. The first one corresponds to the geometry of the wedge without the cylindrical shell and the second term is induced by the presence of the shell. The vacuum energy density induced by the shell is negative for the interior region and is positive for the exterior region. The asymptotic behavior of the vacuum expectation values are investigated in various limiting cases. It is shown that the vacuum forces acting on the wedge sides due to the presence of the cylindrical boundary are always attractive.

id: 0704.1967
title: The microcanonical ensemble of the ideal relativistic quantum gas
authors: F. Becattini, L. Ferroni
comments: 31 pages; published version with minor corrections
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C51:899-912,2007
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.1967
abstract: We derive the microcanonical partition function of the ideal relativistic quantum gas of spinless bosons in a quantum field framework as an expansion over fixed multiplicities. Our calculation generalizes well known expressions in literature in that it does not introduce any large volume approximation and it is valid at any volume. We discuss the issues concerned with the definition of the microcanonical ensemble for a free quantum field at volumes comparable with the Compton wavelength and provide a consistent prescription of calculating the microcanonical partition function, which is finite at finite volume and yielding the correct thermodynamic limit. Besides an immaterial overall factor, the obtained expression turns out to be the same as in the non-relativistic multi-particle approach. This work is introductory to derive the most general expression of the microcanonical partition function fixing the maximal set of observables of the Poincare' group.

id: 0704.2076
title: Universal Features of Dimensional Reduction Schemes from General Covariance Breaking
authors: Paolo Maraner, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 16 pages, no figures, references added
journal: AnnalsPhys.323:2044-2072,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2076
abstract: Many features of dimensional reduction schemes are determined by the breaking of higher dimensional general covariance associated with the selection of a particular subset of coordinates. By investigating residual covariance we introduce lower dimensional tensors --generalizing to one side Kaluza-Klein gauge fields and to the other side extrinsic curvature and torsion of embedded spaces-- fully characterizing the geometry of dimensional reduction. We obtain general formulas for the reduction of the main tensors and operators of Riemannian geometry. In particular, we provide what is probably the maximal possible generalization of Gauss, Codazzi and Ricci equations and various other standard formulas in Kaluza-Klein and embedded spacetimes theories. After general covariance breaking, part of the residual covariance is perceived by effective lower dimensional observers as an infinite dimensional gauge group. This reduces to finite dimensions in Kaluza-Klein and other few remarkable backgrounds, all characterized by the vanishing of appropriate lower dimensional tensors.

id: 0704.2171
title: Fluctuation-induced interactions between dielectrics in general geometries
authors: S. Pasquali, A.C. Maggs
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2171
abstract: We study thermal Casimir and quantum non-retarded Lifshitz interactions between dielectrics in general geometries. We map the calculation of the classical partition function onto a determinant which we discretize and evaluate with the help of Cholesky factorization. The quantum partition function is treated by path integral quantization of a set of interacting dipoles and reduces to a product of determinants. We compare the approximations of pairwise additivity and proximity force with our numerical methods. We propose a ``factorization approximation'' which gives rather good numerical results in the geometries that we study.

id: 0704.2219
title: Pseudo-Hermiticity of an Exactly Solvable Two-Dimensional Model
authors: F. Cannata, M.V. Ioffe, D.N. Nishnianidze
comments: 14 pages
journal: Phys.Lett.A369:9-15,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2219
abstract: We study a two-dimensional exactly solvable non-Hermitian $PT-$non-symmetric quantum model with real spectrum, which is not amenable to separation of variables, by supersymmetrical methods. Here we focus attention on the property of pseudo-Hermiticity, biorthogonal expansion and pseudo-metric operator. To our knowledge this is the first time that pseudo-Hermiticity is realized explicitly for a nontrivial two-dimensional case. It is shown that the Hamiltonian of the model is not diagonalizable.

id: 0704.2316
title: Correlations and sum rules in a half-space for a quantum two-dimensional one-component plasma
authors: B. Jancovici, L. Samaj
comments: 15 pages, to appear in J. Stat. Mech. (JSTAT)
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2007) P05009
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2316
abstract: This paper is the continuation of a previous one [L. {\v{S}}amaj and B. Jancovici, 2007 {\it J. Stat. Mech.} P02002]; for a nearly classical quantum fluid in a half-space bounded by a plain plane hard wall (no image forces), we had generalized the Wigner-Kirkwood expansion of the equilibrium statistical quantities in powers of Planck's constant $\hbar$. As a model system for a more detailed study, we consider the quantum two-dimensional one-component plasma: a system of charged particles of one species, interacting through the logarithmic Coulomb potential in two dimensions, in a uniformly charged background of opposite sign, such that the total charge vanishes. The corresponding classical system is exactly solvable in a variety of geometries, including the present one of a half-plane, when $\beta e^2=2$, where $\beta$ is the inverse temperature and $e$ is the charge of a particle: all the classical $n$-body densities are known. For the quantum one-component plasma, two sum rules involving the truncated two-body density (and, for one of them, the density profile) have been derived, a long time ago, by heuristic macroscopic arguments: one sum rule is about the asymptotic form along the wall of the truncated two-body density, the other one is about the dipole moment of the structure factor. In the two-dimensional case at $\beta e^2=2$, we have now explicit expressions up to order $\hbar^2$ of these two quantum densities, thus we can microscopically check the sum rules at this order. The checks are positive, reinforcing the idea that the sum rules are correct.

id: 0704.2462
title: Cooling of a Micro-mechanical Resonator by the Back-action of Lorentz Force
authors: Y. D. Wang, K. Semba, H. Yamaguchi
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10 043015 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2462
abstract: Using a semi-classical approach, we describe an on-chip cooling protocol for a micro-mechanical resonator by employing a superconducting flux qubit. A Lorentz force, generated by the passive back-action of the resonator's displacement, can cool down the thermal motion of the mechanical resonator by applying an appropriate microwave drive to the qubit. We show that this onchip cooling protocol, with well-controlled cooling power and a tunable response time of passive back-action, can be highly efficient. With feasible experimental parameters, the effective mode temperature of a resonator could be cooled down by several orders of magnitude.

id: 0704.2692
title: Quantisations of piecewise affine maps on the torus and their quantum limits
authors: Cheng-Hung Chang, Tyll Krueger, Roman Schubert, Serge Troubetzkoy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2692
abstract: For general quantum systems the semiclassical behaviour of eigenfunctions in relation to the ergodic properties of the underlying classical system is quite difficult to understand. The Wignerfunctions of eigenstates converge weakly to invariant measures of the classical system, the so called quantum limits, and one would like to understand which invariant measures can occur that way, thereby classifying the semiclassical behaviour of eigenfunctions. We introduce a class of maps on the torus for whose quantisations we can understand the set of quantum limits in great detail. In particular we can construct examples of ergodic maps which have singular ergodic measures as quantum limits, and examples of non-ergodic maps where arbitrary convex combinations of absolutely continuous ergodic measures can occur as quantum limits. The maps we quantise are obtained by cutting and stacking.

id: 0704.2912
title: Nontrivial edge coupling from a Dirichlet network squeezing: the case of a bent waveguide
authors: Claudio Cacciapuoti, Pavel Exner
comments: LaTeX, 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2912
abstract: In distinction to the Neumann case the squeezing limit of a Dirichlet network leads in the threshold region generically to a quantum graph with disconnected edges, exceptions may come from threshold resonances. Our main point in this paper is to show that modifying locally the geometry we can achieve in the limit a nontrivial coupling between the edges including, in particular, the class of $\delta$-type boundary conditions. We work out an illustration of this claim in the simplest case when a bent waveguide is squeezed.

id: 0704.3225
title: Linear algebra and differential geometry on abstract Hilbert space
authors: Alexey A. Kryukov
comments: 37 pages, 3 figures, see this http URL for additional applications
journal: Int. J. Math & Math. Sci. 14, 2241 (2005)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3225
abstract: Isomorphisms of separable Hilbert spaces are analogous to isomorphisms of n-dimensional vector spaces. However, while n-dimensional spaces in applications are always realized as the Euclidean space R^n, Hilbert spaces admit various useful realizations as spaces of functions. In the paper this simple observation is used to construct a fruitful formalism of local coordinates on Hilbert manifolds. Images of charts on manifolds in the formalism are allowed to belong to arbitrary Hilbert spaces of functions including spaces of generalized functions. Tensor equations then describe families of functional equations on various spaces of functions. The formalism itself and its applications in linear algebra, differential equations and differential geometry are analyzed.

id: 0704.3616
title: Entanglement and topological entropy of the toric code at finite temperature
authors: C. Castelnovo, C. Chamon
comments: (15 pages, 5 figures) v2: updated references and acknowledgments
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 184442 (2007)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3616
abstract: We calculate exactly the von Neumann and topological entropies of the toric code as a function of system size and temperature. We do so for systems with infinite energy scale separation between magnetic and electric excitations, so that the magnetic closed loop structure is fully preserved while the electric loop structure is tampered with by thermally excited electric charges. We find that the entanglement entropy is a singular function of temperature and system size, and that the limit of zero temperature and the limit of infinite system size do not commute. From the entanglement entropy we obtain the topological entropy, which is shown to drop to half its zero-temperature value for any infinitesimal temperature in the thermodynamic limit, and remains constant as the temperature is further increased. Such discontinuous behavior is replaced by a smooth decreasing function in finite-size systems. If the separation of energy scales in the system is large but finite, we argue that our results hold at small enough temperature and finite system size, and a second drop in the topological entropy should occur as the temperature is raised so as to disrupt the magnetic loop structure by allowing the appearance of free magnetic charges. We interpret our results as an indication that the underlying magnetic and electric closed loop structures contribute equally to the topological entropy (and therefore to the topological order) in the system. Since each loop structure \emph{per se} is a classical object, we interpret the quantum topological order in our system as arising from the ability of the two structures to be superimposed and appear simultaneously.

id: 0704.3620
title: The Intrinsic Origin of Spin Echoes in Dipolar Solids Generated by Strong Pi Pulses
authors: Dale Li, Yanqun Dong, R. G. Ramos, J. D. Murray, K. MacLean, A. E. Dementyev, S. E. Barrett
comments: 24 pages, 27 figures. Revised from helpful referee comments. Added new Table IV, new paragraphs on pages 3 and 19
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3620
abstract: In spectroscopy, it is conventional to treat pulses much stronger than the linewidth as delta-functions. In NMR, this assumption leads to the prediction that pi pulses do not refocus the dipolar coupling. However, NMR spin echo measurements in dipolar solids defy these conventional expectations when more than one pi pulse is used. Observed effects include a long tail in the CPMG echo train for short delays between pi pulses, an even-odd asymmetry in the echo amplitudes for long delays, an unusual fingerprint pattern for intermediate delays, and a strong sensitivity to pi-pulse phase. Experiments that set limits on possible extrinsic causes for the phenomena are reported. We find that the action of the system's internal Hamiltonian during any real pulse is sufficient to cause the effects. Exact numerical calculations, combined with average Hamiltonian theory, identify novel terms that are sensitive to parameters such as pulse phase, dipolar coupling, and system size. Visualization of the entire density matrix shows a unique flow of quantum coherence from non-observable to observable channels when applying repeated pi pulses.

id: 0704.3684
title: Dynamics of Quantum Dot Nuclear Spin Polarization Controlled by a Single Electron
authors: P. Maletinsky, A. Badolato, A. Imamoglu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 056804 (2007)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3684
abstract: We present an experimental study of the dynamics underlying the buildup and decay of dynamical nuclear spin polarization in a single semiconductor quantum dot. Our experiment shows that the nuclei can be polarized on a time scale of a few milliseconds, while their decay dynamics depends drastically on external parameters. We show that a single electron can very efficiently depolarize the nuclear spins and discuss two processes that can cause this depolarization. Conversely, in the absence of a quantum dot electron, the lifetime of nuclear spin polarization is on the time scale of a second, most likely limited by the non-secular terms of the nuclear dipole-dipole interaction. We can further suppress this depolarization rate by 1-2 orders of magnitude by applying an external magnetic field exceeding 1 mT.

id: 0704.3719
title: A holographic proof of the strong subadditivity of entanglement entropy
authors: Matthew Headrick, Tadashi Takayanagi
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D76:106013,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3719
abstract: When a quantum system is divided into subsystems, their entanglement entropies are subject to an inequality known as "strong subadditivity". For a field theory this inequality can be stated as follows: given any two regions of space $A$ and $B$, $S(A) + S(B) \ge S(A \cup B) + S(A \cap B)$. Recently, a method has been found for computing entanglement entropies in any field theory for which there is a holographically dual gravity theory. In this note we give a simple geometrical proof of strong subadditivity employing this holographic prescription.

id: 0704.3788
title: Anderson localization and nonlinearity in one dimensional disordered photonic lattices
authors: Yoav Lahini, Assaf Avidan, Francesca Pozzi, Marc Sorel, Roberto Morandotti, Demetrios N. Christodoulides, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Slightly different then the published version. Comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 013906 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3788
abstract: We experimentally investigate the evolution of linear and nonlinear waves in a realization of the Anderson model using disordered one dimensional waveguide lattices. Two types of localized eigenmodes, flat-phased and staggered, are directly measured. Nonlinear perturbations enhances localization in one type, and induce delocalization in the other. In a complementary approach, we study the evolution on short time scales of $\delta$-like wavepackets in the presence of disorder. A transition from ballistic wavepacket expansion to exponential (Anderson) localization is observed. We find an intermediate regime in which the ballistic and localized components coexist while diffusive dynamics is absent. Evidence is found for a faster transition into localization under nonlinear conditions.

id: 0704.2683
title: A relativistic gauge theory of nonlinear quantum mechanics and Newtonian gravity
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: 16 pages; to appear in Int. J. Theor. Phys. (2007)
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.47:455-467,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.2683
abstract: A new kind of gauge theory is introduced, where the minimal coupling and corresponding covariant derivatives are defined in the space of functions pertaining to the functional Schroedinger picture of a given field theory. While, for simplicity, we study the example of a U(1) symmetry, this kind of gauge theory can accommodate other symmetries as well. We consider the resulting relativistic nonlinear extension of quantum mechanics and show that it incorporates gravity in the (0+1)-dimensional limit, similar to recently studied Schroedinger-Newton equations. Gravity is encoded here into a universal nonlinear extension of quantum theory. A probabilistic interpretation (Born's rule) holds, provided the underlying model is scale free. Keywords: nonlinear functional Schroedinger equation, gauge symmetry, Newtonian gravity.

id: 0704.3806
title: Coherence of a Josephson phase qubit under partial-collapse measurement
authors: Leonid P. Pryadko, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 4p., 2eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 100503(R) (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0704.3806
abstract: We discuss quantum evolution of a decaying state in relation to a recent experiment of Katz et al. Based on exact analytical and numerical solutions of a simple model, we identify a regime where qubit retains coherence over a finite time interval independently of the rates of three competing decoherence processes. In this regime, the quantum decay process can be continuously monitored via a ``weak'' measurement without affecting the qubit coherence.

