id: 0705.0017
title: Checking Equivalence of Quantum Circuits and States
authors: George F. Viamontes, Igor L. Markov, John P. Hayes
comments: 9 pages, 13 figures, 3 tables
journal: Proc. Int'l Conf. on Computer-Aided Design (ICCAD), pp. 69-74, San Jose, CA, November 2007.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0017
abstract: Quantum computing promises exponential speed-ups for important simulation and optimization problems. It also poses new CAD problems that are similar to, but more challenging, than the related problems in classical (non-quantum) CAD, such as determining if two states or circuits are functionally equivalent. While differences in classical states are easy to detect, quantum states, which are represented by complex-valued vectors, exhibit subtle differences leading to several notions of equivalence. This provides flexibility in optimizing quantum circuits, but leads to difficult new equivalence-checking issues for simulation and synthesis. We identify several different equivalence-checking problems and present algorithms for practical benchmarks, including quantum communication and search circuits, which are shown to be very fast and robust for hundreds of qubits.

id: 0705.0026
title: Entanglement, fidelity and topological entropy in a quantum phase transition to topological order
authors: A. Hamma, W. Zhang, S. Haas, D.A. Lidar
comments: replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 155111 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0026
abstract: We present a numerical study of a quantum phase transition from a spin-polarized to a topologically ordered phase in a system of spin-1/2 particles on a torus. We demonstrate that this non-symmetry-breaking topological quantum phase transition (TOQPT) is of second order. The transition is analyzed via the ground state energy and fidelity, block entanglement, Wilson loops, and the recently proposed topological entropy. Only the topological entropy distinguishes the TOQPT from a standard QPT, and remarkably, does so already for small system sizes. Thus the topological entropy serves as a proper order parameter. We demonstrate that our conclusions are robust under the addition of random perturbations, not only in the topological phase, but also in the spin polarized phase and even at the critical point.

id: 0705.0047
title: High photon number path entanglement in the interference of spontaneously downconverted photon pairs with coherent laser light
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Takafumi Ono
comments: 5 pages, including 2 figures and 1 table, final version for publication as rapid communication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 031806(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0047
abstract: We show that the quantum interference between downconverted photon pairs and photons from coherent laser light can produce a maximally path entangled N-photon output component with a fidelity greater than 90% for arbitrarily high photon numbers. A simple beam splitter operation can thus transform the 2-photon coherence of down-converted light into an almost optimal N-photon coherence.

id: 0705.0058
title: Exact Floquet states of a driven condensate and their stabilities
authors: Wenhua Hai, Chaohong Lee, Qianquan Zhu
comments: 14 pages, 3 eps figures, final version accepted for publication in J. Phys. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0058
abstract: We investigate the Gross-Pitaevskii equation for a classically chaotic system, which describes an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate confined in an optical lattice and driven by a spatiotemporal periodic laser field. It is demonstrated that the exact Floquet states appear when the external time-dependent potential is balanced by the nonlinear mean-field interaction. The balance region of parameters is divided into a phase-continuing region and a phase-jumping one. In the latter region, the Floquet states are spatiotemporal vortices of nontrivial phase structures and zero-density cores. Due to the velocity singularities of vortex cores and the blowing-up of perturbed solutions, the spatiotemporal vortices are unstable periodic states embedded in chaos. The stability and instability of these Floquet states are numerically explored by the time evolution of fidelity between the exact and numerical solutions. It is numerically illustrated that the stable Floquet states could be prepared from the uniformly initial states by slow growth of the external potential.

id: 0705.0077
title: An analytic solution for one-dimensional quantum walks
authors: Ian Fuss, Lang White, Peter Sherman, Sanjeev Naguleswaran
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0077
abstract: The first general analytic solutions for the one-dimensional walk in position and momentum space are derived. These solutions reveal, among other things, new symmetry features of quantum walk probability densities and further insight into the behaviour of their moments. The analytic expressions for the quantum walk probability distributions provide a means of modelling quantum phenomena that is analogous to that provided by random walks in the classical domain.

id: 0705.0108
title: Reconstructing weak values without weak measurements
authors: Lars M. Johansen
comments: 6 pages. Accepted in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 366 (2007) 374-376
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0108
abstract: I propose a scheme for reconstructing the weak value of an observable without the need for weak measurements. The post-selection in weak measurements is replaced by an initial projector measurement. The observable can be measured using any form of interaction, including projective measurements. The reconstruction is effected by measuring the change in the expectation value of the observable due to the projector measurement. The weak value may take nonclassical values if the projector measurement disturbs the expectation value of the observable.

id: 0705.0109
title: An all-optical ion-loading technique for scalable microtrap architectures
authors: R.J. Hendricks, D.M. Grant, P.F. Herskind, A. Dantan, M. Drewsen
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. B 88, 507 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0109
abstract: An experimental demonstration of a novel all-optical technique for loading ion traps, that has particular application to microtrap architectures, is presented. The technique is based on photo-ionisation of an atomic beam created by pulsed laser ablation of a calcium target, and provides improved temporal control compared to traditional trap loading methods. Ion loading rates as high as 125 ions per second have so far been observed. Also described are observations of trap loading where Rydberg state atoms are photo-ionised by the ion Doppler cooling laser.

id: 0705.0139
title: Casimir Forces in a Piston Geometry at Zero and Finite Temperatures
authors: M. P. Hertzberg, R. L. Jaffe, M. Kardar, A. Scardicchio
comments: Updated to match version published in PRD, 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D76:045016,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0139
abstract: We study Casimir forces on the partition in a closed box (piston) with perfect metallic boundary conditions. Related closed geometries have generated interest as candidates for a repulsive force. By using an optical path expansion we solve exactly the case of a piston with a rectangular cross section, and find that the force always attracts the partition to the nearest base. For arbitrary cross sections, we can use an expansion for the density of states to compute the force in the limit of small height to width ratios. The corrections to the force between parallel plates are found to have interesting dependence on the shape of the cross section. Finally, for temperatures in the range of experimental interest we compute finite temperature corrections to the force (again assuming perfect boundaries).

id: 0705.0147
title: G?del Incompleteness and the Black Hole Information Paradox
authors: R. Srikanth, Srikanth Hebri
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures; revised according to journal requirements
journal: Quantum Information Processing 7, 291 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0147
abstract: Semiclassical reasoning suggests that the process by which an object collapses into a black hole and then evaporates by emitting Hawking radiation may destroy information, a problem often referred to as the black hole information paradox. Further, there seems to be no unique prediction of where the information about the collapsing body is localized. We propose that the latter aspect of the paradox may be a manifestation of an inconsistent self-reference in the semiclassical theory of black hole evolution. This suggests the inadequacy of the semiclassical approach or, at worst, that standard quantum mechanics and general relavity are fundamentally incompatible. One option for the resolution for the paradox in the localization is to identify the G\"odel-like incompleteness that corresponds to an imposition of consistency, and introduce possibly new physics that supplies this incompleteness. Another option is to modify the theory in such a way as to prohibit self-reference. We discuss various possible scenarios to implement these options, including eternally collapsing objects, black hole remnants, black hole final states, and simple variants of semiclassical quantum gravity.

id: 0705.0174
title: Experimental realization of one-way quantum computing with two-photon four-qubit cluster states
authors: Kai Chen, Che-Ming Li, Qiang Zhang, Yu-Ao Chen, Alexander Goebel, Shuai Chen, Alois Mair, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 120503 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0174
abstract: We report an experimental realization of one-way quantum computing on a two-photon four-qubit cluster state. This is accomplished by developing a two-photon cluster state source entangled both in polarization and spatial modes. With this special source, we implemented a highly efficient Grover's search algorithm and high-fidelity two qubits quantum gates. Our experiment demonstrates that such cluster states could serve as an ideal source and a building block for rapid and precise optical quantum computation.

id: 0705.0181
title: Is there contextuality for a single qubit?
authors: Andrzej Grudka, Pawel Kurzynski
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 160401 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0181
abstract: It was presented by Cabello and Nakamura [A. Cabello, Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 190401 (2003)], that the Kochen-Specker theorem applies to two dimensions if one uses Positive Operator-Valued Measures. We show that contextuality in their models is not of the Kochen-Specker type. It is rather the result of not keeping track of the whole system on which the measurement is performed. This is connected to the fact that there is no one-to-one correspondence between POVM elements and projectors on the extended Hilbert space and the same POVM element has to originate from two different projectors when used in Cabello's and Nakamura's models. Moreover, we propose a hidden-variable formulation of the above models.

id: 0705.0184
title: Quantum phase transition and entanglement in Li atom system
authors: Li-Ming Si, Ji-Xuan Hou
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Science in China Series G: Physics, Mechanics & Astronomy, 2008, Vol. 51, No. 11, pp: 1677-1681
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0184
abstract: In this paper we study the quantum phase transition and entanglement in s1=1/2 and s2=1 spin pair system by the exact diagonalization method. We show that, for this exactly solvable quantum bi-spin system, entanglement appears before quantum phase transition and disappears after it. Moreover, we show that the von Neumann entropy, as a measure of entanglement, can reveal quantum phase transition in this system.

id: 0705.0229
title: Quantum theory of successive projective measurements
authors: Lars M. Johansen
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A76, 012119 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0229
abstract: We show that a quantum state may be represented as the sum of a joint probability and a complex quantum modification term. The joint probability and the modification term can both be observed in successive projective measurements. The complex modification term is a measure of measurement disturbance. A selective phase rotation is needed to obtain the imaginary part. This leads to a complex quasiprobability, the Kirkwood distribution. We show that the Kirkwood distribution contains full information about the state if the two observables are maximal and complementary. The Kirkwood distribution gives a new picture of state reduction. In a nonselective measurement, the modification term vanishes. A selective measurement leads to a quantum state as a nonnegative conditional probability. We demonstrate the special significance of the Schwinger basis.

id: 0705.0243
title: Decoherence of Highly Mixed Macroscopic Quantum Superpositions
authors: Hyunseok Jeong, Jinhyoung Lee, Hyunchul Nha
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, Vol. 25, Issue 6, pp. 1025-1030 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0243
abstract: It is known that a macroscopic quantum superposition (MQS), when it is exposed to environment, decoheres at a rate scaling with the separation of its component states in phase space. This is more or less consistent with the well known proposition that a more macroscopic quantum state is reduced more quickly to a classical state in general. Effects of initial mixedness, however, on the subsequent decoherence of MQSs have been less known. In this paper, we study the evolution of a highly mixed MQS interacting with an environment, and compare it with that of a pure MQS having the same size of the central distance between its component states. Although the decoherence develops more rapidly for the mixed MQS in short times, its rate can be significantly suppressed after a certain time and becomes smaller than the decoherence rate of its corresponding pure MQS. In an optics experiment to generate a MQS, our result has a practical implication that nonclassicality of a MQS can be still observable in moderate times even though a large amount of noise is added to the initial state.

id: 0705.0279
title: Opaque Attack on Three-Party Quantum Secret Sharing Based on Entanglement
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Xi-Han Li, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0279
abstract: Security of the three-party quantum secret sharing (QSS) schemes based on entanglement and a collective eavesdropping check is analyzed in the case of considerable quantum channel losses. An opaque attack scheme is presented for the dishonest agent to eavesdrop the message obtained by the other agent freely, which reveals that these QSS schemes are insecure for transmission efficiencies lower than 50%, especially when they are used to share an unknown quantum state. Finally, we present a general way to improve the security of QSS schemes for sharing not only a private key but also an unknown quantum state.

id: 0705.0292
title: Entropy scaling and simulability by Matrix Product States
authors: Norbert Schuch, Michael M. Wolf, Frank Verstraete, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. v2: Accepted version, minor changes and clarifications, Journal-Ref. added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 030504 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0292
abstract: We investigate the relation between the scaling of block entropies and the efficient simulability by Matrix Product States (MPS), and clarify the connection both for von Neumann and Renyi entropies (see Table I). Most notably, even states obeying a strict area law for the von Neumann entropy are not necessarily approximable by MPS. We apply these results to illustrate that quantum computers might outperform classical computers in simulating the time evolution of quantum systems, even for completely translational invariant systems subject to a time independent Hamiltonian.

id: 0705.0312
title: Two-dimensional transport and transfer of a single atomic qubit in optical tweezers
authors: J. Beugnon, C. Tuchendler, H. Marion, A. Gaetan, Y. Miroshnychenko, Y.R.P. Sortais, A.M. Lance, M.P.A. Jones, G. Messin, A. Browaeys, P. Grangier
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics, vol. 3, p. 696 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0312
abstract: Quantum computers have the capability of out-performing their classical counterparts for certain computational problems. Several scalable quantum computing architectures have been proposed. An attractive architecture is a large set of physically independant qubits, arranged in three spatial regions where (i) the initialized qubits are stored in a register, (ii) two qubits are brought together to realize a gate, and (iii) the readout of the qubits is performed. For a neutral atom-based architecture, a natural way to connect these regions is to use optical tweezers to move qubits within the system. In this letter we demonstrate the coherent transport of a qubit, encoded on an atom trapped in a sub-micron tweezer, over a distance typical of the separation between atoms in an array of optical traps. Furthermore, we transfer a qubit between two tweezers, and show that this manipulation also preserves the coherence of the qubit.

id: 0705.0316
title: Coherent states for Hamiltonians generated by supersymmetry
authors: David J. Fernandez C, Veronique Hussin, Oscar Rosas-Ortiz
comments: LaTeX file, 26 pages, 3 eps figures
journal: J.Phys.A40:6491-6511,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0316
abstract: Coherent states are derived for one-dimensional systems generated by supersymmetry from an initial Hamiltonian with a purely discrete spectrum for which the levels depend analytically on their subindex. It is shown that the algebra of the initial system is inherited by its SUSY partners in the subspace associated to the isospectral part or the spectrum. The technique is applied to the harmonic oscillator, infinite well and trigonometric Poeschl-Teller potentials.

id: 0705.0322
title: Nonlocality of a single particle
authors: Jacob Dunningham, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0322
abstract: There has been a great deal of debate surrounding the issue of whether it is possible for a single photon to exhibit nonlocality. A number of schemes have been proposed that claim to demonstrate this effect, but each has been met with significant opposition. The objections hinge largely on the fact that these schemes use unobservable initial states and so, it is claimed, they do not represent experiments that could actually be performed. Here we show how it is possible to overcome these objections by presenting an experimentally feasible scheme that uses realistic initial states. Furthermore, all the techniques required for photons are equally applicable to atoms. It should, therefore, also be possible to use this scheme to verify the nonlocality of a single massive particle.

id: 0705.0348
title: Reply to Comment arXiv:0704.3529v1
authors: R. de la Madrid
comments: 6-page reply to Comment arXiv:0704.3529v1. Such Comment was submitted to J. Phys. A, but it won't be published. To avoid open-ended discussions, the present author will not reply to more comments on this issue, unless they are accepted by a peer-reviewed journal
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0348
abstract: In this reply, we show that the author of the Comment arXiv:0704.3529v1 inadvertently provides additional arguments against the use of Hardy functions as test functions for the Gamow states.

id: 0705.0369
title: Entanglement transformations using separable operations
authors: Vlad Gheorghiu, Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Replaced with the published version. Any comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032310 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0369
abstract: We study conditions for the deterministic transformation $\ket{\psi}\longrightarrow\ket{\phi}$ of a bipartite entangled state by a separable operation. If the separable operation is a local operation with classical communication (LOCC), Nielsen's majorization theorem provides necessary and sufficient conditions. For the general case we derive a necessary condition in terms of products of Schmidt coefficients, which is equivalent to the Nielsen condition when either of the two factor spaces is of dimension 2, but is otherwise weaker. One implication is that no separable operation can reverse a deterministic map produced by another separable operation, if one excludes the case where the Schmidt coefficients of $\ket{\psi}$ and are the same as those of $\ket{\phi}$. The question of sufficient conditions in the general separable case remains open. When the Schmidt coefficients of $\ket{\psi}$ are the same as those of $\ket{\phi}$, we show that the Kraus operators of the separable transformation restricted to the supports of $\ket{\psi}$ on the factor spaces are proportional to unitaries. When that proportionality holds and the factor spaces have equal dimension, we find conditions for the deterministic transformation of a collection of several full Schmidt rank pure states $\ket{\psi_j}$ to pure states $\ket{\phi_j}$.

id: 0705.0370
title: Sub-ballistic behavior in quantum systems with L¨¦vy noise
authors: A. Romanelli, R. Siri, V. Micenmacher
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 76, 037202 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0370
abstract: We investigate the quantum walk and the quantum kicked rotor in resonance subjected to noise with a L\'evy waiting time distribution. We find that both systems have a sub-ballistic wave function spreading as shown by a power-law tail of the standard deviation.

id: 0705.0375
title: Selective Control of the Symmetric Dicke Subspace in Trapped Ions
authors: C. E. Lopez, J. C. Retamal, E. Solano
comments: 5 pages and 1 figure. New version with minor changes and added references. Accepted in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 033413 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0375
abstract: We propose a method of manipulating selectively the symmetric Dicke subspace in the internal degrees of freedom of N trapped ions. We show that the direct access to ionic-motional subspaces, based on a suitable tuning of motion-dependent AC Stark shifts, induces a two-level dynamics involving previously selected ionic Dicke states. In this manner, it is possible to produce, sequentially and unitarily, ionic Dicke states with increasing excitation number. Moreover, we propose a probabilistic technique to produce directly any ionic Dicke state assuming suitable initial conditions.

id: 0705.0376
title: On the Dirac-Infeld-Plebanski delta function
authors: Oscar Rosas-Ortiz
comments: LaTeX file, 15 pages no figures
journal: "Topics in Mathematical Physics, General Relativity and Cosmology, in Honor of Jerzy Plebanski"; H Garcia-Compean et al (Eds), World Scientific (Singapore, 2006) 373-385
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0376
abstract: The present work is a brief review of the progressive search of improper delta-functions which are of interest in Quantum Mechanics and in the problem of motion in General Relativity Theory.

id: 0705.0378
title: Geodesics for Efficient Creation and Propagation of Order along Ising Spin Chains
authors: Haidong Yuan, Steffen J. Glaser, N. Khaneja
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0378
abstract: Experiments in coherent nuclear and electron magnetic resonance, and optical spectroscopy correspond to control of quantum mechanical ensembles, guiding them from initial to final target states by unitary transformations. The control inputs (pulse sequences) that accomplish these unitary transformations should take as little time as possible so as to minimize the effects of relaxation and decoherence and to optimize the sensitivity of the experiments. Here we give efficient syntheses of various unitary transformations on Ising spin chains of arbitrary length. The efficient realization of the unitary transformations presented here is obtained by computing geodesics on a sphere under a special metric. We show that contrary to the conventional belief, it is possible to propagate a spin order along an Ising spin chain with coupling strength J (in units of Hz), significantly faster than 1/(2J) per step. The methods presented here are expected to be useful for immediate and future applications involving control of spin dynamics in coherent spectroscopy and quantum information processing.

id: 0705.0386
title: Bound entanglement in the XY model
authors: D. Patan¨¦, R. Fazio, L. Amico
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures; some typos corrected, references added
journal: New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 322
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0386
abstract: We study the multi-spin entanglement for the 1D anisotropic XY model concentrating on the simplest case of three-spin entanglement. As compared to the pairwise entanglement, three-party quantum correlations have a longer range and they are more robust on increasing the temperature. We find regions of the phase diagram of the system where bound entanglement occurs, both at zero and finite temperature. Bound entanglement in the ground state can be obtained by tuning the magnetic field. Thermal bound entanglement emerges naturally due to the effect of temperature on the free ground state entanglement.

id: 0705.0439
title: Experimental local realism tests without fair sampling assumption
authors: G. Brida, M. Genovese, F.Piacentini
comments: 
journal: EPJD, Vol. 4, Issue 3 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0439
abstract: Following the theoretical suggestion of Ref. [1,2], we present experimental results addressed to test restricted families of local realistic models, but without relying on the fair sampling assumption.

id: 0705.0502
title: Slow cross-symmetry phase relaxation in complex collisions
authors: Luis Benet, Lewis T. Chadderton, Sergey Yu. Kun, Oleg K. Vorov, Wang Qi
comments: 10 pages including 2 color ps figures. To be published in Physics of Atomic Nuclei (Yadernaya fizika)
journal: Phys.Atom.Nucl.71:819-823,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0502
abstract: We discuss the effect of slow phase relaxation and the spin off-diagonal $S$-matrix correlations on the cross section energy oscillations and the time evolution of the highly excited intermediate systems formed in complex collisions. Such deformed intermediate complexes with strongly overlapping resonances can be formed in heavy ion collisions, bimolecular chemical reactions and atomic cluster collisions. The effects of quasiperiodic energy dependence of the cross sections, coherent rotation of the hyperdeformed $\simeq (3:1)$ intermediate complex, Schr\"odinger cat states and quantum-classical transition are studied for $^{24}$Mg+$^{28}$Si heavy ion scattering.

id: 0705.0515
title: Fast quantum key distribution with decoy number states
authors: Daryl Achilles, Ekaterina Rogacheva, Alexei Trifonov
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures; Accepted to J. Mod. Opt
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0515
abstract: We investigate the use of photon number states to identify eavesdropping attacks on quantum key distribution (QKD) schemes. The technique is based on the fact that different photon numbers traverse a channel with different transmittivity. We then describe two QKD schemes that utilize this method, one of which overcomes the upper limit on the key generation rate imposed by the dead time of detectors when using a heralded source of photons.

id: 0705.0537
title: Terahertz Room-Temperature Photonic Crystal Nanocavity Laser
authors: Dirk Englund, Hatice Altug, Ilya Fushman, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0537
abstract: We describe an efficient surface-passivated photonic crystal nanocavity laser, demonstrating room-temperature operation with 3-ps total pulse duration (detector response limited) and low-temperature operation with ultra-low-threshold near 9uW.

id: 0705.0620
title: Generating Unexpected Spin Echoes in Dipolar Solids with Pi Pulses
authors: Dale Li, A. E. Dementyev, Yanqun Dong, R. G. Ramos, S. E. Barrett
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0620
abstract: This submission has been withdrawn by arXiv administrators because it is a duplicate of 0705.0667.

id: 0705.0631
title: Hybrid Quantum Cloning Machine
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari, A. K. Pati, Indranil Chakrabarty, B. S. Choudhury
comments: Accepted in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing,Volume 6, Number 4, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0631
abstract: In this work, we introduce a special kind of quantum cloning machine called Hybrid quantum cloning machine. The introduced Hybrid quantum cloning machine or transformation is nothing but a combination of pre-existing quantum cloning transformations. In this sense it creates its own identity in the field of quantum cloners. Hybrid quantum cloning machine can be of two types: (i) State dependent and (ii) State independent or Universal. We study here the above two types of Hybrid quantum cloning machines. Later we will show that the state dependent hybrid quantum-cloning machine can be applied on only four input states. We will also find in this paper another asymmetric universal quantum cloning machine constructed from the combination of optimal universal B-H quantum cloning machine and universal anti-cloning machine. The fidelities of the two outputs are different and their values lie in the neighborhood of ${5/6} $

id: 0705.0667
title: Generating Unexpected Spin Echoes in Dipolar Solids with Pi Pulses
authors: Dale Li, A. E. Dementyev, Yanqun Dong, R. G. Ramos, S. E. Barrett
comments: 4 pages, 4 color figures, to appear in PRL May 2007
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 190401 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0667
abstract: NMR spin echo measurements of C-13 in C60, Y-89 in Y2O3, and Si-29 in silicon are shown to defy conventional expectations when more that one pi pulse is used. Multiple pi-pulse echo trains may either freeze our or accelerate the decay of the signal, depending on the pi-pulse phase. Average Hamiltonian theory, combined with exact quantum calculations, reveals an intrinsic cause for these coherent phenomena: the dipolar coupling has a many-body effect during any real, finite pulse.

id: 0705.0679
title: Two Qubit Entanglement in $XYZ$ Magnetic Chain with DM Antisymmetric Anisotropic Exchange Interaction
authors: Zeynep Nilhan Gurkan, Oktay K. Pashaev
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0679
abstract: In the present paper we study two qubit entanglement in the most general $XYZ$ Heisenberg magnetic chain with (non)homogeneous magnetic fields and the DM anisotropic antisymmetric exchange interaction, arising from the spin-orbit coupling . The model includes all known results as particular cases, for both antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic $XX, XY, XXX, XXZ, XYZ$ chains. The concurrence of two qubit thermal entanglement and its dependence on anisotropic parameters, external magnetic field and temperature are studied in details. We found that in all cases, inclusion of the DM interaction, which is responsible for weak ferromagnetism in mainly antiferromagnetic crystals and spin arrangement in low symmetry magnets, creates (when it does not exist) or strengthens (when it exists) entanglement in $XYZ$ spin chain. This implies existence of a relation between arrangement of spins and entanglement, in which the DM coupling plays an essential role. It suggests also that anisotropic antisymmetric exchange interaction could be an efficient control parameter of entanglement in the general $XYZ$ case.

id: 0705.0681
title: Entanglement in a Jaynes-Cummings Model with Two Atoms and Two Photon Modes
authors: Samina S. Masood, Allen Miller
comments: 11 pages and 1 figure
journal: UJPA 2(5): 237-244, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0681
abstract: We investigate the conditions of entanglement for a system of two atoms and two photon modes in vacuum, using the Jaynes-Cummings model in the rotating-wave approximation. It is found, by generalizing the existing results, that the strength of entanglement is a periodic function of time. We explicitly show that our results are in agreement with the existing results of entanglement conditions under appropriate limits. Results for the two-atom and two-photon system are generalized to the case of arbitrary values for the atomic energies, corresponding to photon modes frequencies. Though it is apparently a generalization of the existing work, we have considered for the first time both the resonant and nonresonant conditions and found a general equation which could be true for both cases. Moreover, we show that periodicity of the entanglement is a distinct feature of resonant system. Considering the two atoms and two photons system, in detail, we setup an approach which could be generalized for many particle systems and the resulting master equation can also be analyzed.

id: 0705.0730
title: Reciprocal Symmetry and Unified Classico-Quantum Oscillator And Consistency between a Particle in a Potential Well and a Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Mushfiq Ahmad, Muhammad O. G. Talukder
comments: 6 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0730
abstract: The function exp(iwt) describes an oscillating motion. Energy of the oscillator is proportional to the square of w. exp(iwt) is the solution of a differential equation. We have replaced this differential equation by the corresponding finite-time difference equation with d as the smallest span of time. We have, then, symmetrized the equation so that it remains invariant under the change d going to -d. This symmetric equation has solutions in pairs. The angular speed w is modified to w' or w". w' contains a part with an integer. w" contains a part with a half-integer. This corresponds to quantum mechanical oscillator energy levels. F= a.exp(iwt) describes oscillation between -a and +a. If we make w=0, F describes free oscillation between -a and +a. Reciprocal symmetric oscillator, thus, unifies quantum and classical harmonic oscillators on one hand, and a harmonic oscillator and a free particle in a potential well on the other hand. No quantum mechanical postulates are involved.

id: 0705.0733
title: Mixing and decoherence to nearest separable states in quantum measurements
authors: Avijit Lahiri
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0733
abstract: We illustrate through numerical results a number of features of environment-induced decoherence under a broad class of apparatus-environment interactions in quantum measurements wherein the reduced system-apparatus density matrix evolves towards the nearest separable state and, in addition, there occurs a mixing in relevant groups of apparatus microstates (see below). The resulting final state is unique and correctly embodies the measurement statistics even in the absence of environment-induced superselection because of energy differences between these groups of states. The partial transpose remains non-positive throughout the process.

id: 0705.0777
title: Binary Quantum Search
authors: Vladimir Korepin, Ying Xu
comments: 22 pages, 3 tables
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B, Vol. 21, No. 31 (2007) 5187-5205
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0777
abstract: Database search has wide applications and is used as a subroutine in many important algorithms. We shall consider a database with one target item. Quantum algorithm finds the target item in a database faster than any classical algorithm. It frequently occurs in practice that only a portion of information about the target item is interesting, or we need to find a group of items sharing some common feature as the target item. This problem is in general formulated as search for a part of the database [a block] containing the target item, instead of the item itself. This is partial search. Partial search trades accuracy for speed, i.e. it works faster than a full search. Partial search algorithm was discovered by Grover and Radhakrishnan. We shall consider optimized version of the algorithm and call it GRK. It can be applied successively [in a sequence]. First the database is partitioned into blocks and we use GRK to find the target block. Then this target block is partitioned into sub-blocks and we use GRK again to find the target sub-block. [We can call it binary quantum search.] Another possibility is to partition the database into sub-blocks directly and use GRK to find the target sub-block in one time. In this paper we prove that the latter is faster [makes less queries to the oracle].

id: 0705.0784
title: Using a Laguerre-Gaussian beam to trap and cool the rotational motion of a mirror
authors: M. Bhattacharya, P. Meystre
comments: New cavity design, reworked title; to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0784
abstract: We show theoretically that it is possible to trap and cool the rotational motion of a macroscopic mirror made of a perfectly reflecting spiral phase element using orbital angular momentum transfer from a Laguerre-Gaussian optical field. This technique offers a promising route to the placement of the rotor in its quantum mechanical ground state in the presence of thermal noise. It also opens up the possibility of simultaneously cooling a vibrational mode of the same mirror. Lastly, the proposed design may serve as a sensitive torsional balance in the quantum regime.

id: 0705.0788
title: Nonlinear coupling of continuous variables at the single quantum level
authors: C. F. Roos, T. Monz, K. Kim, M. Riebe, H. Haeffner, D. F. V. James, R. Blatt
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 040302(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0788
abstract: We experimentally investigate nonlinear couplings between vibrational modes of strings of cold ions stored in linear ion traps. The nonlinearity is caused by the ions' Coulomb interaction and gives rise to a Kerr-type interaction Hamiltonian H = n_r*n_s, where n_r,n_s are phonon number operators of two interacting vibrational modes. We precisely measure the resulting oscillation frequency shift and observe a collapse and revival of the contrast in a Ramsey experiment. Implications for ion trap experiments aiming at high-fidelity quantum gate operations are discussed.

id: 0705.0795
title: Distinguishability of Quantum States by Separable Operations
authors: Runyao Duan, Yuan Feng, Yu Xin, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 9 pages (in IEEE TIT format), 1 eps figure. Need IEEE.cls. Missing Reference [18] added. A preliminary version was presented at AQIS 2007 as a long talk. Main results unchanged
journal: IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, vol.55, no.3, pp.1320-1330, Mar.(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0795
abstract: We study the distinguishability of multipartite quantum states by separable operations. We first present a necessary and sufficient condition for a finite set of orthogonal quantum states to be distinguishable by separable operations. An analytical version of this condition is derived for the case of $(D-1)$ pure states, where $D$ is the total dimension of the state space under consideration. A number of interesting consequences of this result are then carefully investigated. Remarkably, we show there exists a large class of $2\otimes 2$ separable operations not being realizable by local operations and classical communication. Before our work only a class of $3\otimes 3$ nonlocal separable operations was known [Bennett et al, Phys. Rev. A \textbf{59}, 1070 (1999)]. We also show that any basis of the orthogonal complement of a multipartite pure state is indistinguishable by separable operations if and only if this state cannot be a superposition of 1 or 2 orthogonal product states, i.e., has an orthogonal Schmidt number not less than 3, thus generalize the recent work about indistinguishable bipartite subspaces [Watrous, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{95}, 080505 (2005)]. Notably, we obtain an explicit construction of indistinguishable subspaces of dimension 7 (or 6) by considering a composite quantum system consisting of two qutrits (resp. three qubits), which is slightly better than the previously known indistinguishable bipartite subspace with dimension 8.

id: 0705.0807
title: Electromagnetic field quantization in a magnetodielectric medium with external charges
authors: M. Amooshahi, F. Kheirandish
comments: 21 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 76, 062103 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0807
abstract: The electromagnetic field inside a cubic cavity filled up with a linear magnetodielectric medium and in the presence of external charges is quantized by modelling the magnetodielectric medium with two independent quantum fields. Electric and magnetic polarization densities of the medium are defined in terms of the ladder operators of the medium and eigenmodes of the cavity. Maxwell and constitutive equations of the medium together with the equation of motion of the charged particles have been obtained from the Heisenberg equations using a minimal coupling scheme. Spontaneous emission of a two level atom embedded in a magnetodielectric medium is calculated in terms of electric and magnetic susceptibilities of the medium and the Green function of the cubic cavity as an application of the model.

id: 0705.0854
title: High-Visibility Multi-Photon Interference of Classical Light
authors: I.N.Agafonov, M.V.Chekhova, T.Sh.Iskhakov, A.N.Penin
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0854
abstract: It is shown that the visibility of multi-photon interference for classical sources grows rapidly with the order of interference. For three-photon and four-photon interference of two coherent sources, the visibility can be as high as 81.9% and 94.4%, respectively, - much higher than the 'classical limit' of two-photon interference (50%). High-visibility three-photon and four-photon interference has been observed in experiment, for both coherent and pseudo-thermal light.

id: 0705.0931
title: Analysis of a convenient information bound for general quantum channels
authors: Caleb J. O'Loan
comments: 16 pages. Published version. Some of the lemmas have been corrected. New resuts have been added. Proofs are more rigorous
journal: J.Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 14499-513
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0931
abstract: Open questions from Sarovar and Milburn (2006 J.Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 8487) are answered. Sarovar and Milburn derived a convenient upper bound for the Fisher information of a one-parameter quantum channel. They showed that for quasi-classical models their bound is achievable and they gave a necessary and sufficient condition for positive operator-valued measures (POVMs) attaining this bound. They asked (i) whether their bound is attainable more generally, (ii) whether explicit expressions for optimal POVMs can be derived from the attainability condition. We show that the symmetric logarithmic derivative (SLD) quantum information is less than or equal to the SM bound, i.e.\ $H(\theta) \leq C_{\Upsilon}(\theta)$ and we find conditions for equality. As the Fisher information is less than or equal to the SLD quantum information, i.e. $F_M(\theta) \leq H(\theta)$, we can deduce when equality holds in $F_M(\theta) \leq C_{\Upsilon}(\theta)$. Equality does not hold for all channels. As a consequence, the attainability condition cannot be used to test for optimal POVMs for all channels. These results are extended to multi-parameter channels.

id: 0705.0995
title: Decoherence of a driven multilevel quantum system interacting with a multi-bath reservoir
authors: Zhongyuan Zhou, Shih-I Chu, Siyuan Han
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0995
abstract: A general theory is presented for the treatment of decoherence of a multilevel quantum system (with many degrees of freedom) interacting with multi-bath reservoir and driven by ac fields. In this approach, the system is described by a reduced density operator and the multi-bath reservoir is characterized by a number of spectral densities. The reduced density operator is governed by the master equation in which the effect of ac driving fields and the leakage to non-computational states are included. The theory is applied to the study of decoherence of a two-dimensional (2D) SQUID flux qubit coupled to control and readout circuits. The predicted results are in very good agreement with available experimental results in the absence of driving fields and with the analytic results of a dissipative two-level system in the presence of weak driving fields. The relaxation and decoherence times versus the parameters and temperature of the control and readout circuits are also explored in details to facilitate the optimization of the 2D SQUID qubit.

id: 0705.1002
title: Qubit metrology and decoherence
authors: Anil Shaji, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 24 Pages, 3 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1002
abstract: Quantum properties of the probes used to estimate a classical parameter can be used to attain accuracies that beat the standard quantum limit. When qubits are used to construct a quantum probe, it is known that initializing $n$ qubits in an entangled "cat state," rather than in a separable state, can improve the measurement uncertainty by a factor of $1/\sqrt{n}$. We investigate how the measurement uncertainty is affected when the individual qubits in a probe are subjected to decoherence. In the face of such decoherence, we regard the rate $R$ at which qubits can be generated and the total duration $\tau$ of a measurement as fixed resources, and we determine the optimal use of entanglement among the qubits and the resulting optimal measurement uncertainty as functions of $R$ and $\tau$.

id: 0705.1018
title: Optical dilution and feedback cooling of a gram-scale oscillator to 6.9 mK
authors: Thomas Corbitt, Christopher Wipf, Timothy Bodiya, David Ottaway, Daniel Sigg, Nicolas Smith, Stanley Whitcomb, Nergis Mavalvala
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 160801 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1018
abstract: We report on use of a radiation pressure induced restoring force, the optical spring effect, to optically dilute the mechanical damping of a 1 gram suspended mirror, which is then cooled by active feedback (cold damping). Optical dilution relaxes the limit on cooling imposed by mechanical losses, allowing the oscillator mode to reach a minimum temperature of 6.9 mK, a factor of ~40000 below the environmental temperature. A further advantage of the optical spring effect is that it can increase the number of oscillations before decoherence by several orders of magnitude. In the present experiment we infer an increase in the dynamical lifetime of the state by a factor of ~200.

id: 0705.1041
title: Electro-Optic Effect Explanation with Quantum Photonic Model
authors: Hassan Kaatuzian, AliAkbar Wahedy Zarch, Ahmad Amjadi, Ahmad Ajdarzadeh Oskouei
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1041
abstract: In this paper, we have explained transverse electro-optic effect by quantum-photonic model (QPM). This model interpret this effect by photon-electron interaction in attosecond regime. We simulate applied electric field on molecule and crystal by Monte-Carlo method in time domain when a light beam is propagated through the waveguide. We show how the waveguide response to an optical signal with different wavelengths when a transverse electric field applied to the waveguide.

id: 0705.1055
title: Controllability of the coupled spin-half harmonic oscillator system
authors: Haidong Yuan, Seth Lloyd
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1055
abstract: We present a control-theoretic analysis of the system consisting of a two-level atom coupled with a quantum harmonic oscillator. We show that by applying external fields with just two resonant frequencies, any desired unitary operator can be generated.

id: 0705.1062
title: Mott-insulating and glassy phases of polaritons in 1D arrays of coupled cavities
authors: Davide Rossini, Rosario Fazio
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 186401 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1062
abstract: By means of analytical and numerical methods we analyze the phase diagram of polaritons in one-dimensional coupled cavities. We locate the phase boundary, discuss the behavior of the polariton compressibility and visibility fringes across the critical point, and find a non-trivial scaling of the phase boundary as a function of the number of atoms inside each cavity. We also predict the emergence of a polaritonic glassy phase when the number of atoms fluctuates from cavity to cavity.

id: 0705.1083
title: Analysis of trembling hand perfect equilibria in quantum games
authors: Ireneusz Pakula
comments: 18 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1083
abstract: We analyse Selten's concept of trembling hand perfect equilibria in the context of quantum game theory. We define trembles as mixed quantum strategies by replacing discrete probabilities with probability distribution functions. Explicit examples of analysis are given.

id: 0705.1099
title: Minimal qudit code for a qubit in the phase-damping channel
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Stefano Mancini, Samuel L. Braunstein, David Vitali
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032309 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1099
abstract: Using the stabilizer formalism we construct the minimal code into a D-dimensional Hilbert space (qudit) to protect a qubit against phase damping. The effectiveness of this code is then studied by means of input-output fidelity.

id: 0705.1101
title: Photon mass and quantum effects of the Aharonov-Bohm type
authors: G. Spavieri, M. Rodriguez
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A, (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1101
abstract: The magnetic field due to the photon rest mass $m_{ph}$ modifies the standard results of the Aharonov-Bohm effect for electrons, and of other recent quantum effects. For the effect involving a coherent superposition of beams of particles with opposite electromagnetic properties, by means of a table-top experiment, the limit $m_{ph}x10^{-51}g$ is achievable, improving by 6 orders of magnitude that derived by Boulware and Deser for the Aharonov-Bohm effect.

id: 0705.1103
title: Entanglement in fermionic systems
authors: Mari-Carmen Ba?uls, J. Ignacio Cirac, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, 4 tables
journal: Physical Review A 76, 022311 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1103
abstract: The anticommuting properties of fermionic operators, together with the presence of parity conservation, affect the concept of entanglement in a composite fermionic system. Hence different points of view can give rise to different reasonable definitions of separable and entangled states. Here we analyze these possibilities and the relationship between the different classes of separable states. We illustrate the differences by providing a complete characterization of all the sets defined for systems of two fermionic modes. The results are applied to Gibbs states of infinite chains of fermions whose interaction corresponds to a XY-Hamiltonian with transverse magnetic field.

id: 0705.1115
title: Classical approximation schemes for the ground-state energy of quantum and classical Ising spin Hamiltonians on planar graphs
authors: Nikhil Bansal, Sergey Bravyi, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 7 pages; v2 has some small corrections; the presentation in v3 has been substantially revised. v4 is considerably expanded and includes our results on quantum Ising spin glasses
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. Vol. 9, No.8, p. 0701 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1115
abstract: We describe an efficient approximation algorithm for evaluating the ground-state energy of the classical Ising Hamiltonian with linear terms on an arbitrary planar graph. The running time of the algorithm grows linearly with the number of spins and exponentially with 1/epsilon, where epsilon is the worst-case relative error. This result contrasts the well known fact that exact computation of the ground-state energy for the two-dimensional Ising spin glass model is NP-hard. We also present a classical approximation algorithm for the Local Hamiltonian Problem or Quantum Ising Spin Glass problem on a planar graph with bounded degree which is known to be a QMA-complete problem. Using a different technique we find a classical approximation algorithm for the quantum Ising spin glass problem on the simplest planar graph with unbounded degree, the star graph.

id: 0705.1129
title: General Properties of Quantum Zero-Knowledge Proofs
authors: Hirotada Kobayashi
comments: 33 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1129
abstract: This paper studies the complexity classes QZK and HVQZK of problems having a quantum computational zero-knowledge proof system and an honest-verifier quantum computational zero-knowledge proof system, respectively. The results proved in this paper include: (a) HVQZK = QZK, (b) any problem in QZK has a public-coin quantum computational zero-knowledge proof system, (c) any problem in QZK has a quantum computational zero-knowledge proof system of perfect completeness, and (d) any problem in QZK has a three-message public-coin quantum computational zero-knowledge proof system of perfect completeness with arbitrarily small constant error in soundness. All the results above are unconditional and do not rely any computational assumptions. For the classes QPZK, HVQPZK, and QSZK of problems having a quantum perfect zero-knowledge proof system, an honest-verifier quantum perfect zero-knowledge proof system, and a quantum statistical zero-knowledge proof system, respectively, the following new properties are proved: (e) HVQPZK = QPZK, (f) any problem in QPZK has a public-coin quantum perfect zero-knowledge proof system, (g) any problem in QSZK has a quantum statistical zero-knowledge proof system of perfect completeness, and (h) any problem in QSZK has a three-message public-coin quantum statistical zero-knowledge proof system of perfect completeness with arbitrarily small constant error in soundness. It is stressed that our proofs are direct and do not use complete promise problems or those equivalents. This gives a unified framework that works well for all of quantum perfect, statistical, and computational zero-knowledge proofs, and enables us to prove properties even on the computational and perfect zero-knowledge proofs for which no complete promise problems are known.

id: 0705.1136
title: Standard forms and entanglement engineering of multimode Gaussian states under local operations
authors: Alessio Serafini, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, IOP style. Published in J. Phys. A, Special Issue on Quantum Information, Communication, Computation and Cryptography (the arXiv version has an extra note added)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, 8041 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1136
abstract: We investigate the action of local unitary operations on multimode (pure or mixed) Gaussian states and single out the minimal number of locally invariant parametres which completely characterise the covariance matrix of such states. For pure Gaussian states, central resources for continuous-variable quantum information, we investigate separately the parametre reduction due to the additional constraint of global purity, and the one following by the local-unitary freedom. Counting arguments and insights from the phase-space Schmidt decomposition and in general from the framework of symplectic analysis, accompany our description of the standard form of pure n-mode Gaussian states. In particular we clarify why only in pure states with n<=3 modes all the direct correlations between position and momentum operators can be set to zero by local unitary operations. For any n, the emerging minimal set of parametres contains complete information about all forms of entanglement in the corresponding states. An efficient state engineering scheme (able to encode direct correlations between position and momentum operators as well) is proposed to produce entangled multimode Gaussian resources, its number of optical elements matching the minimal number of locally invariant degrees of freedom of general pure n-mode Gaussian states. We demonstrate that so-called "block-diagonal" Gaussian states, without direct correlations between position and momentum, are systematically less entangled, on average, than arbitrary pure Gaussian states.

id: 0705.1138
title: Bures distance as a measure of entanglement for symmetric two-mode Gaussian states
authors: Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian
comments: published version
journal: Physical Review A 77, 062319 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1138
abstract: We evaluate a Gaussian entanglement measure for a symmetric two-mode Gaussian state of the quantum electromagnetic field in terms of its Bures distance to the set of all separable Gaussian states. The required minimization procedure was considerably simplified by using the remarkable properties of the Uhlmann fidelity as well as the standard form II of the covariance matrix of a symmetric state. Our result for the Gaussian degree of entanglement measured by the Bures distance depends only on the smallest symplectic eigenvalue of the covariance matrix of the partially transposed density operator. It is thus consistent to the exact expression of the entanglement of formation for symmetric two-mode Gaussian states. This non-trivial agreement is specific to the Bures metric.

id: 0705.1149
title: Radiation-pressure self-cooling of a micromirror in a cryogenic environment
authors: Simon Groeblacher, Sylvain Gigan, Hannes R. Boehm, Anton Zeilinger, Markus Aspelmeyer
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 81, 54003 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1149
abstract: We demonstrate radiation-pressure cavity-cooling of a mechanical mode of a micromirror starting from cryogenic temperatures. To achieve that, a high-finesse Fabry-Perot cavity (F\approx 2200) was actively stabilized inside a continuous-flow 4He cryostat. We observed optical cooling of the fundamental mode of a 50mu x 50 mu x 5.4 mu singly-clamped micromirror at \omega_m=3.5 MHz from 35 K to approx. 290 mK. This corresponds to a thermal occupation factor of <n>\approx 1x10^4. The cooling performance is only limited by the mechanical quality and by the optical finesse of the system. Heating effects, e.g. due to absorption of photons in the micromirror, could not be observed. These results represent a next step towards cavity-cooling a mechanical oscillator into its quantum ground state.

id: 0705.1173
title: Effective Physical Processes and Active Information in Quantum Computing
authors: Ignazio Licata
comments: 10 pages; Added references for sections 2 and 5
journal: Quantum BioSystems, ISSN 1970-223X
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1173
abstract: The recent debate on hypercomputation has arisen new questions both on the computational abilities of quantum systems and the Church-Turing Thesis role in Physics. We propose here the idea of "effective physical process" as the essentially physical notion of computation. By using the Bohm and Hiley active information concept we analyze the differences between the standard form (quantum gates) and the non-standard one (adiabatic and morphogenetic) of Quantum Computing, and we point out how its Super-Turing potentialities derive from an incomputable information source in accordance with Bell's constraints. On condition that we give up the formal concept of "universality", the possibility to realize quantum oracles is reachable. In this way computation is led back to the logic of physical world.

id: 0705.1180
title: A PromiseBQP-complete String Rewriting Problem
authors: Dominik Janzing, Pawel Wocjan
comments: transition rules corrected, added more detailed explanations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1180
abstract: We are given three strings s, t, and t' of length L over some fixed finite alphabet and an integer m that is polylogarithmic in L. We have a symmetric relation on substrings of constant length that specifies which substrings are allowed to be replaced with each other. Let Delta(n) denote the difference between the numbers of possibilities to obtain t from s and t' from s after n replacements. The problem is to determine the sign of Delta(m). As promises we have a gap condition and a growth condition. The former states that |Delta(m)| >= epsilon c^m where epsilon is inverse polylogarithmic in L and c>0 is a constant. The latter is given by Delta(n) <= c^n for all n. We show that this problem is PromiseBQP-complete, i.e., it represents the class of problems which can be solved efficiently on a quantum computer.

id: 0705.1194
title: Deflection of Slow Light by Magneto-Optically Controlled Atomic Media
authors: D.L. Zhou, Lan Zhou, R.Q. Wang, S. Yi, C.P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 055801 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1194
abstract: We present a semi-classical theory for light deflection by a coherent $\Lambda$-type three-level atomic medium in an inhomogeneous magnetic field or an inhomogeneous control laser. When the atomic energy levels (or the Rabi coupling by the control laser) are position-dependent due to the Zeeman effect by the inhomogeneous magnetic field (or the inhomogeneity of the control field profile), the spatial dependence of the refraction index of the atomic medium will result in an observable deflection of slow signal light when the electromagnetically induced transparency happens to avoid medium absorption. Our theoretical approach based on Fermat's principle in geometrical optics not only provides a consistent explanation for the most recent experiment in a straightforward way, but also predicts the new effects for the slow signal light deflection by the atomic media in an inhomogeneous off-resonant control laser field.

id: 0705.1219
title: Analysis and Design of an Organic High Speed Digital Electro-Optic Switch
authors: Ali Akbar Wahedy Zarch, Hassan Kaatuzian, Ahmad Ajdarzadeh Oskouei, Ahmad Amjadi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1219
abstract: We have analyzed and designed an organic high speed digital optical switch (DOS) based on transverse electro-optic effect. In analysis section, we proposed a quantum photonic model (QPM) to explain linear electro-optic (EO) effect. This model interpret this effect by photon-electron interaction in attosecond regime. We simulate applied electric field on molecule and crystal by Monte-Carlo method in time domain. We show how a waveguide response to an optical signal with different wavelengths when a transverse electric field applied to the waveguide. In design section, we configure conceptually a 2 * 2 EO switch with full adiabatic coupler. In this DOS, we use a rib waveguides that its core has been constructed from NPP crystal. This switch is smaller at least to one-half of similar DOS in dimensions.

id: 0705.1255
title: Controllable Adiabatic Manipulation of the Qubit State
authors: G.P. Berman. A.R. Bishop, F. Borgonovi, V.I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 3 pages 2 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI) 5, No 5 667-672 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1255
abstract: We propose a scheme which implements a controllable change of the state of the target spin qubit in such a way that both the control and the target spin qubits remain in their ground states. The interaction between the two spins is mediated by an auxiliary spin, which can transfer to its excited state. Our scheme suggests a possible relationship between the gate and adiabatic quantum computation.

id: 0705.1256
title: Memory-built-in quantum teleportation with photonic and atomic qubits
authors: Yu-Ao Chen, Shuai Chen, Zhen-Sheng Yuan, Bo Zhao, Chih-Sung Chuu, Joerg Schmiedmayer, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 19 pages 3 figures 1 table
journal: Nature Physics 4, 103-107 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1256
abstract: The combination of quantum teleportation and quantum memory of photonic qubits is essential for future implementations of large-scale quantum communication and measurement-based quantum computation. Both steps have been achieved separately in many proof-of-principle experiments, but the demonstration of memory-built-in teleportation of photonic qubits remains an experimental challenge. Here, we demonstrate teleportation between photonic (flying) and atomic (stationary) qubits. In our experiment, an unknown polarization state of a single photon is teleported over 7 m onto a remote atomic qubit that also serves as a quantum memory. The teleported state can be stored and successfully read out for up to 8 micro-second. Besides being of fundamental interest, teleportation between photonic and atomic qubits with the direct inclusion of a readable quantum memory represents a step towards an efficient and scalable quantum network.

id: 0705.1260
title: Quantum-like Representation of Extensive Form Games: Wine Testing Game
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys., 48, 072107 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1260
abstract: We consider an application of the mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics (QM) outside physics, namely, to game theory. We present a simple game between macroscopic players, say Alice and Bob (or in a more complex form - Alice, Bob and Cecilia), which can be represented in the quantum-like (QL) way -- by using a complex probability amplitude (game's ``wave function'') and noncommutative operators. The crucial point is that games under consideration are so called extensive form games. Here the order of actions of players is important, such a game can be represented by the tree of actions. The QL probabilistic behavior of players is a consequence of incomplete information which is available to e.g. Bob about the previous action of Alice. In general one could not construct a classical probability space underlying a QL-game. This can happen even in a QL-game with two players. In a QL-game with three players Bell's inequality can be violated. The most natural probabilistic description is given by so called contextual probability theory completed by the frequency definition of probability.

id: 0705.1308
title: Quantify Entanglement for Multipartite Quantum States
authors: Zongwen Yu, Su Hu, Chunlei Zhang
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1308
abstract: In this paper, we consider the problem of how to quantify entanglement for any multipartite quantum states. For bipartite pure states partial entropy is a good entanglement measure. By using partial entropy, we firstly introduce the Combinatorial Entropy of Fully entangled states (CEF) which can be used to quantify entanglement for any fully entangled pure states. In order to quantify entanglement for any multipartite states we also need another concept the Entanglement Combination (EC) which can be used to completely describe the entanglement between any parties of the given quantum states. Combining CEF with EC, we define the Combinatorial Entropy (CE) for any multipartite pure states and present some nice properties which indicate CE is a good entanglement measure. Finally, we point out the feasibility of extending these three concepts to mixed quantum states.

id: 0705.1350
title: Generating Entangled Photons from the Vacuum by Accelerated Measurements: Quantum Information Theory Meets the Unruh-Davies Effect
authors: Muxin Han, S. Jay Olson, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, clarifying discussions added
journal: Phys.Rev.A78:022302,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1350
abstract: Building on the well-known Unruh-Davies effect, we examine the effects of projective measurements and quantum communications between accelerated and stationary observers. We find that the projective measurement by a uniformly accelerated observer can excite real particles from the vacuum in the inertial frame, even if no additional particles are created by the measurement process in the accelerating frame. Furthermore, we show that the particles created by this accelerating measurement can be highly entangled in the inertial frame, and it is also possible to use this process to generate even maximally entangled two-qubit states by a certain arrangement of measurements. As a byproduct of our analysis, we also show that a single qubit of information can be perfectly transmitted from the accelerating observer to the inertial one. In principle, such an effect could be exploited in designing an entangled state generator for quantum communication.

id: 0705.1358
title: Experimental approaches to the difference in the Casimir force through the varying optical properties of boundary surface
authors: R. Castillo-Garza, C.-C. Chang, D. Jimenez, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen
comments: 23 pages of the text, 2 tables, and captions of 12 figures (to appear in Phys. Rev. A)
journal: Phys.Rev.A75:062114,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1358
abstract: We propose two novel experiments on the measurement of the Casimir force acting between a gold coated sphere and semiconductor plates with markedly different charge carrier densities. In the first of these experiments a patterned Si plate is used which consists of two sections of different dopant densities and oscillates in the horizontal direction below a sphere. The measurement scheme in this experiment is differential, i.e., allows the direct high-precision measurement of the difference of the Casimir forces between the sphere and sections of the patterned plate or the difference of the equivalent pressures between Au and patterned parallel plates with static and dynamic techniques, respectively. The second experiment proposes to measure the Casimir force between the same sphere and a VO${}_2$ film which undergoes the insulator-metal phase transition with the increase of temperature. We report the present status of the interferometer based variable temperature apparatus developed to perform both experiments and present the first results on the calibration and sensitivity. The magnitudes of the Casimir forces and pressures in the experimental configurations are calculated using different theoretical approaches to the description of optical and conductivity properties of semiconductors at low frequencies proposed in the literature. It is shown that the suggested experiments will aid in the resolution of theoretical problems arising in the application of the Lifshitz theory at nonzero temperature to real materials. They will also open new opportunities in nanotechnology.

id: 0705.1370
title: Can quantum correlations be completely quantum?
authors: ?ukasz Pankowski, Barbara Synak-Radtke
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, REVTeX 4
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 075308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1370
abstract: Deficit of information zero-way was proposed in HorodeckiHHOSSS2005 as one of possible measures of quantumness of correlations. Numerical calculations suggested that there exist such states for which this quantity is almost equal to mutual information. In this paper we present a family of states for which we have equality between above measure of quantumness of correlations and the measure of total correlations -- mutual information. It means that whole correlations in these states have, in some sense, quantum character and that quantum correlations do not necessarily imply classical correlations. We prove this intriguing feature for a subclass of 2x2 separable states. We also present numerical result suggesting that this interesting situation might also happen for 2x2 entangled states.

id: 0705.1372
title: Quantum Markovian Subsystems: Invariance, Attractivity, and Control
authors: Francesco Ticozzi, Lorenza Viola
comments: 16 pages, no figures. Revised version with new title, corrected typos, partial rewriting of Section III.E and some other minor changes
journal: IEEE Transaction on Automatic Control, 53(9):2048-2063, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1372
abstract: We characterize the dynamical behavior of continuous-time, Markovian quantum systems with respect to a subsystem of interest. Markovian dynamics describes a wide class of open quantum systems of relevance to quantum information processing, subsystem encodings offering a general pathway to faithfully represent quantum information. We provide explicit linear-algebraic characterizations of the notion of invariant and noiseless subsystem for Markovian master equations, under different robustness assumptions for model-parameter and initial-state variations. The stronger concept of an attractive quantum subsystem is introduced, and sufficient existence conditions are identified based on Lyapunov's stability techniques. As a main control application, we address the potential of output-feedback Markovian control strategies for quantum pure state-stabilization and noiseless-subspace generation. In particular, explicit results for the synthesis of stabilizing semigroups and noiseless subspaces in finite-dimensional Markovian systems are obtained.

id: 0705.1385
title: Bell inequalities for continuous-variable correlations
authors: E. G. Cavalcanti, C. J. Foster, M. D. Reid, P. D. Drummond
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. v2: New results on detector efficiencies and macroscopic limit, new co-author, changed title and abstract, changed figure, added journal reference and DOI
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 210405 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1385
abstract: We derive a new class of correlation Bell-type inequalities. The inequalities are valid for any number of outcomes of two observables per each of n parties, including continuous and unbounded observables. We show that there are no first-moment correlation Bell inequalities for that scenario, but such inequalities can be found if one considers at least second moments. The derivation stems from a simple variance inequality by setting local commutators to zero. We show that above a constant detector efficiency threshold, the continuous variable Bell violation can survive even in the macroscopic limit of large n. This method can be used to derive other well-known Bell inequalities, shedding new light on the importance of non-commutativity for violations of local realism.

id: 0705.1388
title: Some properties of the resonant state in quantum mechanics and its computation
authors: Naomichi Hatano, Keita Sasada, Hiroaki Nakamura, Tomio Petrosky
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures embedded
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys.119:187-222,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1388
abstract: The resonant state of the open quantum system is studied from the viewpoint of the outgoing momentum flux. We show that the number of particles is conserved for a resonant state, if we use an expanding volume of integration in order to take account of the outgoing momentum flux; the number of particles would decay exponentially in a fixed volume of integration. Moreover, we introduce new numerical methods of treating the resonant state with the use of the effective potential. We first give a numerical method of finding a resonance pole in the complex energy plane. The method seeks an energy eigenvalue iteratively. We found that our method leads to a super-convergence, the convergence exponential with respect to the iteration step. The present method is completely independent of commonly used complex scaling. We also give a numerical trick for computing the time evolution of the resonant state in a limited spatial area. Since the wave function of the resonant state is diverging away from the scattering potential, it has been previously difficult to follow its time evolution numerically in a finite area.

id: 0705.1393
title: Photodetachment of H$^{-}$ near a partial reflecting surface
authors: A. Afaq
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1393
abstract: Theoretical and interpretative study on the subject of photodetachment of H$^{-}$ near a partial reflecting surface is presented, and the absorption effect of the surface is investigated on the total and differential cross sections using a theoretical imaging method. To understand the absorption effect, a reflection parameter $K$ is introduced as a multiplicative factor to the outgoing detached-electron wave of H$^-$ propagating toward the wall. The reflection parameter measures, how much electron wave would reflect from the surface; K=0 corresponds to no reflection and K=1 corresponds to the total reflection.

id: 0705.1398
title: Experimental demonstration of Shor's algorithm with quantum entanglement
authors: B. P. Lanyon, T. J. Weinhold, N. K. Langford, M. Barbieri, D. F. V. James*, A. Gilchrist, A. G. White
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures + half-page additional online material
journal: Physical Review Letters 99, 250505 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1398
abstract: Shor's powerful quantum algorithm for factoring represents a major challenge in quantum computation and its full realization will have a large impact on modern cryptography. Here we implement a compiled version of Shor's algorithm in a photonic system using single photons and employing the non-linearity induced by measurement. For the first time we demonstrate the core processes, coherent control, and resultant entangled states that are required in a full-scale implementation of Shor's algorithm. Demonstration of these processes is a necessary step on the path towards a full implementation of Shor's algorithm and scalable quantum computing. Our results highlight that the performance of a quantum algorithm is not the same as performance of the underlying quantum circuit, and stress the importance of developing techniques for characterising quantum algorithms.

id: 0705.1403
title: The geometry of bipartite qutrits including bound entanglement
authors: B. Baumgartner, B.C. Hiesmayr, H. Narnhofer
comments: extended version: new results added, 6 pages, 6 figures. accepted by Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A, Vol. 372, Issue 13, 2190-2195 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1403
abstract: We investigate the state space of bipartite qutrits. We construct an analog to the "magic" tetrahedron for bipartite qubits--a magic simplex W. It is formed by all convex combination of nine Bell states which are constructed using the Weyl operators. Due to the high symmetry it is enough to consider certain typical slices through W. Via optimal entanglement witnesses we find regions of bound entangled states inside W.

id: 0705.1424
title: Local Distinguishability of Multipartite Unitary Operations
authors: Runyao Duan, Yuan Feng, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 5 pages (in Revtex 4), 1 eps. A preliminary version. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 020503 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1424
abstract: We show that any two different unitary operations acting on an arbitrary multipartite quantum system can be perfectly distinguishable by local operations and classical communication when a finite number of runs is allowed. We then directly extend this result into the case when the number of unitary operations to be discriminated is more than two. Intuitively, our result means that the lost identity of a nonlocal (entangled) unitary operation can be recovered locally, without any use of entanglement or joint quantum operations.

id: 0705.1446
title: The Quantum Query Complexity of Algebraic Properties
authors: Sebastian Doern, Thomas Thierauf
comments: 13 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1446
abstract: We present quantum query complexity bounds for testing algebraic properties. For a set S and a binary operation on S, we consider the decision problem whether $S$ is a semigroup or has an identity element. If S is a monoid, we want to decide whether S is a group. We present quantum algorithms for these problems that improve the best known classical complexity bounds. In particular, we give the first application of the new quantum random walk technique by Magniez, Nayak, Roland, and Santha that improves the previous bounds by Ambainis and Szegedy. We also present several lower bounds for testing algebraic properties.

id: 0705.1465
title: Entanglement Assisted Classical Capacity of a Class of Quantum Channels with Long-Term Memory
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Yurii Suhov, Tony C. Dorlas
comments: Published version; 13 pages
journal: Quantum Information Processing, vol.7, no.6, pp. 251-262, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1465
abstract: In this paper we evaluate the entanglement assisted classical capacity of a class of quantum channels with long-term memory, which are convex combinations of memoryless channels. The memory of such channels can be considered to be given by a Markov chain which is aperiodic but not irreducible.

id: 0705.1477
title: Quantum entanglement, fair sampling, and reality: Is the moon there when nobody looks?
authors: Guillaume Adenier
comments: 13 pages, 8 Figures, 1 Table
journal: Am. J. Phys. Vol 76, 2, 147-152 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1477
abstract: In 1981, David Mermin described a cleverly simplified version of Bell's theorem. It pointed out in a straightforward way that interpreting entanglement from a local realist point of view can be problematic. I propose here an extended version of Mermin's device that can actually be given a simple local realist interpretation through a sample selection bias, and I argue that we still have no scientific reason to believe that the moon could possibly not be there when nobody looks.

id: 0705.1509
title: Coriolis-Zeeman effect in rotating photonic crystal
authors: Dmitri L. Boiko
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1509
abstract: Rotation-induced splitting of the otherwise degenerate photonic bands is predicted for a two-dimensional photonic crystal made of evanescently coupled microcavities. The symmetry-broken energy splitting is similar to the Zeeman splitting of atomic levels or electron's (hole's) magnetic moment sublevels in an external magnetic field. The orbital motion of photons in periodic photonic lattice of microcavities is shown to enhance significantly such Coriolis-Zeeman splitting as compared to a solitary microcavity [D.L. Boiko, Optics Express 2, 397 (1998)]. The equation of motion suggests that nonstationary rotation induces quantum transitions between photonic states and, furthermore, that such transitions will serve as a source of nonstationary gravitational field.

id: 0705.1512
title: Comment on "note on the derivative of the hyperbolic cotangent"
authors: Ilki Kim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1512
abstract: In a couple of articles (Ford G W and O'Connell R F 1996 Nature 380 113 and 2002 J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 35 4183) it was argued that the standard result for the derivative of the hyperbolic cotangent in the literature, d \coth y/dy = -{csch}^2 y is incomplete and the correct expression should have an additional term proportional to the Dirac delta function. The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate that this claim is incorrect.

id: 0705.1549
title: Cluster-type entangled coherent states
authors: P. P. Munhoz, F. L. Semi?o, A. Vidiella-Barranco, J. A. Roversi
comments: Published in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008) 3580-3585
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1549
abstract: We present the cluster-type entangled coherent states (CTECS) and discuss their properties. A cavity QED generation scheme using suitable choices of atom-cavity interactions, obtained via detunings adjustments and the application of classical external fields, is also presented. After the realization of simple atomic measurements, CTECS representing nonlocal electromagnetic fields in separate cavities can be generated.

id: 0705.1560
title: Spin Star as Switch for Quantum Networks
authors: Man-Hong Yung
comments: 10 pages, 2 figure
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 135504
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1560
abstract: Quantum state transfer is an important task in quantum information processing. It is known that one can engineer the couplings of a one-dimensional spin chain to achieve the goal of perfect state transfer. To leverage the value of these spin chains, a spin star is potentially useful for connecting di?erent parts of a quantum network. In this work, we extend the spin-chain engineering problem to the problems with a topology of a star network. We show that a permanently coupled spin star can function as a network switch for transferring quantum states selectively from one node to another by varying the local potentials only. Together with one-dimensional chains, this result allows applications of quantum state transfer be applied to more general quantum networks.

id: 0705.1564
title: Unambiguous discrimination between mixed quantum states based on programmable quantum state discriminators
authors: Hongfeng Gan, Daowen Qiu
comments: 5 pages; comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1564
abstract: We discuss the problem of designing an unambiguous programmable discriminator for mixed quantum states. We prove that there does not exist such a universal unambiguous programmable discriminator for mixed quantum states that has two program registers and one data register. However, we find that we can use the idea of programmable discriminator to unambiguously discriminate mixed quantum states. The research shows that by using such an idea, when the success probability for discrimination reaches the upper bound, the success probability is better than what we do not use the idea to do, except for some special cases.

id: 0705.1574
title: Quantum Error Correction of Observables
authors: Cedric Beny, Achim Kempf, David W. Kribs
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure, preprint version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042303 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1574
abstract: A formalism for quantum error correction based on operator algebras was introduced in [1] via consideration of the Heisenberg picture for quantum dynamics. The resulting theory allows for the correction of hybrid quantum-classical information and does not require an encoded state to be entirely in one of the corresponding subspaces or subsystems. Here, we provide detailed proofs for the results of [1], derive a number of new results, and we elucidate key points with expanded discussions. We also present several examples and indicate how the theory can be extended to operator spaces and general positive operator-valued measures.

id: 0705.1600
title: A mathematical criterion for single photon sources used in quantum cryptography
authors: Anirban Pathak
comments: 8 pages, no figure, Latex 2e
journal: Indian J. Phys. Vol 80 (2006) page 495-499
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1600
abstract: A single photon source (SPS) is very important for quantum computation. In particular, it is essential for secured quantum cryptography. But there is no perfect SPS in reality. Therefore, probabilistic SPS where probability of simultaneous emission of two, three, four and more photon is less than the emission of a single photon are used. Since classical photon always comes in bunch, the required single photon source must be nonclassical. In the well-known antibunched state the rate of simultaneous emission of two photon is less than that of single photon. But the requirement of quantum cryptography is a multiphoton version of the antibunched state or the higher order antibunched state. Recently we have reported a mathematical criterion for higher order antibunching. Here we have shown that any proposal for SPS to be used in quantum cryptography should satisfy this criterion. We have studied four wave mixing as a possible candidate of single photon source.

id: 0705.1608
title: Quantum transport on small-world networks: A continuous-time quantum walk approach
authors: Oliver Muelken, Volker Pernice, Alexander Blumen
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures (high quality figures available upon request)
journal: Phys. Rev. E 76, 051125 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1608
abstract: We consider the quantum mechanical transport of (coherent) excitons on small-world networks (SWN). The SWN are build from a one-dimensional ring of N nodes by randomly introducing B additional bonds between them. The exciton dynamics is modeled by continuous-time quantum walks and we evaluate numerically the ensemble averaged transition probability to reach any node of the network from the initially excited one. For sufficiently large B we find that the quantum mechanical transport through the SWN is, first, very fast, given that the limiting value of the transition probability is reached very quickly; second, that the transport does not lead to equipartition, given that on average the exciton is most likely to be found at the initial node.

id: 0705.1616
title: Non-Markovian dynamics in atom-laser outcoupling from a double-well Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: C. Lazarou, G. M. Nikolopoulos, P. Lambropoulos
comments: 21 pages, 9 figure, to appear in J. Phys. B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 40, 2511 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1616
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of a continuous atom laser based on the merging of independently formed atomic condensates. In a first attempt to understand the dynamics of the system, we consider two independent elongated Bose-Einstein condensates which approach each other and focus on intermediate inter-trap distances so that a two-mode model is well justified. In the framework of a mean-field theory, we discuss the quasi steady-state population of the traps as well as the energy distribution of the outcoupled atoms.

id: 0705.1617
title: Non-Computability of Consciousness
authors: Daegene Song
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: NeuroQuantology 5, 382 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1617
abstract: With the great success in simulating many intelligent behaviors using computing devices, there has been an ongoing debate whether all conscious activities are computational processes. In this paper, the answer to this question is shown to be no. A certain phenomenon of consciousness is demonstrated to be fully represented as a computational process using a quantum computer. Based on the computability criterion discussed with Turing machines, the model constructed is shown to necessarily involve a non-computable element. The concept that this is solely a quantum effect and does not work for a classical case is also discussed.

id: 0705.1627
title: Nonlinear coherent destruction of tunneling
authors: Xiaobing Luo, Qiongtao Xie, Biao Wu
comments: 4 pages,5 figures
journal: PhysRevA, 76, 051802(R)(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1627
abstract: We study theoretically two coupled periodically-curved optical waveguides with Kerr nonlinearity. We find that the tunneling between the waveguides can be suppressed in a wide range of parameters due to nonlinearity. Such suppression of tunneling is different from the coherent destruction of tunneling in a linear medium, which occurs only at the isolated degeneracy point of the quasienergies. We call this novel suppression nonlinear coherent destruction of tunneling.

id: 0705.1649
title: Quantum Measurement as a Final-State Interaction with a Macroscopic External System
authors: K.-E. Eriksson
comments: 32 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1649
abstract: A small quantum scattering system (the microsystem) is studied in interaction with a large system (the macrosystem) described by unknown stochastic variables. The interaction between the two systems is diagonal for the microsystem in a certain orthonormal basis, and the interaction gives an imprint on the macrosystem. Moreover, the interaction is assumed to involve only small transfers of energy and momentum between the two systems (as compared to typical energies/momenta within the microsystem). The analysis is carried out within scattering theory. Calculated in the conventional way, the transition amplitude for the whole system factorizes. The interaction taking place within the macrosystem is assumed to depend on the stochastic variables in such a way that, on the average, no particular basis vector state of the microsystem is favoured. The density matrix is studied in a formalism which includes generation of the ingoing state and absorption of the final state. Then the dependence of the final state on the conventional scattering amplitude for the microsystem is highly non-linear. In the thermodynamic limit of the macrosystem, the density matrix of the ensemble (of microsystem plus macrosystem) develops into a final state which involves a set of macroscopically distinguishable states, each with the microsystem in one of the basis vector states and the macrosystem in an entangled state. For an element of the ensemble, i.e., for a single measurement, the result is instead a random walk, where the microsystem ends up in one of the basis vector states (reduction of the wave packet).

id: 0705.1660
title: The Contextual Character of Modal Interpretations of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Graciela Domenech, Hector Freytes, Christian de Ronde
comments: 21 pages, no figures, preprint submitted to SHPMP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1660
abstract: In this article we discuss the contextual character of quantum mechanics in the framework of modal interpretations. We investigate its historical origin and relate contemporary modal interpretations to those proposed by M. Born and W. Heisenberg. We present then a general characterization of what we consider to be a modal interpretation. Following previous papers in which we have introduced modalities in the Kochen-Specker theorem, we investigate the consequences of these theorems in relation to the modal interpretations of quantum mechanics.

id: 0705.1676
title: Thermal Equilibrium as an Initial State for Quantum Computation by NMR
authors: Amr F. Fahmy, Raimund Marx, Wolfgang Bermel, Steffen J. Glaser
comments: including 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1676
abstract: We present a method of using a nuclear magnetic resonance computer to solve the Deutsch-Jozsa problem in which: (1) the number of molecules in the NMR sample is irrelevant to the number of qubits available to an NMR quantum computer, and (2) the initial state is chosen to be the state of thermal equilibrium, thereby avoiding the preparation of pseudopure states and the resulting exponential loss of signal as the number of qubits increases. The algorithm is described along with its experimental implementation using four active qubits. As expected, measured spectra demonstrate a clear distinction between constant and balanced functions.

id: 0705.1684
title: Demonstration of Shor's quantum factoring algorithm using photonic qubits
authors: Chao-Yang Lu, Daniel E. Browne, Tao Yang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: small changes over v2; to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 250504 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1684
abstract: We report an experimental demonstration of a complied version of Shor's algorithm using four photonic qubits. We choose the simplest instance of this algorithm, that is, factorization of N=15 in the case that the period $r=2$ and exploit a simplified linear optical network to coherently implement the quantum circuits of the modular exponential execution and semi-classical quantum Fourier transformation. During this computation, genuine multiparticle entanglement is observed which well supports its quantum nature. This experiment represents a step toward full realization of Shor's algorithm and scalable linear optics quantum computation.

id: 0705.1694
title: Note on Schmidt Decomposition in Infinite Dimensional Hilbert Spaces
authors: Su Hu, Zongwen Yu
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1694
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author.

id: 0705.1710
title: Highly Entangled Ground States in Tripartite Qubit Systems
authors: Beat R?thlisberger, J?rg Lehmann, D. S. Saraga, Philipp Traber, Daniel Loss
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 100502 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1710
abstract: We investigate the creation of highly entangled ground states in a system of three exchange-coupled qubits arranged in a ring geometry. Suitable magnetic field configurations yielding approximate GHZ and exact W ground states are identified. The entanglement in the system is studied at finite temperature in terms of the mixed-state tangle tau. By adapting a steepest-descent optimization algorithm we demonstrate that tau can be evaluated efficiently and with high precision. We identify the parameter regime for which the equilibrium entanglement of the tripartite system reaches its maximum.

id: 0705.1728
title: Ground-state cooling of a micromechanical oscillator: generalized framework for cold damping and cavity-assisted cooling schemes
authors: Claudiu Genes, David Vitali, Paolo Tombesi, Sylvain Gigan, Markus Aspelmeyer
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. Erratum of the published version included
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 033804 (2008); Phys. Rev. A 79, 039903(E) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1728
abstract: We provide a general framework to describe cooling of a micromechanical oscillator to its quantum ground state by means of radiation-pressure coupling with a driven optical cavity. We apply it to two experimentally realized schemes, back-action cooling via a detuned cavity and cold-damping quantum-feedback cooling, and we determine the ultimate quantum limits of both schemes for the full parameter range of a stable cavity. While both allow to reach the oscillator's quantum ground state, we find that back-action cooling is more efficient in the good cavity limit, i.e. when the cavity bandwidth is smaller than the mechanical frequency, while cold damping is more suitable for the bad cavity limit. The results of previous treatments are recovered as limiting cases of specific parameter regimes.

id: 0705.1745
title: Nonlocal Double-Slit Interference with Pseudothermal Light
authors: Lu Gao, Jun Xiong, Lu-Fang Lin, Wei Wang, Su-Heng Zhang, Kaige Wang
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1745
abstract: We perform a nonlocal double-slit interference experiment with pseudothermal light. The experimental result exhibits a typical double-slit interference fringe in the intensity correlation measurement, in agreement with the theoretical analysis by means of the property of the second-order spatial correlation of field.

id: 0705.1746
title: Secure quantum key distribution network with Bell states and local unitary operations
authors: Chun-Yan Li, Hong-Yu Zhou, Yan Wang, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. The decoy-photon technique is presented in a clear way for preventing a potentially dishonest server on a network from eavesdropping quantum communication freely. This technique may be useful in quantum secret sharing (of classical information or quantum information), controlled teleportation, and so on
journal: Chinese Physics Letters 22, 1049-1052 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1746
abstract: We propose a theoretical scheme for secure quantum key distribution network following the ideas in quantum dense coding. In this scheme, the server of the network provides the service for preparing and measuring the Bell states, and the users encodes the states with local unitary operations. For preventing the server from eavesdropping, we design a decoy when the particle is transmitted between the users. It has high capacity as one particle carries two bits of information and its efficiency for qubits approaches 100%. Moreover, it is not necessary for the users to store the quantum states, which makes this scheme more convenient for application than others.

id: 0705.1748
title: Efficient quantum cryptography network without entanglement and quantum memory
authors: Chun-Yan Li, Xi-Han Li, Fu-Guo Deng, Ping Zhou, Yu-Jie Liang, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures. It also presented a way for preparing decoy photons without a sinigle-photon source
journal: Chinese Physics Letters 23, 2896-2899 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1748
abstract: An efficient quantum cryptography network protocol is proposed with d-dimension polarized photons, without resorting to entanglement and quantum memory. A server on the network, say Alice, provides the service for preparing and measuring single photons whose initial state are |0>. The users code the information on the single photons with some unitary operations. For preventing the untrustworthy server Alice from eavesdropping the quantum lines, a nonorthogonal-coding technique (decoy-photon technique) is used in the process that the quantum signal is transmitted between the users. This protocol does not require the servers and the users to store the quantum state and almost all of the single photons can be used for carrying the information, which makes it more convenient for application than others with present technology. We also discuss the case with a faint laser pulse.

id: 0705.1784
title: Single-step controlled-NOT logic from any exchange interaction
authors: Andrei Galiautdinov
comments: 12 pages + 7 figures; revised version; title changed
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48, 112105 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1784
abstract: A self-contained approach to studying the unitary evolution of coupled qubits is introduced, capable of addressing a variety of physical systems described by exchange Hamiltonians containing Rabi terms. The method automatically determines both the Weyl chamber steering trajectory and the accompanying local rotations. Particular attention is paid to the case of anisotropic exchange with tracking controls, which is solved analytically. It is shown that, if computational subspace is well isolated, any exchange interaction can always generate high-fidelity, single-step controlled-NOT (CNOT) logic, provided that both qubits can be individually manipulated. The results are then applied to superconducting qubit architectures, for which several CNOT gate implementations are identified. The paper concludes with consideration of two CNOT gate designs having high efficiency and operating with no significant leakage to higher-lying non-computational states.

id: 0705.1813
title: Entropy exchange, coherent information and concurrence
authors: Yang Xiang, Shi-Jie Xiong
comments: 4 pages, 8 figures v2: version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 014306 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1813
abstract: For a simple model we derive analytic expressions of entropy exchange and coherent information, from which relations between them and the concurrence are drawn. We find that in the quantum evolution the entropy exchange exhibits behavior \textsl{opposite} to that of the concurrence, whereas the coherent information shows features very similar to those of the concurrence. The meaning of this result for general systems is discussed.

id: 0705.1814
title: Unitary transformations can be identified locally
authors: Xiangfa Zhou, Yongsheng Zhang, Guangcan Guo
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, errors modified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1814
abstract: We show that in principle, $N$-partite unitary transformations can be perfectly discriminated under local measurement and classical communication (LOCC) despite of their nonlocal properties. Based on this result, some related topics, including the construction of the appropriate quantum circuit together with the extension to general completely positive trace preserving operations, are discussed.

id: 0705.1823
title: Bounds to unitary evolution
authors: Mark Andrews
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1823
abstract: Upper and lower bounds are established for the survival probability $|<\psi(0)|\psi(t)>|^{2}$ of a quantum state, in terms of the energy moments $<\psi(0)|H^{n}|\psi(0)>$. Introducing a cut-off in the energy generally enables considerable improvement in these bounds and allows the method to be used where the exact energy moments do not exist.

id: 0705.1832
title: Optimal entanglement witnesses based on local orthogonal observables
authors: Cheng-Jie Zhang, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Shun Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure; minor changes, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012334 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1832
abstract: We show that the entanglement witnesses based on local orthogonal observables which are introduced in [S. Yu and N.-L. Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 150504 (2005)] and [O. G\"uhne, M. Mechler, G. T\'oth and P. Adam, Phys. Rev. A 74, 010301 (2006)] in linear and nonlinear forms can be optimized, respectively. As applications, we calculate the optimal nonlinear witnesses of pure bipartite states and show a lower bound on the I-concurrence of bipartite higher dimensional systems with our method.

id: 0705.1870
title: High-fidelity, adaptive qubit measurements through repetitive information transfer
authors: D. B. Hume, T. Rosenband, D. J. Wineland
comments: Added Acknowledgements 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1870
abstract: Using two trapped ion species ($\rm{^{27}Al^+}$ and $\rm{^9Be^+}$) as primary and ancillary systems, we implement qubit measurements based on the repetitive transfer of information and quantum nondemolition detection. The repetition provides a natural mechanism for an adaptive measurement strategy, which leads to exponentially lower error rates compared to using a fixed number of detection cycles. For a single qubit we demonstrate 99.94 % measurement fidelity. We also demonstrate a technique for adaptively measuring multiple qubit states using a single ancilla, and apply the technique to spectroscopy of an optical clock transition.

id: 0705.1880
title: Conservation-Law-Induced Quantum Limits for Physical Realizations of the Quantum NOT Gate
authors: Tokishiro Karasawa, Masanao Ozawa
comments: 38 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 032324 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1880
abstract: In recent investigations, it has been found that conservation laws generally lead to precision limits on quantum computing. Lower bounds of the error probability have been obtained for various logic operations from the commutation relation between the noise operator and the conserved quantity or from the recently developed universal uncertainty principle for the noise-disturbance trade-off in general measurements. However, the problem of obtaining the precision limit to realizing the quantum NOT gate has eluded a solution from these approaches. Here, we develop a new method for this problem based on analyzing the trace distance between the output state from the realization under consideration and the one from the ideal gate. Using the mathematical apparatus of orthogonal polynomials, we obtain a general lower bound on the error probability for the realization of the quantum NOT gate in terms of the number of qubits in the control system under the conservation of the total angular momentum of the computational qubit plus the the control system along the direction used to encode the computational basis. The lower bound turns out to be more stringent than one might expect from previous results. The new method is expected to lead to more accurate estimates for physical realizations of various types of quantum computations under conservation laws, and to contribute to related problems such as the accuracy of programmable quantum processors.

id: 0705.1898
title: Experimental test of the no signaling theorem
authors: Tiziano De Angelis, Francesco De Martini, Eleonora Nagali, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 193601 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1898
abstract: In 1981 N. Herbert proposed a gedanken experiment in order to achieve by the ''First Laser Amplified Superluminal Hookup'' (FLASH) a faster than light communication (FTL) by quantum nonlocality. The present work reports the first experimental realization of that proposal by the optical parametric amplification of a single photon belonging to an entangled EPR pair into an output field involving 5 x 10^3 photons. A thorough theoretical and experimental analysis explains in general and conclusive terms the precise reasons for the failure of the FLASH program as well as of any similar FTL proposals.

id: 0705.1904
title: Loss Tolerant Linear Optical Quantum Memory By Measurement Based Quantum Computing
authors: Michael Varnava, Daniel Browne, Terry Rudolph
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures. to appear in New Journal of Physics Focus Issue on "Measurement-based quantum information processing"
journal: New J. Phys. 9 203 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1904
abstract: We give a scheme for loss tolerantly building a linear optical quantum memory which itself is tolerant to qubit loss. We use the encoding recently introduced in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 120501, (2006)] and give a method for efficiently achieving this. The entire approach resides within the "One-way" model for quantum computing. Our results suggest that it is possible to build a loss tolerant quantum memory, such that if the requirement is to keep the data stored over arbitrarily long times then this is possible with only polynomially increasing resources and logarithmically increasing individual photon life times.

id: 0705.1905
title: Multipartite omnidirectional generalized Bell inequality
authors: Koji Nagata
comments: 4 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 13101-13106.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1905
abstract: We derive a multipartite generalized Bell inequality which involves the entire range of settings for each of the local observers. Especially, it is applied to show non-local behavior of a six-qubit mixture of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger correlations stronger than previous Bell inequalities. For certain noise admixture to the correlations an explicit local realistic model exists in the case of a standard Bell experiment. Bell experiments with many local settings reveal the non-locality of the state. It turns out that the new inequality is more stringent than many other Bell inequalities in the specific quantum state.

id: 0705.1917
title: Teleportation and Superdense coding with Genuine quadripartite entangled states
authors: B. Pradhan, Pankaj Agrawal, A. K. Pati
comments: 40 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1917
abstract: We investigate the usefulness of different classes of genuine quadripartite entangled states as quantum resources for teleportation and superdense coding. We examine the possibility of teleporting unknown one, two and three qubit states. We show that one can use the teleportation protocol to send any general one and two qubit states. A restricted class of three qubit states can also be faithfully teleported. We also explore superdense coding protocol in single-receiver and multi-receiver scenarios. We show that there exist genuine quadripartite entangled states that can be used to transmit four cbits by sending two qubits. We also discuss some interesting features of multi-receiver scenario under LOCC paradigm.

id: 0705.1928
title: Quantum computation algorithm for many-body studies
authors: E. Ovrum, M. Hjorth-Jensen
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures, revtex style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1928
abstract: We show in detail how the Jordan-Wigner transformation can be used to simulate any fermionic many-body Hamiltonian on a quantum computer. We develop an algorithm based on appropriate qubit gates that takes a general fermionic Hamiltonian, written as products of a given number of creation and annihilation operators, as input. To demonstrate the applicability of the algorithm, we calculate eigenvalues and eigenvectors of two model Hamiltonians, the well-known Hubbard model and a generalized pairing Hamiltonian. Extensions to other systems are discussed.

id: 0705.1941
title: Cross-Kerr interaction in a four-level atomic system
authors: Gary F. Sinclair, Natalia Korolkova
comments: 5 pages, resubmitted to Physical Review A with clarified style and correction to Fig 1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1941
abstract: We derive the form of the cross-Kerr interaction in a four-level atomic system in the N-configuration. We use time-independent perturbation theory to calculate the eigenenergies and eigenstates of the Schrodinger equation for the system. The system is considered as a perturbation of a Raman resonant three-level lambda scheme for which exact solutions are known. We show that within the strong control field limit the cross-Kerr interaction can arise between two weak probe fields. The strength of this nonlinear coupling is several orders of magnitude larger than that achievable using optical fibres.

id: 0705.1965
title: An Explicit Computation of the Bures Metric Over the Space of $N$-Dimensional Density Matrices
authors: S. J. Akhtarshenas
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 11333-11341
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1965
abstract: The aim of this paper is to provide a method for explicit computation of the Bures metric over the space of $N$-level quantum system, based on the coset parametrization of density matrices.

id: 0705.1969
title: Quantum Correlation Without Classical Correlations
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Vlatko Vedral, Andreas Winter
comments: 4 pages, no figures; v2: presentation improved, results unchanged, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 070502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1969
abstract: We show that genuine multiparty quantum correlations can exist on its own, without a supporting background of genuine multiparty classical correlations, even in macroscopic systems. Such possibilities can have important implications in the physics of quantum information and phase transitions.

id: 0705.1979
title: Complex chaos in conditional qubit dynamics and purification protocols
authors: T. Kiss, I. Jex, G. Alber, S. Vymetal
comments: 
journal: Acta Phys. Hung. B 26, 229 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1979
abstract: Selection of an ensemble of equally prepared quantum systems, based on measurements on it, is a basic step in quantum state purification. For an ensemble of single qubits, iterative application of selective dynamics has been shown to lead to complex chaos, which is a novel form of quantum chaos with true sensitivity to the initial conditions. The Julia set of initial valuse with no convergence shows a complicated structre on the complex plane. The shape of the Julia set varies with the parameter of the dynamics. We present here results for the two qubit case demonstrating how a purification process can be destroyed with chaotic oscillations.

id: 0705.1985
title: The meeting problem in the quantum random walk
authors: M. Stefanak, T. Kiss, I. Jex, B. Mohring
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39, 14965 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1985
abstract: We study the motion of two non-interacting quantum particles performing a random walk on a line and analyze the probability that the two particles are detected at a particular position after a certain number of steps (meeting problem). The results are compared to the corresponding classical problem and differences are pointed out. Analytic formulas for the meeting probability and its asymptotic behavior are derived. The decay of the meeting probability for distinguishable particles is faster then in the classical case, but not quadratically faster. Entangled initial states and the bosonic or fermionic nature of the walkers are considered.

id: 0705.1991
title: Recurrence and P¨®lya number of quantum walks
authors: M. Stefanak, I. Jex, T. Kiss
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 020501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1991
abstract: We analyze the recurrence probability (P\'olya number) for d-dimensional unbiased quantum walks. A sufficient condition for a quantum walk to be recurrent is derived. As a by-product we find a simple criterion for localisation of quantum walks. In contrast to classical walks, where the P\'olya number is characteristic for the given dimension, the recurrence probability of a quantum walk depends in general on the topology of the walk, choice of the coin and the initial state. This allows to change the character of the quantum walk from recurrent to transient by altering the initial state.

id: 0705.1996
title: Critique of "Quantum Enigma:Physic encounters Consciousness"
authors: Michael Nauenberg
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1996
abstract: The central claim that understanding quantum mechanics requires a conscious observer, which is made made by B. Rosenblum and F. Kuttner in their book "Quantum Enigma: Physics encounters consciousnes", is shown to be based on various misunderstandings and distortions of the foundations of quantum mechanics.

id: 0705.2023
title: Recovery of Hidden Interference in Mott Insulators
authors: L. Tian, F. Fujiwara, T. Byrnes, Y. Yamamoto
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2023
abstract: Particle statistics plays a crucial role in a strongly interacting quantum many-body system. Here, we study the Hubbard model for distinguishable particles at unit filling. Starting from the superfluid-like state in the strong tunneling limit and gradually reducing the tunneling so that the on-site repulsive interaction dominates, the state ends up in a symmetric superposition of Mott insulator states. This result can be experimentally confirmed by the recovery of interference patterns in the density correlation functions. We also show that this state is a maximally entangled state, in contrast to the standard picture.

id: 0705.2024
title: An Area Law for One Dimensional Quantum Systems
authors: M. B. Hastings
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure; typo fixed in Eq. 41; typo fixed in Eq. 4
journal: JSTAT, P08024 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2024
abstract: We prove an area law for the entanglement entropy in gapped one dimensional quantum systems. The bound on the entropy grows surprisingly rapidly with the correlation length; we discuss this in terms of properties of quantum expanders and present a conjecture on completely positive maps which may provide an alternate way of arriving at an area law. We also show that, for gapped, local systems, the bound on Von Neumann entropy implies a bound on R\'{e}nyi entropy for sufficiently large $\alpha<1$ and implies the ability to approximate the ground state by a matrix product state.

id: 0705.2045
title: Methods for Producing Optical Coherent State Superpositions
authors: S. Glancy, H. M. Vasconcelos
comments: 25 pages, 27 figures, revtex. Version 2 includes expanded discussion of some earlier methods and more references. Version 3 includes even more references and a more conclusive conclusion. Version 3 is the published version
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 25, 712-733 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2045
abstract: We discuss several methods to produce superpositions of optical coherent states (also known as "cat states"). Cat states have remarkable properties that could allow them to be powerful tools for quantum information processing and metrology. A number of proposals for how one can produce cat states have appeared in the literature in recent years. We describe these proposals and present new simulation and analysis of them incorporating practical issues such as photon loss, detector inefficiency, and limited strength of nonlinear interactions. We also examine how each would perform in a realistic experiment.

id: 0705.2079
title: High precision quantum control of single donor spins in silicon
authors: Rajib Rahman, Cameron J. Wellard, Forrest R. Bradbury, Marta Prada, Jared H. Cole, Gerhard Klimeck, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 99, 036403 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2079
abstract: The Stark shift of the hyperfine coupling constant is investigated for a P donor in Si far below the ionization regime in the presence of interfaces using Tight-binding and Band Minima Basis approaches and compared to the recent precision measurements. The TB electronic structure calculations included over 3 million atoms. In contrast to previous effective mass based results, the quadratic Stark coefficient obtained from both theories agrees closely with the experiments. This work represents the most sensitive and precise comparison between theory and experiment for single donor spin control. It is also shown that there is a significant linear Stark effect for an impurity near the interface, whereas, far from the interface, the quadratic Stark effect dominates. Such precise control of single donor spin states is required particularly in quantum computing applications of single donor electronics, which forms the driving motivation of this work.

id: 0705.2121
title: Quantum Electrodynamics of qubits
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Tomasz Sowinski
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 76, 06106 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2121
abstract: Systematic description of a spin one-half system endowed with magnetic moment or any other two-level system (qubit) interacting with the quantized electromagnetic field is developed. This description exploits a close analogy between a two-level system and the Dirac electron that comes to light when the two-level system is described within the formalism of second quantization in terms of fermionic creation and annihilation operators. The analogy enables one to introduce all the powerful tools of relativistic QED (albeit in a greatly simplified form). The Feynman diagrams and the propagators turn out to be very useful. In particular, the QED concept of the vacuum polarization finds its close counterpart in the photon scattering off a two level-system leading via the linear response theory to the general formulas for the atomic polarizability and the dynamic single spin susceptibility. To illustrate the usefulness of these methods, we calculate the polarizability and susceptibility up to the fourth order of perturbation theory. These {\em ab initio} calculations resolve some ambiguities concerning the sign prescription and the optical damping that arise in the phenomenological treatment. We also show that the methods used to study two-level systems (qubits) can be extended to many-level systems (qudits). As an example, we describe the interaction with the quantized electromagnetic field of an atom with four relevant states: one S state and three degenerate P states.

id: 0705.2132
title: Semiclassical approximation with zero velocity trajectories
authors: Yair Goldfarb, Ilan Degani, David, J. Tannor
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2132
abstract: We present a new semiclassical method that yields an approximation to the quantum mechanical wavefunction at a fixed, predetermined position. In the approach, a hierarchy of ODEs are solved along a trajectory with zero velocity. The new approximation is local, both literally and from a quantum mechanical point of view, in the sense that neighboring trajectories do not communicate with each other. The approach is readily extended to imaginary time propagation and is particularly useful for the calculation of quantities where only local information is required. We present two applications: the calculation of tunneling probabilities and the calculation of low energy eigenvalues. In both applications we obtain excellent agrement with the exact quantum mechanics, with a single trajectory propagation.

id: 0705.2144
title: The Copenhagen interpretation, and pragmatism
authors: Willem M. de Muynck
comments: Contribution to the Conference on ``Pragmatism & quantum mechanics'', CREA, Ecole Polytechnique & CNRS, Paris, February 22-23, 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2144
abstract: In the past both instrumentalism and empiricism have inspired certain pragmatic elements into the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics. The relation of such pragmatisms with the correspondence principle is discussed. It is argued that neither Bohr nor Heisenberg did take `correspondence' in one of these forms, and that it, in particular, was Bohr's classical attitude which caused him to apply in an inconsistent way his correspondence principle to the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen experiment, thus causing much confusion. It is demonstrated that an empiricist pragmatism is conducive to an explanation of violation of the Bell inequalities as a consequence of `complementarity' in the sense of `mutual disturbance in a joint nonideal measurement of incompatible observables' rather than as being caused by `nonlocal influences'.

id: 0705.2155
title: Monogamy of entanglement as a necessary and sufficient condition for safe QKD in any physical theory
authors: Marcin Pawlowski
comments: 3 Pages, RevTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2155
abstract: We show that the monogamy of entanglement is a sufficient phenomenon in every physical theory, if the quantum key distribution is to be safe on the grounds of such theory. To do so we present the QKD protocol that is safe in any physical theory under the assumption of the monogamous entanglement only. The necessity of this condition is also discussed.

id: 0705.2162
title: Separability of entangled qutrits in noisy channels
authors: Agata Ch?ci¨½ska, Krzysztof W¨®dkiewicz
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2162
abstract: We present an analysis of noisy atomic channels involving qutrits. We choose a three-level atom with V-configuration to be the qutrit state. Gell-Mann matrices and a generalized Bloch vector (8-dimensional) are used to describe the qutrit density operator. We introduce quantum quasi-distributions for qutrits that provide a simple description of entanglement. Studying the time-evolution for the atomic variables we find the Kraus representation of spontaneous emission quantum channel (SE channel). Furthermore, we consider a generalized Werner state of two qutrits and investigate the separability condition in the presence of spontaneous emission noise. The influence of spontaneous emission on the separability of Werner states for qutrit and qubit states is compared.

id: 0705.2202
title: Quantum decoherence and classical correlations of the harmonic oscillator in the Lindblad theory
authors: A. Isar, W. Scheid
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physica A 373, 298 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2202
abstract: In the framework of the Lindblad theory for open quantum systems we determine the degree of quantum decoherence and classical correlations of a harmonic oscillator interacting with a thermal bath. The transition from quantum to classical behaviour of the considered system is analyzed and it is shown that the classicality takes place during a finite interval of time. We calculate also the decoherence time and show that it has the same scale as the time after which statistical fluctuations become comparable with quantum fluctuations.

id: 0705.2211
title: Quantum critical scaling of the geometric tensors
authors: Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Paolo Zanardi
comments: Typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 095701 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2211
abstract: Berry phases and the quantum-information theoretic notion of fidelity have been recently used to analyze quantum phase transitions from a geometrical perspective. In this paper we unify these two approaches showing that the underlying mechanism is the critical singular behavior of a complex tensor over the Hamiltonian parameter space. This is achieved by performing a scaling analysis of this quantum geometric tensor in the vicinity of the critical points. In this way most of the previous results are understood on general grounds and new ones are found. We show that criticality is not a sufficient condition to ensure superextensive divergence of the geometric tensor, and state the conditions under which this is possible. The validity of this analysis is further checked by exact diagonalization of the spin-1/2 XXZ Heisenberg chain.

id: 0705.2227
title: Conditions for the Quantum to Classical Transition: Trajectories vs. Phase Space Distributions
authors: Benjamin D. Greenbaum, Kurt Jacobs, Bala Sundaram
comments: 8 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 76, 036213 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2227
abstract: We contrast two sets of conditions that govern the transition in which classical dynamics emerges from the evolution of a quantum system. The first was derived by considering the trajectories seen by an observer (dubbed the ``strong'' transition) [Bhattacharya, et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 85: 4852 (2000)], and the second by considering phase-space densities (the ``weak'' transition) [Greenbaum, et al., Chaos 15, 033302 (2005)]. On the face of it these conditions appear rather different. We show, however, that in the semiclassical regime, in which the action of the system is large compared to $\hbar$, and the measurement noise is small, they both offer an essentially equivalent local picture. Within this regime, the weak conditions dominate while in the opposite regime where the action is not much larger than Planck's constant, the strong conditions dominate.

id: 0705.2243
title: Secure sharing of random bits over the Internet
authors: Geraldo A. Barbosa
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. A single typo was corrected at the end of the manuscript: (K0/d)!-> K0!/d
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2243
abstract: Although one-time pad encrypted files can be sent through Internet channels, the need for renewing shared secret keys have made this method unpractical. This work presents a scheme to turn practical the fast sharing of random keys over arbitrary Internet channels. Starting with a shared secret key sequence of length K_0 the users end up with a secure new sequence K >> K_0. Using these sequences for posteriori message encryption the legitimate users have absolute security control without the need for third parties. Additionally, the security level does not depend on the unproven difficulty of factoring numbers in primes. In the proposed scheme a fast optical random source generates random bits and noise for key renewals. The transmitted signals are recorded signals that carries both the random binary signals to be exchanged and physical noise that cannot be eliminated by the attacker. These signals allow amplification over the Internet network without degrading security. The proposed system is also secure against a-posteriori known-plaintext attack on the key. Information-theoretic analysis is presented and bounds for secure operation are quantitatively determined.

id: 0705.2256
title: Controllability and universal three-qubit quantum computation with trapped electron states
authors: L. H. Pedersen, C. Rangan
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. Typos corrected. The original publication is available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2256
abstract: We show how to control and perform universal three-qubit quantum computation with trapped electron quantum states. The three qubits are the electron spin, and the first two quantum states of the cyclotron and axial harmonic oscillators. We explicitly show how the universal gates can be performed. As an example of a non-trivial quantum algorithm, we outline the implementation of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm in this system.

id: 0705.2264
title: Entanglement conditions for tripartite systems via indeterminacy relations
authors: Lijun Song, Xiaoguang Wang, Dong Yan, Zhong-Sheng Pu
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2264
abstract: Based on the S-R indeterminacy relations in conjugation with the partial transposition, we derive a class of inequalities for detecting entanglement in several tripartite systems, including bosonic, SU(2), and SU(1,1) systems. These inequalities are in general stronger than those based on the usual Heisenberg relations for detecting entanglement. We also discuss the reduction from SU(2) and SU(1,1) to bosonic systems and the generalization to multipartite case.

id: 0705.2271
title: Bell Inequality Based on Peres-Horodecki Criterion
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Ming-Guang Hu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Revised version. Title and Figures changed, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2271
abstract: We established a physically utilizable Bell inequality based on the Peres-Horodecki criterion. The new quadratic probabilistic Bell inequality naturally provides us a necessary and sufficient way to test all entangled two-qubit or qubit-qutrit states including the Werner states and the maximally entangled mixed states.

id: 0705.2312
title: Readout of solid-state charge qubits using a single-electron pump
authors: C. Hines, K. Jacobs, J.B. Wang
comments: 5 pages, revtex4, 4 eps figures. v2: published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, F609 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2312
abstract: A major difficulty in realizing a solid-state quantum computer is the reliable measurement of the states of the quantum registers. In this paper, we propose an efficient readout scheme making use of the resonant tunneling of a ballistic electron produced by a single electron pump. We treat the measurement interaction in detail by modeling the full spatial configuration, and show that for pumped electrons with suitably chosen energy the transmission coefficient is very sensitive to the qubit state. We further show that by using a short sequence of pumping events, coupled with a simple feedback control procedure, the qubit can be measured with high accuracy.

id: 0705.2317
title: Johnson noise and the thermal Casimir effect
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte
comments: 10 pages, 1 encapsulated figure. Version accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J.Phys.9:281,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2317
abstract: We study the thermal interaction between two nearby thin metallic wires, at finite temperature. It is shown that the Johnson currents in the wires give rise, via inductive coupling, to a repulsive force between them. This thermal interaction exhibits all the puzzling features found recently in the thermal Casimir effect for lossy metallic plates, suggesting that the physical origin of the difficulties encountered in the Casimir problem resides in the inductive coupling between the Johnson currents inside the plates. We show that in our simple model all puzzles are resolved if account is taken of capacitive effects associated with the end points of the wires. Our findings suggest that capacitive finite-size effects may play an important role in the resolution of the analogous problems met in the thermal Casimir effect.

id: 0705.2328
title: On the realignment criterion and beyond
authors: Cosmo Lupo
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author, its content is now available as part of arXiv:0802.2019
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2328
abstract: The content of this paper is now available as part of arXiv:0802.2019

id: 0705.2342
title: Continuous quantum error correction for non-Markovian decoherence
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov, Todd A. Brun
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, minor typos corrected, references updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022318 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2342
abstract: We study the effect of continuous quantum error correction in the case where each qubit in a codeword is subject to a general Hamiltonian interaction with an independent bath. We first consider the scheme in the case of a trivial single-qubit code, which provides useful insights into the workings of continuous error correction and the difference between Markovian and non-Markovian decoherence. We then study the model of a bit-flip code with each qubit coupled to an independent bath qubit and subject to continuous correction, and find its solution. We show that for sufficiently large error-correction rates, the encoded state approximately follows an evolution of the type of a single decohering qubit, but with an effectively decreased coupling constant. The factor by which the coupling constant is decreased scales quadratically with the error-correction rate. This is compared to the case of Markovian noise, where the decoherence rate is effectively decreased by a factor which scales only linearly with the rate of error correction. The quadratic enhancement depends on the existence of a Zeno regime in the Hamiltonian evolution which is absent in purely Markovian dynamics. We analyze the range of validity of this result and identify two relevant time scales. Finally, we extend the result to more general codes and argue that the performance of continuous error correction will exhibit the same qualitative characteristics.

id: 0705.2370
title: Energy protection arguments fail in the interaction picture
authors: Kenneth R. Brown
comments: 7 pages, minor changes to figures and text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2370
abstract: Spin Hamiltonians with degenerate ground states are one potential system for the storage of quantum information at low temperatures. Trapped ions can be used to simulate the dynamics of these Hamiltonians, but the coherence-preserving properties will be lost. This illustrates that a quantum simulation performed in an interaction frame will not thermalize with its environment.

id: 0705.2374
title: Reconstruction of the photon distribution in a micromaser
authors: Stefano Olivares, Federico Casagrande, Alfredo Lulli, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 80, 64002 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2374
abstract: We suggest an iterative, maximum-likelihood-based, method to reconstruct the photon number distribution of the steady state cavity field of a micromaser starting from the statistics of the atoms leaving the cavity after the interaction. The scheme is based on measuring the atomic populations of probe atoms for different interaction times and works effectively using a small number of atoms and a limited sampling of the interaction times. The method has been tested by numerically simulated experiments showing that it may be reliably used in any micromaser regime leading to high-fidelity reconstructions for single-peaked distributions as well as for double-peaked ones and for trapping states.

id: 0705.2382
title: Intermediate-statistics quantum bracket, coherent state, oscillator, and representation of angular momentum (su(2)) algebra
authors: Yao Shen, Wu-Sheng Dai, Mi Xie
comments: 12 pages, no figures. Revtex
journal: Phys.Rev.A75:042111,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2382
abstract: In this paper, we first discuss the general properties of an intermediate-statistics quantum bracket, $[ u,v]_{n}=uv-e^{i2\pi /(n+1)}vu$, which corresponds to intermediate statistics in which the maximum occupation number of one quantum state is an arbitrary integer, $n$. A further study of the operator realization of intermediate statistics is given. We construct the intermediate-statistics coherent state. An intermediate-statistics oscillator is constructed, which returns to bosonic and fermionic oscillators respectively when $n\to \infty $ and $n=1$. The energy spectrum of such an intermediate-statistics oscillator is calculated. Finally, we discuss the intermediate-statistics representation of angular momentum ($su(2)$) algebra. Moreover, a further study of the operator realization of intermediate statistics is given in the Appendix.

id: 0705.2393
title: Observing the evolution of a quantum system that does not evolve
authors: Simone De Liberato
comments: Two over three PRA referees didn't like the old title... And no more quantum circuits in the new version
journal: PRA 76, 042107 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2393
abstract: This article deals with the problem of gathering information on the time evolution of a single metastable quantum system whose evolution is impeded by the quantum Zeno effect. It has been found it is in principle possible to obtain some information on the time evolution and, depending on the specific system, even to measure its average decay rate, even if the system does not undergo any evolution at all.

id: 0705.2398
title: Light-shift-induced photonic nonlinearities
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Michael J. Hartmann, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 043010 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2398
abstract: We propose a new method to produce self- and cross-Kerr photonic nonlinearities, using light-induced Stark shifts due to the interaction of a cavity mode with atoms. The proposed experimental set-up is considerably simpler than in previous approaches, while the strength of the nonlinearity obtained with a single atom is the same as in the setting based on electromagnetically induced transparency. Furthermore our scheme can be applied to engineer effective photonic nonlinear interactions whose strength increases with the number of atoms coupled to the cavity mode, leading to photon-photon interactions several orders of magnitude larger than previously considered possible.

id: 0705.2405
title: Qubit-portraits of qudit states and quantum correlations
authors: C. Lupo, V. I. Man'ko, G. Marmo
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: J.Phys.A40:13091-13100,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2405
abstract: The machinery of qubit-portraits of qudit states, recently presented, is consider here in more details in order to characterize the presence of quantum correlations in bipartite qudit states. In the tomographic representation of quantum mechanics, Bell-like inequalities are interpreted as peculiar properties of a family of classical joint probability distributions which describe the quantum state of two qudits. By means of the qubit-portraits machinery a semigroup of stochastic matrices can be associated to a given quantum state. The violation of the CHSH inequalities is discussed in this framework with some examples, we found that quantum correlations in qutrit isotropic states can be detected by the suggested method while it cannot in the case of qutrit Werner states.

id: 0705.2433
title: Charged particles in crossed and longitudinal electromagnetic fields and beam guides
authors: V.G. Bagrov, M.C. Baldiotti, D.M. Gitman
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2433
abstract: We consider a class of electromagnetic fields that contains crossed fields combined with longitudinal electric and magnetic fields. We study the motion of a classical particle (solutions of the Lorentz equations) in such fields. Then, we present an analysis that allows one to decide which fields from the class act as a beam guide for charged particles, and we find some time-independent and time-dependent configurations with beam guiding properties. We demonstrate that the Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations with all the fields from the class can be solved exactly. We study these solutions, which were not known before, and prove that they form complete and orthogonal sets of functions.

id: 0705.2437
title: A theorem about relative entropy of quantum states with an application to privacy in quantum communication
authors: Rahul Jain, Jaikumar Radhakrishnan, Pranab Sen
comments: 27 pages, no figures, full version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2437
abstract: We prove the following theorem about relative entropy of quantum states. "Substate theorem: Let rho and sigma be quantum states in the same Hilbert space with relative entropy S(rho|sigma) = Tr rho (log rho - log sigma) = c. Then for all epsilon > 0, there is a state rho' such that the trace distance ||rho' - rho||_t = Tr sqrt{(rho' - rho)^2} <= epsilon, and rho'/2^{O(c/epsilon^2)} <= sigma." It states that if the relative entropy of rho and sigma is small, then there is a state rho' close to rho, i.e. with small trace distance ||rho' - rho||_t, that when scaled down by a factor 2^{O(c)} `sits inside', or becomes a `substate' of, sigma. This result has several applications in quantum communication complexity and cryptography. Using the substate theorem, we derive a privacy trade-off for the set membership problem in the two-party quantum communication model. Here Alice is given a subset A of [n], Bob an input i in [n], and they need to determine if i in A. "Privacy trade-off for set membership: In any two-party quantum communication protocol for the set membership problem, if Bob reveals only k bits of information about his input, then Alice must reveal at least n/2^{O(k)} bits of information about her input." We also discuss relationships between various information theoretic quantities that arise naturally in the context of the substate theorem.

id: 0705.2468
title: Heisenberg limited Sagnac interferometry
authors: Aziz Kolkiran, G S Agarwal
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express 15, 6798 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2468
abstract: We show how the entangled photons produced in parametric down conversion can be used to improve the sensitivity of a Sagnac interferometer. Two-photon and four-photon coincidences increases the sensitivity by a factor of two and four respectively. Our results apply to sources with arbitrary pumping and squeezing parameters.

id: 0705.2472
title: Non-Markovian decoherence dynamics of entangled coherent states
authors: Jun-Hong An, Mang Feng, Wei-Min Zhang
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. The Markovian limit of the derived non-Markovian master equation is added. Also the numerical results of comparing the non-Markovian with Markovian decoherence dynamics of the entangled coherent states are added
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 9, 0317 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2472
abstract: We microscopically model the decoherence dynamics of entangled coherent states under the influence of vacuum fluctuation. We derive an exact master equation with time-dependent coefficients reflecting the memory effect of the environment, by using the Feynman-Vernon influence functional theory in the coherent-state representation. Under the Markovian approximation, our master equation recovers the widely used Lindblad equation in quantum optics. We then investigate the non-Markovian entanglement dynamics of the quantum channel in terms of the entangled coherent states under noise. Compared with the results in Markovian limit, it shows that the non-Markovian effect enhances the disentanglement to the initially entangled coherent state. Our analysis also shows that the decoherence behaviors of the entangled coherent states depend sensitively on the symmetrical properties of the entangled coherent states as well as the interactions between the system and the environment.

id: 0705.2494
title: Many-worlds interpretation of quantum theory and mesoscopic anthropic principle
authors: Alexander Kamenshchik, Oleg Teryaev
comments: 11 pages
journal: Concepts Phys.V:575-592,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2494
abstract: We suggest to combine the Anthropic Principle with Many-Worlds Interpretation of Quantum Theory. Realizing the multiplicity of worlds it provides an opportunity of explanation of some important events which are assumed to be extremely improbable. The Mesoscopic Anthropic Principle suggested here is aimed to explain appearance of such events which are necessary for emergence of Life and Mind. It is complementary to Cosmological Anthropic Principle explaining the fine tuning of fundamental constants. We briefly discuss various possible applications of Mesoscopic Anthropic Principle including the Solar Eclipses and assembling of complex molecules. Besides, we address the problem of Time's Arrow in the framework of Many-World Interpretation. We suggest the recipe for disentangling of quantities defined by fundamental physical laws and by an anthropic selection.

id: 0705.2521
title: Multipartite entanglement of superpositions
authors: D. Cavalcanti, M. O. Terra Cunha, A. Acin
comments: 4 pages. v2: reference added, text improved in clarity
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042329 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2521
abstract: The entanglement of superpositions [Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 100502 (2006)] is generalized to the multipartite scenario: an upper bound to the multipartite entanglement of a superposition is given in terms of the entanglement of the superposed states and the superposition coefficients. This bound is proven to be tight for a class of states composed by an arbitrary number of qubits. We also extend the result to a large family of quantifiers which includes the negativity, the robustness of entanglement, and the best separable approximation measure.

id: 0705.2531
title: Classical approach to the graph isomorphism problem using quantum walks
authors: B. L. Douglas, J. B. Wang
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 075303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2531
abstract: Given the extensive application of classical random walks to classical algorithms in a variety of fields, their quantum analogue in quantum walks is expected to provide a fruitful source of quantum algorithms. So far, however, such algorithms have been scarce. In this work, we enumerate some important differences between quantum and classical walks, leading to their markedly different properties. We show that for many practical purposes, the implementation of quantum walks can be efficiently achieved using a classical computer. We then develop both classical and quantum graph isomorphism algorithms based on discrete-time quantum walks. We show that they are effective in identifying isomorphism classes of large databases of graphs, in particular groups of strongly regular graphs. We consider this approach to represent a promising candidate for an efficient solution to the graph isomorphism problem, and believe that similar methods employing quantum walks, or derivatives of these walks, may prove beneficial in constructing other algorithms for a variety of purposes.

id: 0705.2538
title: Multi-Line Geometry of Qubit-Qutrit and Higher-Order Pauli Operators
authors: Michel R. P. Planat, Anne-C¨¦line Baboin, Metod Saniga
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. International Journal of Theoretical Physics (2007) accept\'e
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics 47 (2008) 1127-1135
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2538
abstract: The commutation relations of the generalized Pauli operators of a qubit-qutrit system are discussed in the newly established graph-theoretic and finite-geometrical settings. The dual of the Pauli graph of this system is found to be isomorphic to the projective line over the product ring Z2xZ3. A "peculiar" feature in comparison with two-qubits is that two distinct points/operators can be joined by more than one line. The multi-line property is shown to be also present in the graphs/geometries characterizing two-qutrit and three-qubit Pauli operators' space and surmised to be exhibited by any other higher-level quantum system.

id: 0705.2541
title: Tailoring optical nonlinearities via the Purcell effect
authors: Peter Bermel, Alejandro Rodriguez, John D. Joannopoulos, Marin Soljacic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2541
abstract: We predict that the effective nonlinear optical susceptibility can be tailored using the Purcell effect. While this is a general physical principle that applies to a wide variety of nonlinearities, we specifically investigate the Kerr nonlinearity. We show theoretically that using the Purcell effect for frequencies close to an atomic resonance can substantially influence the resultant Kerr nonlinearity for light of all (even highly detuned) frequencies. For example, in realistic physical systems, enhancement of the Kerr coefficient by one to two orders of magnitude could be achieved.

id: 0705.2549
title: Optimal discrimination between quantum operations
authors: Lvzhou Li, Daowen Qiu
comments: 6 pages (revtex4 version); comments are welcome
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Theor. 41, 335302 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2549
abstract: In this paper, we address the problem of discriminating two given quantum operations. Firstly, based on the Bloch representation of single qubit systems, we give the exact minimum error probability of discriminating two single qubit quantum operations by unentangled input states. In particular, for the Pauli channels discussed in [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 71}, 062340 (2005)], we use a more intuitional and visual method to deal with their discrimination problem. Secondly, we consider the condition for perfect discrimination of two quantum operations. Specially, we get that two generalized Pauli channels are perfectly distinguishable if and only if their characteristic vectors are orthogonal.

id: 0705.2554
title: The Axiomatisation of Physics
authors: Joseph F. Johnson
comments: for larger context and other links, see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2554
abstract: Analysing Quantum Measurement requires analysing the physics of amplification since amplification of phenomena from one scale to another scale is essential to measurement. There still remains the task of working this into an axiomatic logical structure, what should be the foundational status of the concepts of measurement and probability. We argue that the concept of physical probability is a multi-scale phenomenon and as such, can be explicitly defined in terms of more fundamental physical concepts. Thus Quantum Mechanics can be given a logically unexceptionable axiomatisation. We introduce a new definition of macroscopic observable which implements Bohr's insight that the observables of a measurement apparatus are classical in nature. In particular, we obtain the usual non-abelian observables as limits of abelian, classical, observables. This is the essential step in Hilbert's Sixth Problem.

id: 0705.2561
title: The tripartite separability of density matrices of graphs
authors: Zhen Wang, Zhixi Wang
comments: 12 pages
journal: The Electronic J. Combinatorics, 14(2007), R40
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2561
abstract: The density matrix of a graph is the combinatorial laplacian matrix of a graph normalized to have unit trace. In this paper we generalize the entanglement properties of mixed density matrices from combinatorial laplacian matrices of graphs discussed in Braunstein {\it et al.} Annals of Combinatorics, {\bf 10}(2006)291 to tripartite states. Then we proved that the degree condition defined in Braunstein {\it et al.} Phys. Rev. A {\bf 73}, (2006)012320 is sufficient and necessary for the tripartite separability of the density matrix of a nearest point graph.

id: 0705.2566
title: Fourier Synthesis Methods for Control of Inhomogeneous Quantum Systems
authors: Brent Pryor, Navin Khaneja
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2566
abstract: Finding control laws (pulse sequences) that can compensate for dispersions in parameters which govern the evolution of a quantum system is an important problem in the fields of coherent spectroscopy, imaging, and quantum information processing. The use of composite pulse techniques for such tasks has a long and widely known history. In this paper, we introduce the method of Fourier synthesis control law design for compensating dispersions in quantum system dynamics. We focus on system models arising in NMR spectroscopy and NMR imaging applications.

id: 0705.2580
title: Quantum protocols for transference of proof of zero-knowledge systems
authors: Jose Claudio do Nascimento, Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2580
abstract: Zero-knowledge proof system is an important protocol that can be used as a basic block for construction of other more complex cryptographic protocols. An intrinsic characteristic of a zero-knowledge systems is the assumption that is impossible for the verifier to show to a third part that he has interacted with the prover. However, it has been shown that using quantum correlations the impossibility of transferring proofs can be successfully attacked. In this work we show two new protocols for proof transference, being the first one based on teleportation and the second one without using entangled states.

id: 0705.2583
title: Further results on entanglement detection and quantification from the correlation matrix criterion
authors: Julio I. de Vicente
comments: 13 pages, no figures; added references, minor changes; section 4.3 added, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 065309 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2583
abstract: The correlation matrix (CM) criterion is a recently derived powerful sufficient condition for the presence of entanglement in bipartite quantum states of arbitrary dimensions. It has been shown that it can be stronger than the positive partial transpose (PPT) criterion, as well as the computable cross norm or realignment (CCNR) criterion in different situations. However, it remained as an open question whether there existed sets of states for which the CM criterion could be stronger than both criteria simultaneously. Here, we give an affirmative answer to this question by providing examples of entangled states that scape detection by both the PPT and CCNR criteria whose entanglement is revealed by the CM condition. We also show that the CM can be used to measure the entanglement of pure states and obtain lower bounds for the entanglement measure known as tangle for general (mixed) states.

id: 0705.2599
title: Quantum propagator for some classes of three-dimensional three-body systems
authors: A. de Souza Dutra
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: Annals of Physics, vol. 321, Issue 5, May 2006, Pages 1092-1102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2599
abstract: In this work we solve exactly a class of three-body propagators for the most general quadratic interactions in the coordinates, for arbitrary masses and couplings. This is done both for the constant as the time-dependent couplings and masses, by using the Feynman path integral formalism. Finally the energy spectrum and the eigenfunctions are recovered from the propagators.

id: 0705.2613
title: Bipartite all-versus-nothing proofs of Bell's theorem with single-qubit measurements
authors: Adan Cabello, Pilar Moreno
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99 (2007) 220402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2613
abstract: If we distribute n qubits between two parties, which quantum pure states and distributions of qubits would allow all-versus-nothing (or Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-like) proofs of Bell's theorem using only single-qubit measurements? We show a necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of these proofs for any number of qubits, and provide all distinct proofs up to n=7 qubits. Remarkably, there is only one distribution of a state of n=4 qubits, and six distributions, each for a different state of n=6 qubits, which allow these proofs.

id: 0705.2627
title: Experimental Demonstration of Post-Selection based Continuous Variable Quantum Key Distribution in the Presence of Gaussian Noise
authors: Thomas Symul, Daniel J. Alton, Syed M. Assad, Andrew M. Lance, Christian Weedbrook, Timothy C. Ralph, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2627
abstract: In realistic continuous variable quantum key distribution protocols, an eavesdropper may exploit the additional Gaussian noise generated during transmission to mask her presence. We present a theoretical framework for a post-selection based protocol which explicitly takes into account excess Gaussian noise. We derive a quantitative expression of the secret key rates based on the Levitin and Holevo bounds. We experimentally demonstrate that the post-selection based scheme is still secure against both individual and collective Gaussian attacks in the presence of this excess noise.

id: 0705.2641
title: Wave packets in quantum theory of collisions
authors: M. I. Shirokov
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2641
abstract: Two methodological troubles of the quantum theory of collisions are considered. The first is the undesirable interference of the incident and scattered waves in the stationary approach to scattering. The second concerns the nonstationary approach to the theory of collisions of the type $a+b\to c+d$. In order to calculate the cross section one uses the matrix element $<cd|S|ab>$ of the $S$-matrix. The element is proportional to $\delta$-function expressing the energy conservation. The corresponding probability $|< cd|S|ab>|^2$ contains $\delta^2$ which is mathematically senseless. The known regular way to overcome the difficulty seems to be unsatisfactory. In this paper, both the troubles are resolved using wave packets of incident particles.

id: 0705.2660
title: Multiparty-controlled teleportation of an arbitrary m-qudit state with pure entangled quantum channel
authors: Ping Zhou, Xi-Han Li, Fu-Guo Deng, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 8 pages, 0 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 40 (2007) 13121-13130
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2660
abstract: We present a general scheme for multiparty-controlled teleportation of an arbitrary m-qudit ($d$-dimensional quantum system) state by using non-maximally entangled states as the quantum channel. The sender performs m generalized Bell-state measurements on her 2$m$ particles, the controllers take some single-particle measurements with the measuring basis $X_{d}$ and the receiver only need to introduce one auxiliary two-level particle to extract quantum information probabilistically with the fidelity unit if he cooperates with all the controllers. All the parties can use some decoy photons to set up their quantum channel securely, which will forbid some a dishonest party to eavesdrop freely. This scheme is optimal as the probability that the receiver obtains the originally unknown m-qudit state equals to the entanglement of the quantum channel.

id: 0705.2665
title: Multiqubit entanglement witness
authors: Lin Chen, Yi-Xin Chen
comments: Revtex, 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2665
abstract: We introduce a feasible method of constructing the entanglement witness that detects the genuine entanglement of a given pure multiqubit state. We illustrate our method in the scenario of constructing the witnesses for the multiqubit states that are broadly theoretically and experimentally investigated. It is shown that our method can construct the effective witnesses for experiments. We also investigate the entanglement detection of symmetric states and mixed states.

id: 0705.2694
title: Optimal 1->M universal quantum cloning via spin networks
authors: Zhang Jiang, Qing Chen, Shaolong Wan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 76, 034302 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2694
abstract: We present a scheme that transform 1 qubit to M identical copies with optimal fidedelity via free dynamical evolution of spin star networks. We show that the Heisenberg XXZ coupling can fulfill the challenge. The initial state of the copying machine and the parameters of the spin Hamiltonian are discussed in detail. Furthermore we have proposed a feasible method to prepare the initial state of the copying machine.

id: 0705.2742
title: A toy model for quantum mechanics
authors: S.J. van Enk
comments: in which the author breaks his vow to never use the words "ontic" and "epistemic" in public
journal: Found. Phys. 37, 1447 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2742
abstract: The toy model used by Spekkens [R. Spekkens, Phys. Rev. A 75, 032110 (2007)] to argue in favor of an epistemic view of quantum mechanics is extended by generalizing his definition of pure states (i.e. states of maximal knowledge) and by associating measurements with all pure states. The new toy model does not allow signaling but, in contrast to the Spekkens model, does violate Bell-CHSH inequalities. Negative probabilities are found to arise naturally within the model, and can be used to explain the Bell-CHSH inequality violations.

id: 0705.2763
title: Axiom System and Completeness Expression for Quantum Mechanics
authors: Carsten Held
comments: 20 pages, no figures
journal: Found. Phys. 38: 707-732, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2763
abstract: The standard axiomatization of quantum mechanics (QM) is not fully explicit about the role of the time-parameter. Especially, the time reference within the probability algorithm (the Born Rule, BR) is unclear. Using a plausible principle P1, about the role of probability in a physical theory, and a second principle P2 affording a most natural way to make BR precise, a logical conflict with the standard expression for the completeness of QM can be derived. Rejecting P1 is implausible. Rejecting P2 leads to unphysical results and to a conflict with a generalization of P2, a principle P3. It is thus made plausible that the standard expression of QM completeness must be revised. An absolutely explicit form of the axioms is provided, including a precise form of the projection postulate. An appropriate expression for QM completeness, reflecting the restrictions of the Gleason and Kochen-Specker theorems is proposed.

id: 0705.2764
title: Complementarity in the Einstein-Bohr Photon Box
authors: Dennis Dieks, Sander Lam
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2764
abstract: The photon box thought experiment can be considered a forerunner of the EPR-experiment: by performing suitable measurements on the box it is possible to ``prepare'' the photon, long after it has escaped, in either of two complementary states. Consistency requires that the corresponding box measurements be complementary as well. At first sight it seems, however, that these measurements can be jointly performed with arbitrary precision: they pertain to different systems (the center of mass of the box and an internal clock, respectively). But this is deceptive. As we show by explicit calculation, although the relevant quantities are simultaneously measurable, they develop non-vanishing commutators when calculated back to the time of escape of the photon. This justifies Bohr's qualitative arguments in a precise way; and it illustrates how the details of the dynamics conspire to guarantee the requirements of complementarity. In addition, our calculations exhibit a ``fine structure'' in the distribution of the uncertainties over the complementary quantities: depending on when the box measurement is performed, the resulting quantum description of the photon differs. This brings us close to the argumentation of the later EPR thought experiment.

id: 0705.2766
title: Solutions to Master Equations of Quantum Brownian Motion in a General Environment with External Force
authors: C. H. Fleming, B. L. Hu, Albert Roura
comments: 48 pages, 9 figures, REVTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2766
abstract: We revisit the model of a system made up of a Brownian quantum oscillator under the influence of an external classical force and linearly coupled to an environment made up of many quantum oscillators at zero or finite temperature. We show that the HPZ master equation for the reduced density matrix derived earlier [B.L. Hu, J.P. Paz, Y. Zhang, Phys. Rev. D 45, 2843 (1992)] with coefficients obtained from solutions of integro-differential equations can assume closed functional forms for a fairly general class of spectral densities of the environment at arbitrary temperature and coupling strength. As an illustration of these new results we solve the corresponding master equation and calculate, among other physical quantities, the uncertainty function whose late time behavior can be obtained fully. This produces a formula for investigating the standard quantum limit which is central to addressing many theoretical issues in macroscopic quantum phenomena and experimental concerns related to low temperature precision measurements. We find that any initial state always settles down to a Gaussian density matrix whose covariance is determined by the thermal reservoir and whose mean is determined by the external force. For more general spectra we show that the solution of the master equation can be reduced to solving for the motion of a classical parametric oscillator with parametric frequency determined by the unsolved for master equation coefficients. States in these systems experience evolution that is parametrically similar to the simpler evolution explicitly determined for in the case of Laurent-series spectra.

id: 0705.2784
title: Quantum algorithms for hidden nonlinear structures
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Leonard J. Schulman, Umesh V. Vazirani
comments: 13 pages
journal: Proc. 48th IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS 2007), pp. 395-404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2784
abstract: Attempts to find new quantum algorithms that outperform classical computation have focused primarily on the nonabelian hidden subgroup problem, which generalizes the central problem solved by Shor's factoring algorithm. We suggest an alternative generalization, namely to problems of finding hidden nonlinear structures over finite fields. We give examples of two such problems that can be solved efficiently by a quantum computer, but not by a classical computer. We also give some positive results on the quantum query complexity of finding hidden nonlinear structures.

id: 0705.2789
title: Euclidean resonance in a magnetic field
authors: B. Ivlev
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2789
abstract: An analogy between Wigner resonant tunneling and tunneling across a static potential barrier in a static magnetic field is found. Whereas in the process of Wigner tunneling an electron encounters a classically allowed regions, where a discrete energy level coincides with its energy, in the magnetic field a potential barrier is a constant in the direction of tunneling. Along the tunneling path the certain regions are formed, where, in the classical language, the kinetic energy of the motion perpendicular to tunneling is negative. These regions play a role of potential wells, where a discrete energy level can coincide with the electron energy. Such phenomenon, which occurs at the certain magnetic field, is called Euclidean resonance and substantially depends on a shape of potential forces in the direction perpendicular to tunneling. Under conditions of Euclidean resonance a long distance underbarrier motion is possible.

id: 0705.2794
title: Relaxation Phenomena in a System of Two Harmonic Oscillators
authors: Antonia Chimonidou, E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 22 pages, 6 Figures, Added contents, to appear in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2794
abstract: We study the process by which quantum correlations are created when an interaction Hamiltonian is repeatedly applied to a system of two harmonic oscillators for some characteristic time interval. We show that, for the case where the oscillator frequencies are equal, the initial Maxwell-Boltzmann distributions of the uncoupled parts evolve to a new equilibrium Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution through a series of transient Maxwell-Boltzmann distributions. Further, we discuss why the equilibrium reached when the two oscillator frequencies are unequal, is not a thermal one. All the calculations are exact and the results are obtained through an iterative process, without using perturbation theory.

id: 0705.2843
title: Realism violates quantum mechanics
authors: Koji Nagata
comments: Journal of the Physical Society of Japan, (2008), (accepted for publication)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2843
abstract: Recently, [{arXiv:0810.3134}] is accepted and published. We show that local realistic theories violate separability of $N$-qubit quantum states by a factor of $3^N$. Thus we have a violation factor of 3 when N=1. Realistic theories violate a proposition of a single qubit (a state with two-dimensional space) system, the Bloch sphere machinery of quantum mechanics. Our method uses the ratio of each of the scalar products. The maximal possible value of the scalar product in local realistic theories grows exponentially larger than one in $N$-qubit separable states when the number of qubits increases. We find the violation factor $3^N$ when the measurement setup is entire range of settings for each of the local observers.

id: 0705.2877
title: Origin of which-way information and generalization of the Born rule
authors: Bruno Galvan
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures; acknowledgments added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2877
abstract: The possibility to recover the which-way information, for example in the two slit experiment, is based on a natural but implicit assumption about the position of a particle {\it before} a position measurement is performed on it. This assumption cannot be deduced from the standard postulates of quantum mechanics. In the present paper this assumption is made explicit and formally postulated as a new rule, the {\it quantum typicality rule}. This rule correlates the positions of the particles at two different times, thus defining their trajectories. Unexpectedly, this rule is also equivalent to the Born rule with regard to the explanation of the results of statistical experiments. For this reason it can be considered a generalization of the Born rule. The existence of the quantum typicality rule strongly suggests the possibility of a new trajectory-based formulation of quantum mechanics. According to this new formulation, a closed quantum system is represented as a {\it quantum process}, which corresponds to a canonical stochastic process in which the probability measure is replaced by the wave function and the usual frequentist interpretation of probability is replaced by the quantum typicality rule.

id: 0705.2895
title: Detectability of dissipative motion in quantum vacuum via superradiance
authors: Woo-Joong Kim, James Hayden Brownell, Roberto Onofrio
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.96:200402,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2895
abstract: We propose an experiment for generating and detecting vacuum-induced dissipative motion. A high frequency mechanical resonator driven in resonance is expected to dissipate energy in quantum vacuum via photon emission. The photons are stored in a high quality electromagnetic cavity and detected through their interaction with ultracold alkali-metal atoms prepared in an inverted population of hyperfine states. Superradiant amplification of the generated photons results in a detectable radio-frequency signal temporally distinguishable from the expected background.

id: 0705.2904
title: Key rate of quantum key distribution with hashed two-way classical communication
authors: Shun Watanabe, Ryutaroh Matsumoto, Tomohiko Uyematsu, Yasuhito Kawano
comments: RevTex, 19 pages, 2 figures, to be presented at 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, Appendices E and F are added in version 2
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032312 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2904
abstract: We propose an information reconciliation protocol that uses two-way classical communication. In the case of the BB84 protocol and the six-state protocol, the key rates of the quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols that use our proposed information reconciliation protocol are higher than previously known protocols for wide range of error rates. We also clarify the relation between the proposed protocol and known QKD protocols, and the relation between the proposed protocol and entanglement distillation protocols (EDPs).

id: 0705.2931
title: Sequential Quantum Teleportation of Optical Coherent States
authors: Hidehiro Yonezawa, Akira Furusawa, Peter van Loock
comments: 5page, 4figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032305 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2931
abstract: We demonstrate a sequence of two quantum teleportations of optical coherent states, combining two high-fidelity teleporters for continuous variables. In our experiment, the individual teleportation fidelities are evaluated as F_1 = 0.70 \pm 0.02 and F_2 = 0.75 \pm 0.02, while the fidelity between the input and the sequentially teleported states is determined as F^{(2)} = 0.57 \pm 0.02. This still exceeds the optimal fidelity of one half for classical teleportation of arbitrary coherent states and almost attains the value of the first (unsequential) quantum teleportation experiment with optical coherent states.

id: 0705.2935
title: On the Role of Entanglement in Schroedinger's Cat Paradox
authors: S. Rinner, E. Werner
comments: 10 pages; LaTeX; contact information updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2935
abstract: In this paper we re-investigate the core of Schroedinger's 'cat paradox'. We argue that one has to distinguish clearly between superpositions of macroscopic cat states and superpositions of entangled states which comprise both the state of the cat. It is shown, that in the first instance recurrence to decoherence or other mechanisms is not necessary in this special case in order to explain the absence of macroscopic superpositions. Additionally, we present modified versions of two quantum optical experiments as experimenta crucis. Applied rigorously, quantum mechanical formalism reduces the problem to a mere pseudo-paradox.

id: 0705.2940
title: A new approach to the exact solutions of the effective mass Schrodinger equation
authors: Cevdet Tezcan, Ramazan Sever, Ozlem Yesiltas
comments: 14 pages
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.47:1713,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2940
abstract: Effective mass Schrodinger equation is solved exactly for a given potential. Nikiforov-Uvarov method is used to obtain energy eigenvalues and the corresponding wave functions. A free parameter is used in the transformation of the wave function. The effective mass Schrodinger equation is also solved for the Morse potential transforming to the constant mass Schr\"{o}dinger equation for a potential. One can also get solution of the effective mass Schrodinger equation starting from the constant mass Schrodinger equation.

id: 0705.2951
title: Another derivation of Weinberg's formula
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong
comments: 14 pages, to be published in Physics Letters B
journal: Physics Letters B 659 (2008) 707-711
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2951
abstract: To investigate how quantum effects might modify special relativity, we will study a Lorentz transformation between classical and quantum reference frames and express it in terms of the four-dimensional (4D) momentum of the quantum reference frame. The transition from the classical expression of the Lorentz transformation to a quantum-mechanical one requires us to symmetrize the expression and replace all its dynamical variables with the corresponding operators, from which we can obtain the same conclusion as that from quantum field theory (given by Weinberg's formula): owing to the Heisenberg's uncertainty relation, a particle (as a quantum reference frame) can propagate over a spacelike interval.

id: 0705.2965
title: Entanglement of positive definite functions on compact groups
authors: J. K. Korbicz, J. Wehr, M. Lewenstein
comments: published version
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 281, 753 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2965
abstract: We define and study entanglement of continuous positive definite functions on products of compact groups. We formulate and prove an infinite-dimensional analog of Horodecki Theorem, giving a necessary and sufficient criterion for separability of such functions. The resulting characterisation is given in terms of mappings of the space of continuous functions, preserving positive definiteness. The relation between the developed group-theoretical formalism and the conventional one, given in terms of density matrices, is established through the non-commutative Fourier analysis.

id: 0705.2979
title: On the energy of physical states in QED in the convariant gauge
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2979
abstract: In quantum field theory it is generally assumed that there is a lower bound to the energy of a quantum state. Here, it will be shown that there is no lower bound to the energy of physical states in QED in a manifestly covariant gauge.

id: 0705.2991
title: Absolute Calibration of Analog Detectors by using Parametric Down Conversion
authors: Giorgio Brida, Maria Chekhova, Marco Genovese, Alexander Penin, Maria Luisa Rastello, Ivano Ruo-Berchera
comments: 
journal: IEEE Trans. I.&M., 56 (2007) 275
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2991
abstract: In this paper we report our systematic study of a promising absolute calibration technique of analog photo-detectors, based on the properties of parametric down conversion. Our formal results and a preliminary uncertainty analysis show that the proposed method can be effectively developed with interesting applications to metrology.

id: 0705.3003
title: Negative Energy in Superposition and Entangled States
authors: L.H. Ford, Thomas A. Roman
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D77:045018,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3003
abstract: We examine the maximum negative energy density which can be attained in various quantum states of a massless scalar field. We consider states in which either one or two modes are excited, and show that the energy density can be given in terms of a small number of parameters. We calculate these parameters for several examples of superposition states for one mode, and entangled states for two modes, and find the maximum magnitude of the negative energy density in these states. We consider several states which have been, or potentially will be, generated in quantum optics experiments.

id: 0705.3010
title: Revisiting Boole Equation in the Quantum Context
authors: R. Muradian, Diego Frias
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3010
abstract: In this work we try to clarify the fundamental relationship between bits and qubits, starting from very simple George Boole equation. We derive a generic and compact expression for basis vectors of qubit which can be useful in further applications. We also derive a generic form for the projection operator in the quantum information space. The results are also extended to higher d-level cases of qutrits and qudits.

id: 0705.3026
title: Entanglement and separability of quantum harmonic oscillator systems at finite temperature
authors: Janet Anders, Andreas Winter
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, 8 (3 & 4), pp 0245-0262 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3026
abstract: In the present paper we study the entanglement properties of thermal (a.k.a. Gibbs) states of quantum harmonic oscillator systems as functions of the Hamiltonian and the temperature. We prove the physical intuition that at sufficiently high temperatures the thermal state becomes fully separable and we deduce bounds on the critical temperature at which this happens. We show that the bound becomes tight for a wide class of Hamiltonians with sufficient translation symmetry. We find, that at the crossover the thermal energy is of the order of the energy of the strongest normal mode of the system and quantify the degree of entanglement below the critical temperature. Finally, we discuss the example of a ring topology in detail and compare our results with previous work in an entanglement-phase diagram.

id: 0705.3077
title: Halting in quantum Turing computation
authors: W.L. Fouch¨¦, J. Heidema, G. Jones, P.H. Potgieter
comments: To appear in the proceedings of the 2007 Conference on Unconventional Computing (Bristol, UK, edited by Adamatzky, Bull, De Lacy Costello, Stepney, Teuscher), to be published by Luniver press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3077
abstract: The paper considers the halting scheme for quantum Turing machines. The scheme originally proposed by Deutsch appears to be correct, but not exactly as originally intended. We discuss the result of Ozawa as well as the objections raised by Myers, Kieu and Danos and others. Finally, the relationship of the halting scheme to the quest for a universal quantum Turing machine is considered.

id: 0705.3081
title: Experimental Decoy State Quantum Key Distribution with Unconditional Security Incorporating Finite Statistics
authors: Jun Hasegawa, Masahito Hayashi, Tohya Hiroshima, Akihiro Tanaka, Akihisa Tomita
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3081
abstract: We propose the improved decoy state quantum key distribution incorporating finite statistics due to the finite code length and report on its demonstration. In our experiment, four different intensities including the vacuum state for optimal pulses are used and the key generation rate of 200 bps is achieved in the 20 km telecom optical fiber transmission keeping the eavesdropper's mutual information with the final key less than 2^{-9}.

id: 0705.3096
title: Non-Positive Semigroup Dynamics in Continuous Variable Models
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini
comments: 10 pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3096
abstract: Non-positive, Markovian semigroups are sometimes used to describe the time evolution of subsystems immersed in an external environment. A widely adopted prescription to avoid the appearance of negative probabilities is to eliminate from the admissible initial conditions those density matrices that would not remain positive by the action of the semigroup dynamics. Using a continuous variable model, we show that this procedure leads to physical inconsistencies when two subsystems are considered and their initial state is entangled.

id: 0705.3155
title: Observation of Topological and Parity-dependent Phase of $m=0$ Spin States
authors: Koji Usami, Mikio Kozuma
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 140404 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3155
abstract: A Ramsey interrogation scheme was used to measure the phase shift of laser-cooled $^{87}$Rb clock-transition pseudospins arising as a result of a reversal of a bias magnetic field, i.e., $\textbf{B} \to -\textbf{B}$, during the interrogation. While no phase shift occurred when the reversal was sudden, the Ramsey fringes were shifted by a factor of $\pi$ when the reversal was adiabatic. We thus verified the prediction that the spin states $|F,m=0 >$ acquire a purely topological and parity-dependent phase factor of $(-1)^{F}$ as a result of $\textbf{B} \to -\textbf{B}$.

id: 0705.3196
title: Photon wave mechanics and position eigenvectors
authors: Margaret Hawton
comments: 14 pages, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 062107 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3196
abstract: One and two photon wave functions are derived by projecting the quantum state vector onto simultaneous eigenvectors of the number operator and a recently constructed photon position operator [Phys. Rev A 59, 954 (1999)] that couples spin and orbital angular momentum. While only the Landau-Peierls wave function defines a positive definite photon density, a similarity transformation to a biorthogonal field-potential pair of positive frequency solutions of Maxwell's equations preserves eigenvalues and expectation values. We show that this real space description of photons is compatible with all of the usual rules of quantum mechanics and provides a framework for understanding the relationships amongst different forms of the photon wave function in the literature. It also gives a quantum picture of the optical angular momentum of beams that applies to both one photon and coherent states. According to the rules of qunatum mechanics, this wave function gives the probability to count a photon at any position in space.

id: 0705.3203
title: Recent experiments performed at "Carlo Novero" lab at INRIM on Quantum Information and Foundations of Quantum Mechanics
authors: G. Brida, N. Antonietti, M. Gramegna, L. Krivitsky, F. Piacentini, M.L. Rastello, I. Ruo Berchera, P. Traina, M. Genovese
comments: Contribution to III international workshop "Recent advances in Foundations of Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Information. In memory of Carlo Novero"
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 5, Nos. 1-2 (2007) 265-272
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3203
abstract: In this paper we present some recent work performed at "Carlo Novero" lab on Quantum Information and Foundations of Quantum Mechanics.

id: 0705.3204
title: Analysis of electron localization in a coupled quantum dot structure via variational approach: numerical results and application in quantum-dot cellular automata
authors: George Andre Pereira The, Rubens Viana Ramos, Sergio Antenor de Carvalho
comments: 13 pages and 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3204
abstract: Analysis of quantum dot structures is a current topic with important applications in solid-state digital logic design, quantum information technology and quantum optics. In this work, we show a variational formulation for the solution of the effective two-level approach of the analysis of electron localization in two coupled quantum dots. Numerical results are presented as well the use of electron localization in the realization of a configurable logic circuit using quantum-dot cellular automata.

id: 0705.3217
title: Nonclassicality in phase space and nonclassical correlation
authors: Petr Marek, M. S. Kim, Jinhyoung Lee
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, replaced by the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052315 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3217
abstract: Continuous variable entanglement is a manifestation of nonclassicality of quantum states. In this paper we attempt to analyze whether and under which conditions nonclassicality can be used as an entanglement criterion. We adopt the well-accepted definition of nonclassicality in the form of lack of well-defined positive Glauber Sudarshan P-function describing the state. After demonstrating that the classicality of subsystems is not sufficient for the nonclassicality of the overall state to be identifiable with entanglement, we focus on Gaussian states and find specific local unitary transformations required to arrive at this equivalency. This is followed by the analysis of quantitative relation between nonclassicality and entanglement.

id: 0705.3247
title: Ordering ambiguity versus representation
authors: Alvaro de Souza Dutra
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Gen., vol. 39, pages 203-208 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3247
abstract: In this work we show that the ordering ambiguity on quantization depends on the representation choice. This property is then used to solve unambiguously some particular systems. Finally, we speculate on the consequences for more involved cases.

id: 0705.3276
title: Controllable dynamics of two separate qubits in Bell states
authors: Jun Jing, Zhi-guo L¨¹, Guo-hong Yang
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 76, 032322 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3276
abstract: The dynamics of entanglement and fidelity for a subsystem of two separate spin-1/2 qubits prepared in Bell states is investigated. One of the subsystem qubit labelled $A$ is under the influence of a Heisenberg XY spin-bath, while another one labelled $B$ is uncoupled with that. We discuss two cases: (i) the number of bath spins $N\to\infty$; (ii) $N$ is finite: N=40. In both cases, the bath is initially prepared in a thermal equilibrium state. It is shown that the time dependence of the concurrence and the fidelity of the two subsystem qubits can be controlled by tuning the parameters of the spin-bath, such as the anisotropic parameter, the temperature and the coupling strength with qubit $A$. It is interesting to find the dynamics of the concurrence is independent of four different initial Bell states and that of the fidelity is divided into two groups.

id: 0705.3333
title: Simulation of Quantum Algorithms with a Symbolic Programming Language
authors: Peter Nyman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3333
abstract: This study examines the simulation of quantum algorithms on a classical computer. The program code implemented on a classical computer will be a straight connection between the mathematical formulation of quantum mechanics and computational methods. The computational language will include formulations such as quantum state, superposition and quantum operator.

id: 0705.3353
title: Radiative and non-radiative photokinetics alteration inside a single metallic nanometric aperture
authors: Jerome Wenger, Benoit Cluzel, Jose Dintinger, Nicolas Bonod, Anne-Laure Fehrembach, Evgeny Popov, Pierre-Francois Lenne, Thomas W. Ebbesen, Herve Rigneault
comments: Accepted for publication in J. Phys. Chem. C
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3353
abstract: We resolve the photokinetic rates enhancement of Rhodamine 6G molecules diffusing in a water-glycerol mixture within a single nanometric aperture milled in an opaque aluminium film. Combining fluorescence correlation spectroscopy and lifetime measurements, we report the relative influence of excitation, radiative and non-radiative decay in the fluorescence process, giving a detailed description of the physics behind the overall 15 fold enhancement of the average fluorescence rate per molecule. This procedure is broadly adaptable to a wide range of nanostructures.

id: 0705.3376
title: Gaussian number-squeezed states for sub-shot-noise interferometery in double-well Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Y. P. Huang, M. G. Moore
comments: Withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3376
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn. It is based on numerical results limited by computing resources to N=3000 atoms. Using a newly understood geometric method we find that the observed scaling with N saturates at around N=7000 or even higher. In light of this new finding we withdraw the paper and will submit a revised manuscript reflecting our new understanding.

id: 0705.3391
title: Commutator Relations Reveal Solvable Structures in Unambiguous State Discrimination
authors: M. Kleinmann, H. Kampermann, Ph. Raynal, D. Bruss
comments: 5 pages, discussion of related work added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) F871-F878
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3391
abstract: We present a criterion, based on three commutator relations, that allows to decide whether two self-adjoint matrices with non-overlapping support are simultaneously unitarily similar to quasidiagonal matrices, i.e., whether they can be simultaneously brought into a diagonal structure with 2x2-dimensional blocks. Application of this criterion to unambiguous state discrimination provides a systematic test whether the given problem is reducible to a solvable structure. As an example, we discuss unambiguous state comparison.

id: 0705.3417
title: A discussion on particle number and quantum indistinguishability
authors: Graciela Domenech, Federico Holik
comments: 46 pages, no figures. Accepted by Foundations of Physics
journal: Foundations of Physics 37 (2007) 855-878
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3417
abstract: The concept of individuality in quantum mechanics shows radical differences from the concept of individuality in classical physics, as E. Schroedinger pointed out in the early steps of the theory. Regarding this fact, some authors suggested that quantum mechanics does not possess its own language, and therefore, quantum indistinguishability is not incorporated in the theory from the beginning. Nevertheless, it is possible to represent the idea of quantum indistinguishability with a first order language using quasiset theory (Q). In this work, we show that Q cannot capture one of the most important features of quantum non individuality, which is the fact that there are quantum systems for which particle number is not well defined. An axiomatic variant of Q, in which quasicardinal is not a primitive concept (for a kind of quasisets called finite quasisets), is also given. This result encourages the searching of theories in which the quasicardinal, being a secondary concept, stands undefined for some quasisets, besides showing explicitly that in a set theory about collections of truly indistinguishable entities, the quasicardinal needs not necessarily be a primitive concept.

id: 0705.3435
title: Weak and Repulsive Casimir Force in Piston Geometries
authors: Martin Schaden, Liviu Mateescu
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, enhanced talk presented at APS March Meeting 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3435
abstract: We study the Casimir force in piston-like geometries semiclassically. The force on the piston is finite and physical, but to leading semiclassical approximation depends strongly on the shape of the surrounding cavity. Whereas this force is attractive for pistons in a parallelepiped with flat cylinder head, for which the semiclassical approximation by periodic orbits is exact, this approximation to the force on the piston vanishes for a semi-cylindrical head and becomes repulsive for a cylinder of circular cross section with a hemispherical head. In leading semiclassical approximation the sign of the force is related to the generalized Maslov index of short periodic orbits between the piston and its casing.

id: 0705.3447
title: Dirac equation exact solutions for generalized asymmetrical Hartmann potentials
authors: Alvaro de Souza Dutra, M. B. Hott
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3447
abstract: In this work we solve the Dirac equation by constructing the exact bound state solutions for a mixing of vector and scalar generalized Hartmann potentials. This is done provided the vector potential is equal to or minus the scalar potential. The cases of some quasi-exactly solvable and Morse-like potentials are briefly commented.

id: 0705.3456
title: Unifying variational methods for simulating quantum many-body systems
authors: Christopher M. Dawson, Jens Eisert, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 130501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3456
abstract: We introduce a unified formulation of variational methods for simulating ground state properties of quantum many-body systems. The key feature is a novel variational method over quantum circuits via infinitesimal unitary transformations, inspired by flow equation methods. Variational classes are represented as efficiently contractible unitary networks, including the matrix-product states of density matrix renormalization, multiscale entanglement renormalization (MERA) states, weighted graph states, and quantum cellular automata. In particular, this provides a tool for varying over classes of states, such as MERA, for which so far no efficient way of variation has been known. The scheme is flexible when it comes to hybridizing methods or formulating new ones. We demonstrate the functioning by numerical implementations of MERA, matrix-product states, and a new variational set on benchmarks.

id: 0705.3477
title: Vacuum Fluctuations induced Entanglement between Two Mesoscopic Systems
authors: H. T. Ng, K. Burnett
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10 123014 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3477
abstract: We study the dynamics of a pair of molecular ensembles trapped inside a superconducting resonator through which they are strongly coupled via a microwave field mode. We find that entanglement can be generated via "vacuum fluctuations" even when the molecules and cavity field are initially prepared in their ground state. This entanglement is created in a relatively short time and without the need for further manipulation of the system. It does, therefore, provide a convenient scheme to entangle two mesoscopic systems, and may well be useful quantum information processing.

id: 0705.3479
title: Implementation of non-local XOR function for coherent-state qubit
authors: Joao Batista Rosa Silva, Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 12 pages and 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3479
abstract: This work describes how to implement a non-local xor function for coherent-state qubit using only linear optics. The setup proposed does not use gates based on teleportation and it has probability of success equal to 0.5, in the lossless case, when the necessary entangled state is available. The key element that makes possible the realization of the non-local xor function is a tripartite GHZ-type entangled coherent state. Its generation is proposed firstly using an ideal lossless setup and secondly considering the decoherence caused by losses in the optical devices.

id: 0705.3491
title: Opposite sign correlations in fermion or boson gases
authors: Alex D. Gottlieb, Thorsten Schumm
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3491
abstract: We investigate pair correlations in trapped fermion and boson gases as a means to probe the quantum states producing the density fluctuations. We point out that "opposite sign correlations" (meaning pair correlations that are positive for fermions and negative for bosons) unambiguously indicate that the quantum many-particle state cannot be "free." In particular, a system of fermions that exhibits positive pair correlations cannot be described by any Slater determinant wavefunction. This insight may help one to interpret results of current experiments on ultracold atomic gases.

id: 0705.3492
title: Stabilising entanglement by quantum jump-based feedback
authors: A. R. R. Carvalho, J. J. Hope
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3492
abstract: We show that direct feedback based on quantum jump detection can be used to generate entangled steady states. We present a strategy that is insensitive to detection inefficiencies and robust against errors in the control Hamiltonian. This feedback procedure is also shown to overcome spontaneous emission effects by stabilising states with high degree of entanglement.

id: 0705.3506
title: Entangled-State Cycles of Atomic Collective-Spin States
authors: A. Chia, A. S. Parkins
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 033810 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3506
abstract: We study quantum trajectories of collective atomic spin states of $N$ effective two-level atoms driven with laser and cavity fields. We show that interesting ``entangled-state cycles'' arise probabilistically when the (Raman) transition rates between the two atomic levels are set equal. For odd (even) $N$, there are $(N+1)/2$ ($N/2$) possible cycles. During each cycle the $N$-qubit state switches, with each cavity photon emission, between the states $(|N/2,m>\pm |N/2,-m>)/\sqrt{2}$, where $|N/2,m>$ is a Dicke state in a rotated collective basis. The quantum number $m$ ($>0$), which distinguishes the particular cycle, is determined by the photon counting record and varies randomly from one trajectory to the next. For even $N$ it is also possible, under the same conditions, to prepare probabilistically (but in steady state) the Dicke state $|N/2,0>$, i.e., an $N$-qubit state with $N/2$ excitations, which is of particular interest in the context of multipartite entanglement.

id: 0705.3534
title: On circulant states with positive partial transpose
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 15 pages; minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032308 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3534
abstract: We construct a large class of quantum "d x d" states which are positive under partial transposition (so called PPT states). The construction is based on certain direct sum decomposition of the total Hilbert space displaying characteristic circular structure - that is way we call them circulant states. It turns out that partial transposition maps any such decomposition into another one and hence both original density matrix and its partially transposed partner share similar cyclic properties. This class contains many well known examples of PPT states from the literature and gives rise to a huge family of completely new states.

id: 0705.3565
title: Terahertz frequency standard based on three-photon coherent population trapping
authors: Caroline Champenois, Gaetan Hagel, Marie Houssin, Martina Knoop, Cedric Zumsteg, Fernande Vedel
comments: article soumis a PRL le 21 mars 2007, accepte le 10 mai, version 2 (24/05/2007)
journal: Physical Review Letters 99 (2007) 013001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3565
abstract: A scheme for a THz frequency standard based on three-photon coherent population trapping in stored ions is proposed. Assuming the propagation directions of the three lasers obey the phase matching condition, we show that stability of few 10$^{-14}$ at one second can be reached with a precision limited by power broadening to $10^{-11}$ in the less favorable case. The referenced THz signal can be propagated over long distances, the useful information being carried by the relative frequency of the three optical photons.

id: 0705.3566
title: Experimental Observation of a Topological Phase in the Maximally Entangled State of a Pair of Qubits
authors: Jiangfeng Du, Jing Zhu, Mingjun Shi, Xinhua Peng, Dieter Suter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3566
abstract: Quantum mechanical phase factors can be related to dynamical effects or to the geometrical properties of a trajectory in a given space - either parameter space or Hilbert space. Here, we experimentally investigate a quantum mechanical phase factor that reflects the topology of the SO(3) group: since rotations by $\pi$ around antiparallel axes are identical, this space is doubly connected. Using pairs of nuclear spins in a maximally entangled state, we subject one of the spins to a cyclic evolution. If the corresponding trajectory in SO(3) can be smoothly deformed to a point, the quantum state at the end of the trajectory is identical to the initial state. For all other trajectories the quantum state changes sign.

id: 0705.3568
title: Thermal entanglement in a two-qutrit system with nonlinear coupling under nonuniform external magnetic field
authors: Iman Sargolzahi, Sayyed Yahya Mirafzali, Mohsen Sarbishaei
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures; The revised version, Some more sections and references are added
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inform. 6 (2008) 867
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3568
abstract: We study the thermal entanglement of a 2-qutrit spin chain with nonlinear coupling in the presence of nonuniform magnetic field. Thermal entanglement of an arbitrary (finite dimensional) m-partite system vanishes at some finite threshold temperature T_s. We investigate the dependence of T_s on the system's parameters, i.e. the nonlinear coupling and the magnetic field, for this 2-qutrit system. In addition, we compare two lower bounds of I-concurrence for this system and also study its dense coding capacity as a function of system's parameters.

id: 0705.3571
title: Conditionnal squeezing of an atomic alignement
authors: J. Cviklinski, A. Dantan, J. Ortalo, M. Pinard
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 033830 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3571
abstract: We investigate the possibility to perform a Quantum Non Demolition measurement of the collective alignment of an atomic ensemble in the case of a $F\geq 1$ spin. We compare the case of purely vectorial and purely tensorial Hamiltonians and show how to achieve conditional squeezing or entanglement of atomic alignment components.

id: 0705.3574
title: The geometry of density states, positive maps and tomograms
authors: V.I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, E.C.G. Sudarshan, F. Zaccaria
comments: 52 pages, in: Symmetries in Science XI, Bruno J. Gruber, Giuseppe Marmo Naotaka Yoshinag (Eds), Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht 2004, ''The Geometry of Density States, Positive Maps, and Tomograms'' pp. 395-443
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3574
abstract: The positive and not completely positive maps of density matrices, which are contractive maps, are discussed as elements of a semigroup. A new kind of positive map (the purification map), which is nonlinear map, is introduced. The density matrices are considered as vectors, linear maps among matrices are represented by superoperators given in the form of higher dimensional matrices. Probability representation of spin states (spin tomography) is reviewed and U(N)-tomogram of spin states is presented. Properties of the tomograms as probability distribution functions are studied. Notion of tomographic purity of spin states is introduced. Entanglement and separability of density matrices are expressed in terms of properties of the tomographic joint probability distributions of random spin projections which depend also on unitary group parameters. A new positivity criterion for hermitian matrices is formulated. An entanglement criterion is given in terms of a function depending on unitary group parameters and semigroup of positive map parameters. The function is constructed as sum of moduli of U(N)-tomographic symbols of the hermitian matrix obtained after action on the density matrix of composite system by a positive but not completely positive map of the subsystem density matrix. Some two-qubit and two-qutritt states are considered as examples of entangled states. The connection with the star-product quantisation is discussed. The structure of the set of density matrices and their relation to unitary group and Lie algebra of the unitary group are studied. Nonlinear quantum evolution of state vector obtained by means of applying purification rule of density matrices evolving via dynamical maps is considered. Some connection of positive maps and entanglement with random matrices is discussed and used.

id: 0705.3578
title: Quantum mechanics as a macrorealistic theory
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: 16 pages, no figures; this version differs essentially from 0705.3578v3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3578
abstract: As contrasted with physicists to idolize Bell's theorem and quantum nonlocality, we argue that quantum mechanics (QM), in reality, respects the principles of a macroscopic realism (PMRs). The current QM to tell us that "... the state of a system can be instantaneously changed by a distant measurement >..." cannot be treated as a physical theory. Its key statements - that the EPR-Bell experiments to violate Bell's inequality verify nonlocality, and nonlocal correlations respect special relativity - are false. Both the EPR-Bell experiments and theorems to support the "non-signalling principle" are based on the implicit assumption that all quantum postulates and, in particular, Born's averaging rule are fully applicable to Cat states. However, this is not the case. Introducing observables (e.g., correlations) for Cat states violates the correspondence principle. Pure (macro- and micro-)Cat states must be governed both by the PMRs and superposition principle. Our (macrorealistic) model of a one-dimensional completed scattering shows how these principles coexist with each other, in the case of a one-electron micro-Cat state.

id: 0705.3581
title: The bends on a quantum waveguide and cross-products of Bessel functions
authors: Martin Horvat, Tomaz Prosen
comments: 34 pages, 21 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3581
abstract: A detailed analysis of the wave-mode structure in a bend and its incorporation into a stable algorithm for calculation of the scattering matrix of the bend is presented. The calculations are based on the modal approach. The stability and precision of the algorithm is numerically and analytically analysed. The algorithm enables precise numerical calculations of scattering across the bend. The reflection is a purely quantum phenomenon and is discussed in more detail over a larger energy interval. The behaviour of the reflection is explained partially by a one-dimensional scattering model and heuristic calculations of the scattering matrix for narrow bends. In the same spirit we explain the numerical results for the Wigner-Smith delay time in the bend.

id: 0705.3584
title: Graph state generation with noisy mirror-inverting spin chains
authors: S.R. Clark, A. Klein, M. Bruderer, D. Jaksch
comments: 27 pages, 13 figures. To appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 202 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3584
abstract: We investigate the influence of noise on a graph state generation scheme which exploits a mirror inverting spin chain. Within this scheme the spin chain is used repeatedly as an entanglement bus (EB) to create multi-partite entanglement. The noise model we consider comprises of each spin of this EB being exposed to independent local noise which degrades the capabilities of the EB. Here we concentrate on quantifying its performance as a single-qubit channel and as a mediator of a two-qubit entangling gate, since these are basic operations necessary for graph state generation using the EB. In particular, for the single-qubit case we numerically calculate the average channel fidelity and whether the channel becomes entanglement breaking, i.e., expunges any entanglement the transferred qubit may have with other external qubits. We find that neither local decay nor dephasing noise cause entanglement breaking. This is in contrast to local thermal and depolarizing noise where we determine a critical length and critical noise coupling, respectively, at which entanglement breaking occurs. The critical noise coupling for local depolarizing noise is found to exhibit a power-law dependence on the chain length. For two qubits we similarly compute the average gate fidelity and whether the ability for this gate to create entanglement is maintained. The concatenation of these noisy gates for the construction of a five qubit linear cluster state and a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state indicates that the level of noise that can be tolerated for graph state generation is tightly constrained.

id: 0705.3601
title: Spin Description in the Star Product and the Path Integral Formalism
authors: S. Odendahl, P. Henselder
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3601
abstract: The spin can be described in the star product formalism by extending the bosonic Moyal product in the fermionic sector. The fermionic star product is then the Clifford product of geometric algebra and it is possible to formulate the fermionic star product formalism in analogy to the bosonic star product formalism. For the fermionic star product description of spin, one can then establish the relation to other approaches that describe spin with fermionic variables, i.e. the operator formalism and the path integral formalism. It is shown that the fermionic star product formalism and the fermionic path integral formalism are related in analogy to their bosonic counterparts.

id: 0705.3607
title: Star Products for Relativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: P. Henselder
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3607
abstract: The star product formalism has proved to be an alternative formulation for nonrelativistic quantum mechanics. We want introduce here a covariant star product in order to extend the star product formalism to relativistic quantum mechanics in the proper time formulation.

id: 0705.3639
title: Prospects for the cavity-assisted laser cooling of molecules
authors: Benjamin L. Lev, Andras Vukics, Eric R. Hudson, Brian C. Sawyer, Peter Domokos, Helmut Ritsch, Jun Ye
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures
journal: better, condensed version published in PRA 77, 023402 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3639
abstract: Cooling of molecules via free-space dissipative scattering of photons is thought not to be practicable due to the inherently large number of Raman loss channels available to molecules and the prohibitive expense of building multiple repumping laser systems. The use of an optical cavity to enhance coherent Rayleigh scattering into a decaying cavity mode has been suggested as a potential method to mitigate Raman loss, thereby enabling the laser cooling of molecules to ultracold temperatures. We discuss the possibility of cavity-assisted laser cooling particles without closed transitions, identify conditions necessary to achieve efficient cooling, and suggest solutions given experimental constraints. Specifically, it is shown that cooperativities much greater than unity are required for cooling without loss, and that this could be achieved via the superradiant scattering associated with intracavity self-localization of the molecules. Particular emphasis is given to the polar hydroxyl radical (OH), cold samples of which are readily obtained from Stark deceleration.

id: 0705.3661
title: Virtual photons in imaginary time: Computing exact Casimir forces via standard numerical-electromagnetism techniques
authors: Alejandro Rodriguez, Mihai Ibanescu, Davide Iannuzzi, J. D. Joannopoulos, Steven G. Johnson
comments: Published in Physical Review A, vol. 76, page 032106 (2007)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3661
abstract: We describe a numerical method to compute Casimir forces in arbitrary geometries, for arbitrary dielectric and metallic materials, with arbitrary accuracy (given sufficient computational resources). Our approach, based on well-established integration of the mean stress tensor evaluated via the fluctuation-dissipation theorem, is designed to directly exploit fast methods developed for classical computational electromagnetism, since it only involves repeated evaluation of the Green's function for imaginary frequencies (equivalently, real frequencies in imaginary time). We develop the approach by systematically examining various formulations of Casimir forces from the previous decades and evaluating them according to their suitability for numerical computation. We illustrate our approach with a simple finite-difference frequency-domain implementation, test it for known geometries such as a cylinder and a plate, and apply it to new geometries. In particular, we show that a piston-like geometry of two squares sliding between metal walls, in both two and three dimensions with both perfect and realistic metallic materials, exhibits a surprising non-monotonic ``lateral'' force from the walls.

id: 0705.3666
title: Signatures of incoherence in a quantum information processor
authors: Michael K. Henry, Alexey V. Gorshkov, Yaakov S. Weinstein, Paola Cappellaro, Joseph Emerson, Nicolas Boulant, Jonathan S. Hodges, Chandrasekhar Ramanathan, Timothy F. Havel, Rudy Martinez, David G. Cory
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3666
abstract: Incoherent noise is manifest in measurements of expectation values when the underlying ensemble evolves under a classical distribution of unitary processes. While many incoherent processes appear decoherent, there are important differences. The distribution functions underlying incoherent processes are either static or slowly varying with respect to control operations and so the errors introduced by these distributions are refocusable. The observation and control of incoherence in small Hilbert spaces is well known. Here we explore incoherence during an entangling operation, such as is relevant in quantum information processing. As expected, it is more difficult to separate incoherence and decoherence over such processes. However, by studying the fidelity decay under a cyclic entangling map we are able to identify distinctive experimental signatures of incoherence. This result is demonstrated both through numerical simulations and experimentally in a three qubit nuclear magnetic resonance implementation.

id: 0705.3688
title: Quantum computation in a Ising spin chain taking into account second neighbor couplings
authors: G. V. L¨®pez, T. Gorin, L. Lara
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3688
abstract: We consider the realization of a quantum computer in a chain of nuclear spins coupled by an Ising interaction. Quantum algorithms can be performed with the help of appropriate radio-frequency pulses. In addition to the standard nearest-neighbor Ising coupling, we also allow for a second neighbor coupling. It is shown, how to apply the 2\pi k method in this more general setting, where the additional coupling eventually allows to save a few pulses. We illustrate our results with two numerical simulations: the Shor prime factorization of the number 4 and the teleportation of a qubit along a chain of 3 qubits. In both cases, the optimal Rabi frequency (to suppress non-resonant effects) depends primarily on the strength of the second neighbor interaction.

id: 0705.3700
title: Survival Probabilities in Coherent Exciton Transfer with Trapping
authors: Oliver Muelken, Alexander Blumen, Thomas Amthor, Christian Giese, Markus Reetz-Lamour, Matthias Weidemueller
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 090601 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3700
abstract: In the quest for signatures of coherent transport we consider exciton trapping in the continuous-time quantum walk framework. The survival probability displays different decay domains, related to distinct regions of the spectrum of the Hamiltonian. For linear systems and at intermediate times the decay obeys a power-law, in contrast to the corresponding exponential decay found in incoherent continuous-time random walk situations. To differentiate between the coherent and incoherent mechanisms, we present an experimental protocol based on a frozen Rydberg gas structured by optical dipole traps.

id: 0705.3755
title: Analogue of cosmological particle creation in an ion trap
authors: Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, Michael Uhlmann, Lutz Petersen, Hector Schmitz, Axel Friedenauer, Tobias Sch?tz
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.99:201301,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3755
abstract: We study phonons in a dynamical chain of ions confined by a trap with a time-dependent (axial) potential strength and demonstrate that they behave in the same way as quantum fields in an expanding/contracting universe. Based on this analogy, we present a scheme for the detection of the analogue of cosmological particle creation which should be feasible with present-day technology. In order to test the quantum nature of the particle creation mechanism and to distinguish it from classical effects such as heating, we propose to measure the two-phonon amplitude via the $2^{\rm nd}$ red side-band and to compare it with the one-phonon amplitude ($1^{\rm st}$ red side-band). PACS: 04.62.+v, 98.80.-k, 42.50.Vk, 32.80.Pj.

id: 0705.3762
title: Distillable entanglement and area laws in spin and harmonic-oscillator systems
authors: D. Cavalcanti, A. Ferraro, A. Garcia-Saez, A. Acin
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures; v3: further results about spin systems added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012335 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3762
abstract: We address the presence of non-distillable (bound) entanglement in natural many-body systems. In particular, we consider standard harmonic and spin-1/2 chains, at thermal equilibrium and characterized by few interaction parameters. The existence of bound entanglement is addressed by calculating explicitly the negativity of entanglement for different partitions. This allows to individuate a range of temperatures for which no entanglement can be distilled by means of local operations, despite the system being globally entangled. We discuss how the appearance of bound entanglement can be linked to entanglement-area laws, typical of these systems. Various types of interactions and topologies are explored, showing that the presence of bound entanglement is an intrinsic feature of these systems. In the harmonic case, we analytically prove that thermal bound entanglement persists for systems composed by an arbitrary number of particles. Our results strongly suggest the existence of bound entangled states in the macroscopic limit also for spin-1/2 systems.

id: 0705.3777
title: Role of interference in quantum state transfer through spin chains
authors: A. O. Lyakhov, Daniel Braun, C. Bruder
comments: 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022321 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3777
abstract: We examine the role that interference plays in quantum state transfer through several types of finite spin chains, including chains with isotropic Heisenberg interaction between nearest neighbors, chains with reduced coupling constants to the spins at the end of the chain, and chains with anisotropic coupling constants. We evaluate quantitatively both the interference corresponding to the propagation of the entire chain, and the interference in the effective propagation of the first and last spins only, treating the rest of the chain as black box. We show that perfect quantum state transfer is possible without quantum interference, and provide evidence that the spin chains examined realize interference-free quantum state transfer to a good approximation.

id: 0705.3784
title: Generalized Stern-Gerlach Effect for Chiral Molecules
authors: Yong Li, C. Bruder, C. P. Sun
comments: 4+ pages, 4 figures
journal: Phy. Rev. Lett. 99, 130403 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3784
abstract: The Stern-Gerlach effect is well-known as spin-dependent splitting of a beam of atoms with magnetic moments by a magnetic-field gradient. Here, we show that an induced gauge potential may lead to a similar effect for chiral molecules. In the presence of three inhomogeneous light fields, the center-of-mass of a three-level chiral molecule is subject to an optically induced gauge potential, and the internal dynamics of the molecules can be described as an adiabatic evolution in the reduced pseudo-spin subspace of the two lowest energy levels. We demonstrate numerically that such an induced gauge potential can lead to observable pseudo-spin dependent and chirality-dependent generalized Stern-Gerlach effects for mixed left- and right-handed chiral molecules under realistic conditions.

id: 0705.3806
title: A Hypercontractive Inequality for Matrix-Valued Functions with Applications to Quantum Computing and LDCs
authors: Avraham Ben-Aroya, Oded Regev, Ronald de Wolf
comments: This is the full version of a paper that will appear in the proceedings of the IEEE FOCS 08 conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3806
abstract: The Bonami-Beckner hypercontractive inequality is a powerful tool in Fourier analysis of real-valued functions on the Boolean cube. In this paper we present a version of this inequality for matrix-valued functions on the Boolean cube. Its proof is based on a powerful inequality by Ball, Carlen, and Lieb. We also present a number of applications. First, we analyze maps that encode $n$ classical bits into $m$ qubits, in such a way that each set of $k$ bits can be recovered with some probability by an appropriate measurement on the quantum encoding; we show that if $m<0.7 n$, then the success probability is exponentially small in $k$. This result may be viewed as a direct product version of Nayak's quantum random access code bound. It in turn implies strong direct product theorems for the one-way quantum communication complexity of Disjointness and other problems. Second, we prove that error-correcting codes that are locally decodable with 2 queries require length exponential in the length of the encoded string. This gives what is arguably the first ``non-quantum'' proof of a result originally derived by Kerenidis and de Wolf using quantum information theory, and answers a question by Trevisan.

id: 0705.3813
title: Experimental scheme for unambiguous discrimination of linearly independent symmetric states
authors: O. Jim¨¦nez, X. S¨¢nchez-Lozano, A. Delgado, C. Saavedra
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3813
abstract: We propose an optimal discrimination scheme for a case of four linearly independent nonorthogonal symmetric quantum states, based on linear optics only. The probability of discrimination is in agreement with the optimal probability for unambiguous discrimination among N symmetric states [Phys. Lett. A \textbf{250}, 223 (1998)]. The experimental setup can be extended for the case of discrimination among $2^M$ nonorthogonal symmetric quantum states.

id: 0705.3838
title: The private classical capacity with a symmetric side channel and its application to quantum cryptography
authors: Graeme Smith
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022306 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3838
abstract: We study the symmetric-side-channel-assisted private capacity of a quantum channel, for which we provide a single-letter formula. This capacity is additive, convex, and, for degradable channels, equal to the unassisted private capacity. While a channel's (unassisted) capacity for for private classical communication may be strictly larger than its quantum capacity, we will show that these capacities are equal for degradable channels, thus demonstrating the equivalence of privacy and quantum coherence in this context. We use these ideas to find new bounds on the key rate of quantum key distribution protocols with one-way classical post-processing. For the Bennett-Brassard-84 (BB84) protocol, our results demonstrate that collective attacks are strictly stronger than individual attacks.

id: 0705.3850
title: Understanding Quantum Mechanics Through the Complementary Descriptions Approach
authors: Christian de Ronde
comments: welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3850
abstract: Niels Bohr introduced the concept of complementarity in order to give a general account of quantum mechanics, however he stressed that the idea of complementarity is related to the general dificulty in the formation of human ideas, inherent in the distinction between subject and object. Earlier, we have introduced a development of the concept of complementarity which constitutes a new approach to the interpretation of quantum mechanics. We argue that this development allows a better understanding of some of the paradigmatic interpretational problems of quantum theory. Within the scheme proposed by modal interpretations we analyze the relation between holism and reductionism as well as the problems proposed by Arntzenius and Clifton. We discuss the problem of presupposing the concept of entity within the quantum formalism and bring into stage the concept of faculty as a way to recover the objective character of quantum mechanics.

id: 0705.3875
title: Correlated photon-pair generation in reverse-proton-exchange PPLN waveguides with integrated mode demultiplexer at 10 GHz clock
authors: Qiang Zhang, Xiuping Xie, Hiroki Takesue, Sae Woo Nam, Carsten Langrock, Martin Fejer, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, presented at 2007 CLEO conference
journal: Opt. Express. 15, 10288 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3875
abstract: We report 10-ps correlated photon pair generation in periodically-poled reverse-proton-exchange lithium niobate waveguides with integrated mode demultiplexer at a wavelength of 1.5-um and a clock of 10 GHz. Using superconducting single photon detectors, we observed a coincidence to accidental count ratio (CAR) as high as 4000. The developed photon-pair source may find broad application in quantum information systems as well as quantum entanglement experiments.

id: 0705.3876
title: New exact solution of Dirac-Coulomb equation with exact boundary condition
authors: Ruida Chen
comments: 12 pages,no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3876
abstract: It usually writes the boundary condition of the wave equation in the Coulomb field as a rough form without considering the size of the atomic nucleus. The rough expression brings on that the solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation and the Dirac equation with the Coulomb potential are divergent at the origin of the coordinates, also the virtual energies, when the nuclear charges number Z > 137, meaning the original solutions do not satisfy the conditions for determining solution. Any divergences of the wave functions also imply that the probability density of the meson or the electron would rapidly increase when they are closing to the atomic nucleus. What it predicts is not a truth that the atom in ground state would rapidly collapse to the neutron-like. We consider that the atomic nucleus has definite radius and write the exact boundary condition for the hydrogen and hydrogen-like atom, then newly solve the radial Dirac-Coulomb equation and obtain a new exact solution without any mathematical and physical difficulties. Unexpectedly, the K value constructed by Dirac is naturally written in the barrier width or the equivalent radius of the atomic nucleus in solving the Dirac equation with the exact boundary condition, and it is independent of the quantum energy. Without any divergent wave function and the virtual energies, we obtain a new formula of the energy levels that is different from the Dirac formula of the energy levels in the Coulomb field.

id: 0705.3898
title: Quantum-like Representation of Macroscopic Configurations
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence, 5494, 44-58 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3898
abstract: The aim of this paper is to apply a contextual probabilistic model (in the spirit of Mackey, Gudder, Ballentine) to represent and to generalize some results of quantum logic about possible macroscopic quantum-like (QL) behaviour. The crucial point is that our model provides QL-representation of macroscopic configurations in terms of complex probability amplitudes -- wave functions of such configurations. Thus, instead of the language of propositions which is common in quatum logic, we use the language of wave functions which is common in the conventional presentation of QM. We propose a quantum-like representation algorithm, QLRA, which maps probabilistic data of any origin in complex (or even hyperbolic) Hilbert space. On the one hand, this paper clarifyes some questions in foundations of QM, since some rather mystical quantum features are illustrated on the basis of behavior of macroscopic systems. On the other hand, the approach developed in this paper may be used e.g. in biology, sociology, or psychology. Our example of QL-representation of hidden macroscopic configurations can find natural applications in those domains of science.

id: 0705.3904
title: Multiple Entropy Measures for Multipartite Quantum Entanglement
authors: Dan Liu, Xin Zhao, Gui Lu Long
comments: 4 pages and 4 figures. references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3904
abstract: A new entanglement measure, the multiple entropy measures (MEMS), is proposed to quantify quantum entanglement of multi-partite quantum state. The MEMS is vector-like with $m=[N/2]$, the integer part of $N/2$, components: $[S_1, S_2,..., S_m]$, and the $i$-th component $S_i$ is the geometric mean of $i$-body partial entropy of the system. The $S_i$ measures how strong an arbitrary $i$ bodies from the system are entangled with the rest of the system. The MEMS is not only transparent in physical picture, but also simple to calculate. It satisfies the conditions for a good entanglement measure. We have analyzed the entanglement properties of the GHZ-state, the W-states and cluster-states under MEMS. The cluster-state is more entangled than the GHZ-state and W-state under MEMS.

id: 0705.3942
title: Electromagnetic field quantization in an anisotropic and inhomogeneous magnetodielectric
authors: M. Amooshahi, F. Kheirandish
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Phys. A : Math. Theo. 41 (2008) 275402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3942
abstract: The electromagnetic field in an anisotropic and inhomogeneous magnetodielectric is quantized by modelling the medium with two independent quantum fields. Some coupling tensors coupling the electromagnetic field with the medium are introduced. Electric and magnetic polarizations are obtained in terms of the ladder operators of the medium and the coupling tensors explicitly. Using a minimal coupling scheme for electric and magnetic interactions, the Maxwell equations and the constitutive equations of the medium are obtained. The electric and magnetic susceptibility tensors of the medium are calculated in terms of the coupling tensors. Finally the efficiency of the approach is elucidated by some examples.

id: 0705.3952
title: Amplitude Damping for single-qubit System with single-qubit mixed-state Environment
authors: Eylee Jung, Mi-Ra Hwang, You Hwan Ju, D. K. Park, Hungsoo Kim, Min-Soo Kim, Jin-Woo Son
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures incluided V2: homepage address is included in reference V3: version to appear in J. Phys. A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. and Theor. 41 (2008) 045306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3952
abstract: We study a generalized amplitude damping channel when environment is initially in the single-qubit mixed state. Representing the affine transformation of the generalized amplitude damping by a three-dimensional volume, we plot explicitly the volume occupied by the channels simulatable by a single-qubit mixed-state environment. As expected, this volume is embedded in the total volume by the channels which is simulated by two-qubit enviroment. The volume ratio is approximately 0.08 which is much smaller than 3/8, the volume ratio for generalized depolarizing channels.

id: 0705.3974
title: Classical Demons and Quantum Angels: On 't Hooft's deterministic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3974
abstract: It is argued that 't Hooft's deterministic program does not disenchant the quantum world but rather inspires the incantation of the classical one.

id: 0705.4003
title: Comparison of architectures for approximating number-resolving photo-detection using non-number-resolving detectors
authors: Peter P. Rohde, James G. Webb, Elanor H. Huntington, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 233 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4003
abstract: Number-resolving photo-detection is necessary for many quantum optics experiments, especially in the application of entangled state preparation. Several schemes have been proposed for approximating number-resolving photo-detection using non-number-resolving detectors. Such techniques include multi-port detection and time-division multiplexing. We provide a detailed analysis and comparison of different number-resolving detection schemes, with a view to creating a useful reference for experimentalists. We show that the ideal architecture for projective measurements is a function of the detector's dark count and efficiency parameters. We also describe a process for selecting an appropriate topology given actual experimental component parameters.

id: 0705.4011
title: The Dynamical Mechanism of the Aharonov-Bohm Effect
authors: R.F. Wang
comments: 13pages,2figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4011
abstract: In this paper, it is emphasized that the dynamical cause for the A-B effect is the superimposed energy between the magnetic field produced by the moving charges and that in the solenoid, instead of the existence of the vector potential. If such a superposition between the magnetic fields can be eliminated, the A-B effect should not be observed any more. To verify this viewpoint, a new experimental method using a SQUID is suggested in this paper.

id: 0705.4017
title: Quantum pathology of static internal imperfections in flawed quantum computers
authors: Murat Cetinbas, Joshua Wilkie
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 370, Issues 3-4, 22 October 2007, Pages 207-212
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4017
abstract: Even in the absence of external influences the operability of a quantum computer (QC) is not guaranteed because of the effects of residual one- and two-body imperfections. Here we investigate how these internal flaws affect the performance of a quantum controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate in an isolated flawed QC. First we find that the performance of the CNOT gate is considerably better when the two-body imperfections are strong. Secondly, we find that the largest source of error is due to a coherent shift rather than decoherence or dissipation. Our results suggest that the problem of internal imperfections should be given much more attention in designing scalable QC architectures.

id: 0705.4018
title: Probing internal bath dynamics by a Rabi oscillator-based detector
authors: Murat Cetinbas, Joshua Wilkie
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 370, Issues 3-4, 22 October 2007, Pages 194-201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4018
abstract: By exact numerical and master equation approaches, we show that a central spin-1/2 can be configured to probe internal bath dynamics. System-bath interactions cause Rabi oscillations in the detector and periodic behavior of fidelity. This period is highly sensitive to the strength of the bath self-interactions, and can be used to calculate the intra-bath coupling.

id: 0705.4038
title: Single-photon interferometry with orbital angular momentum circumvents standard wave-particle duality
authors: M. Kolar, T. Opatrny, G. Kurizki
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4038
abstract: A polarized photon with well-defined orbital angular momentum that emerges from a Mach-Zehnder interferometer (MZI) is shown to circumvent wave-particle duality. Its polarization-resolved detection probability forms a non-sinusoidal interferometric pattern. For certain phase differences between the MZI arms, this pattern yields both reliable which-path information and high phase-sensitivity.

id: 0705.4049
title: Beyond Geometrical Optics and Bohmian Physics: A New Exact and Deterministic Hamiltonian Approach to Wave-Like Features in Classical and Quantum Physics
authors: A.Orefice, R.Giovanelli, D.Ditto
comments: 18 pages, including 4 figures in separate pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4049
abstract: The indeterministic character of physical laws is generally considered to be the most important consequence of quantum physics. A deterministic point of view, however, together with the possibility of well defined Hamiltonian trajectories, emerges as the most natural one from the analysis of the time-independent Helmholtz-like equations encountered both in Classical Electromagnetism and in Wave Mechanics. In the case of particle beams a suitable pattern of trajectories is provided (for any set of boundary conditions) by a set of dynamical laws containing the classical ones as a simple limiting case.

id: 0705.4067
title: The Complexity of Quantum Systems on a One-dimensional Chain
authors: Sandy Irani
comments: This paper has been merged with arXiv:0705.4077 and is now co-authored with Dorit Aharonov, Daniel Gottesman, and Julia Kempe. Ther version posted here is the same as the original version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4067
abstract: We prove that adiabatic computation is equivalent to standard quantum computation even when the adiabatic quantum system is restricted to be a set of particles on a one-dimensional chain. We give a construction that uses a 2-local Hamiltonian on nearest neighbors using particles that can have ten distinct states. This implies a construction of a one-dimensional chain of qubits in which the Hamiltonian is 6-local. We adapt this construction to show that the 2-local Hamiltonian for 13-state particles is QMA-complete which in turn implies that the 8-local Hamiltonian restricted to a one-dimensional chain of qubits is QMA-complete.

id: 0705.4076
title: Information-flux approach to multiple-spin dynamics
authors: C. Di Franco, M. Paternostro, G. M. Palma, M. S. Kim
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042316 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4076
abstract: We introduce and formalize the concept of information flux in a many-body register as the influence that the dynamics of a specific element receive from any other element of the register. By quantifying the information flux in a protocol, we can design the most appropriate initial state of the system and, noticeably, the distribution of coupling strengths among the parts of the register itself. The intuitive nature of this tool and its flexibility, which allow for easily manageable numerical approaches when analytic expressions are not straightforward, are greatly useful in interacting many-body systems such as quantum spin chains. We illustrate the use of this concept in quantum cloning and quantum state transfer and we also sketch its extension to non-unitary dynamics.

id: 0705.4077
title: The power of quantum systems on a line
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Daniel Gottesman, Sandy Irani, Julia Kempe
comments: 21 pages. v2 has numerous corrections and clarifications, and most importantly a new author, merged from arXiv:0705.4067. v3 is the published version, with additional clarifications, publisher's version available at this http URL
journal: Comm. Math. Physics, vol. 287, no. 1, pp. 41-65 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4077
abstract: We study the computational strength of quantum particles (each of finite dimensionality) arranged on a line. First, we prove that it is possible to perform universal adiabatic quantum computation using a one-dimensional quantum system (with 9 states per particle). This might have practical implications for experimentalists interested in constructing an adiabatic quantum computer. Building on the same construction, but with some additional technical effort and 12 states per particle, we show that the problem of approximating the ground state energy of a system composed of a line of quantum particles is QMA-complete; QMA is a quantum analogue of NP. This is in striking contrast to the fact that the analogous classical problem, namely, one-dimensional MAX-2-SAT with nearest neighbor constraints, is in P. The proof of the QMA-completeness result requires an additional idea beyond the usual techniques in the area: Not all illegal configurations can be ruled out by local checks, so instead we rule out such illegal configurations because they would, in the future, evolve into a state which can be seen locally to be illegal. Our construction implies (assuming the quantum Church-Turing thesis and that quantum computers cannot efficiently solve QMA-complete problems) that there are one-dimensional systems which take an exponential time to relax to their ground states at any temperature, making them candidates for being one-dimensional spin glasses.

id: 0705.4089
title: Local purity distillation with bounded classical communication
authors: Hari Krovi, Igor Devetak
comments: 9 pages and 2 figure in .eps
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012321 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4089
abstract: Local pure states are an important resource for quantum computing. The problem of distilling local pure states from mixed ones can be cast in an information theoretic paradigm. The bipartite version of this problem where local purity must be distilled from an arbitrary quantum state shared between two parties, Alice and Bob, is closely related to the problem of separating quantum and classical correlations in the state and in particular, to a measure of classical correlations called the one-way distillable common randomness. In Phys. Rev. A 71, 062303 (2005), the optimal rate of local purity distillation is derived when many copies of a bipartite quantum state are shared between Alice and Bob, and the parties are allowed unlimited use of a unidirectional dephasing channel. In the present paper, we extend this result to the setting in which the use of the channel is bounded. We demonstrate that in the case of a classical-quantum system, the expression for the local purity distilled is efficiently computable and provide examples with their tradeoff curves.

id: 0705.4119
title: Fidelity enhancement by logical qubit encoding
authors: Michael K. Henry, Chandrasekhar Ramanathan, Jonathan S. Hodges, Colm A. Ryan, Michael J. Ditty, Raymond Laflamme, David G. Cory
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4119
abstract: We demonstrate coherent control of two logical qubits encoded in a decoherence free subspace (DFS) of four dipolar-coupled protons in an NMR quantum information processor. A pseudo-pure fiducial state is created in the DFS, and a unitary logical qubit entangling operator evolves the system to a logical Bell state. The four-spin molecule is partially aligned by a liquid crystal solvent, which introduces strong dipolar couplings among the spins. Although the system Hamiltonian is never fully specified, we demonstrate high fidelity control over the logical degrees of freedom. In fact, the DFS encoding leads to higher fidelity control than is available in the full four-spin Hilbert space.

id: 0705.4128
title: System Design for a Long-Line Quantum Repeater
authors: Rodney Van Meter, Thaddeus D. Ladd, W.J. Munro, Kae Nemoto
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures. v2 includes one new graph, modest corrections to some others, and significantly improved presentation. to appear in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking
journal: IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking 17(3), 1002-1013, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4128
abstract: We present a new control algorithm and system design for a network of quantum repeaters, and outline the end-to-end protocol architecture. Such a network will create long-distance quantum states, supporting quantum key distribution as well as distributed quantum computation. Quantum repeaters improve the reduction of quantum-communication throughput with distance from exponential to polynomial. Because a quantum state cannot be copied, a quantum repeater is not a signal amplifier, but rather executes algorithms for quantum teleportation in conjunction with a specialized type of quantum error correction called purification to raise the fidelity of the quantum states. We introduce our banded purification scheme, which is especially effective when the fidelity of coupled qubits is low, improving the prospects for experimental realization of such systems. The resulting throughput is calculated via detailed simulations of a long line composed of shorter hops. Our algorithmic improvements increase throughput by a factor of up to fifty compared to earlier approaches, for a broad range of physical characteristics.

id: 0705.4133
title: Scattering polarization of hydrogen lines from electric-induced atomic alignment
authors: R. Casini, R. Manso Sainz
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. Accepted by J.Phys.B: At.Mol.Opt.Phys
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41 (2008) 085702
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4133
abstract: We consider a gas of hydrogen atoms illuminated by a broadband, unpolarized radiation with zero anisotropy. In the absence of external fields, the atomic J-levels are thus isotropically populated. While this condition persists in the presence of a magnetic field, we show instead that electric fields can induce the alignment of those levels. We also show that this electric alignment cannot occur in a two-term model of hydrogen (e.g., if only the Ly-alpha transition is excited), or if the level populations are distributed according to Boltzmann's law.

id: 0705.4152
title: Maximally Entangled Mixed-State Generation via Local Operations
authors: A. Aiello, G. Puentes, D. Voigt, J.P. Woerdman
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, to be published in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4152
abstract: We present a general theoretical method to generate maximally entangled mixed states of a pair of photons initially prepared in the singlet polarization state. This method requires only local operations upon a single photon of the pair and exploits spatial degrees of freedom to induce decoherence. We report also experimental confirmation of these theoretical results.

id: 0705.4165
title: Entanglement purification and quantum error correction
authors: W. D¨¹r, H. J. Briegel
comments: review article; 48 pages, 18 figures; V2:published version
journal: Rep. Prog. Phys. 70, 1381 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4165
abstract: We give a review on entanglement purification for bipartite and multipartite quantum states, with the main focus on theoretical work carried out by our group in the last couple of years. We discuss entanglement purification in the context of quantum communication, where we emphasize its close relation to quantum error correction. Various bipartite and multipartite entanglement purification protocols are discussed, and their performance under idealized and realistic conditions is studied. Several applications of entanglement purification in quantum communication and computation are presented, which highlights the fact that entanglement purification is a fundamental tool in quantum information processing.

id: 0705.4174
title: Comment on ``Coupled dynamics of atoms and radiation--pressure--driven interferometers''
authors: J. K. Asboth, P. Domokos
comments: A long comment on the recent Meiser-Meystre papers on the "super-strong coupling" regime. Submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4174
abstract: In two recent articles, Meiser and Meystre describe the coupled dynamics of a dense gas of atoms and an optical cavity pumped by a laser field. They make two important simplifying assumptions: (i) the gas of atoms forms a regular lattice and can be replaced by a fictitious mirror, and (ii) the atoms strive to minimize the dipole potential. We show that the two assumptions are inconsistent: the configuration of atoms minimizing the dipole potential is not a perfect lattice. Assumption (ii) is erroneous, as in the strong coupling regime the dipole force does not arise from the dipole potential. The real steady state, where the dipole forces vanish, is indeed a regular lattice. Furthermore, the bistability predicted by Meiser and Meystre does not occur in this system.

id: 0705.4177
title: Path-phase duality of an interfering particle with translational-internal entanglement
authors: M. Kolar, T. Opatrny, N. Bar-Gill, N. Erez, G. Kurizki
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 129
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4177
abstract: The aim of this paper is to revisit the implications of complementarity when we inject into a Mach Zehnder interferometer particles with internal structure, prepared in special translational-internal entangled (TIE) states. This correlation causes the path distinguishability to be phase dependent in contrast to the standard case. We show that such a TIE state permits us to detect small phase shifts along with almost perfect path distinguishability, beyond the constraints imposed by complementarity on simultaneous which-way and which-phase measurements for standard cases (when distinguishability is independent of interferometric phase).

id: 0705.4184
title: Fresnel-transform's quantum correspondence and quantum optical ABCD Law
authors: Fan Hongyi, Hu Liyun
comments: 6 pages and no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4184
abstract: Corresponding to Fresnel transform there exists a unitary operator in quantum optics theory, which could be named Fresnel operator (FO). We show that the multiplication rule of FO naturally leads to the quantum optical ABCD law. The canonical operator methods as mapping of ray-transfer ABCD matrix is explicitly shown by FO's normally ordered expansion through the coherent state representation and the technique of integration within an ordered product of operators. We show that time evolution of the damping oscillator embodies the quantum optical ABCD law.

id: 0705.4188
title: On non-Markovian time evolution in open quantum systems
authors: Andrzej Kossakowski, Rolando Rebolledo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4188
abstract: Non-Markovian reduced dynamics of an open system is investigated. In the case the initial state of the reservoir is the vacuum state, an approximation is introduced which makes possible to construct a reduced dynamics which is completely positive.

id: 0705.4193
title: Lecture notes on Optical Quantum Computing
authors: Pieter Kok
comments: 33 pages, 21 figures
journal: Lecture Notes in Physics 787, 187 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4193
abstract: A quantum computer is a machine that can perform certain calculations much faster than a classical computer by using the laws of quantum mechanics. Quantum computers do not exist yet, because it is extremely difficult to control quantum mechanical systems to the necessary degree. What is more, we do at this moment not know which physical system is the best suited for making a quantum computer (although we have some ideas). It is likely that a mature quantum information processing technology will use (among others) light, because photons are ideal carriers for quantum information. These notes are an expanded version of the five lectures I gave on the possibility of making a quantum computer using light, at the Summer School in Theoretical Physics in Durban, 14-24 January, 2007. There are quite a few proposals using light for quantum computing, and I can highlight only a few here. I will focus on photonic qubits, and leave out continuous variables completely. I assume that the reader is familiar with basic quantum mechanics and introductory quantum computing.

id: 0705.4209
title: On Infinite EPR-like Correlations
authors: Leszek Wro¨½ski, Tomasz Placek
comments: 42 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4209
abstract: The paper investigates, in the framework of branching space-times, whether an infinite EPR-like correlation which does not involve finite EPR-like correlations is possible.

id: 0705.4225
title: How to detect a possible correlation from the information of a sub-system in quantum mechanical systems
authors: Gen Kimura, Hiromichi Ohno, Hiroyuki Hayashi
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042123 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4225
abstract: A possibility to detect correlations between two quantum mechanical systems only from the information of a subsystem is investigated. For generic cases, we prove that there exist correlations between two quantum systems if the time-derivative of the reduced purity is not zero. Therefore, an experimentalist can conclude non-zero correlations between his/her system and some environment if he/she finds the time-derivative of the reduced purity is not zero. A quantitative estimation of a time-derivative of the reduced purity with respect to correlations is also given. This clarifies the role of correlations in the mechanism of decoherence in open quantum systems.

id: 0705.4247
title: Characteristic length of dynamical reduction models and decay of cosmological vacuum
authors: S. V. Akkelin
comments: 9 pages, minor corrections, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4247
abstract: Characteristic length of mass density resolution in dynamical reduction models is calculated utilizing energy conservation law and viable cosmological model with decreasing energy density of vacuum (dark energy density). The value found, $ \sim 10^{-5}$ cm, numerically coincides with phenomenological spatial short-length cutoff parameter introduced in the Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber model. It seems that our results support the gravity induced mechanism of dynamical reduction.

id: 0705.4282
title: The structure of preserved information in quantum processes
authors: Robin Blume-Kohout, Hui Khoon Ng, David Poulin, Lorenza Viola
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100 030501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4282
abstract: We introduce a general operational characterization of information-preserving structures (IPS) -- encompassing noiseless subsystems, decoherence-free subspaces, pointer bases, and error-correcting codes -- by demonstrating that they are isometric to fixed points of unital quantum processes. Using this, we show that every IPS is a matrix algebra. We further establish a structure theorem for the fixed states and observables of an arbitrary process, which unifies the Schrodinger and Heisenberg pictures, places restrictions on physically allowed kinds of information, and provides an efficient algorithm for finding all noiseless and unitarily noiseless subsystems of the process.

id: 0705.4289
title: Geometric-Algebra Quantum-Like Algorithms: Simon's Algorithm
authors: Tomasz Magulski, ?ukasz Or?owski
comments: 11 pages, 6 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4289
abstract: This is continuation of the approach to performing quantum algorithms using geometric structures which was presented by Aerts and Czachor. We solve the Simon's problem which, next to the Shor's alghorithm, is a representative of a quantum hidden subgroup class. We also highlight some advantages resulting from the fact that no quantum mechanics is involved.

id: 0705.4291
title: Relativistically covariant state-dependent cloning of photons
authors: K. Bradler, R. Jauregui
comments: corrected, rewritten and accepted in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4291
abstract: The influence of the relativistic covariance requirement on the optimality of the symmetric state-dependent 1 -> 2 cloning machine is studied. Namely, given a photonic qubit whose basis is formed from the momentum-helicity eigenstates, the change to the optimal cloning fidelity is calculated taking into account the Lorentz covariance unitarily represented by Wigner's little group. To pinpoint some of the interesting results, we found states for which the optimal fidelity of the cloning process drops to 2/3 which corresponds to the fidelity of the optimal classical cloner. Also, an implication for the security of the BB84 protocol is analyzed.

id: 0705.4303
title: Database Manipulation on Quantum Computers
authors: Ahmed Younes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4303
abstract: Manipulating a database system on a quantum computer is an essential aim to benefit from the promising speed-up of quantum computers over classical computers in areas that take a vast amount of storage and processing time such as in databases. In this paper, the basic operations for manipulating the data in a quantum database will be defined, e.g. INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, SELECT, backing up and restoring a database file. This gives the ability to perform the data processing that usually takes a long processing time on a classical database system, in a simultaneous way on a quantum computer. Defining a quantum version of more advanced concepts used in database systems, e.g. the referential integrity and the relational algebra, is a normal extension to this work

id: 0705.4314
title: Entanglement-Assisted Quantum Error Correction with Linear Optics
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Hari Krovi, Todd A. Brun
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, major expansion of paper with detailed example
journal: Physical Review A 76, 052308 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4314
abstract: We construct a theory of continuous-variable entanglement-assisted quantum error correction. We present an example of a continuous-variable entanglement-assisted code that corrects for an arbitrary single-mode error. We also show how to implement encoding circuits using passive optical devices, homodyne measurements, feedforward classical communication, conditional displacements, and off-line squeezers.

id: 0705.4360
title: Bounding Fault-Tolerant Thresholds for Purification and Quantum Computation
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052319 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4360
abstract: In this paper, we place bounds on when it is impossible to purify a noisy two-qubit state if all the gates used in the purification protocol are subject to adversarial local, independent, noise. It is found that the gate operations must be subject to less than 5.3% error. An existing proof that purification is equivalent to error correction is used to show that this bound can also be applied to concatenated error correcting codes in the presence of noisy gates, and hence gives a limit to the tolerable error rate for a fault-tolerant quantum computer formed by concatenation. This is shown to apply also to the case where error detection and post-selection, as proposed by Knill, is used to enhance the threshold. We demonstrate the trade-off between gate/environmentally induced faulty rotations and qubit loss errors.

id: 0705.4373
title: Relationship between the linear entropy, the von Neumann entropy and the atomic Wehrl entropy for the Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, comments are most welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4373
abstract: The linear entropy, the von Neumann entropy and the atomic Wehrl entropy are frequently used to quantify entanglement in the quantum systems. These relations provide typical information on the entanglement in the Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM). In this Letter, we explain the origin of this analytically and derive a closed form for the atomic Wehrl entropy. Moreover, we show that it is more convenient to use the Bloch sphere radius for quantifying entanglement in the JCM instead of these entropic relations.

id: 0705.4376
title: Construction of C operator for a PT symmetric model
authors: R.Roychoudhury, P.Roy
comments: To appear in J.Phys A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4376
abstract: We obtain closed form expression of the C(x,y) operator for the PT symmetric Scarf I potential. It is also shown that the eigenfunctions are complete.

id: 0705.4385
title: Table-top creation of entangled multi-keV photon pairs via the Unruh effect
authors: Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, Gernot Schaller, Dietrich Habs
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4385
abstract: Electrons moving in a strong periodic electromagnetic field (e.g., laser or undulator) may convert quantum vacuum fluctuations into pairs of entangled photons, which can be understood as a signature of the Unruh effect. Apart from verifying this striking phenomenon, the considered effect may allow the construction of a table-top source for entangled photons (``photon pair laser'') and the associated quantum-optics applications in the multi-keV regime with near-future facilities. 04.62.+v, 12.20.Fv, 41.60.-m, 42.50.Dv.

id: 0705.4502
title: Experimental indication of anomalous sensitivity in many-body systems: Deterministic randomness in complex quantum collisions?
authors: Qi Wang, Jian-Long Han, Yu-Chuan Dong, Song-Lin Li, Li-Min Duan, Hu-Shan Xu, Hua-Gen Xu, Ruo-Fu Chen, He-Yu Wu, Zhen Bai, Zhi-Chang Li, Xiu-Qin Lu, Kui Zhao, Jian-Cheng Liu, Guo-Ji Xu, S.Yu. Kun
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4502
abstract: We have experimentally tested a recently suggested possibility for anomalous sensitivity of the cross sections of dissipative heavy ion collisions. Cross sections for the $^{19}$F+$^{27}$Al dissipative collisions were measured at the fixed energy 118.75 MeV of the $^{19}$F for the 12 different beam spots on the same target foil. The data demonstrate dramatic differences between the cross sections for the different beam spots. The effect may indicate deterministic randomness in complex quantum collisions. New experiments are highly desirable in a view of the fundamental importance of the problem.

id: 0705.4522
title: Practical effects in the preparation of cluster states using weak non-linearities
authors: Peter P. Rohde, William J. Munro, Timothy C. Ralph, Peter van Loock, Kae Nemoto
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: QIC 8, 0053 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4522
abstract: We discuss experimental effects in the implementation of a recent scheme for performing bus mediated entangling operations between qubits. Here a bus mode, a strong coherent state, successively undergoes weak Kerr-type non-linear interactions with qubits. A quadrature measurement on the bus then projects the qubits into an entangled state. This approach has the benefit that entangling gates are non-destructive, may be performed non-locally, and there is no need for efficient single photon detection. In this paper we examine practical issues affecting its experimental implementation. In particular, we analyze the effects of post-selection errors, qubit loss, bus loss, mismatched coupling rates and mode-mismatch. We derive error models for these effects and relate them to realistic fault-tolerant thresholds, providing insight into realistic experimental requirements.

id: 0705.4595
title: Experimental demonstration of quantum teleportation of broadband squeezing
authors: Hidehiro Yonezawa, Samuel L. Braunstein, Akira Furusawa
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 110503 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4595
abstract: We demonstrate an unconditional high-fidelity teleporter capable of preserving the broadband entanglement in an optical squeezed state. In particular, we teleport a squeezed state of light and observe $-0.8 \pm 0.2$dB of squeezing in the teleported (output) state. We show that the squeezing criterion translates directly into a sufficient criterion for entanglement of the upper and lower sidebands of the optical field. Thus, this result demonstrates the first unconditional teleportation of broadband entanglement. Our teleporter achieves sufficiently high fidelity to allow the teleportation to be cascaded, enabling, in principle, the construction of deterministic non-Gaussian operations.

id: 0705.4612
title: Modifying quantum walks: A scattering theory approach
authors: Edgar Feldman, Mark Hillery
comments: 22 pages and 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4612
abstract: We show how to construct discrete-time quantum walks on directed, Eulerian graphs. These graphs have tails on which the particle making the walk propagates freely, and this makes it possible to analyze the walks in terms of scattering theory. The probability of entering a graph from one tail and leaving from another can be found from the scattering matrix of the graph. We show how the scattering matrix of a graph that is an automorphic image of the original is related to the scattering matrix of the original graph, and we show how the scattering matrix of the reverse graph is related to that of the original graph. Modifications of graphs and the effects of these modifications are then considered. In particular we show how the scattering matrix of a graph is changed if we remove two tails and replace them with an edge or cut an edge and add two tails. This allows us to combine graphs, that is if we connect two graphs we can construct the scattering matrix of the combined graph from those of its parts. Finally, using these techniques, we show how two graphs can be compared by constructing a larger larger graph in which the two original graphs are in parallel, and performing a quantum walk on the larger graph. This is a kind of quantum walk interferometry.

id: 0705.4631
title: Mach-Zehnder Interferometry at the Heisenberg Limit with coherent and squeezed-vacuum light
authors: L. Pezze', A. Smerzi
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4631
abstract: We show that the phase sensitivity $\Delta \theta$ of a Mach-Zehnder interferometer fed by a coherent state in one input port and squeezed-vacuum in the other one is i) independent from the true value of the phase shift and ii) can reach the Heisenberg limit $\Delta \theta \sim 1/N_T$, where $N_T$ is the average number of particles of the input states. We also show that the Cramer-Rao lower bound, $\Delta \theta \propto 1/ \sqrt{|\alpha|^2 e^{2r} + \sinh^2r}$, can be saturated for arbitrary values of the squeezing parameter $r$ and the amplitude of the coherent mode $|\alpha|$ by a Bayesian phase inference protocol.

id: 0705.4638
title: Time in Quantum Theory
authors: H. D. Zeh
comments: 6 pages pdf - entry for a forthcoming "Compendium of Quantum Physics". Version 2: minor revisions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4638
abstract: The concept of time as used in various applications and interpretations of quantum theory is briefly reviewed.

id: 0705.4647
title: Bell's inequality and universal quantum gates in a cold atom chiral fermionic p-wave superfluid
authors: Chuanwei Zhang, Sumanta Tewari, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures, display problems of figures in previous version are corrected, accepted for publication in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 99, 220502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4647
abstract: We propose and analyze a probabilistic scheme to entangle two spatially separated topological qubits in a $p_{x}+ip_{y}$ superfluid using controlled collisions between atoms in movable dipole traps and unpaired atoms inside vortex cores in the superfluid. We discuss how to test the violation of Bell's inequality with the generated entanglement. A set of universal quantum gates is shown to be implementable \textit{deterministically} using the entanglement despite the fact that the entangled states can only be created probabilistically.

id: 0705.4650
title: Tight bounds on the concurrence of quantum superpositions
authors: J. Niset, N. J. Cerf
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042328 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4650
abstract: The entanglement content of superpositions of quantum states is investigated based on a measure called {\it concurrence}. Given a bipartite pure state in arbitrary dimension written as the quantum superposition of two other such states, we find simple inequalities relating the concurrence of the state to that of its components. We derive an exact expression for the concurrence when the component states are biorthogonal, and provide elegant upper and lower bounds in all other cases. For quantum bits, our upper bound is tighter than the previously derived bound in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 100502 (2006).]

id: 0705.0007
title: An Interferometry-Free Protocol for Demonstrating Topological Order
authors: H. Bombin, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: revtex4, 6 color figures
journal: Phys.Rev.B78:165128,2008
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0007
abstract: We propose a protocol to demonstrate the topological order of a spin-1/2 lattice model with four-body interactions. Unlike other proposals, it does not rely on the controlled movement of quasiparticles, thus eliminating the addressing, decoherence and dynamical phase problems related to them. Rather, the protocol profits from the degeneracy of the ground state. It involves the addition of Zeeman terms to the original Hamiltonian that are used to create holes and move them around in the system.

id: 0705.0173
title: Interference between two independent electrons: observation of two-particle Aharonov-Bohm interference
authors: I. Neder, N. Ofek, Y. Chung, M. Heiblum, D. Mahalu, V. Umansky
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0173
abstract: Very much like the ubiquitous quantum interference of a single particle with itself, quantum interference of two independent, but indistinguishable, particles is also possible. This interference is a direct result of quantum exchange statistics, however, it is observed only in the joint probability to find the particles in two separated detectors. Here we report the first observation of such interference fringes between two independent and non-interacting electrons in an interferometer proposed by Yurke et al. and Samuelsson et al. Our experiment resembles the "Hanbury Brown and Twiss" (HBT) experiment, which was performed with classical waves. In the experiment, two independent and mutually incoherent electron beams were each partitioned into two trajectories. The combined four trajectories enclosed an Aharonov-Bohm (AB) flux (but not the two trajectories of a single electron). While individual currents were found to be independent of the AB flux, as expected, the cross-correlation between current fluctuations in two opposite points across the device exhibited strong AB oscillations. This is a direct signature of orbital entanglement between two electrons even though they never interact with each other.

id: 0705.0261
title: Exact dimer ground states for a continuous family of quantum spin chains
authors: M. Asoudeh, V. Karimipour, A. Sadrolashrafi
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 064433 (2007).
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0261
abstract: Using the matrix product formalism, we define a multi-parameter family of spin models on one dimensional chains, with nearest and next-nearest neighbor anti-ferromagnetic interaction for which exact analytical expressions can be found for its doubly degenerate ground states. The family of Hamiltonians which we define, depend on 5 continuous parameters and the Majumdar-Ghosh model is a particular point in this parameter space. Like the Majumdar-Ghosh model, the doubly degenerate ground states of our models have a very simple structure, they are the product of entangled states on adjacent sites. In each of these states there is a non-zero staggered magnetization, which vanishes when we take their translation-invariant combination as the new ground states. At the Majumdar-Ghosh point, these entangled states become the spin-singlets pertaining to this model. We will also calculate in closed form the two point correlation functions, both for finite size of the chain and in the thermodynamic limit.

id: 0705.0366
title: Comment on ``Intensity correlations and mesoscopic fluctuations of diffusing photons in cold atoms''
authors: B. Gremaud, D. Delande, C.A. Muller, C. Miniatura
comments: 1 page. Comment submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0366
abstract: In a recent Letter (Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{98}, 083601 (2007), arXiv:cond-mat/0610804), O. Assaf and E. Akkermans claim that the angular correlations of the light intensity scattered by a cloud of cold atoms with internal degeneracy (Zeeman sublevels) of the ground state overcome the usual Rayleigh law. More precisely, they found that they become exponentially large with the size of the sample. In what follows, we will explain why their results are wrong and, in contrary, why the internal degeneracy leads to lower intensity correlations.

id: 0705.0567
title: Influence of the extent of the eigenstates of a system on the resonances formed through its coupling to a field
authors: Claude Billionnet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0567
abstract: We examine resonances for two systems consisting of a particle coupled to a massless boson's field. The field is the free field in the whole space. In the first system, the particle is confined inside a ball. We show that besides the usual energy levels of the particle, which have become complex through the coupling to the field, other resonances are to be taken into account if the ball's radius is comparable to the particle's Compton wavelength. In the second system, the particle is in a finite-depth square-well potential. We study the way the resonances' width depends on the extent of the uncoupled particle's wave functions. In both cases, we limit ourselves to considering two levels of the particle only.

id: 0705.0744
title: Classical and Quantum Interaction of the Dipole Revisited
authors: Tomislav Ivezi?
comments: 8 pages, sections are added, minor changes in the text
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0744
abstract: The interaction of the electric and magnetic dipole moments of a particle with the electromagnetic field is investigated in an approach that deals with four-dimensional (4D) geometric quantities. The new commutation relations for the 4D orbital and intrinsic angular momentums and also for the 4D dipole moments are introduced. The expectation value of the quantum 4-force, which holds in any frame, is worked out in terms of them. In contrast to it the whole calculation in [1] ([1] J. Anandan, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{85}, 1354 (2000)) has been made only in the rest frame of the dipole. It is proved that, e.g., the expression for the 3D force $\mathbf{f}%_{S}$ in [1] is not relativistically correct and that the quantum 4-force is not zero in the experiments proposed in [1]. This means that the phase shifts that could be observed in such experiments are not topological phase shifts.

id: 0705.0862
title: Spectrum generating algebras for position-dependent mass oscillator Schrodinger equations
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 21 pages, no figure, 2 misprints corrected; published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 13107-13119
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0862
abstract: The interest of quadratic algebras for position-dependent mass Schr\"odinger equations is highlighted by constructing spectrum generating algebras for a class of d-dimensional radial harmonic oscillators with $d \ge 2$ and a specific mass choice depending on some positive parameter $\alpha$. Via some minor changes, the one-dimensional oscillator on the line with the same kind of mass is included in this class. The existence of a single unitary irreducible representation belonging to the positive-discrete series type for $d \ge 2$ and of two of them for d=1 is proved. The transition to the constant-mass limit $\alpha \to 0$ is studied and deformed su(1,1) generators are constructed. These operators are finally used to generate all the bound-state wavefunctions by an algebraic procedure.

id: 0705.0863
title: Quasi-exactly solvable Fokker-Planck equations
authors: Choon-Lin Ho, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 8 pages, no figures. Sect. IV.C rewritten, and other places slightly modified accordingly. New references added
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0863
abstract: We consider exact and quasi-exact solvability of the one-dimensional Fokker-Planck equation based on the connection between the Fokker-Planck equation and the Schr\"odinger equation. A unified consideration of these two types of solvability is given from the viewpoint of prepotential together with Bethe ansatz equations. Quasi-exactly solvable Fokker-Planck equations related to the $sl(2)$-based systems in Turbiner's classification are listed. We also present one $sl(2)$-based example which is not listed in Turbiner's scheme.

id: 0705.0937
title: Stability of spinor Fermi gases in tight waveguides
authors: A. del Campo, J. G. Muga, M. D. Girardeau
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 013615 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0937
abstract: The two and three-body correlation functions of the ground state of an optically trapped ultracold spin-1/2 Fermi gas (SFG) in a tight waveguide (1D regime) are calculated in the plane of even and odd-wave coupling constants, assuming a 1D attractive zero-range odd-wave interaction induced by a 3D p-wave Feshbach resonance, as well as the usual repulsive zero-range even-wave interaction stemming from 3D s-wave scattering. The calculations are based on the exact mapping from the SFG to a ``Lieb-Liniger-Heisenberg'' model with delta-function repulsions depending on isotropic Heisenberg spin-spin interactions, and indicate that the SFG should be stable against three-body recombination in a large region of the coupling constant plane encompassing parts of both the ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic phases. However, the limiting case of the fermionic Tonks-Girardeau gas (FTG), a spin-aligned 1D Fermi gas with infinitely attractive p-wave interactions, is unstable in this sense. Effects due to the dipolar interaction and a Zeeman term due to a resonance-generating magnetic field do not lead to shrinkage of the region of stability of the SFG.

id: 0705.0943
title: Localization by entanglement
authors: Joachim Brand, Sergej Flach, Victor Fleurov, L. S. Schulmann, Denis Tolkunov
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; final published version with small changes in response to reviewer comments
journal: Europhys. Lett., 83 (2008) 40002
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0943
abstract: We study the localization of bosonic atoms in an optical lattice, which interact in a spatially confined region. The classical theory predicts that there is no localization below a threshold value for the strength of interaction that is inversely proportional to the number of participating atoms. In a full quantum treatment, however, we find that localized states exist for arbitrarily weak attractive or repulsive interactions for any number ($>1$) of atoms. We further show, using an explicit solution of the two-particle bound state and an appropriate measure of entanglement, that the entanglement tends to a finite value in the limit of weak interactions. Coupled with the non-existence of localization in an optimized quantum product state, we conclude that the localization exists by virtue of entanglement.

id: 0705.0975
title: Quantum Interference and Superposition in Cognition: Development of a Theory for the Disjunction of Concepts
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 43 pages, 3 figures
journal: In D. Aerts, J. Broekaert, B. D'Hooghe and N. Note (Eds.), Worldviews, Science and Us: Bridging Knowledge and Its Implications for Our Perspectives of the World. Singapore: World Scientific (2011)
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.0975
abstract: We elaborate a theory for the modeling of concepts using the mathematical structure of quantum mechanics. Concepts are represented by vectors in the complex Hilbert space of quantum mechanics and membership weights of items are modeled by quantum weights calculated following the quantum rules. We apply this theory to model the disjunction of concepts and show that experimental data of membership weights of items with respect to the disjunction of concepts can be modeled accurately. It is the quantum effects of interference and superposition, combined with an effect of context, that are at the origin of the effects of overextension and underextension observed as deviations from a classical use of the disjunction. We put forward a graphical explanation of the effects of overextension and underextension by interpreting the quantum model applied to the modeling of the disjunction of concepts.

id: 0705.1064
title: Critical Casimir Effect in superfluid wetting films
authors: A. Maciolek, A. Gambassi, S. Dietrich
comments: 32 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 76, 031124 (2007)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1064
abstract: Recent experimental data for the complete wetting behavior of pure 4He and of 3He-4He mixtures exposed to solid substrates show that there is a change of the corresponding film thicknesses L upon approaching thermodynamically the lambda-transition and the tricritical end point, respectively, which can be attributed to critical Casimir forces f_C. We calculate the scaling functions vartheta of f_C within models representing the corresponding universality classes. For the mixtures our analysis provides an understanding of the rich behavior of vartheta deduced from the experimental data and predicts the crossover behavior between the tricritical point and the lambda-transition of pure 4He which are connected by a line of critical points. The formation of a 'soft-mode' phase within the wetting films gives rise to a pronounced maximum of f_C below the tricritical point as observed experimentally. Near the tricritical point we find logarithmic corrections ~L^(-3)(ln L)^(1/2) for the leading behavior of vartheta dominating the contributions from the background dispersion forces.

id: 0705.1092
title: The Unruh effect and entanglement generation for accelerated atoms near a reflecting boundary
authors: Jialin Zhang, Hongwei Yu
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D75:104014,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1092
abstract: We study, in the framework of open systems, the entanglement generation of two independent uniformly accelerated atoms in interaction with the vacuum fluctuations of massless scalar fields subjected to a reflecting plane boundary. We demonstrate that, with the presence of the boundary, the accelerated atoms exhibit distinct features from static ones in a thermal bath at the corresponding Unruh temperature in terms of the entanglement creation at the neighborhood of the initial time. In this sense, accelerated atoms in vacuum do not necessarily have to behave as if they were static in a thermal bath at the Unruh temperature.

id: 0705.1104
title: Large nuclear Overhauser fields detected in vertically-coupled double quantum dots
authors: J. Baugh, Y. Kitamura, K. Ono, S. Tarucha
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, rev-tex. Improved presentation of figures 1-3, also added SEM image to figure 1. Minor changes to discussion section, and added a concluding paragraph
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 096804 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1104
abstract: We report the electrical induction and detection of dynamic nuclear polarization in the spin-blockade regime of double GaAs vertical quantum dots. The largest Overhauser field observed was about 4 Tesla, corresponding to a nuclear polarization of about 40% in the present device. A phenomenological model is presented to provide a qualitative understanding of our results.

id: 0705.1137
title: Some problems of low-dimensional physics
authors: Yuri Kornyushin
comments: Zero boundary conditions model is applied to calculate Fermi and kinetic energies, and to derive conditions of low-dimensional movement. Useful for students. Russian version included
journal: Facta Universitatis, Series: Physics, Chemistry and Technology Vol. 2, No 3, 2001, pp. 35 - 39
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1137
abstract: Fermi and kinetic energy are usually calculated in periodic boundary conditions model, which is not self-consistent for low-dimensional problems, where particles are confined. Thus for confined particles the potential box model was used self-consistently to calculate Fermi and kinetic energies in 3-, 2-, and 1-dimensional cases. This approach is much more logical and self-consistent. Then the conditions for neglecting dimensions, that is conditions under which the movement of particles in the box could be considered as 2- and 1- dimensional, were derived.

id: 0705.1197
title: Passive Cooling of a Micromechanical Oscillator with a Resonant Electric Circuit
authors: K. R. Brown, J. Britton, R. J. Epstein, J. Chiaverini, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; minor changes to match published version
journal: Physical Review Letters 99, 137205 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1197
abstract: We cool the fundamental mode of a miniature cantilever by capacitively coupling it to a driven rf resonant circuit. Cooling results from the rf capacitive force, which is phase shifted relative to the cantilever motion. We demonstrate the technique by cooling a 7 kHz cantilever from room temperature to 45 K, obtaining reasonable agreement with a model for the cooling, damping, and frequency shift. Extending the method to higher frequencies in a cryogenic system could enable ground state cooling and may prove simpler than related optical experiments in a low temperature apparatus.

id: 0705.1232
title: Nontrivial quantum effects in biology: A skeptical physicists' view
authors: H.M. Wiseman, J. Eisert
comments: 15 pages, minor typographical errors corrected
journal: In "Quantum Aspects of Life", Eds. D. Abbott, P.C.W. Davies, A.K. Pati, chapter 17 (Imperial College Press, London, 2008).
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1232
abstract: Invited contribution to "Quantum Aspects of Life", D. Abbott Ed. (World Scientific, Singapore, 2007).

id: 0705.1276
title: Subadditivity of q-entropies for q>1
authors: Koenraad M.R. Audenaert
comments: 2 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48, 083507 (2007)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1276
abstract: I prove a basic inequality for Schatten q-norms of quantum states on a finite-dimensional bipartite Hilbert space H_1\otimes H_2: 1+||\rho||_q \ge ||\trace_1\rho||_q + ||\trace_2\rho||_q. This leads to a proof--in the finite dimensional case--of Raggio's conjecture (G.A. Raggio, J. Math. Phys.\ \textbf{36}, 4785--4791 (1995)) that the q-entropies S_q(\rho)=(1-\trace[\rho^q])/(q-1) are subadditive for q > 1; that is, for any state \rho, S_q(\rho) is not greater than the sum of the S_q of its reductions, S_q(\rho) \le S_q(\trace_1\rho)+S_q(\trace_2\rho).

id: 0705.1380
title: A Josephson Junction Microscope for Low-frequency Fluctuators
authors: L. Tian, R. W. Simmonds
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1380
abstract: The high-Q harmonic oscillator mode of a Josephson junction can be used as a novel probe of spurious two-level systems (TLSs) inside the amorphous oxide tunnel barriers of the junction. In particular, we show that spectroscopic transmission measurements of the junction resonator mode can reveal how the coupling magnitude between the junction and the TLSs varies with an external magnetic field applied in the plane of the tunnel barrier. The proposed experiments offer the possibility of clearly resolving the underlying coupling mechanism for these spurious TLSs, an important decoherence source limiting the quality of superconducting quantum devices.

id: 0705.1407
title: On the dense point and absolutely continuous spectrum for Hamiltonians with concentric $¦Ä$ shells
authors: Pavel Exner, Martin Fraas
comments: LaTeX 2e, 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1407
abstract: We consider Schr\"odinger operator in dimension $d\ge 2$ with a singular interaction supported by an infinite family of concentric spheres, analogous to a system studied by Hempel and coauthors for regular potentials. The essential spectrum covers a halfline determined by the appropriate one-dimensional comparison operator; it is dense pure point in the gaps of the latter. If the interaction is radially periodic, there are absolutely continuous bands; in contrast to the regular case the measure of the p.p. segments does not vanish in the high-energy limit.

id: 0705.1418
title: Theory of Macroscopic Quantum Tunneling in High-T_c c-Axis Josephson Junctions
authors: Takehito Yokoyama, Shiro Kawabata, Takeo Kato, Yukio Tanaka
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 134501 (2007)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1418
abstract: We study macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) in c-axis twist Josephson junctions made of high-T_c superconductors in order to clarify the influence of the anisotropic order parameter symmetry (OPS) on MQT. The dependence of the MQT rate on the twist angle $\gamma$ about the c-axis is calculated by using the functional integral and the bounce method. Due to the d-wave OPS, the $\gamma$ dependence of standard deviation of the switching current distribution and the crossover temperature from thermal activation to MQT are found to be given by $\cos2\gamma$ and $\sqrt{\cos2\gamma}$, respectively. We also show that a dissipative effect resulting from the nodal quasiparticle excitation on MQT is negligibly small, which is consistent with recent MQT experiments using Bi${}_2$Sr${}_2$CaCu${}_2$O${}_{8 + \delta}$ intrinsic junctions. These results indicate that MQT in c-axis twist junctions becomes a useful experimental tool for testing the OPS of high-T_c materials at low temperature, and suggest high potential of such junctions for qubit applications.

id: 0705.1631
title: Transverse magnetization and transient oscillations in the quantum tunneling of molecular magnets
authors: Maxime Clusel, Timothy Ziman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1631
abstract: We calculate the response of a molecular magnet subject to a time-varying magnetic field and coupled to a heat bath. We propose that observations of calculated oscillations transverse to the field direction may be an effective way of demonstrating quantum tunneling and thus probing the details of level repulsion. The effective model of a triangle of Heisenberg spins and weak anisotropies, as has been used to model the molecular magnets V15 and Cu3, is used to illustrate this.

id: 0705.1740
title: General Quantum Modeling of Combining Concepts: A Quantum Field Model in Fock Space
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 51 pages, 7 figures, submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1740
abstract: We extend a quantum model in Hilbert space developed in Aerts (2007a) into a quantum field theoric model in Fock space for the modeling of the combination of concepts. Items and concepts are represented by vectors in Fock space and membership weights of items are modeled by quantum probabilities. We apply this theory to model the disjunction of concepts and show that the predictions of our theory for the membership weights of items regarding the disjunction of concepts match with great accuracy the complete set of results of an experiment conducted by Hampton (1988b). It are the quantum effects of interference and superposition of that are at the origin of the effects of overextension and underextension observed by Hampton as deviations from a classical use of the disjunction. It is essential for the perfect matches we obtain between the predictions of the quantum field model and Hampton's experimental data that items can be in superpositions of `different numbers states' which proves that the genuine structure of quantum field theory is needed to match predictions with experimental data.

id: 0705.1964
title: Cooling Torsional Nanomechanical Vibration by Spin-Orbit Interactions
authors: Nan Zhao, D.L. Zhou, Jia-Lin Zhu, C.P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1964
abstract: We propose and study a spin-orbit interaction based mechanism to actively cool down the torsional vibration of a nanomechanical resonator made by semiconductor materials. We show that the spin-orbit interactions of electrons can induce a coherent coupling between the electron spins and the torsional modes of nanomechanical vibration. This coherent coupling leads to an active cooling for the torsional modes via the dynamical thermalization of the resonator and the spin ensemble.

id: 0705.1988
title: The Resolvent Algebra: A New Approach to Canonical Quantum Systems
authors: Detlev Buchholz, Hendrik Grundling
comments: 52 pages, no figures; v3: as to appear in Journal of Functional Analysis
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.1988
abstract: The standard C*-algebraic version of the algebra of canonical commutation relations, the Weyl algebra, frequently causes difficulties in applications since it neither admits the formulation of physically interesting dynamical laws nor does it incorporate pertinent physical observables such as (bounded functions of) the Hamiltonian. Here a novel C*-algebra of the canonical commutation relations is presented which does not suffer from such problems. It is based on the resolvents of the canonical operators and their algebraic relations. The resulting C*-algebra, the resolvent algebra, is shown to have many desirable analytic properties and the regularity structure of its representations is surprisingly simple. Moreover, the resolvent algebra is a convenient framework for applications to interacting and to constrained quantum systems, as we demonstrate by several examples.

id: 0705.2070
title: Power-law corrections to entanglement entropy of horizons
authors: Saurya Das, S. Shankaranarayanan, Sourav Sur
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D77:064013,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2070
abstract: We re-examine the idea that the origin of black-hole entropy may lie in the entanglement of quantum fields between inside and outside of the horizon. Motivated by the observation that certain modes of gravitational fluctuations in a black-hole background behave as scalar fields, we compute the entanglement entropy of such a field, by tracing over its degrees of freedom inside a sphere. We show that while this entropy is proportional to the area of the sphere when the field is in its ground state, a correction term proportional to a fractional power of area results when the field is in a superposition of ground and excited states. The area law is thus recovered for large areas. Further, we identify location of the degrees of freedom that give rise to the above entropy.

id: 0705.2257
title: Some geometric features of Berry's phase
authors: Alejandro Cabrera
comments: No figures, refs added, minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2257
abstract: In this letter, we elaborate on the identification and construction of the differential geometric elements underlying Berry's phase. Berry bundles are built generally from the physical data of the quantum system under study. We apply this construction to typical and recently investigated systems presenting Berry's phase to explore their geometric features.

id: 0705.2350
title: Decoherence of many-spin systems in NMR: From molecular characterization to an environmentally induced quantum dynamical phase transition
authors: Gonzalo A. Alvarez
comments: PhD Thesis, Universidad Nacional de Cordoba, 2007. 147 pages, 45 figures; arXiv admin note: The size of the PDF file apparently causes problems with PDF browser plug-ins. Be sure to instead download and open the PDF in a separate application
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2350
abstract: The control of open quantum systems has a fundamental relevance for fields ranging from quantum information processing to nanotechnology. Typically, the system whose coherent dynamics one wants to manipulate, interacts with an environment that smoothly degrades its quantum dynamics. Thus, a precise understanding of the inner mechanisms of this process, called "decoherence", is critical to develop strategies to control the quantum dynamics. In this thesis we solved the generalized Liouville-von Neumann quantum master equation to obtain the dynamics of many-spin systems interacting with a spin bath. We also solve the spin dynamics within the Keldysh formalism. Both methods lead to identical solutions and together gave us the possibility to obtain numerous physical predictions that contrast well with Nuclear Magnetic Resonance experiments. We applied these tools for molecular characterizations, development of new numerical methodologies and the control of quantum dynamics in experimental implementations. But, more important, these results contributed to fundamental physical interpretations of how quantum dynamics behaves in open systems. In particular, we found a manifestation of an environmentally induced quantum dynamical phase transition.

id: 0705.2357
title: The inevitable nonlinearity of quantum gravity falsifies the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: T. P. Singh
comments: 6 pages. Honorable Mention in Gravity Research Foundation Essay Competition 2007. This is also a summary of a talk given at the Meeting `Himalayan Relativity Dialogue', Mirik, India, 18-20 April, 2007. Detailed version of this essay is in preparation
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.D17:611-615,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2357
abstract: There are fundamental reasons as to why there should exist a reformulation of quantum mechanics which does not refer to a classical spacetime manifold. It follows as a consequence that quantum mechanics as we know it is a limiting case of a more general nonlinear quantum theory, with the nonlinearity becoming significant at the Planck mass/energy scale. This nonlinearity is responsible for a dynamically induced collapse of the wave-function, during a quantum measurement, and it hence falsifies the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics. We illustrate this conclusion using a mathematical model based on a generalized Doebner-Goldin equation. The non-Hermitian part of the Hamiltonian in this norm-preserving, nonlinear, Schrodinger equation dominates during a quantum measurement, and leads to a breakdown of linear superposition.

id: 0705.2365
title: The issue of photons in dielectrics: Hamiltonian viewpoint
authors: S. Antoci, L. Mihich
comments: 12 pages, one figure; text to appear in Nuovo Cimento B
journal: Nuovo Cim.B122:413-424, 2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2365
abstract: The definition of the photon in the vacuum of general relativity provided by Kermack et al. and by Synge is extended to nondispersive, nonhomogeneous, isotropic dielectrics in arbitrary motion by Hamiltonian methods that rely on Gordon's effective metric. By these methods the old dilemma, whether the momentum-energy vector of the photon in dielectrics is timelike or spacelike in character, is shown to reappear under a novel guise.

id: 0705.2487
title: A "hybrid plane" with spin-orbit interaction
authors: Pavel Exner, Petr ?eba
comments: LaTeX, 9 pages; in memoriam Vladimir A. Geyler (1943-2007)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2487
abstract: In this paper we attempt to reconstruct one of the last projects of Volodya Geyler which remained unfinished. We study motion of a quantum particle in the plane to which a halfline lead is attached assuming that the particle has spin $\frac12$ and the plane component of the Hamiltonian contains a spin-orbit interaction of either Rashba or Dresselhaus type. We construct the class of admissible Hamiltonians and derive an explicit expression for the Green function applying it to the scattering in such a system.

id: 0705.2577
title: Quadratic Algebra Approach to an Exactly Solvable Position-Dependent Mass Schr?dinger Equation in Two Dimensions
authors: Christiane Quesne
comments: Published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 3 (2007), 067, 14 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2577
abstract: An exactly solvable position-dependent mass Schr\"odinger equation in two dimensions, depicting a particle moving in a semi-infinite layer, is re-examined in the light of recent theories describing superintegrable two-dimensional systems with integrals of motion that are quadratic functions of the momenta. To get the energy spectrum a quadratic algebra approach is used together with a realization in terms of deformed parafermionic oscillator operators. In this process, the importance of supplementing algebraic considerations with a proper treatment of boundary conditions for selecting physical wavefunctions is stressed. Some new results for matrix elements are derived. This example emphasizes the interest of a quadratic algebra approach to position-dependent mass Schr\"odinger equations.

id: 0705.2611
title: How does Casimir energy fall? II. Gravitational acceleration of quantum vacuum energy
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Prachi Parashar, K. V. Shajesh, Jef Wagner
comments: 8 pages, no figures, REVTeX4, appendix and references added
journal: J.Phys.A40:10935-10943,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2611
abstract: It has been demonstrated that quantum vacuum energy gravitates according to the equivalence principle, at least for the finite Casimir energies associated with perfectly conducting parallel plates. We here add further support to this conclusion by considering parallel semitransparent plates, that is, delta-function potentials, acting on a massless scalar field, in a spacetime defined by Rindler coordinates (tau,x,y,xi). Fixed xi in such a spacetime represents uniform acceleration. We calculate the force on systems consisting of one or two such plates at fixed values of xi. In the limit of large Rindler coordinate xi (small acceleration), we recover (via the equivalence principle) the situation of weak gravity, and find that the gravitational force on the system is just Mg, where g is the gravitational acceleration and M is the total mass of the system, consisting of the mass of the plates renormalized by the Casimir energy of each plate separately, plus the energy of the Casimir interaction between the plates. This reproduces the previous result in the limit as the coupling to the delta-function potential approaches infinity.

id: 0705.2841
title: Husimi-Wigner representation of chaotic eigenstates
authors: Fabricio Toscano, Anatole Kenfack, Andre R. R. Carvalho, Jan M. Rost, Alfredo M. Ozorio de Almeida
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures (6 color figures), submitted to Proc. R. Soc. A
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2841
abstract: Just as a coherent state may be considered as a quantum point, its restriction to a factor space of the full Hilbert space can be interpreted as a quantum plane. The overlap of such a factor coherent state with a full pure state is akin to a quantum section. It defines a reduced pure state in the cofactor Hilbert space. The collection of all the Wigner functions corresponding to a full set of parallel quantum sections defines the Husimi-Wigner reresentation. It occupies an intermediate ground between drastic suppression of nonclassical features, characteristic of Husimi functions, and the daunting complexity of higher dimensional Wigner functions. After analysing these features for simpler states, we exploit this new representation as a probe of numerically computed eigenstates of chaotic Hamiltonians. The individual two-dimensional Wigner functions resemble those of semiclassically quantized states, but the regular ring pattern is broken by dislocations.

id: 0705.2868
title: Non-Hermitian oscillator Hamiltonian and su(1,1): a way towards generalizations
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 11 pages, no figure; changes in title and in paragraphs 3 and 5; final published version
journal: J.Phys.A40:F745-F751,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2868
abstract: The family of metric operators, constructed by Musumbu {\sl et al} (2007 {\sl J. Phys. A: Math. Theor.} {\bf 40} F75), for a harmonic oscillator Hamiltonian augmented by a non-Hermitian $\cal PT$-symmetric part, is re-examined in the light of an su(1,1) approach. An alternative derivation, only relying on properties of su(1,1) generators, is proposed. Being independent of the realization considered for the latter, it opens the way towards the construction of generalized non-Hermitian (not necessarily $\cal PT$-symmetric) oscillator Hamiltonians related by similarity to Hermitian ones. Some examples of them are reviewed.

id: 0705.2960
title: Quantum dissipative effects in moving mirrors: a functional approach
authors: C. D. Fosco, F. C. Lombardo, F. D. Mazzitelli
comments: References added. Version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D76:085007,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.2960
abstract: We use a functional approach to study various aspects of the quantum effective dynamics of moving, planar, dispersive mirrors, coupled to scalar or Dirac fields, in different numbers of dimensions. We first compute the Euclidean effective action, and use it to derive the imaginary part of the `in-out' effective action. We also obtain, for the case of the real scalar field in 1+1 dimensions, the Schwinger-Keldysh effective action and a semiclassical Langevin equation that describes the motion of the mirror including noise and dissipative effects due to its coupling to the quantum fields.

id: 0705.3033
title: Two-photon transitions in hydrogen and cosmological recombination
authors: J. Chluba, R.A. Sunyaev
comments: 20 pages, 13 figures, 4 tables, accepted version
journal: 
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3033
abstract: We study the two-photon process for the transitions ns --> 1s and nd --> 1s in hydrogen up to large n. For n<=20 we provide simple analytic fitting formulae to describe the non-resonant part of the two-photon emission profiles. Combining these with the analytic form of the cascade-term yields a simple and accurate description of the full two-photon decay spectrum, which only involves a sum over a few intermediate states. We demonstrate that the cascade term naturally leads to a nearly Lorentzian shape of the two-photon profiles in the vicinity of the resonances. However, due to quantum-electrodynamical corrections, the two-photon emission spectra deviate significantly from the Lorentzian shape in the very distant wings of the resonances. We investigate up to which distance the two-photon profiles are close to a Lorentzian and discuss the role of the interference term. We then analyze how the deviation of the two-photon profiles from the Lorentzian shape affects the dynamics of cosmological hydrogen recombination. Since in this context the escape of photons from the Lyman-alpha resonance plays a crucial role, we concentrate on the two-photon corrections in the vicinity of the Lyman-alpha line. Our computations show that the changes in the ionization history due to the additional two-photon process from high shell (n>2) likely do not reach the percent-level. For conservative assumptions we find a correction DN_e/N_e~-0.4% at redshift z~1160. This is numerically similar to the result of another recent study; however, the physics leading to this conclusion is rather different. In particular, our calculations of the effective two-photon decay rates yield significantly different values, where the destructive interference of the resonant and non-resonant terms plays a crucial role in this context (abridged)

id: 0705.3146
title: Elementary Proof for Asymptotics of Large Haar-Distributed Unitary Matrices
authors: Christian Mastrodonato, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 
journal: Letters in Mathematical Physics 82 (2007) 51-59
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3146
abstract: We provide an elementary proof for a theorem due to Petz and R\'effy which states that for a random $n\times n$ unitary matrix with distribution given by the Haar measure on the unitary group U(n), the upper left (or any other) $k\times k$ submatrix converges in distribution, after multiplying by a normalization factor $\sqrt{n}$ and as $n\to\infty$, to a matrix of independent complex Gaussian random variables with mean 0 and variance 1.

id: 0705.3147
title: Mesoporous matrices for quantum computation with improved response through redundance
authors: T. Hodgson, M. Bertino, N. Leventis, I. D'Amico
comments: To be published in Journal of Applied Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3147
abstract: We present a solid state implementation of quantum computation, which improves previously proposed optically driven schemes. Our proposal is based on vertical arrays of quantum dots embedded in a mesoporous material which can be fabricated with present technology. The redundant encoding typical of the chosen hardware protects the computation against gate errors and the effects of measurement induced noise. The system parameters required for quantum computation applications are calculated for II-VI and III-V materials and found to be within the experimental range. The proposed hardware may help minimize errors due to polydispersity of dot sizes, which is at present one of the main problems in relation to quantum dot-based quantum computation.

id: 0705.3315
title: Suppression of correlated electron escape in double ionization in strong laser fields
authors: Bruno Eckhardt, Jakub S. Prauzner-Bechcicki, Krzysztof Sacha, Jakub Zakrzewski
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 015402 (2008).
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3315
abstract: The effect of the Pauli exclusion principle on double ionization of He atoms by strong, linearly polarized laser pulses is analyzed. We show that correlated electron escape, with electron momenta symmetric with respect to the field polarization axis, is suppressed if atoms are initially prepared in the metastable state 3S. The effect is a consequence of selection rules for the transition to the appropriate outgoing two-electron states. We illustrate the suppression in numerical calculations of electron and ion momentum distributions within a reduced dimensionality model.

id: 0705.3542
title: Is quantum field theory a genuine quantum theory? Foundational insights on particles and strings
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 10 pages, revised, new references, to appear in Europhys. Lett
journal: Europhys. Lett.85:20003, 2009; Europhys.Lett.85:20003,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3542
abstract: Practically measurable quantities resulting from quantum field theory are not described by hermitian operators, contradicting one of the cornerstone axioms of orthodox quantum theory. This could be a sign that some of the axioms of orthodox quantum theory should be reformulated. A non-orthodox reformulation of quantum theory based on integral curves of particle currents is advocated and possible measurable manifestations are discussed. The consistency with particle creation and destruction requires particles to be extended objects, which can be viewed as a new derivation of string theory. Within this reformulation, an indirect low-energy test of string theory is also possible.

id: 0705.3557
title: Optical investigations of quantum-dot spin dynamics
authors: Jan Dreiser, Mete Atature, Christophe Galland, Tina Muller, Antonio Badolato, Atac Imamoglu
comments: submitted to Physical Review B, 19 Pages in RevTeX4 format
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3557
abstract: We have performed all-optical measurements of spin relaxation in single self-assembled InAs/GaAs quantum dots (QD) as a function of static external electric and magnetic fields. To study QD spin dynamics we measure the degree of resonant absorption which results from a competition between optical spin pumping induced by the resonant laser field and spin relaxation induced by reservoirs. Fundamental interactions that determine spin dynamics in QDs are hyperfine coupling to QD nuclear spin ensembles, spin-phonon coupling and exchange-type interactions with a nearby Fermi sea of electrons. We show that the strength of spin relaxation generated by the three fundamental interactions can be changed by up to five orders of magnitude upon varying the applied electric and magnetic fields. We find that the strength of optical spin pumping that we use to study the spin relaxation is determined predominantly by hyperfine-induced mixing of single-electron spin states at low magnetic fields and heavy-light hole mixing at high magnetic fields. Our measurements allow us to determine the rms value of the hyperfine (Overhauser) field to be ~15 mTesla with an electron g-factor of g_e=0.6 and a hole mixing strength of |epsilon|^2 = 0.0005.

id: 0705.3895
title: Towards Understanding the Origin of Genetic Languages
authors: Apoorva D. Patel
comments: (v1) 33 pages, contributed chapter to "Quantum Aspects of Life", edited by D. Abbott, P. Davies and A. Pati, (v2) published version with some editing
journal: Chapter 10, Quantum Aspects of Life, Imperial College Press (2008), pp.187-219
subjects: Genomics (q-bio.GN); Information Theory (cs.IT); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3895
abstract: Molecular biology is a nanotechnology that works--it has worked for billions of years and in an amazing variety of circumstances. At its core is a system for acquiring, processing and communicating information that is universal, from viruses and bacteria to human beings. Advances in genetics and experience in designing computers have taken us to a stage where we can understand the optimisation principles at the root of this system, from the availability of basic building blocks to the execution of tasks. The languages of DNA and proteins are argued to be the optimal solutions to the information processing tasks they carry out. The analysis also suggests simpler predecessors to these languages, and provides fascinating clues about their origin. Obviously, a comprehensive unraveling of the puzzle of life would have a lot to say about what we may design or convert ourselves into.

id: 0705.3923
title: Improving Intrinsic Decoherence in Multi-Quantum-Dot Charge Qubits
authors: Martina Hentschel, Diego C. B. Valente, Eduardo R. Mucciolo, Harold U. Baranger
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 235309 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3923
abstract: We discuss decoherence in charge qubits formed by multiple lateral quantum dots in the framework of the spin-boson model and the Born-Markov approximation. We consider the intrinsic decoherence caused by the coupling to bulk phonon modes. Two distinct quantum dot configurations are studied: (i) Three quantum dots in a ring geometry with one excess electron in total and (ii) arrays of quantum dots where the computational basis states form multipole charge configurations. For the three-dot qubit, we demonstrate the possibility of performing one- and two-qubit operations by solely tuning gate voltages. Compared to the proposal by DiVincenzo {\it et al.} involving a linear three-dot spin qubit, the three-dot charge qubit allows for less overhead on two-qubit operations. For small interdot tunnel amplitudes, the three-dot qubits have $Q$ factors much higher than those obtained for double dot systems. The high-multipole dot configurations also show a substantial decrease in decoherence at low operation frequencies when compared to the double-dot qubit.

id: 0705.3928
title: Dissipative Hofstadter Model at the Magic Points and Critical Boundary Sine-Gordon Model
authors: Seungmuk Ji, Ja-Yong Koo, Taejin Lee
comments: 6 pages, to be published in J. Koean. Physics. Soc. (2007)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3928
abstract: The dissipative Hofstadter model describes quantum particles moving in two dimensions subject to a uniform magnetic field, a periodic potential and a dissipative force. We discuss the dissipative Hofstadter model in the framework of the boundary state formulation in string theory and construct exact boundary states for the model at the magic points by using the fermion representation. The dissipative Hofstadter model at magic points is shown to be equivalent to the critical boundary sine-Gordon model.

id: 0705.3930
title: Boundary State for Dissipative Quantum Mechanics and Thirring Model
authors: Taejin Lee
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3930
abstract: The dissipative quantum system is studied using the Thirring model with a boundary mass. At the critical point where the Thirring coupling vanishes, the theory reduces to a free fermion theory with a boundary mass. We construct boundary states for the dissipative quantum systems in one dimension, which describes the system off the critical points as well as at the critical points.

id: 0705.4275
title: Solution of the Dirac equation in presence of an uniform magnetic field
authors: Kaushik Bhattacharya
comments: 16 pages latex file. Some errors corrected and some new material added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4275
abstract: In this work we discuss the properties of the solutions of the Dirac equation in presence of an uniform background magnetic field. In particular we focus on the nature of the solutions, their ortho-normality properties and how these solutions depend on the choice of the vector potential giving rise to the magnetic field. We explicitly calculate the spin-sum of the solutions and using it we calculate the propagator of the electron in presence of an uniform background magnetic field.

id: 0705.4361
title: Frustration-driven QPT in the 1D extended anisotropic Heisenberg model
authors: E. Plekhanov, A. Avella, F. Mancini
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, to be presented at CSMAG-07 Kosice, Slovakia, July 2007
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4361
abstract: By using Density Matrix Renormalization Group (DMRG) technique we study the 1D extended anisotropic Heisenberg model. We find that starting from the ferromagnetic phase, the system undergoes two quantum phase transitions (QPTs) induced by frustration. By increasing the next-nearest-neighbor (NNN) interaction, the ground state of the system changes smoothly from a completely polarized state to a NNN correlated one. On the contrary, letting the in-plane interaction to be greater than the out-of-plane one, the ground state changes abruptly.

id: 0705.4393
title: Semiclassical scalar propagators in curved backgrounds: formalism and ambiguities
authors: J. Grain, A. Barrau
comments: New materials on gravitationally-induced quantum interferences has been added
journal: Phys.Rev.D76:084009,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4393
abstract: The phenomenology of quantum systems in curved space-times is among the most fascinating fields of physics, allowing --often at the gedankenexperiment level-- constraints on tentative theories of quantum gravity. Determining the dynamics of fields in curved backgrounds remains however a complicated task because of the highly intricate partial differential equations involved, especially when the space metric exhibits no symmetry. In this article, we provide --in a pedagogical way-- a general formalism to determine this dynamics at the semiclassical order. To this purpose, a generic expression for the semiclassical propagator is computed and the equation of motion for the probability four-current is derived. Those results underline a direct analogy between the computation of the propagator in general relativistic quantum mechanics and the computation of the propagator for stationary systems in non-relativistic quantum mechanics. A possible application of this formalism to curvature-induced quantum interferences is also discussed.

id: 0705.4413
title: Entanglement in the 1D extended anisotropic Heisenberg model
authors: E. Plekhanov, A. Avella, F. Mancini
comments: 2 pages, 3 figures, presented at SCES'07 Houston, May 2007
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4413
abstract: We present a study of entanglement in the case of the 1D extended anisotropic Heisenberg model. We investigate two quantum phase transitions (QPTs) within the previously found ergodicity phase diagram [E. Plekhanov, A. Avella, and F. Mancini Phys. Rev. B \textbf{74}, 115120 (2006)]. Our calculations are done by means of the numerically exact Lanczos method at T=0, followed by a finite-size scaling. As a measure of entanglement we use the concurrence for two spins out of the system. We conclude from our studies that these QPTs are accompanied by a qualitative entanglement change.

id: 0705.4513
title: Pair correlated atoms with a twist
authors: Uffe V. Poulsen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 9 pages, to be published in PRA with higher quality figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4513
abstract: We present an analysis of the quantum state resulting from the dissociation of diatomic molecules prepared in a condensate vortex state. The many-body state preserves the rotational symmetry of the system in quantum correlated states by having two equally populated components with angular momentum adding to unity. A simple two-mode analysis and a full quantum field analysis is presented for the case of non-interacting atoms and weak depletion of the molecular condensate.

id: 0705.4548
title: A permanent formula for the Jones polynomial
authors: Martin Loebl, Iain Moffatt
comments: To appear in Advances in Applied Mathematics
journal: Adv. in Appl. Math., 47 (2011) 659-667
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4548
abstract: The permanent of a square matrix is defined in a way similar to the determinant, but without using signs. The exact computation of the permanent is hard, but there are Monte-Carlo algorithms that can estimate general permanents. Given a planar diagram of a link L with $n$ crossings, we define a 7n by 7n matrix whose permanent equals to the Jones polynomial of L. This result accompanied with recent work of Freedman, Kitaev, Larson and Wang provides a Monte-Carlo algorithm to any decision problem belonging to the class BQP, i.e. such that it can be computed with bounded error in polynomial time using quantum resources.

id: 0705.4549
title: Quantum-theoretical description of the cosmological constant as the zero-point energy
authors: Budh Ram
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4549
abstract: The present paper seeks to construct a quantum theory of the cosmological constant in which its presently observed very small value emerges naturally.

id: 0705.4556
title: Quantization of symplectic vector spaces over finite fields
authors: Shamgar Gurevich, Ronny Hadani
comments: Results obtained: March 2005 (under the direction of Ph.D. advisor Joseph Bernstein, Tel-Aviv, Israel) Keywords: Strong Stone-von Neumann theorem, canonocal Hilbert space, quantization functor, Weil representation
journal: Journal of Symplectic Geometry, Volume 7, Number 4, 1-28, 2009
subjects: Representation Theory (math.RT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4556
abstract: In this paper, we construct a quantization functor, associating a complex vector space H(V) to a finite dimensional symplectic vector space V over a finite field of odd characteristic. As a result, we obtain a canonical model for the Weil representation of the symplectic group Sp(V). The main new technical result is a proof of a stronger form of the Stone-von Neumann property for the Heisenberg group. Our result answers, for the case of the Heisenberg group, a question of Kazhdan about the possible existence of a canonical vector space attached to a coadjoint orbit of a general unipotent group over finite field.

id: 0705.3746
title: Ramsey interferometry with a two-level Tonks-Girardeau gas
authors: S. V. Mousavi, A. del Campo, I. Lizuain, J. G. Muga
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 033607 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.3746
abstract: We propose a generalization of the Tonks-Girardeau model that describes a coherent gas of cold two-level Bosons which interact with two external fields in a Ramsey interferometer. They also interact among themselves by contact collisions with interchange of momentum and internal state. We study the corresponding Ramsey fringes and the quantum projection noise which, essentially unaffected by the interactions, remains that for ideal Bosons. The dual system of this gas, an ideal gas of two-level Fermions coupled by the interaction with the separated fields, produces the same fringes and noise fluctuations. The cases of time-separated and spatially-separated fields are studied. For spatially separated fields the fringes may be broadened slightly by increasing the number of particles, but only for large particle numbers far from present experiments with Tonks-Girardeau gases. The uncertainty in the determination of the atomic transition frequency diminishes, essentially with the inverse root of the particle number.

