id: 0706.0020
title: A 3-Stranded Quantum Algorithm for the Jones Polynomial
authors: Louis H. Kauffman, Samuel J. Lomonaco, Jr
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures, to appear in Proc. SPIE, 6573-29, (2007)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0020
abstract: Let K be a 3-stranded knot (or link), and let L denote the number of crossings in K. Let $\epsilon_{1}$ and $\epsilon_{2}$ be two positive real numbers such that $\epsilon_{2}$ is less than or equal to 1. In this paper, we create two algorithms for computing the value of the Jones polynomial of K at all points $t=exp(i\phi)$ of the unit circle in the complex plane such that the absolute value of $\phi$ is less than or equal to $\pi/3$. The first algorithm, called the classical 3-stranded braid (3-SB) algorithm, is a classical deterministic algorithm that has time complexity O(L). The second, called the quantum 3-SB algorithm, is a quantum algorithm that computes an estimate of the Jones polynomial of K at $exp(i\phi))$ within a precision of $\epsilon_{1}$ with a probability of success bounded below by $1-\epsilon_{2}%. The execution time complexity of this algorithm is O(nL), where n is the ceiling function of (ln(4/\epsilon_{2}))/(2(\epsilon_{2})^2). The compilation time complexity, i.e., an asymptotic measure of the amount of time to assemble the hardware that executes the algorithm, is O(L).

id: 0706.0062
title: Teleportation of massive particles without shared entanglement
authors: A. S. Bradley, M. K. Olsen, S. A. Haine, J. J. Hope
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0062
abstract: We propose a method for quantum state transfer from one atom laser beam to another via an intermediate optical field, using Raman incoupling and outcoupling techniques. Our proposal utilises existing experimental technologies to teleport macroscopic matter waves over potentially large distances without shared entanglement.

id: 0706.0064
title: Nanocrystals in silicon photonic crystal standing-wave cavities as spin-photon phase gates for quantum information processing
authors: Yun-Feng Xiao, Jie Gao, Xiaodong Yang, Ranojoy Bose, Guang-Can Guo, Chee Wei Wong
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0064
abstract: By virtue of a silicon high-Q photonic crystal nanocavity, we propose and examine theoretically interactions between a stationary electron spin qubit of a semiconductor nanocrystal and a flying photon qubit. Firstly, we introduce, derive and demonstrate for the first time the explicit conditions towards realization of a spin-photon two-qubit phase gate, and propose these interactions as a generalized quantum interface for quantum information processing. Secondly, we examine novel single-spin-induced reflections as direct evidence of intrinsic bare and dressed modes in our coupled nanocrystal-cavity system. The excellent physical integration of this silicon system provides tremendous potential for large-scale quantum information processing.

id: 0706.0097
title: Multiparty quantum secret sharing with pure entangled states and decoy photons
authors: Ping Zhou, Xi-Han Li, Yu-Jie Liang, Fu-Guo Deng, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Physica A 381 (2007) 164-169
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0097
abstract: We present a scheme for multiparty quantum secret sharing of a private key with pure entangled states and decoy photons. The boss, say Alice uses the decoy photons, which are randomly in one of the four nonorthogonal single-photon states, to prevent a potentially dishonest agent from eavesdropping freely. This scheme requires the parties of communication to have neither an ideal single-photon quantum source nor a maximally entangled one, which makes this scheme more convenient than others in a practical application. Moreover, it has the advantage of having high intrinsic efficiency for qubits and exchanging less classical information in principle.

id: 0706.0098
title: Controlled Teleportation of an Arbitrary Multi-Qudit State in a General Form with d-Dimensional Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger States
authors: Xi-Han Li, Fu-Guo Deng, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: Chinese Physics Letters 24 (2007) 1151-1153
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0098
abstract: A general scheme for controlled teleportation of an arbitrary multi-qudit state with d-dimensional Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states is proposed. For an arbitrary m-qudit state, the sender Alice performs m generalized Bell-state projective measurements on her 2m qudits and the controllers need only take some single-particle measurements. The receiver Charlie can reconstruct the unknown m-qudit state by performing some single-qudit unitary operations on her particles if she cooperates with all the controllers. As the quantum channel is a sequence of maximally entangled GHZ states, the intrinsic efficiency for qudits in this scheme approaches 100% in principle.

id: 0706.0110
title: Spatially resolved observation of dipole-dipole interaction between Rydberg atoms
authors: C. S. E. van Ditzhuijzen, A. F. Koenderink, J. V. Hern¨¢ndez, F. Robicheaux, L. D. Noordam, H. B. van Linden van den Heuvell
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, p. 243201 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0110
abstract: We have observed resonant energy transfer between cold Rydberg atoms in spatially separated cylinders. Resonant dipole-dipole coupling excites the 49s atoms in one cylinder to the 49p state while the 41d atoms in the second cylinder are transferred down to the 42p state. We have measured the production of the 49p state as a function of separation of the cylinders (0 - 80 um) and the interaction time (0 - 25 us). In addition we measured the width of the electric field resonances. A full many-body quantum calculation reproduces the main features of the experiments.

id: 0706.0126
title: A simple test for hidden variables in spin-1 system
authors: Alexander A. Klyachko, M. Ali Can, Sinem Binicio?lu, Alexander S. Shumovsky
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 020403 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0126
abstract: We resolve an old problem about the existence of hidden parameters in a three-dimensional quantum system by constructing an appropriate Bell's type inequality. This reveals a nonclassical nature of most spin-$1$ states. We shortly discuss some physical implications and an underlying cause of this nonclassical behavior, as well as a perspective of its experimental verification.

id: 0706.0147
title: Conditional dynamics induced by new configurations for Rydberg dipole-dipole interactions
authors: E. Brion, A. S. Mouritzen, K. Molmer
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0147
abstract: We suggest a novel way to use strong Rydberg dipole-dipole interactions in order to induce non-trivial conditional dynamics in individual-atom systems and mesoscopic ensembles. Contrary to previous works, we suggest to excite atoms into different Rydberg states, which results in a potentially richer dynamical behaviour. Specifically, we investigate systems of individual hydrogen-like atoms or mesoscopic ensembles excited into high-lying hydrogen-like s, p or d states and show how to perform three-qubit conditional dynamics on the information they contain through a proper use of dipole-dipole interaction induced energy shifts.

id: 0706.0154
title: Quantum simulation of interacting high-dimensional systems: the influence of noise
authors: Wolfgang D¨¹r, Michael J. Bremner, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 38 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052325 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0154
abstract: We consider the simulation of interacting high-dimensional systems using pairwise interacting qubits. The main tool in this context is the generation of effective many-body interactions, and we examine a number of different protocols for obtaining them. These methods include the usage of higher-order processes (commutator method), unitary conjugation or graph state encoding, as well as teleportation based approaches. We illustrate and compare these methods in detail and analyze the time cost for simulation. In the second part of the article, we investigate the influence of noise on the simulation process. We concentrate on errors in the interaction Hamiltonians and consider two generic noise models, (i) timing errors in pairwise interactions and (ii) noisy pairwise interactions described by Master equations of Lindblad form. We analyze and compare the effect of noise for the different simulation methods and propose a way to significantly reduce the influence of noise by making use of entanglement purification together with a teleportation based protocol.

id: 0706.0155
title: A simple hidden variable experiment
authors: Arnold Neumaier
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. Compared to previous versions, an extended discussion is given and many references are added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0155
abstract: An experiment is described which proves, using single photons only, that the standard hidden variables assumptions (commonly used to derive Bell inequalities) are inconsistent with quantum mechanics. The analysis is very simple and transparent. In particular, it demonstrates that a classical wave model for quantum mechanics is not ruled out by experiments demonstrating the violation of the traditional hidden variable assumptions.

id: 0706.0173
title: Teleportation of atomic states via position measurements
authors: Michele Tumminello, Francesco Ciccarello
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, 3 new appendices included
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 023825 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0173
abstract: We present a scheme for conditionally teleporting an unknown atomic state in cavity QED, which requires two atoms and one cavity mode. The translational degrees of freedom of the atoms are taken into account using the optical Stern-Gerlach model. We show that successful teleportation with probability 1/2 can be achieved through local measurements of the cavity photon number and atomic positions. Neither direct projection onto highly entangled states nor holonomous interaction-time constraints are required.

id: 0706.0197
title: Prior entanglement between senders enables perfect quantum network coding with modification
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 76, 040301(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0197
abstract: We find a protocol transmitting two quantum states crossly in the butterfly network only with prior entanglement between two senders. This protocol requires only one qubit transmission or two classical bits transmission in each channel in the butterfly network. It is also proved that it is impossible without prior entanglement. More precisely, an upper bound of average fidelity is given in the butterfly network when prior entanglement is not allowed.

id: 0706.0203
title: Universal quantum computation in decoherence-free subspaces with hot trapped-ions
authors: Leandro Aolita, Luiz Davidovich, Kihwan Kim, Hartmut H?ffner
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 052337 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0203
abstract: We consider interactions that generate a universal set of quantum gates on logical qubits encoded in a collective-dephasing-free subspace, and discuss their implementations with trapped ions. This allows for the removal of the by-far largest source of decoherence in current trapped-ion experiments, collective dephasing. In addition, an explicit parametrization of all two-body Hamiltonians able to generate such gates without the system's state ever exiting the protected subspace is provided.

id: 0706.0237
title: Quantum Mechanics in Phase Space
authors: Ali Mohammad Nassimi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0237
abstract: The basics of the Wigner formulation of Quantum-Mechanics and few related interpretational issues are presented in a simple language. This formulation has extensive applications in Quantum Optics and in Mixed Quantum-Classical formulations.

id: 0706.0239
title: Two point function for a simple general relativistic quantum model
authors: Daniele Colosi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0239
abstract: We study the quantum theory of a simple general relativistic quantum model of two coupled harmonic oscillators and compute the two-point function following a proposal first introduced in the context of loop quantum gravity.

id: 0706.0245
title: Violation of Equalities in Bipartite Qutrits Systems
authors: Hossein Movahhedian
comments: 10 pages, RevTeX4, final version
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 9, No. 1&2 (2009) pp. 90-102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0245
abstract: We have recently shown that for the special case of a bipartite system with binary inputs and outputs there exist equalities in local theories which are violated by quantum theory. The amount of white noise tolerated by these equalities are twice that of inequalities. In this paper we will first introduce an inequality in bipartite qutrits systems which, if non-maximally entangled state is used instead of maximally entangled state, is violated more strongly by quantum theory. Hence reproducing the results obtained in the literature. We will then prove that our equalities in this case are violated by quantum theory too, and they tolerate much more white noise than inequalities.

id: 0706.0264
title: Adiabatic Approximation Condition
authors: Jian-da Wu, Mei-sheng Zhao, Jian-lan Chen, Yong-de Zhang
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0264
abstract: In this paper, we present an invariant perturbation theory of the adiabatic process based on the concepts of U(1)-invariant adiabatic orbit and U(1)-invariant adiabatic expansion. As its application, we propose and discuss new adiabatic approximation conditions.

id: 0706.0299
title: Invariant Perturbation Theory of Adiabatic Process
authors: Jian-Lan Chen, Mei-sheng Zhao, Jian-da Wu, Yong-de Zhang
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0299
abstract: In this paper we present an invariant perturbation theory to adiabatic process according to the concepts of adiabatic orbits, adiabatic evolution orbit and U(1)-invariant adiabatic orbit. The probabilities of keeping the adiabatic orbit in the first-order and the second-order approximation are calculated, respectively. We also give a convenient sufficient condition.

id: 0706.0304
title: Efficient quantum circuit implementation of quantum walks
authors: B. L. Douglas, J. B. Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0304
abstract: Quantum walks, being the quantum analogue of classical random walks, are expected to provide a fruitful source of quantum algorithms. A few such algorithms have already been developed, including the `glued trees' algorithm, which provides an exponential speedup over classical methods, relative to a particular quantum oracle. Here, we discuss the possibility of a quantum walk algorithm yielding such an exponential speedup over possible classical algorithms, without the use of an oracle. We provide examples of some highly symmetric graphs on which efficient quantum circuits implementing quantum walks can be constructed, and discuss potential applications to quantum search for marked vertices along these graphs.

id: 0706.0320
title: Properties of Geometric Potential in the Invariant Adiabatic Theory
authors: Mei-sheng Zhao, Jian-da Wu, Jian-lan Chen, Yong-de Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0320
abstract: We concentrate on the geometric potential in the invariant perturbation theory of quantum adiabatic process which is presented in our recent papers. It is found out to be related to the geodesic curvature of the spherical curve in 2-dimension quantum systems. We also show that the geometric potential may affect adiabatic approximation remarkably.

id: 0706.0342
title: Simulations of Information Transport in Spin Chains
authors: Paola Cappellaro, Chandrasekhar Ramanathan, David G. Cory
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032317 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0342
abstract: Transport of quantum information in linear spin chains has been the subject of much theoretical work. Experimental studies by nuclear spin systems in solid-state by NMR (a natural implementation of such models) is complicated since the dipolar Hamiltonian is not solely comprised of nearest-neighbor XY-Heisenberg couplings. We present here a similarity transformation between the XY-Heisenberg Hamiltonian and the grade raising Hamiltonian, an interaction which is achievable with the collective control provided by radio-frequency pulses in NMR. Not only does this second Hamiltonian allows us to simulate the information transport in a spin chain, but it also provides a means to observe its signature experimentally.

id: 0706.0352
title: Iterative quantum state transfer along a chain of nuclear spin qubits
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Nageswaran Rajendran, Xinhua Peng, Dieter Suter
comments: Version for submission. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012317 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0352
abstract: Transferring quantum information between two qubits is a basic requirement for many applications in quantum communication and quantum information processing. In the iterative quantum state transfer (IQST) proposed by D. Burgarth et al. [Phys. Rev. A 75, 062327 (2007)], this is achieved by a static spin chain and a sequence of gate operations applied only to the receiving end of the chain. The only requirement on the spin chain is that it transfers a finite part of the input amplitude to the end of the chain, where the gate operations accumulate the information. For an appropriate sequence of evolutions and gate operations, the fidelity of the transfer can asymptotically approach unity. We demonstrate the principle of operation of this transfer scheme by implementing it in a nuclear magnetic resonance quantum information processor.

id: 0706.0380
title: Simple Model of Particle Detector and Arrival Time
authors: Viliam Pazma, Julius Vanko
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0380
abstract: We present the very simple model of a particle detector and the proposal for the calculation of the average value of the time of arrival.

id: 0706.0387
title: Quantum state transfer and time-dependent disorder in Quantum Chains
authors: Daniel Burgarth
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, submitted to the proceedings of the 382. WEH workshop "transrel" March 2007; added reference to experimental realization
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 151, 147-155 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0387
abstract: One of the most basic tasks required for Quantum Information Technology is the ability to connect different components of a Quantum Computer by quantum wires that obey the superposition principle. Since superpositions can be very sensitive to noise this turns out to be already quite difficult. Recently, it was suggested to use chains of permanently coupled spin-1/2 particles (quantum chains) for this purpose. They have the advantage that no external control along the wire is required during the transport of information, which makes it possible to isolate the wire from sources of noise. We first give an introduction to basic quantum state transfer and review existing advanced schemes by other authors. We then show a new result that demonstrates the stability of the scheme [1] against disorder that is approximately constant during one application of the channel, but time-dependent with respect to multiple applications.

id: 0706.0394
title: How state preparation can affect a quantum experiment: Quantum process tomography for open systems
authors: Aik-meng Kuah, Kavan Modi, C¨¦sar A. Rodr¨ªguez-Rosario, E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 13 pages, no figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042113 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0394
abstract: We study the effects of preparation of input states in a quantum tomography experiment. We show that maps arising from a quantum process tomography experiment (called process maps) differ from the well know dynamical maps. The difference between the two is due to the preparation procedure that is necessary for any quantum experiment. We study two preparation procedures, stochastic preparation and preparation by measurements. The stochastic preparation procedure yields process maps that are linear, while the preparations using von Neumann measurements lead to non-linear processes, and can only be consistently described by a bi-linear process map. A new process tomography recipe is derived for preparation by measurement for qubits. The difference between the two methods is analyzed in terms of a quantum process tomography experiment. A verification protocol is proposed to differentiate between linear processes and bi-linear processes. We also emphasize the preparation procedure will have a non-trivial effect for any quantum experiment in which the system of interest interacts with its environment.

id: 0706.0397
title: Quantum key distribution over 40 dB channel loss using superconducting single photon detectors
authors: Hiroki Takesue, Sae Woo Nam, Qiang Zhang, Robert H. Hadfield, Toshimori Honjo, Kiyoshi Tamaki, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures. Original version
journal: Nature Photonics 1, 343 (2007) (revised version)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0397
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) offers an unconditionally secure means of communication based on the laws of quantum mechanics. Currently, a major challenge is to achieve a QKD system with a 40 dB channel loss, which is required if we are to realize global scale QKD networks using communication satellites. Here we report the first QKD experiment in which secure keys were distributed over 42 dB channel loss and 200 km of optical fibre. We employed the differential phase shift quantum key distribution (DPS-QKD) protocol implemented with a 10-GHz clock frequency, and superconducting single photon detectors (SSPD) based on NbN nanowire. The SSPD offers a very low dark count rate (a few Hz) and small timing jitter (60 ps full width at half maximum). These characteristics allowed us to construct a 10-GHz clock QKD system and thus distribute secure keys over channel loss of 42 dB. In addition, we achieved a 17 kbit/s secure key rate over 105 km of optical fibre, which is two orders of magnitude higher than the previous record, and a 12.1 bit/s secure key rate over 200 km of optical fibre, which is the longest terrestrial QKD yet demonstrated. The keys generated in our experiment are secure against both general collective attacks on individual photons and a specific collective attack on multi-photons, known as a sequential unambiguous state discrimination (USD) attack.

id: 0706.0423
title: A variational method based on weighted graph states
authors: Simon Anders, Hans J. Briegel, Wolfgang D¨¹r
comments: 36 pages, 13 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 361
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0423
abstract: In a recent article [Phys. Rev. Lett. 97 (2006), 107206], we have presented a class of states which is suitable as a variational set to find ground states in spin systems of arbitrary spatial dimension and with long-range entanglement. Here, we continue the exposition of our technique, extend from spin 1/2 to higher spins and use the boson Hubbard model as a non-trivial example to demonstrate our scheme.

id: 0706.0425
title: Two-mode single-atom laser as a source of entangled light
authors: M. Kiffner, M. S. Zubairy, J. Evers, C. H. Keitel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 033816 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0425
abstract: A two-mode single-atom laser is considered, with the aim of generating entanglement in macroscopic light. Two transitions in the four-level gain medium atom independently interact with the two cavity modes, while two other transitions are driven by control laser fields. Atomic relaxation as well as cavity losses are taken into account. We show that this system is a source of macroscopic entangled light over a wide range of control parameters and initial states of the cavity field.

id: 0706.0479
title: How to Compile Some NAND Formula Evaluators
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: Ver.1- 58 pages (files: 1 .tex, 2 .sty, 14 .eps); Ver.2- 64 pages (files: 1 .tex, 2 .sty, 15 .eps, 2 .m, 1 .xxx) Corrected serious error that arose from neglecting time-ordering of exponential. Tree graph compilation is now claimed approximate rather than exact
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0479
abstract: We say a unitary operator acting on a set of qubits has been compiled if it has been expressed as a SEO (sequence of elementary operations, like CNOTs and single-qubit operations). SEO's are often represented as quantum circuits. arXiv:quant-ph/0702144 by Farhi-Goldstone-Gutmann has inspired a recent flurry of papers, that propose quantum algorithms for evaluating NAND formulas via quantum walks over tree graphs. These algorithms use two types of unitary evolution: oracle and non-oracle. Non-oracle evolutions are independent of the NAND formula input, whereas oracle evolutions depend on this input. In this paper we compile (i.e., give explicit SEOs and their associated quantum circuits for) the oracle and non-oracle evolution operators used in some of these NAND formula evaluators. We consider here only the case of balanced binary NAND trees. Our compilation methods are based on the CSD (Cosine Sine Decomposition), a matrix decomposition from Linear Algebra. The CS decomposition has been used very successfully in the past to compile unstructured unitary matrices exactly.

id: 0706.0483
title: Dynamics and Control of a Quasi-1D Spin System
authors: Paola Cappellaro, Chandrasekhar Ramanathan, David G. Cory
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 250506 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0483
abstract: We study experimentally a system comprised of linear chains of spin-1/2 nuclei that provides a test-bed for multi-body dynamics and quantum information processing. This system is a paradigm for a new class of quantum information devices that can perform particular tasks even without universal control of the whole quantum system. We investigate the extent of control achievable on the system with current experimental apparatus and methods to gain information on the system state, when full tomography is not possible and in any case highly inefficient.

id: 0706.0492
title: Interaction engineering for environmental probing
authors: M. Paternostro, S. Bose, M. S. Kim
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0492
abstract: We study the conditions for the probing of an environment affecting one party of a bipartite system of interacting objects by measurements operated only on the other element. We show that entanglement plays no crucial role in such an environment-characterization. On the other hand, if an interaction is established between the two parties, information can be reliably gathered. This result holds for both discrete and continuous variables and helps in the interpretation of recent experiments addressing the properties of mesoscopic objects.

id: 0706.0501
title: Refocusing of a qubit system coupled to an oscillator
authors: Leonid P. Pryadko, Gregory Quiroz
comments: 2.5pages Conference proceedings for Nanostructures: Physics and Technology, Novosibirsk (2007). Macros file nano2cmr.sty included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0501
abstract: Refocusing, or dynamical decoupling, is a coherent control technique where the internal dynamics of a quantum system is effectively averaged out by an application of specially designed driving fields. The method has originated in nuclear magnetic resonance, but it was independently discovered in atomic physics as a ``coherent destruction of tunneling''. Present work deals with the analysis of the performance of ``soft'' refocusing pulses and pulse sequences in protecting the coherence of a qubit system coupled to a quantum oscillator.

id: 0706.0528
title: Heralded Entanglement between Atomic Ensembles: Preparation, Decoherence, and Scaling
authors: J. Laurat, K. S. Choi, H. Deng, C. W. Chou, H. J. Kimble
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 180504 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0528
abstract: Heralded entanglement between collective excitations in two atomic ensembles is probabilistically generated, stored, and converted to single photon fields. By way of the concurrence, quantitative characterizations are reported for the scaling behavior of entanglement with excitation probability and for the temporal dynamics of various correlations resulting in the decay of entanglement. A lower bound of the concurrence for the collective atomic state of 0.9\pm 0.3 is inferred. The decay of entanglement as a function of storage time is also observed, and related to the local dynamics.

id: 0706.0553
title: Can Light Signals Travel Faster than c in Nontrivial Vacuua in Flat space-time? Relativistic Causality II
authors: Heidi Fearn
comments: 12 pages no figures
journal: LaserPhys.17:695-699,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0553
abstract: In this paper we show that the Scharnhorst effect (Vacuum with boundaries or a Casimir type vacuum) cannot be used to generate signals showing measurable faster-than-c speeds. Furthermore, we aim to show that the Scharnhorst effect would violate special relativity, by allowing for a variable speed of light in vacuum, unless one can specify a small invariant length scale. This invariant length scale would be agreed upon by all inertial observers. We hypothesize the approximate scale of the invariant length.

id: 0706.0556
title: Random Unitaries Give Quantum Expanders
authors: M. B. Hastings
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032315 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0556
abstract: We show that randomly choosing the matrices in a completely positive map from the unitary group gives a quantum expander. We consider Hermitian and non-Hermitian cases, and we provide asymptotically tight bounds in the Hermitian case on the typical value of the second largest eigenvalue. The key idea is the use of Schwinger-Dyson equations from lattice gauge theory to efficiently compute averages over the unitary group.

id: 0706.0607
title: Position-dependent mass models and their nonlinear characterization
authors: B.Bagchi
comments: 8 Pages, Latex version, Two new references are added, To appear in J.Phys.A (Fast Track Communication)
journal: J.Phys.A40:F1041-F1046,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0607
abstract: We consider the specific models of Zhu-Kroemer and BenDaniel-Duke in a sech$^{2}$-mass background and point out interesting correspondences with the stationary 1-soliton and 2-soliton solutions of the KdV equation in a supersymmetric framework.

id: 0706.0668
title: The conditions for quantum violation of macroscopic realism
authors: Johannes Kofler, Caslav Brukner
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, revised version, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 090403 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0668
abstract: Why do we not experience a violation of macroscopic realism in every-day life? Normally, no violation can be seen either because of decoherence or the restriction of coarse-grained measurements, transforming the time evolution of any quantum state into a classical time evolution of a statistical mixture. We find the sufficient condition for these classical evolutions for spin systems under coarse-grained measurements. Then we demonstrate that there exist "non-classical" Hamiltonians whose time evolution cannot be understood classically, although at every instant of time the quantum spin state appears as a classical mixture. We suggest that such Hamiltonians are unlikely to be realized in nature because of their high computational complexity.

id: 0706.0697
title: Higher order antibunching in intermediate states
authors: A Verma, N K Sharma, A Pathak
comments: 12 Pages LaTeX 2e, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0697
abstract: Since the introduction of binomial state as an intermediate state, different intermediate states have been proposed. Different nonclassical effects have also been reported in these intermediate states. But till now higher order antibunching or higher order subpoissonian photon statistics is predicted only in one type of intermediate state, namely shadowed negative binomial state. Recently we have shown the existence of higher order antibunching in some simple nonlinear optical processes to establish that higher order antibunching is not a rare phenomenon (J. Phys. B 39 (2006) 1137). To establish our earlier claim further, here we have shown that the higher order antibunching can be seen in different intermediate states, such as binomial state, reciprocal binomial state, hypergeometric state, generalized binomial state, negative binomial state and photon added coherent state. We have studied the possibility of observing the higher order subpoissonian photon statistics in different limits of intermediate states. The effect of different control parameters have also been studied in this connection and it has been shown that the depth of nonclassicality can be tuned by controlling various physical parameters.

id: 0706.0705
title: On the dimension of subspaces with bounded Schmidt rank
authors: T. S. Cubitt, A. Montanaro, A. Winter
comments: 4 pages, REVTeX4 format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0705
abstract: We consider the question of how large a subspace of a given bipartite quantum system can be when the subspace contains only highly entangled states. This is motivated in part by results of Hayden et al., which show that in large d x d--dimensional systems there exist random subspaces of dimension almost d^2, all of whose states have entropy of entanglement at least log d - O(1). It is also related to results due to Parthasarathy on the dimension of completely entangled subspaces, which have connections with the construction of unextendible product bases. Here we take as entanglement measure the Schmidt rank, and determine, for every pair of local dimensions dA and dB, and every r, the largest dimension of a subspace consisting only of entangled states of Schmidt rank r or larger. This exact answer is a significant improvement on the best bounds that can be obtained using random subspace techniques. We also determine the converse: the largest dimension of a subspace with an upper bound on the Schmidt rank. Finally, we discuss the question of subspaces containing only states with Schmidt equal to r.

id: 0706.0711
title: A categorical framework for the quantum harmonic oscillator
authors: Jamie Vicary
comments: 44 pages, many figures
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics (2008), 47 (12), 3408-3447
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0711
abstract: This paper describes how the structure of the state space of the quantum harmonic oscillator can be described by an adjunction of categories, that encodes the raising and lowering operators into a commutative comonoid. The formulation is an entirely general one in which Hilbert spaces play no special role. Generalised coherent states arise through the hom-set isomorphisms defining the adjunction, and we prove that they are eigenstates of the lowering operators. Surprisingly, generalised exponentials also emerge naturally in this setting, and we demonstrate that coherent states are produced by the exponential of a raising morphism acting on the zero-particle state. Finally, we examine all of these constructions in a suitable category of Hilbert spaces, and find that they reproduce the conventional mathematical structures.

id: 0706.0768
title: Exact Heisenberg operator solutions for multi-particle quantum mechanics
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: J.Math.Phys.48:082106,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0768
abstract: Exact Heisenberg operator solutions for independent `sinusoidal coordinates' as many as the degree of freedom are derived for typical exactly solvable multi-particle quantum mechanical systems, the Calogero systems based on any root system. These Heisenberg operator solutions also present the explicit forms of the annihilation-creation operators for various quanta in the interacting multi-particle systems. At the same time they can be interpreted as multi-variable generalisation of the three term recursion relations for multi-variable orthogonal polynomials constituting the eigenfunctions.

id: 0706.0779
title: General theory of electromagnetic fluctuations near a homogeneous surface, in terms of its reflection amplitudes
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte, Enrico Santamato
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A76:013810,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0779
abstract: We derive new general expressions for the fluctuating electromagnetic field outside a homogeneous material surface. The analysis is based on general results from the thermodynamics of irreversible processes, and requires no consideration of the material interior, as it only uses knowledge of the reflection amplitudes for its surface. Therefore, our results are valid for all homogeneous surfaces, including layered systems and metamaterials, at all temperatures. In particular, we obtain new formulae for the near-field region, which are important for interpreting the numerous current experiments probing proximity effects for macroscopic and/or microscopic bodies separated by small empty gaps. By use of Onsager's reciprocity relations, we obtain also the general symmetry properties that must be satisfied by the reflection matrix of any material.

id: 0706.0848
title: Generation of different Bell states within the SPDC phase-matching bandwidth
authors: G. Brida, M.V. Chekhova, M. Genovese, L.A. Krivitsky
comments: submitted for publication
journal: Physical Review A 76, 053807 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0848
abstract: We study the frequency-angular lineshape for a phase-matched nonlinear process producing entangled states and show that there is a continuous variety of maximally-entangled states generated for different mismatch values within the natural bandwidth. Detailed considerations are made for two specific methods of polarization entanglement preparation, based on type-II spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) and on SPDC in two subsequent type-I crystals producing orthogonally polarized photon pairs. It turns out that different Bell states are produced at the center of the SPDC line and on its slopes, corresponding to about half-maximum intensity level. These Bell states can be filtered out by either frequency selection or angular selection, or both. Our theoretical calculations are confirmed by a series of experiments, performed for the two above-mentioned schemes of producing polarization-entangled photon pairs and with two kinds of measurements: frequency-selective and angular-selective.

id: 0706.0853
title: Controlling the polarisation correlation of photon pairs from a charge-tuneable quantum dot
authors: R. J. Young, S. J. Dewhurst, R. M. Stevenson, A. J. Shields, P. Atkinson, K. Cooper, D. A. Ritchie
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0853
abstract: Correlation between the rectilinear polarisations of the photons emitted from the biexciton decay in a single quantum dot is investigated in a device which allows the charge-state of the dot to be controlled. Optimising emission from the neutral exciton states maximises the operating efficiency of the biexciton decay. This is important for single dot applications such as a triggered source of entangled photons. As the bias on the device is reduced correlation between the two photons is found to fall dramatically as emission from the negatively charged exciton becomes significant. Lifetime measurements demonstrate that electronic spin-scattering is the likely cause.

id: 0706.0868
title: Simulation of time evolution with the MERA
authors: Matteo Rizzi, Simone Montangero, Guifre' Vidal
comments: final version with data improvement (precision and size), 4.1 pages, 4 figures + extra on XY
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052328 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0868
abstract: We describe an algorithm to simulate time evolution using the Multi-scale Entanglement Renormalization Ansatz (MERA) and test it by studying a critical Ising chain with periodic boundary conditions and with up to L ~ 10^6 quantum spins. The cost of a simulation, which scales as L log(L), is reduced to log(L) when the system is invariant under translations. By simulating an evolution in imaginary time, we compute the ground state of the system. The errors in the ground state energy display no evident dependence on the system size. The algorithm can be extended to lattice systems in higher spatial dimensions.

id: 0706.0872
title: Classical simulability and the significance of modular exponentiation in Shor's algorithm
authors: Nadav Yoran, Anthony J. Short
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 060302(R) (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0872
abstract: We show that a classical algorithm efficiently simulating the modular exponentiation circuit, for certain product state input and with measurements in a general product state basis at the output, can efficiently simulate Shor's factoring algorithm. This is done by using the notion of the semi-classical Fourier transform due to Griffith and Niu, and further discussed in the context of Shor's algorithm by Browne.

id: 0706.0874
title: Enhanced optical communication and broadband sub-shot-noise interferometry with a stable free-running periodically-poled-KTiOPO4 squeezer
authors: Daruo Xie, Matthew Pysher, Jietai Jing, Olivier Pfister
comments: 9 pages, 4 figs, submitted for publication
journal: JOSA B 24, 2702 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0874
abstract: An intrinsically stable type-I optical parametric oscillator was built with a periodically poled KTiOPO4 (PPKTP) crystal to generate a stable bright, continuous-wave, broadband phase-squeezed beam. A 3.2 dB sensitivity enhancement of optical interferometry was demonstrated on weak electrooptic modulation signals within a 20 MHz squeezing bandwidth. This also realized a channel capacity increase beyond that of coherent optical communication.

id: 0706.0885
title: Validity of the Adiabatic Approximation
authors: R. MacKenzie, A. Morin-Duchesne, H. Paquette, J. Pinel
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 044102 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0885
abstract: We analyze the validity of the adiabatic approximation, and in particular the reliability of what has been called the "standard criterion" for validity of this approximation. Recently, this criterion has been found to be insufficient. We will argue that the criterion is sufficient only when it agrees with the intuitive notion of slowness of evolution of the Hamiltonian. However, it can be insufficient in cases where the Hamiltonian varies rapidly but only by a small amount. We also emphasize the distinction between the adiabatic {\em theorem} and the adiabatic {\em approximation}, two quite different although closely related ideas.

id: 0706.0894
title: Transverse coincidence-structures in spontaneous parametric down-conversion with orbital angular momentum: Theory
authors: Geraldo A. Barbosa
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0894
abstract: Coincidence-structures in the transverse plane of Type-II spontaneous parametric down-conversion carrying orbital angular momentum are obtained. Azimuthal symmetry breaking around the pump beam direction reveals itself on these quantum images. Analytical expressions for the amplitude probability of the down conversion process are shown including the nonlinear polarizability components.

id: 0706.0924
title: Some intricacies of the momentum operator in quantum mechanics
authors: Utpal Roy, Suranjana Ghosh, Kaushik Bhattacharya
comments: Minor corrections included. 9 pages, latex file. To be published in Revista Mexicana de Fisica
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0924
abstract: In quantum mechanics textbooks the momentum operator is defined in the Cartesian coordinates and rarely the form of the momentum operator in spherical polar coordinates is discussed. Consequently one always generalizes the Cartesian prescription to other coordinates and falls in a trap. In this work we introduce the difficulties one faces when the question of the momentum operator in general curvilinear coordinates arises. We have tried to elucidate the points related to the definition of the momentum operator taking spherical polar coordinates as our specimen coordinate system and proposed an elementary method in which we can ascertain the form of the momentum operator in general coordinate systems.

id: 0706.0935
title: Experimental Measurement of Multi-dimensional Entanglement via Equivalent Symmetric Projection
authors: F. W. Sun, J. M. Cai, J. S. Xu, G. Chen, B. H. Liu, C. F. Li, Z. W. Zhou, G. C. Guo
comments: 4 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 76, 052303 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0935
abstract: We construct a linear optics measurement process to determine the entanglement measure, named \emph{I-concurrence}, of a set of $4 \times 4$ dimensional two-photon entangled pure states produced in the optical parametric down conversion process. In our experiment, an \emph{equivalent} symmetric projection for the two-fold copy of single subsystem (presented by L. Aolita and F. Mintert, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{97}, 050501 (2006)) can be realized by observing the one-side two-photon coincidence without any triggering detection on the other subsystem. Here, for the first time, we realize the measurement for entanglement contained in bi-photon pure states by taking advantage of the indistinguishability and the bunching effect of photons. Our method can determine the \emph{I-concurrence} of generic high dimensional bipartite pure states produced in parametric down conversion process.

id: 0706.0941
title: Local Entanglement Is Not Necessary for Perfect Discrimination between Unitary Operations Acting on Two-Qudits by LOCC
authors: Lvzhou Li, Daowen Qiu
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, we have added Lemma 5 and its proof, and some sentences have been modified and supplemented, as well
journal: Physical Review A, 2008, 77(3): 032337 (7 pages).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0941
abstract: Recently, the problem of discriminating multipartite unitary operations by local operations and classical communication (LOCC) has attracted significant attention. The latest work in the literature on this problem showed that two multipartite unitary operations can always be perfectly distinguished by LOCC when a finite number of runs are allowable. However, in these schemes, local entanglement (an entangled state holden by one party) was required, which seems to imply that local entanglement is necessary for perfect discrimination between unitary operations by LOCC. In this article, we show that a perfect discrimination between two unitary operations acting on a two-qudits can always be achieved without exploiting any entanglement. As a result, we conclude that local entanglement is not necessary for perfect discrimination between unitary operations acting on two-qudits by LOCC.

id: 0706.0951
title: Nonclassical correlation properties of radiation fields
authors: Werner Vogel
comments: shortened version, 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 013605 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0951
abstract: A full characterization of nonclassical space-time dependent correlations of radiation is formulated in terms of normally and time-ordered field correlation functions. It describes not only the properties of initially prepared multimode radiation fields, but also the dynamics of radiation sources. Some of these correlation effects occur in the resonance fluorescence of a single two-level atom.

id: 0706.0964
title: Ray space Riccati evolution and geometric phases for N-level quantum systems
authors: S. Chaturvedi, E. Ercolessi, G. Marmo, G. Morandi, N. Mukunda, R. Simon
comments: 14 pages
journal: Pramana69:317-328,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0964
abstract: We present a simple derivation of the matrix Riccati equations governing the reduced dynamics as one descends from the group U(N) describing the Schroedinger evolution of an N-level quantum system to the various coset spaces, Grassmanian manifolds, associated with it. The special case pertaining to the geometric phase in N-level systems is described in detail. Further, we show how the matrix Riccati equation thus obtained can be reformulated as an equation describing Hamiltonian evolution in a classical phase space and establish correspondences between the two descriptions.

id: 0706.0967
title: Elementary gates for cartoon computation
authors: Marek Czachor
comments: Published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) F753-F759
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0967
abstract: The basic one-bit gates (X, Y, Z, Hadamard, phase, pi/8) as well as the controlled cnot and Toffoli gates are reformulated in the language of geometric-algebra quantum-like computation. Thus, all the quantum algorithms can be reformulated in purely geometric terms without any need of tensor products.

id: 0706.0996
title: Non-Markovian entanglement dynamics of quantum continuous variable systems in thermal environments
authors: Kuan-Liang Liu, Hsi-Sheng Goan
comments: 10 two-column pages, 8 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022312 (2007) (12 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0996
abstract: We study two continuous variable systems (or two harmonic oscillators) and investigate their entanglement evolution under the influence of non-Markovian thermal environments. The continuous variable systems could be two modes of electromagnetic fields or two nanomechanical oscillators in the quantum domain. We use quantum open system method to derive the non-Markovian master equations of the reduced density matrix for two different but related models of the continuous variable systems. The two models both consist of two interacting harmonic oscillators. In model A, each of the two oscillators is coupled to its own independent thermal reservoir, while in model B the two oscillators are coupled to a common reservoir. To quantify the degrees of entanglement for the bipartite continuous variable systems in Gaussian states, logarithmic negativity is used. We find that the dynamics of the quantum entanglement is sensitive to the initial states, the oscillator-oscillator interaction, the oscillator-environment interaction and the coupling to a common bath or to different, independent baths.

id: 0706.1005
title: Observation of quantum-measurement backaction with an ultracold atomic gas
authors: Kater W. Murch, Kevin L. Moore, Subhadeep Gupta, Dan M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: Article and supplementary information. Version submitted to Nature Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1005
abstract: Current research on micro-mechanical resonators strives for quantum-limited detection of the motion of macroscopic objects. Prerequisite to this goal is the observation of measurement backaction consistent with quantum metrology limits. However, thermal noise presently dominates measurements and precludes ground-state preparation of the resonator. Here we establish the collective motion of an ultracold atomic gas confined tightly within a Fabry-Perot optical cavity as a system for investigating the quantum mechanics of macroscopic bodies. The cavity-mode structure selects a single collective vibrational mode that is measured by the cavity's optical properties, actuated by the cavity optical field, and subject to backaction by the quantum force fluctuations of this field. Experimentally, we quantify such fluctuations by measuring the cavity-light-induced heating of the intracavity atomic ensemble. These measurements represent the first observation of backaction on a macroscopic mechanical resonator at the standard quantum limit.

id: 0706.1038
title: Discrimination of the binary coherent signal: Gaussian-operation limit and simple non-Gaussian near-optimal receivers
authors: Masahiro Takeoka, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022320 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1038
abstract: We address the limit of the Gaussian operations and classical communication in the problem of quantum state discrimination. We show that the optimal Gaussian strategy for the discrimination of the binary phase shift keyed (BPSK) coherent signal is a simple homodyne detection. We also propose practical near-optimal quantum receivers that beat the BPSK homodyne limit in all areas of the signal power. Our scheme is simple and does not require realtime electrical feedback.

id: 0706.1052
title: Cavity Nonlinear Optics at Low Photon Numbers from Collective Atomic Motion
authors: Subhadeep Gupta, Kevin L. Moore, Kater W. Murch, Dan M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Modifed following reviewer comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1052
abstract: We report on Kerr nonlinearity and dispersive optical bistability of a Fabry-Perot optical resonator due to the displacement of ultracold atoms trapped within. In the driven resonator, such collective motion is induced by optical forces acting upon up to $10^5$ $^{87}$Rb atoms prepared in the lowest band of a one-dimensional intracavity optical lattice. The longevity of atomic motional coherence allows for strongly nonlinear optics at extremely low cavity photon numbers, as demonstrated by the observation of both branches of optical bistability at photon numbers below unity.

id: 0706.1056
title: Spontaneous Emission Near Superconducting Bodies
authors: Bo-Sture K. Skagerstam, Per Kristian Rekdal
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1056
abstract: In the present paper we study the spontaneous photon emission due to a magnetic spin-flip transition of a two-level atom in the vicinity of a dielectric body like a normal conducting metal or a superconductor. For temperatures below the transition temperature T_c of a superconductor, the corresponding spin-flip lifetime is boosted by several orders of magnitude as compared to the case of a normal conducting body. Numerical results of an exact formulation are also compared to a previously derived approximative analytical expression for the spin-flip lifetime and we find an excellent agreement. We present results on how the spin-flip lifetime depends on the temperature T of a superconducting body as well as its thickness H. Finally, we study how non-magnetic impurities as well as possible Eliashberg strong-coupling effects influence the spin-flip rate. It is found that non-magnetic impurities as well as strong-coupling effects have no dramatic impact on the spin-flip lifetime.

id: 0706.1075
title: Voltage Induced Hidden Symmetry and Photon Entanglement Generation in a Single, Site-Selected Quantum Dot
authors: Michael E. Reimer, Marek Korkusinski, Jacques Lefebvre, Jean Lapointe, Philip J. Poole, Geof C. Aers, Dan Dalacu, W. Ross McKinnon, Simon Frederick, Pawel Hawrylak, Robin L. Williams
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1075
abstract: Present proposals for the realisation of entangled photon pair sources using the radiative decay of the biexciton in semiconductor quantum dots are limited by the need to enforce degeneracy of the two intermediate, single exciton states. We show how this requirement is lifted if the biexciton binding energy can be tuned to zero and we demonstrate this unbinding of the biexciton in a single, pre-positioned InAs quantum dot subject to a lateral electric field. Full Configuration-Interaction calculations are presented that reveal how the biexciton is unbound through manipulation of the electron-hole Coulomb interaction and the consequent introduction of Hidden Symmetry.

id: 0706.1090
title: Effective Hamiltonian Theory and Its Applications in Quantum Information
authors: Daniel F. V. James, Jonathan Jerke
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to be published in Canadian Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1090
abstract: This paper presents a useful compact formula for deriving an effective Hamiltonian describing the time-averaged dynamics of detuned quantum systems. The formalism also works for ensemble-averaged dynamics of stochastic systems. To illustrate the technique we give examples involving Raman processes, Bloch-Siegert shifts and Quantum Logic Gates.

id: 0706.1135
title: Can degenerate bound states occur in one dimensional quantum mechanics?
authors: Sayan Kar, Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Europhysics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1135
abstract: We point out that bound states, degenerate in energy but differing in parity, may form in one dimensional quantum systems even if the potential is non-singular in any finite domain. Such potentials are necessarily unbounded from below at infinity and occur in several different contexts, such as in the study of localised states in brane-world scenarios. We describe how to construct large classes of such potentials and give explicit analytic expressions for the degenerate bound states. Some of these bound states occur above the potential maximum while some are below. Various unusual features of the bound states are described and after highlighting those that are ansatz independent, we suggest that it might be possible to observe such parity-paired degenerate bound states in specific mesoscopic systems.

id: 0706.1139
title: Non adiabatic quantum search algorithms
authors: A. Perez, A. Romanelli
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1139
abstract: We present two new continuous time quantum search algorithms similar to the adiabatic search algorithm, but now without an adiabatic evolution. We find that both algorithms work for a wide range of values of the parameters of the Hamiltonian, and one of them has, as an additional feature that, for values of time larger than a characteristic one, it will converge to a state which can be close to the searched state.

id: 0706.1184
title: The Role of Surface Plasmons in The Casimir Effect
authors: F. Intravaia, C. Henkel, A. Lambrecht
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, v2: minor changes, not including proofing
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76 (2007) 033820
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1184
abstract: In this paper we study the role of surface plasmon modes in the Casimir effect. The Casimir energy can be written as a sum over the modes of a real cavity and one may identify two sorts of modes, two evanescent surface plasmon modes and propagative modes. As one of the surface plasmon modes becomes propagative for some choice of parameters we adopt an adiabatic mode definition where we follow this mode into the propagative sector and count it together with the surface plasmon contribution, calling this contribution "plasmonic". We evaluate analytically the contribution of the plasmonic modes to the Casimir energy. Surprisingly we find that this becomes repulsive for intermediate and large mirror separations. The contribution of surface plasmons to the Casimir energy plays a fundamental role not only at short but also at large distances. This suggests possibilities to taylor the Casimir force via a manipulation of the surface plasmons properties.

id: 0706.1219
title: Efficient Quantum Algorithm for Identifying Hidden Polynomials
authors: Thomas Decker, Jan Draisma, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1219
abstract: We consider a natural generalization of an abelian Hidden Subgroup Problem where the subgroups and their cosets correspond to graphs of linear functions over a finite field F with d elements. The hidden functions of the generalized problem are not restricted to be linear but can also be m-variate polynomial functions of total degree n>=2. The problem of identifying hidden m-variate polynomials of degree less or equal to n for fixed n and m is hard on a classical computer since Omega(sqrt{d}) black-box queries are required to guarantee a constant success probability. In contrast, we present a quantum algorithm that correctly identifies such hidden polynomials for all but a finite number of values of d with constant probability and that has a running time that is only polylogarithmic in d.

id: 0706.1228
title: Quantum information technology with Sagnac interferometer: Interaction-free measurement, quantum key distribution and quantum secret sharing
authors: Wellington Alves de Brito, Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 15 pages and 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1228
abstract: The interferometry of single-photon pulses has been used to implement quantum technology systems, like quantum key distribution, interaction-free measurement and some other quantum communication protocols. In most of these implementations, Mach-Zehnder, Michelson and Fabry-Perot interferometers are the most used. In this work we present optical setups for interaction-free measurement, quantum key distribution and quantum secret sharing using the Sagnac interferometer. The proposed setups are described as well the quantum protocols using them are explained.

id: 0706.1230
title: Three bodies bind even when two do not: Efimov states and Fano resonances in atoms and nuclei
authors: A. R. P. Rau
comments: 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1230
abstract: Efimov's prediction more than three decades ago that three-body bound states can exist when the pairwise attractions do not bind or only support weakly bound states of a pair, has remained unconfirmed till just the past year. This lecture provides the pedagogical background for recent work on Efimov states in neutron-rich nuclei done with I. Mazumdar (TIFR) and V. S. Bhasin (Delhi University), and published in Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 062503 (2006). Both these nuclear systems and recent observations of cold cesium atoms provide the first clear evidence for the existence of Efimov states.

id: 0706.1232
title: New Insights on Time-Symmetry in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Jeff Tollaksen
comments: 
journal: VISIONS OF DISCOVERY: New Light on Physics, Cosmology, and Consciousness, ed. R. Y. Chiao, M. L. Cohen, A. J. Leggett, W. D. Phillips, and C. L. Harper, Jr. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1232
abstract: A review of new aspects concerning time-symmetry in Quantum Mechanics.

id: 0706.1267
title: Several experimental realizations of symmetric phase-covariant quantum cloner of single-photon qubits
authors: J. Soubusta, L. Bartuskova, A. Cernoch, J. Fiurasek, M. Dusek
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042318 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1267
abstract: We compare several optical implementations of phase-covariant cloning machines. The experiments are based on copying of the polarization state of a single photon in bulk optics by special unbalanced beam splitter or by balanced beam splitter accompanied by a state filtering. Also the all-fiber based setup is discussed, where the information is encoded into spatial modes, i.e., the photon can propagate through two optical fibers. Each of the four implementations possesses some advantages and disadvantages that are discussed.

id: 0706.1347
title: The Two-State Vector Formalism
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: 6 pages, entry for a forthcoming "Compendium of Quantum Physics"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1347
abstract: The two-state vector formalism (TSVF), the time-symmetric description of the standard quantum mechanics originated by Aharonov, Bergmann and Lebowitz is reviewed. The TSVF describes a quantum system at a particular time by two quantum states: the usual one, evolving forward in time, defined by the results of a complete measurement at the earlier time, and by the quantum state evolving backward in time, defined by the results of a complete measurement at a later time.

id: 0706.1348
title: Weak Value and Weak Measurements
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: 4 pages, entry for a forthcoming "Compendium of Quantum Physics"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1348
abstract: The weak value of a variable O is a description of an effective interaction with that variable in the limit of weak coupling. It is particularly important for a pre- and post-selected quantum system.

id: 0706.1382
title: Transversality versus Universality for Additive Quantum Codes
authors: Bei Zeng, Andrew Cross, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 12 pages; reference added to 0707.4000; minor revisions v3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1382
abstract: Certain quantum codes allow logic operations to be performed on the encoded data, such that a multitude of errors introduced by faulty gates can be corrected. An important class of such operations are {\em transversal}, acting bitwise between corresponding qubits in each code block, thus allowing error propagation to be carefully limited. If any quantum operation could be implemented using a set of such gates, the set would be {\em universal}; codes with such a universal, transversal gate set have been widely desired for efficient fault-tolerant quantum computation. We study the structure of GF(4)-additive quantum codes and prove that no universal set of transversal logic operations exists for these codes. This result strongly supports the idea that additional primitive operations, based for example on quantum teleportation, are necessary to achieve universal fault-tolerant computation on additive codes.

id: 0706.1390
title: Strong atom-field coupling for Bose-Einstein condensates in an optical cavity on a chip
authors: Yves Colombe, Tilo Steinmetz, Guilhem Dubois, Felix Linke, David Hunger, Jakob Reichel
comments: 20 pages. Revised version following referees' comments. Detailed notes added
journal: Nature 450, 272-276 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1390
abstract: An optical cavity enhances the interaction between atoms and light, and the rate of coherent atom-photon coupling can be made larger than all decoherence rates of the system. For single atoms, this strong coupling regime of cavity quantum electrodynamics (cQED) has been the subject of spectacular experimental advances, and great efforts have been made to control the coupling rate by trapping and cooling the atom towards the motional ground state, which has been achieved in one dimension so far. For N atoms, the three-dimensional ground state of motion is routinely achieved in atomic Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs), but although first experiments combining BECs and optical cavities have been reported recently, coupling BECs to strong-coupling cavities has remained an elusive goal. Here we report such an experiment, which is made possible by combining a new type of fibre-based cavity with atom chip technology. This allows single-atom cQED experiments with a simplified setup and realizes the new situation of N atoms in a cavity each of which is identically and strongly coupled to the cavity mode. Moreover, the BEC can be positioned deterministically anywhere within the cavity and localized entirely within a single antinode of the standing-wave cavity field. This gives rise to a controlled, tunable coupling rate, as we confirm experimentally. We study the heating rate caused by a cavity transmission measurement as a function of the coupling rate and find no measurable heating for strongly coupled BECs. The spectrum of the coupled atoms-cavity system, which we map out over a wide range of atom numbers and cavity-atom detunings, shows vacuum Rabi splittings exceeding 20 gigahertz, as well as an unpredicted additional splitting which we attribute to the atomic hyperfine structure.

id: 0706.1413
title: Evolutionary stability in quantum games
authors: Azhar Iqbal, Taksu Cheon
comments: 38 pages, 2 figures, contributed chapter to the book "Quantum Aspects of Life" edited by D. Abbott, P. Davies and A. Pati
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1413
abstract: In evolutionary game theory an Evolutionarily Stable Strategy (ESS) is a refinement of the Nash equilibrium concept that is sometimes also recognized as evolutionary stability. It is a game-theoretic model, well known to mathematical biologists, that was found quite useful in the understanding of evolutionary dynamics of a population. This chapter presents an analysis of evolutionary stability in the emerging field of quantum games.

id: 0706.1415
title: Approximate joint measurements of qubit observables
authors: Paul Busch, Teiko Heinosaari
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures, minor corrections
journal: Quantum Inf. Comp. 8:0797-0818, (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1415
abstract: Joint measurements of qubit observables have recently been studied in conjunction with quantum information processing tasks such as cloning. Considerations of such joint measurements have until now been restricted to a certain class of observables that can be characterized by a form of covariance. Here we investigate conditions for the joint measurability of arbitrary pairs of qubit observables. For pairs of noncommuting sharp qubit observables, a notion of approximate joint measurement is introduced. Optimal approximate joint measurements are shown to lie in the class of covariant joint measurements. The marginal observables found to be optimal approximators are generally not among the coarse-grainings of the observables to be approximated. This yields scope for the improvement of existing joint measurement schemes. Both the quality of the approximations and the intrinsic unsharpness of the approximators are shown to be subject to Heisenberg-type uncertainty relations.

id: 0706.1431
title: Observation of squeezed light with 10dB quantum noise reduction
authors: Henning Vahlbruch, Moritz Mehmet, Nico Lastzka, Boris Hage, Simon Chelkowski, Alexander Franzen, Stefan Gossler, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: PRL 100, 033602 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1431
abstract: Squeezing of light's quantum noise requires temporal rearranging of photons. This again corresponds to creation of quantum correlations between individual photons. Squeezed light is a non-classical manifestation of light with great potential in high-precision quantum measurements, for example in the detection of gravitational waves. Equally promising applications have been proposed in quantum communication. However, after 20 years of intensive research doubts arose whether strong squeezing can ever be realized as required for eminent applications. Here we show experimentally that strong squeezing of light's quantum noise is possible. We reached a benchmark squeezing factor of 10 in power (10dB). Thorough analysis reveals that even higher squeezing factors will be feasible in our setup.

id: 0706.1449
title: Detector dead-time effects and paralyzability in high-speed quantum key distribution
authors: Daniel J. Rogers, Joshua C. Bienfang, Anastase Nakassis, Hai Xu, Charles W. Clark
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1449
abstract: Recent advances in quantum key distribution (QKD) have given rise to systems that operate at transmission periods significantly shorter than the dead times of their component single-photon detectors. As systems continue to increase in transmission rate, security concerns associated with detector dead times can limit the production rate of sifted bits. We present a model of high-speed QKD in this limit that identifies an optimum transmission rate for a system with given link loss and detector response characteristics.

id: 0706.1452
title: Reconstructing vibrational states in warm molecules using four-wave mixing with femtosecond laser pulses
authors: Anders S. Mouritzen, Olga Smirnova, Stefanie Grafe, Rune Lausten, Albert Stolow
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1452
abstract: We propose a method to reconstruct the vibrational quantum state of molecules excited by a general excitation laser pulse. Unlike existing methods, we do not require the molecules before excitation to be in a pure state, allowing us to treat the important case of initially thermally excited molecules. Even if only a single initial level is appreciably populated, initial levels with small populations can still give major contributions to the unknown vibrational state, making it essential to take them into account. In addition to the excitation pulse, the method uses two incident, short laser pulses in a non-co-linear geometry to create four-wave mixing in the molecules. The measurements used in the reconstruction are spectra of the outgoing four-wave mixing pulse at different time delays of the excitation laser pulse. An important point is that the method does not require detailed knowledge of molecular transition moments between excited states nor of any of the incoming laser pulses, but circumvents this requirement by using one or more calibration laser pulses in a separate experiment either before or after the main data are recorded. The only requirements for the calibration laser pulses are that the constant parts of their spectrums should together cover the spectral range of the excitation laser pulse, and the constant part of each should have sufficient spectral overlap with one other calibration pulse to populate two of the same levels. Finally, we discuss the extension of the reconstruction method in this paper to more general situations, hereby presenting the new idea of quantum state reconstruction through perturbations with calibration.

id: 0706.1465
title: Supercurrents in an atom-molecule gas in an optical ring lattice
authors: T. Wang J. Javanainen S. F. Yelin
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1465
abstract: Atom and molecule currents in a Fermi gas in the neighborhood of a Feshbach resonance are studied in a one-dimensional optical ring lattice by directly diagonalizing small models. A rotational analogy of flux quantization is used to show that fraction of the current is carried by particles with twice the mass of an atom, which suggests pairing and superfluidity.

id: 0706.1470
title: Fast mode of rotating atoms in one-dimensional lattice rings
authors: T. Wang, S. F. Yelin
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1470
abstract: We study the rotation of atoms in one-dimensional lattice rings. In particular, the "fast mode", where the ground state atoms rotate faster than the stirring rotating the atoms, is studied both analytically and numerically. The conditions for the transition to the fast mode are found to be very different from that in continuum rings. We argue that these transition frequencies remain unchanged for bosonic condensates described in a mean field. We show that Fermionic interaction and filling factor have a significant effect on the transition to the fast mode, and Pauli principle may suppress it altogether.

id: 0706.1478
title: Coherent population transfer in a chain of tunnel coupled quantum dots
authors: David Petrosyan, P. Lambropoulos
comments: 
journal: Opt. Commun. 264, 419 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1478
abstract: We consider the dynamics of a single electron in a chain of tunnel coupled quantum dots, exploring the formal analogies of this system with some of the laser-driven multilevel atomic or molecular systems studied by Bruce W. Shore and collaborators over the last 30 years. In particular, we describe two regimes for achieving complete coherent transfer of population in such a multistate system. In the first regime, by carefully arranging the coupling strengths, the flow of population between the states of the system can be made periodic in time. In the second regime, by employing a "counterintuitive" sequence of couplings, the coherent population trapping eigenstate of the system can be rotated from the initial to the final desired state, which is an equivalent of the STIRAP technique for atoms or molecules. Our results may be useful in future quantum computation schemes.

id: 0706.1508
title: Sequential weak measurement
authors: Graeme Mitchison, Richard Jozsa, Sandu Popescu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1508
abstract: The notion of weak measurement provides a formalism for extracting information from a quantum system in the limit of vanishing disturbance to its state. Here we extend this formalism to the measurement of sequences of observables. When these observables do not commute, we may obtain information about joint properties of a quantum system that would be forbidden in the usual strong measurement scenario. As an application, we provide a physically compelling characterisation of the notion of counterfactual quantum computation.

id: 0706.1549
title: A Chain-Boson Model for the Decoherence and Relaxation of a Few Coupled SQUIDs in a Phonon Bath
authors: A. J. Skinner, B.-L. Hu
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1549
abstract: We develop a "chain-boson model" master equation, within the Born-Markov approximation, for a few superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) coupled into a chain and exchanging their angular momenta with a low temperature phonon bath. Our master equation has four generators; we concentrate on the damping and diffusion and use them to study the relaxation and decoherence of a Heisenberg SQUID chain whose spectrum exhibits critical point energy-level crossings, entangled states, and pairs of resonant transitions. We note that at an energy-level crossing the relevant bath wavelengths are so long that even well-spaced large SQUIDs can partially exhibit collective coupling to the bath, dramatically reducing certain relaxation and decoherence rates. Also, transitions into entangled states can occur even in the case of an independent coupling of each SQUID to the bath. Finally, the pairs of resonant transitions can cause decaying oscillations to emerge in a lower energy subspace.

id: 0706.1561
title: Characterization of separability and entanglement in $(2\times{D})$- and $(3\times{D})$-dimensional systems by single-qubit and single-qutrit unitary transformations
authors: Salvatore M. Giampaolo, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1561
abstract: We investigate the geometric characterization of pure state bipartite entanglement of $(2\times{D})$- and $(3\times{D})$-dimensional composite quantum systems. To this aim, we analyze the relationship between states and their images under the action of particular classes of local unitary operations. We find that invariance of states under the action of single-qubit and single-qutrit transformations is a necessary and sufficient condition for separability. We demonstrate that in the $(2\times{D})$-dimensional case the von Neumann entropy of entanglement is a monotonic function of the minimum squared Euclidean distance between states and their images over the set of single qubit unitary transformations. Moreover, both in the $(2\times{D})$- and in the $(3\times{D})$-dimensional cases the minimum squared Euclidean distance exactly coincides with the linear entropy (and thus as well with the tangle measure of entanglement in the $(2\times{D})$-dimensional case). These results provide a geometric characterization of entanglement measures originally established in informational frameworks. Consequences and applications of the formalism to quantum critical phenomena in spin systems are discussed.

id: 0706.1576
title: A time frequency analysis of wave packet fractional revivals
authors: Suranjana Ghosh, J. Banerji
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 40 (2007) 3545--3553
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1576
abstract: We show that the time frequency analysis of the autocorrelation function is, in many ways, a more appropriate tool to resolve fractional revivals of a wave packet than the usual time domain analysis. This advantage is crucial in reconstructing the initial state of the wave packet when its coherent structure is short-lived and decays before it is fully revived. Our calculations are based on the model example of fractional revivals in a Rydberg wave packet of circular states. We end by providing an analytical investigation which fully agrees with our numerical observations on the utility of time-frequency analysis in the study of wave packet fractional revivals.

id: 0706.1598
title: Bounds on the multipartite entanglement of superpositions
authors: Wei Song, Nai-Le Liu, Zeng-Bing Chen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figure. few typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 054303 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1598
abstract: We derive the lower and upper bounds on the entanglement of a given multipartite superposition state in terms of the entanglement of the states being superposed. The first entanglement measure we use is the geometric measure, and the second is the q-squashed entanglement. These bounds allow us to estimate the amount of the multipartite entanglement of superpositions. We also show that two states of high fidelity to one another do not necessarily have nearly the same q-squashed entanglement.

id: 0706.1606
title: Quantum Dynamical Algebra SU(1,1) in One-Dimensional Exactly Solvable Potentials
authors: Ming-Guang Hu, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: No figures, 9 Pages accepted by International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 46, 2119 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1606
abstract: We mainly explore the linear algebraic structure like SU(2) or SU(1,1) of the shift operators for some one-dimensional exactly solvable potentials in this paper. During such process, a set of method based on original diagonalizing technique is presented to construct those suitable operator elements, J0, J_\pm that satisfy SU(2) or SU(1,1) algebra. At last, the similarity between radial problem and one-dimensional potentials encourages us to deal with the radial problem in the same way.

id: 0706.1613
title: Supersymmetric Construction of three-dimensional isospectral systems
authors: Yoshihide Yamada
comments: 12 pages,[ver2]minor change,references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1613
abstract: Three-dimensional isospectral systems are constructed using the framework of supersymmetric quantum mechanics. In case the supercharge of first order in momentum is used, it is proved that the constructed systems reduce to a trivial generalization of one-dimensional systems. In case the second order supercharge is used, nontrivial three-dimensional isospectral systems are constructed.

id: 0706.1619
title: Alternative linear structures for classical and quantum systems
authors: E. Ercolessi, A. Ibort, G. Marmo, G. Morandi
comments: 32 pages, two figures, to be published in IJMPA
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A22:3039-3064,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1619
abstract: The possibility of deforming the (associative or Lie) product to obtain alternative descriptions for a given classical or quantum system has been considered in many papers. Here we discuss the possibility of obtaining some novel alternative descriptions by changing the linear structure instead. In particular we show how it is possible to construct alternative linear structures on the tangent bundle TQ of some classical configuration space Q that can be considered as "adapted" to the given dynamical system. This fact opens the possibility to use the Weyl scheme to quantize the system in different non equivalent ways, "evading", so to speak, the von Neumann uniqueness theorem.

id: 0706.1627
title: Rectified momentum transport for a kicked Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Mark Sadgrove, Munekazu Horikoshi, Tetsuo Sekimura, Ken'ichi Nakagawa
comments: 4 Pages, 4 Figures. Accepted for publication Phys. Rev. Lett. June 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1627
abstract: We report the experimental observation of rectified momentum transport for a Bose-Einstein Condensate kicked at the Talbot time (quantum resonance) by an optical standing wave. Atoms are initially prepared in a superposition of the 0 and -2*hbar*kl momentum states using an optical pi/2 pulse. By changing the relative phase of the superposed states, a momentum current in either direction along the standing wave may be produced. We offer an interpretation based on matter wave interference, showing that the observed effect is uniquely quantum.

id: 0706.1630
title: An analytic study of the ionization from an ultrathin quantum well in a weak electrostatic field
authors: Ilki Kim
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1630
abstract: We consider the time evolution of a particle bound by an attractive one-dimensional delta-function potential (at x = 0) when a uniform electrostatic field (F) is applied. We explore explicit expressions for the time-dependent wavefunction \psi_F(x,t) and the ionization probability {\mathcal{P}}(t), respectively, in the weak-field limit. In doing so, \psi_F(0,t) is a key element to their evaluation. We obtain a closed expression for \psi_F(0,t) which is an excellent approximation of the exact result being a numerical solution of the Lippmann-Schwinger integral equation. The resulting probability density |\psi_F(0,t)|^2, as a simple alternative to {\mathcal{P}}(t), is also in good agreement to its counterpart from the exact one. In doing this, we also find a new and useful integral identity of the Airy function.

id: 0706.1641
title: Non-unity gain minimal disturbance measurement
authors: Metin Sabuncu, Ladislav Mi?ta, Jr., Jarom¨ªr Fiur¨¢?ek, Radim Filip, Gerd Leuchs, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1641
abstract: We propose and experimentally demonstrate an optimal non-unity gain Gaussian scheme for partial measurement of an unknown coherent state that causes minimal disturbance of the state. The information gain and the state disturbance are quantified by the noise added to the measurement outcomes and to the output state, respectively. We derive the optimal trade-off relation between the two noises and we show that the trade-off is saturated by non-unity gain teleportation. Optimal partial measurement is demonstrated experimentally using a linear optics scheme with feed-forward.

id: 0706.1674
title: Fluctuations of the Casimir-Polder force between an atom and a conducting wall
authors: R. Messina, R. Passante
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032107 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1674
abstract: We consider the quantum fluctuations of the Casimir-Polder force between a neutral atom and a perfectly conducting wall in the ground state of the system. In order to obtain the atom-wall force fluctuation we first define an operator directly associated to the force experienced by the atom considered as a polarizable body in an electromagnetic field, and we use a time-averaged force operator in order to avoid ultraviolet divergences appearing in the fluctuation of the force. This time-averaged force operator takes into account that any measurement involves a finite time. We also calculate the Casimir-Polder force fluctuation for an atom between two conducting walls. Experimental observability of these Casimir-Polder force fluctuations is also discussed, as well as the dependence of the relative force fluctuation on the duration of the measurement.

id: 0706.1735
title: Self Replication and Signalling
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, Prashant, B.S.Choudhury
comments: Modified version of quant-ph/0510221, Accepted in International Journal of Theoretical Physics
journal: IJTP,Volume 46, Number 12, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1735
abstract: It is known that if one could clone an arbitrary quantum state one could send signal faster than the speed of light. However it remains interesting to see that if one can perfectly self replicate an arbitrary quantum state, does it violate the no signalling principle? Here we see that perfect self replication would also lead to superluminal signalling.

id: 0706.1743
title: Bloch vectors for qudits and geometry of entanglement
authors: Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Philipp Krammer
comments: 30 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1743
abstract: We present three different matrix bases that can be used to decompose density matrices of d--dimensional quantum systems, so-called qudits: the generalized Gell-Mann matrix basis, the polarization operator basis, and the Weyl operator basis. Such a decomposition can be identified with a vector --the Bloch vector, i.e. a generalization of the well known qubit case-- and is a convenient expression for comparison with measurable quantities and for explicit calculations avoiding the handling of large matrices. We consider the important case of an isotropic two--qudit state and decompose it according to each basis. Investigating the geometry of entanglement of special parameterized two--qubit and two--qutrit states, in particular we calculate the Hilbert--Schmidt measure of entanglement, we find that the Weyl operator basis is the optimal choice since it is closely connected to the entanglement of the considered states.

id: 0706.1761
title: Extraspecial Two-Groups, Generalized Yang-Baxter Equations and Braiding Quantum Gates
authors: Eric C. Rowell, Yong Zhang, Yong-Shi Wu, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: v1: Latex, 28 pages; v2: comment and references added; v3: Title and authors changed. Significantly more concise than previous versions, now 21 pages
journal: Quant.Inf.Comput.10:685-702,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1761
abstract: In this paper we describe connections among extraspecial 2-groups, unitary representations of the braid group and multi-qubit braiding quantum gates. We first construct new representations of extraspecial 2-groups. Extending the latter by the symmetric group, we construct new unitary braid representations, which are solutions to generalized Yang-Baxter equations and use them to realize new braiding quantum gates. These gates generate the GHZ (Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger) states, for an arbitrary (particularly an \emph{odd}) number of qubits, from the product basis. We also discuss the Yang-Baxterization of the new braid group representations, which describes unitary evolution of the GHZ states. Our study suggests that through their connection with braiding gates, extraspecial 2-groups and the GHZ states may play an important role in quantum error correction and topological quantum computing.

id: 0706.1774
title: Functional Methods in the Generalized Dicke Model
authors: M. Aparicio Alcade, A. L. L. de Lemos, N. F. Svaiter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1774
abstract: The Dicke model describes an ensemble of N identical two-level atoms (qubits) coupled to a single mode of a bosonic field. The fermion Dicke model should be obtained by changing the atomic pseudo-spin operators by a linear combination of Fermi operators. The generalized fermion Dicke model is defined introducing different coupling constants between the single mode of the bosonic field and the reservoir. In the thermodynamic limit, the fermion Dicke model can be analized using the path integral approach with functional method. The system exhibits a second order phase transition from normal to superrandiance at some critical temperature with the presence of a condensate. We evaluate the critical transition temperature and present the spectrum of the collective bosonic excitations. There is quantum phantum critical behavior when the coupling constants satisfy an especific condition. Two particular situations are analyzed. First, we present the spectrum of the collective bosonic excitations in the case using the rotating-wave approximation, recovering the well know results. Second, the case only considering virtual processes. In the last case, it is possible to have a superradiance phase when only virtual processes are introduced in the interaction Hamiltonian. Here also appears a quantum phase transition at some critical coupling, and for larger values for the critical coupling, the system enter in this superradiant phase with a Goldstone mode.

id: 0706.1785
title: Maximum stabilizer dimension for nonproduct states
authors: Scott N. Walck, David W. Lyons
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022303 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1785
abstract: Composite quantum states can be classified by how they behave under local unitary transformations. Each quantum state has a stabilizer subgroup and a corresponding Lie algebra, the structure of which is a local unitary invariant. In this paper, we study the structure of the stabilizer subalgebra for n-qubit pure states, and find its maximum dimension to be n-1 for nonproduct states of three qubits and higher. The n-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state has a stabilizer subalgebra that achieves the maximum possible dimension for pure nonproduct states. The converse, however, is not true: we show examples of pure 4-qubit states that achieve the maximum nonproduct stabilizer dimension, but have stabilizer subalgebra structures different from that of the n-qubit GHZ state.

id: 0706.1813
title: Uniqueness of the EPR--chemeleon model
authors: Luigi Accardi, Satoshi Uchiyama
comments: 25pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1813
abstract: A classical deterministic, reversible dynamical systems, reproducing the Einstein--Podolsky--Rosen (EPR) correlations in full respect of causality and locality and without the introduction of any ad hoc selection procedure, was constructed in the paper [AIR02]. In the present paper we prove that the above mentioned model is unique (see Theorem (2) in the sense that any local causal probability measure which reproduces the EPR correlations must coincide, under natural and generic assumptions, with the one constructed in [AIR02]. [AIR02] L. Accardi, K. Imafuku and M. Regoli, "ON THE EPR--CHAMELEON EXPERIMENT", Infinite Dimensional Analysis, Quantum Probability and Related Topics, vol. 5 (2002) 1--20.

id: 0706.1815
title: Entanglement measures and approximate quantum error correction
authors: Francesco Buscemi
comments: 7 pages, two-columned revtex4, no figures. v1: Deeply revised and extended version: different entanglement measures are separately considered, references are added, and some remarks are stressed. v2: Added a sufficient condition for distillability in terms of entanglement of formation; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012309 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1815
abstract: It is shown that, if the loss of entanglement along a quantum channel is sufficiently small, then approximate quantum error correction is possible, thereby generalizing what happens for coherent information. Explicit bounds are obtained for the entanglement of formation and the distillable entanglement, and their validity naturally extends to other bipartite entanglement measures in between. Robustness of derived criteria is analyzed and their tightness compared. Finally, as a byproduct, we prove a bound quantifying how large the gap between entanglement of formation and distillable entanglement can be for any given finite dimensional bipartite system, thus providing a sufficient condition for distillability in terms of entanglement of formation.

id: 0706.1822
title: Comments on Controllable Three-Dimensional Brownian Motors
authors: Elias P. Gyftopoulos
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1822
abstract: Upon reviewing the physical review letter which describes the processes involved in "demonstration of a controllable three-dimensional Brownian motor in symmetric potentials" we conclude that such processes are not compatible with what Einstein and many other physicists and engineers define as Brownian motors or Brownian movements.

id: 0706.1855
title: Connecting N-representability to Weyl's problem: The one particle density matrix for N = 3 and R = 6
authors: Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A 40, F961-F967 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1855
abstract: An analytic proof is given of the necessity of the Borland-Dennis conditions for 3-representability of a one particle density matrix with rank 6. This may shed some light on Klyachko's recent use of Schubert calculus to find general conditions for N-representability.

id: 0706.1872
title: Time-Dependent Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians Defining a Unitary Quantum System and Uniqueness of the Metric Operator
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 11 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Lett. B 650, 208-212 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1872
abstract: The quantum measurement axiom dictates that physical observables and in particular the Hamiltonian must be diagonalizable and have a real spectrum. For a time-independent Hamiltonian (with a discrete spectrum) these conditions ensure the existence of a positive-definite inner product that renders the Hamiltonian self-adjoint. Unlike for a time-independent Hamiltonian, this does not imply the unitarity of the Schroedinger time-evolution for a general time-dependent Hamiltonian. We give an additional necessary and sufficient condition for the unitarity of time-evolution. In particular, we obtain the general form of a two-level Hamiltonian that fulfils this condition. We show that this condition is geometrical in nature and that it implies the reality of the adiabatic geometric phases. We also address the problem of the uniqueness of the metric operator.

id: 0706.1892
title: Unambiguous coherent state identification: Searching a quantum database
authors: Michal Sedlak, Mario Ziman, Ondrej Pribyla, Vladimir Buzek, Mark Hillery
comments: version accepted for publication, 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022326 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1892
abstract: We consider an unambiguous identification of an unknown coherent state with one of two unknown coherent reference states. Specifically, we consider two modes of an electromagnetic field prepared in unknown coherent states alpha_1 and alpha_2, respectively. The third mode is prepared either in the state alpha_1 or in the state alpha_2. The task is to identify (unambiguously) which of the two modes are in the same state. We present a scheme consisting of three beamsplitters capable to perform this task. Although we don't prove the optimality, we show that the performance of the proposed setup is better than the generalization of the optimal measurement known for a finite-dimensional case. We show that a single beamsplitter is capable to perform an unambiguous quantum state comparison for coherent states optimally. Finally we propose an experimental setup consisting of 2N-1 beamsplitters for unambiguous identification among N unknown coherent states. This setup can be considered as a search in a quantum database. The elements of the database are unknown coherent states encoded in different modes of an electromagnetic field. The task is to specify the two modes that are excited in the same, though unknown, coherent state.

id: 0706.1924
title: Long-Distance Entanglement Distribution with Single-Photon Sources
authors: Nicolas Sangouard, Christoph Simon, Jiri Minar, Hugo Zbinden, Hugues de Riedmatten, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 050301(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1924
abstract: We present an efficient architecture for quantum repeaters based on single-photon sources in combination with quantum memories for photons. Errors inherent to previous repeater protocols using photon-pair sources are eliminated, leading to a significant gain in efficiency. We establish the requirements on the single-photon sources and on the photon detectors.

id: 0706.1932
title: Probabilistic purification of noisy coherent states
authors: Petr Marek, Radim Filip
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, typo in the abstract corrected
journal: QIC Vol.7 No.7, pp609 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1932
abstract: A basic feasible probabilistic purification of unknown noisy coherent states, outgoing from different state preparations with unknown mean number of thermal photons, is proposed. The scheme is based only on a linear-optical network with an avalanche photo-diode or heterodyne (homodyne) detection used to post-select a successful processing. The suggested probabilistic method can produce an output state with a lower noise than both quantum deterministic and classical probabilistic distillation method. The purification applied in the state preparation can increase classical capacity of communication and security of quantum key distribution.

id: 0706.1938
title: Comments on the Quantum Afterburner
authors: Elias P. Gyftopoulos, Michael R. von Spakovsky
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1938
abstract: A process has been proposed to increase the efficiency of an ideal Otto cycle via a quantum heat engine that has no cooler reservoir. We show that such a process is not feasible.

id: 0706.1951
title: Wigner crystals of ions as quantum hard drives
authors: J. M. Taylor, T. Calarco
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1951
abstract: Atomic systems in regular lattices are intriguing systems for implementing ideas in quantum simulation and information processing. Focusing on laser cooled ions forming Wigner crystals in Penning traps, we find a robust and simple approach to engineering non-trivial 2-body interactions sufficient for universal quantum computation. We then consider extensions of our approach to the fast generation of large cluster states, and a non-local architecture using an asymmetric entanglement generation procedure between a Penning trap system and well-established linear Paul trap designs.

id: 0706.1966
title: On the lack of relation between physics and "Quantum discord and Maxwell's demons"
authors: Elias P. Gyftopoulos
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1966
abstract: The information-theoretic arguments presented in a recent publication on "Quantum discord and Maxwell's demons" are discussed, and found not to address the problem specified by Maxwell. Two interrelated and definitive exorcisms of the demon, one purely thermodynamic, and the other quantum-thermodynamic are briefly discussed. For each of the two exorcisms, the demon is shown to be incapable to accomplish his assignment neither because of limitations arising from information-theoretic tools at his disposal, nor because of the value of his IQ. The limitations are due to the physics of the state of the system on which he is asked to perform his demonic acts.

id: 0706.1970
title: Energy Density-Flux Correlations in an Unusual Quantum State and in the Vacuum
authors: L.H. Ford, Thomas A. Roman
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures; published version with typos corrected and one added reference
journal: Phys. Rev. D76 (2007) 064012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1970
abstract: In this paper we consider the question of the degree to which negative and positive energy are intertwined. We examine in more detail a previously studied quantum state of the massless minimally coupled scalar field, which we call a ``Helfer state''. This is a state in which the energy density can be made arbitrarily negative over an arbitrarily large region of space, but only at one instant in time. In the Helfer state, the negative energy density is accompanied by rapidly time-varying energy fluxes. It is the latter feature which allows the quantum inequalities, bounds which restrict the magnitude and duration of negative energy, to hold for this class of states. An observer who initially passes through the negative energy region will quickly encounter fluxes of positive energy which subsequently enter the region. We examine in detail the correlation between the energy density and flux in the Helfer state in terms of their expectation values. We then study the correlation function between energy density and flux in the Minkowski vacuum state, for a massless minimally coupled scalar field in both two and four dimensions. In this latter analysis we examine correlation functions rather than expectation values. Remarkably, we see qualitatively similar behavior to that in the Helfer state. More specifically, an initial negative energy vacuum fluctuation in some region of space is correlated with a subsequent flux fluctuation of positive energy into the region. We speculate that the mechanism which ensures that the quantum inequalities hold in the Helfer state, as well as in other quantum states associated with negative energy, is, at least in some sense, already ``encoded'' in the fluctuations of the vacuum.

id: 0706.2000
title: General Depolarized Pure States: Identification and Properties
authors: Mark S. Byrd, Gavin K. Brennen
comments: 1 figure, 9 pages, revtex4, slightly rewritten, reorganized, new section
journal: Physics Letters A, Vol. 372, 1770 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2000
abstract: The Schmidt decomposition is an important tool in the study of quantum systems especially for the quantification of the entanglement of pure states. However, the Schmidt decomposition is only unique for bipartite pure states, and some multipartite pure states. Here a generalized Schmidt decomposition is given for states which are equivalent to depolarized pure states. Experimental methods for the identification of this class of mixed states are provided and some examples are discussed which show the utility of this description. A particularly interesting example provides, for the first time, an interpretation of the number of negative eigenvalues of the density matrix.

id: 0706.2019
title: An operational interpretation for multipartite entanglement
authors: Sergio Boixo, Alex Monras
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 100503 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2019
abstract: We introduce an operational interpretation for pure-state global multipartite entanglement based on quantum estimation. We show that the estimation of the strength of low-noise locally depolarizing channels, as quantified by the regularized quantum Fisher information, is directly related to the Meyer-Wallach multipartite entanglement measure. Using channels that depolarize across different partitions, we obtain related multipartite entanglement measures. We show that this measure is the sum of expectation values of local observables on two copies of the state.

id: 0706.2036
title: Observation of back-action cancellation in interferometric and weak force measurements
authors: T. Caniard, P. Verlot, T. Briant, P. -F. Cohadon, A. Heidmann
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.99:110801,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2036
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a cancellation of back-action noise in optical measurements. Back-action cancellation was first proposed within the framework of gravitational-wave detection by dual resonators as a way to drastically improve their sensitivity. We have developed an experiment based on a high-finesse Fabry-Perot cavity to study radiation-pressure effects in ultra-sensitive displacement measurements. Using an intensity-modulated intracavity field to mimic the quantum radiation-pressure noise, we report the first observation of back-action cancellation due to a destructive interference between radiation-pressure effects on both mirrors of the cavity. We have observed a sensitivity improvement by a factor larger than 20 both in displacement and weak force measurements.

id: 0706.2063
title: Berry's phase for coherent states of Landau levels
authors: Wen-Long Yang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 024101 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2063
abstract: The Berry phases for coherent states and squeezed coherent states of Landau levels are calculated. Coherent states of Landau levels are interpreted as a result of a magnetic flux moved adiabatically from infinity to a finite place on the plane. The Abelian Berry phase for coherent states of Landau levels is an analog of the Aharonov- Bohm effect. Moreover, the non-Abelian Berry phase is calculated for the adiabatic evolution of the magnetic field B.

id: 0706.2087
title: Generalized rotating-wave approximation for arbitrarily large coupling
authors: E. K. Irish
comments: 4 pages, 2 figs, REVTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 173601 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2087
abstract: A generalized version of the rotating-wave approximation for the single-mode spin-boson Hamiltonian is presented. It is shown that performing a simple change of basis prior to eliminating the off-resonant terms results in a significantly more accurate expression for the energy levels of the system. The generalized approximation works for all values of the coupling strength and for a wide range of detuning values, and may find applications in solid-state experiments.

id: 0706.2094
title: Frustration, Area Law, and Interference in Quantum Spin Models
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Jacek Dziarmaga, Anna Sanpera, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 4 (+ epsilon) pages, 1 eps figure, RevTeX4; v1: 4 pages, 2 eps figures; v2: presentation improved, further models analyzed, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 187202 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2094
abstract: We study frustrated quantum systems from a quantum information perspective. Within this approach, we find that highly frustrated systems do not follow any general ''area law'' of block entanglement, while weakly frustrated ones have area laws similar to those of nonfrustrated systems away from criticality. To calculate the block entanglement in systems with degenerate ground states, typical in frustrated systems, we define a ''cooling'' procedure of the ground state manifold, and propose a frustration degree and a method to quantify constructive and destructive interference effects of entanglement.

id: 0706.2097
title: The Physics of 2 is not 1+1
authors: Yanhua Shih
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2097
abstract: One of the most surprising consequences of quantum mechanics is the entanglement of two or more distant particles. In an entangled EPR two-particle system, the value of the momentum (position) for neither single subsystem is determined. However, if one of the subsystems is measured to have a certain momentum (position), the other subsystem is determined to have a unique corresponding value, despite the distance between them. This peculiar behavior of an entangled quantum system has surprisingly been observed experimentally in two-photon temporal and spatial correlation measurements, such as ghost interference and ghost imaging. This article addresses the fundamental concerns behind these experimental observations and to explore the nonclassical nature of two-photon superposition by emphasizing the physics of 2 is not 1 + 1.

id: 0706.2111
title: Influence of dissipation on the extraction of quantum states via repeated measurements
authors: B. Militello, K. Yuasa, H. Nakazato, A. Messina
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 76, 042110 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2111
abstract: A quantum system put in interaction with another one that is repeatedly measured is subject to a non-unitary dynamics, through which it is possible to extract subspaces. This key idea has been exploited to propose schemes aimed at the generation of pure quantum states (purification). All such schemes have so far been considered in the ideal situations of isolated systems. In this paper, we analyze the influence of non-negligible interactions with environment during the extraction process, with the scope of investigating the possibility of purifying the state of a system in spite of the sources of dissipation. A general framework is presented and a paradigmatic example consisting of two interacting spins immersed in a bosonic bath is studied. The effectiveness of the purification scheme is discussed in terms of purity for different values of the relevant parameters and in connection with the bath temperature.

id: 0706.2142
title: Path Integral for Quantum Operations
authors: Vasily E. Tarasov
comments: 24 pages, LaTeX
journal: Journal of Physics A. Vol.37. No.9. (2004) 3241-3257
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2142
abstract: In this paper we consider a phase space path integral for general time-dependent quantum operations, not necessarily unitary. We obtain the path integral for a completely positive quantum operation satisfied Lindblad equation (quantum Markovian master equation). We consider the path integral for quantum operation with a simple infinitesimal generator.

id: 0706.2143
title: Single electron-spin memory with a semiconductor quantum dot
authors: Robert J. Young, Samuel J. Dewhurst, R. Mark Stevenson, Paola Atkinson, Anthony J. Bennett, Martin B. Ward, Ken Cooper, David A. Ritchie, Andrew J. Shields
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2143
abstract: We show storage of the circular polarisation of an optical field, transferring it to the spin-state of an individual electron confined in a single semiconductor quantum dot. The state is subsequently readout through the electronically-triggered emission of a single photon. The emitted photon shares the same polarisation as the initial pulse but has a different energy, making the transfer of quantum information between different physical systems possible. With an applied magnetic field of 2 Tesla, spin memory is preserved for at least 1000 times more than the exciton's radiative lifetime.

id: 0706.2159
title: Continuous input nonlocal games
authors: N. Aharon, S. Machnes, B. Reznik, J. Silman, L. Vaidman
comments: Journal version, slight modifications
journal: Natural Computing 12, 5 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2159
abstract: We present a family of nonlocal games in which the inputs the players receive are continuous. We study three representative members of the family. For the first two a team sharing quantum correlations (entanglement) has an advantage over any team restricted to classical correlations. We conjecture that this is true for the third member of the family as well.

id: 0706.2176
title: Comments on the breakdown of the Landauer bound for information erasure in the quantum regime
authors: Elias P. Gyftopoulos, Michael R. von Spakovsky
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2176
abstract: Upon reviewing the article by Allahverdyan and Nieuwenhuizen in PRE, we conclude that neither the Landauer principle nor the counterexamples presented by the authors have any relation (i) to thermodynamics, and (ii) to the interdependence of nonstatistical quantum physics and thermodynamics.

id: 0706.2226
title: The Photonic Module: an on-demand resource for photonic entanglement
authors: Simon J. Devitt, Andrew D. Greentree, Radu Ionicioiu, Jeremy L. O'Brien, William J. Munro, Lloyd C.L. Hollenberg
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, revised version. Simplified design for the module in both free-space and photonic crystals, new co-authors added. Accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 76, 052312 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2226
abstract: Photonic entanglement has a wide range of applications in quantum computation and communication. Here we introduce a new device: the "photonic module", which allows for the rapid, deterministic preparation of a large class of entangled photon states. The module is an application independent, "plug and play" device, with sufficient flexibility to prepare entanglement for all major quantum computation and communication applications in a completely deterministic fashion without number-discriminated photon detection. We present two alternative constructions for the module, one using free-space components and one in a photonic bandgap structures. The natural operation of the module is to generate states within the stabilizer formalism and we present an analysis on the cavity-QED requirements to experimentally realize this device.

id: 0706.2249
title: Distributed implementation of standard oracle operators
authors: Anthony Chefles
comments: 4.4 pages, Revtex 4. Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2249
abstract: The standard oracle operator corresponding to a function f is a unitary operator that computes this function coherently, i.e. it maintains superpositions. This operator acts on a bipartite system, where the subsystems are the input and output registers. In distributed quantum computation, these subsystems may be spatially separated, in which case we will be interested in its classical and entangling capacities. For an arbitrary function f, we show that the unidirectional classical and entangling capacities of this operator are log_{2}(n_{f}) bits/ebits, where n_{f} is the number of different values this function can take. An optimal procedure for bidirectional classical communication with a standard oracle operator corresponding to a permutation on Z_{M} is given. The bidirectional classical capacity of such an operator is found to be 2log_{2}(M) bits. The proofs of these capacities are facilitated by an optimal distributed protocol for the implementation of an arbitrary standard oracle operator.

id: 0706.2251
title: A polaritonic two-component Bose-Hubbard model
authors: Michael J. Hartmann, Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 033011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2251
abstract: We show that polaritons in an array of interacting micro-cavities with strong atom-photon coupling can form a two-component Bose-Hubbard model. Both polariton species are thereby protected against spontaneous emission as their atomic part is stored in two ground states of the atoms. The parameters of the effective model can be tuned via the driving strength of external lasers. We also describe a method to measure the number statistics in one cavity for each polariton species independently.

id: 0706.2266
title: The role of the slope of `realistic' potential barriers in preventing relativistic tunnelling in the Klein zone
authors: Paolo Christillin, Emilio d'Emilio
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042104 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2266
abstract: The transmission of fermions of mass m and energy E through an electrostatic potential barrier of rectangular shape (i.e. supporting an infinite electric field), of height U> E + m - due to the many-body nature of the Dirac equation evidentiated by the Klein paradox - has been widely studied. We exploit here the analytical solution, given by Sauter for the linearly rising potential step, to show that the tunnelling rate through a more realistic trapezoidal barrier is exponentially depressed, as soon as the length of the regions supporting a finite electric field exceeds the Compton wavelenght of the particle - the latter circumstance being hardly escapable in most realistic cases.

id: 0706.2268
title: Gelfand-Shilov spaces, Structural and Kernel theorems
authors: Z. Lozanov--Crvenkovic, D. Perisic, M. Taskovic
comments: The name of the third autor is now properly written
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2268
abstract: It was shown recently that the space isomorphic with an Gelfand Shilov space is well adapted for the use in quantum field theory with a fundamental length. It is our believe that all Gelfand Shilov spaces, especially those with quasianalytic test function spaces, are good domains for the quantum field theory. The theory requires technical results from the theory of generalized functions and not merely differential calculus and well defined Fourier transform, but also the kernel theorem and the structural theorem. In the paper we give the structural (regularity) theorem and kernel theorem for Gelfand-Shilov spaces, of Roumieu and Beurling type.

id: 0706.2274
title: Consistent reasoning about a continuum of hypotheses on the basis of finite evidence
authors: Jochen Rau
comments: 9 pages REVTeX, twocolumn, no figures; critical feedback very welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2274
abstract: In the modern Bayesian view classical probability theory is simply an extension of conventional logic, i.e., a quantitative tool that allows for consistent reasoning in the presence of uncertainty. Classical theory presupposes, however, that--at least in principle--the amount of evidence that an experimenter can accumulate always matches the size of the hypothesis space. I investigate how the framework for consistent reasoning must be modified in non-classical situations where hypotheses form a continuum, yet the maximum evidence accessible through experiment is not allowed to exceed some finite upper bound. Invoking basic consistency requirements pertaining to the preparation and composition of systems, as well as to the continuity of probabilities, I show that the modified theory must have an internal symmetry isomorphic to the unitary group. It thus appears that the only consistent algorithm for plausible reasoning about a continuum of hypotheses on the basis of finite evidence is furnished by quantum theory in complex Hilbert space.

id: 0706.2287
title: Simulation of two spin-$s$ singlet correlations for all $s$ involving spin measurements
authors: Ali Ahanj, Pramod S. Joag, Sibasish Ghosh
comments: 13 pages Latex, one eps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2287
abstract: In a recent paper [A. Ahanj et al., quant-ph/0603053], we gave a classical protocol to simulate quantum correlations corresponding to the spin $s$ singlet state for the infinite sequence of spins satisfying $2s+1 = 2^{n}$. In the present paper, we have generalized this result by giving a classical protocol to exactly simulate quantum correlations implied by the spin-$s$ singlet state corresponding to all integer as well as half-integer spin values $s$. The class of measurements we consider here are only those corresponding to spin observables, as has been done in the above-mentioned paper. The required amount of communication is found to be $\lceil {\rm log}_{2} (s + 1) \rceil$ in the worst case scenario, where $\lceil x \rceil$ is the least integer greater than or equal to $x$.

id: 0706.2327
title: A Robust Atom-Photon Entanglement Source for Quantum Repeaters
authors: Shuai Chen, Yu-Ao Chen, Bo Zhao, Zhen-Sheng Yuan, Joerg Schmiedmayer, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 180505 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2327
abstract: We demonstrate a novel way to efficiently and very robust create an entanglement between an atomic and a photonic qubit. A single laser beam is used to excite one atomic ensemble and two different spatial modes of scattered Raman fields are collected to generate the atom-photon entanglement. With the help of build-in quantum memory, the entanglement still exists after 20.5 $\mu$s storage time which is further proved by the violation of CHSH type Bell's inequality. Our entanglement procedure is the building block for a novel robust quantum repeater architecture [Zhao et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 240502 (2007)]. Our approach can be easily extended to generate high dimensional atom-photon entanglements.

id: 0706.2335
title: Lateral Effects in Fermion Antibunching
authors: K. Yuasa, P. Facchi, H. Nakazato, I. Ohba, S. Pascazio, S. Tasaki
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77 (2008) 043623
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2335
abstract: Lateral effects are analyzed in the antibunching of a beam of free non-interacting fermions. The emission of particles from a source is dynamically described in a 3D full quantum field-theoretical framework. The size of the source and the detectors, as well as the temperature of the source are taken into account and the behavior of the visibility is scrutinized as a function of these parameters.

id: 0706.2356
title: Anonymous quantum communication
authors: Gilles Brassard, Anne Broadbent, Joseph Fitzsimons, Sebastien Gambs, Alain Tapp
comments: 11 pages, to appear in Proceedings of ASIACRYPT, 2007
journal: Proceedings of ASIACRYPT 2007 pp. 460-473
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2356
abstract: We present the first protocol for the anonymous transmission of a quantum state that is information-theoretically secure against an active adversary, without any assumption on the number of corrupt participants. The anonymity of the sender and receiver is perfectly preserved, and the privacy of the quantum state is protected except with exponentially small probability. Even though a single corrupt participant can cause the protocol to abort, the quantum state can only be destroyed with exponentially small probability: if the protocol succeeds, the state is transferred to the receiver and otherwise it remains in the hands of the sender (provided the receiver is honest).

id: 0706.2398
title: Toy models of a non-associative quantum mechanics
authors: Vladimir Dzhunushaliev
comments: main formulas are colored
journal: Advances in High Energy Physics, vol. 2007, Article ID 12387, 10 pages, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Rings and Algebras (math.RA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2398
abstract: Toy models of a non-associative quantum mechanics are presented. The Heisenberg equation of motion is modified using a non-associative commutator. Possible physical applications of a non-associative quantum mechanics are considered. The idea is discussed that a non-associative algebra could be the operator language for the non-perturbative quantum theory. In such approach the non-perturbative quantum theory has observables and unobservables quantities.

id: 0706.2429
title: Universal discriminator for completely unknown optical qubits
authors: Bing He, Janos A. Bergou, Yuhang Ren
comments: accepted publication version in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2429
abstract: We propose an experimental setup that is capable of unambiguously discriminating any pair of linearly independent single photon polarization qubits, about which we don't have any knowledge except that an extra pair of these unknown states are provided as the reference. This setup, which is constructed with optical CNOT gates, weak cross Kerr non-linearities, Bell state analysers and other linear optical elements, transforms the unknown triple photon input states to the corresponding single photon states to be deterministically processed by linear optics circuit. The optimal discrimination of the unknown states is achieved by this setup.

id: 0706.2432
title: Toolbox for entanglement detection and fidelity estimation
authors: Otfried G¨¹hne, Chao-Yang Lu, Wei-Bo Gao, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 5 pages, no figures, v3: final version, to appear as a Rapid Communication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 030305 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2432
abstract: The determination of the state fidelity and the detection of entanglement are fundamental problems in quantum information experiments. We investigate how these goals can be achieved with a minimal effort. We show that the fidelity of GHZ and W states can be determined with an effort increasing only linearly with the number of qubits. We also present simple and robust methods for other states, such as cluster states and states in decoherence-free subspaces.

id: 0706.2448
title: A general treatment of geometric phases and dynamical invariants
authors: E. I. Duzzioni, R. M. Serra, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 82, 20007 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2448
abstract: Based only on the parallel transport condition, we present a general method to compute Abelian or non-Abelian geometric phases acquired by the basis states of pure or mixed density operators, which also holds for nonadiabatic and noncyclic evolution. Two interesting features of the non-Abelian geometric phase obtained by our method stand out: i) it is a generalization of Wilczek and Zee's non-Abelian holonomy, in that it describes nonadiabatic evolution where the basis states are parallelly transported between distinct degenerate subspaces, and ii) the non-Abelian character of our geometric phase relies on the transitional evolution of the basis states, even in the nondegenerate case. We apply our formalism to a two-level system evolving nonadiabatically under spontaneous decay to emphasize the non-Abelian nature of the geometric phase induced by the reservoir. We also show, through the generalized invariant theory, that our general approach encompasses previous results in the literature.

id: 0706.2450
title: Quantum Control of the Hyperfine Spin of a Cs Atom Ensemble
authors: Souma Chaudhury, Seth Merkel, Tobias Herr, Andrew Silberfarb, Ivan H. Deutsch, Poul S. Jessen
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures (color)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2450
abstract: We demonstrate quantum control of a large spin-angular momentum associated with the F=3 hyperfine ground state of 133Cs. A combination of time dependent magnetic fields and a static tensor light shift is used to implement near-optimal controls and map a fiducial state to a broad range of target states, with yields in the range 0.8-0.9. Squeezed states are produced also by an adiabatic scheme that is more robust against errors. Universal control facilitates the encoding and manipulation of qubits and qudits in atomic ground states, and may lead to improvement of some precision measurements.

id: 0706.2451
title: Quantum Discrete Fourier Transform with Classical Output for Signal Processing
authors: Chao-Yang Pang, Ben-Qiong Hu
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2451
abstract: Discrete Fourier transform (DFT) is the base of modern signal or information processing. 1-Dimensional fast Fourier transform (1D FFT) and 2D FFT have time complexity O(NlogN) and O(N^2logN) respectively. Quantum 1D and 2D DFT algorithms with classical output (1D QDFT and 2D QDFT) are presented in this paper. And quantum algorithm for convolution estimation is also presented in this paper. Compared with FFT, QDFT has two advantages at least. One of advantages is that 1D and 2D QDFT has time complexity O(sqrt(N)) and O(N) respectively. The other advantage is that QDFT can process very long signal sequence at a time. QDFT and quantum convolution demonstrate that quantum signal processing with classical output is possible.

id: 0706.2459
title: Local Cloning of Entangled Qubits
authors: Sujit K. Choudhary, Samir Kunkri, Ramij Rahaman, Anirban Roy
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Rhysical Review A 76, 052305(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2459
abstract: We discuss the exact cloning of orthogonal but entangled qubits under local operations and classical communication. The amount of entanglement necessary in blank copy is obtained for various cases. Surprisingly this amount is more than 1 ebit for certain set of two nonmaximal but equally entangled states of two qubits system. To clone any three two qubits Bell states at least log2 3 ebit is necessary.

id: 0706.2466
title: Visualizing Two Qubits
authors: J. E. Avron, G. Bisker, O. Kenneth
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures. Added several references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2466
abstract: The notions of entanglement witnesses, separable and entangled states for two qubits system can be visualized in three dimensions using the SLOCC equivalence classes. This visualization preserves the duality relations between the various sets and allows us to give ``proof by inspection'' of a non-elementary result of the Horodeckies that for two qubits, Peres separability test is iff. We then show that the CHSH Bell inequalities can be visualized as circles and cylinders in the same diagram. This allows us to give a geometric proof of yet another result of the Horodeckies, which optimizes the violation of the CHSH Bell inequality. Finally, we give numerical evidence that, remarkably, allowing Alice and Bob to use three rather than two measurements each, does not help them to distinguish any new entangled SLOCC equivalence class beyond the CHSH class.

id: 0706.2480
title: Operator space entanglement entropy in transverse Ising chain
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Iztok Pizorn
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures (2 eps), RevTex, accepted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032316 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2480
abstract: The efficiency of time dependent density matrix renormalization group methods is intrinsically connected with the rate of entanglement growth. We introduce a new measure of entanglement in the space of operators and show, for transverse Ising spin 1/2 chain, that the simulation of observables, contrary to simulation of typical pure quantum states, is efficient for initial local operators. For initial operators with a finite index in Majorana representation, the operator space entanglement entropy saturates with time to a level which is calculated analytically, while for initial operators with infinite index the growth of operator space entanglement entropy is shown to be logarithmic.

id: 0706.2481
title: Information functionals and the notion of (un)certainty: RMT - inspired case
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski
comments: Presented at the 3rd Workshop on Quantum Chaos and Localization Phenomena, Warsaw May 25-27,2007
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. A 112, (2007), 619-634
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2481
abstract: Information functionals allow to quantify the degree of randomness of a given probability distribution, either absolutely (through min/max entropy principles) or relative to a prescribed reference one. Our primary aim is to analyze the "minimum information" assumption, which is a classic concept (R. Balian, 1968) in the random matrix theory. We put special emphasis on generic level (eigenvalue) spacing distributions and the degree of their randomness, or alternatively - information/organization deficit.

id: 0706.2486
title: Semiclassical Dynamics of Electron Wave Packet States with Phase Vortices
authors: K. Yu. Bliokh, Yu. P. Bliokh, S. Savel'ev, F. Nori
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, revised version, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.99:190404,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2486
abstract: We consider semiclassical higher-order wave packet solutions of the Schrodinger equation with phase vortices. The vortex line is aligned with the propagation direction, and the wave packet carries a well-defined orbital angular momentum (OAM) $\hbar l$ ($l$ is the vortex strength) along its main linear momentum. The probability current coils around momentum in such OAM states of electrons. In an electric field, these states evolve like massless particles with spin $l$. The magnetic-monopole Berry curvature appears in momentum space, which results in a spin-orbit-type interaction and a Berry/Magnus transverse force acting on the wave packet. This brings about the OAM Hall effect. In a magnetic field, there is a Zeeman interaction, which, can lead to more complicated dynamics.

id: 0706.2492
title: Time-of-arrival probabilities and quantum measurements: II Application to tunneling times
authors: Charis Anastopoulos, Ntina Savvidou
comments: 26 pages--revised version, small changes, to appear in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 022101 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2492
abstract: We formulate quantum tunneling as a time-of-arrival problem: we determine the detection probability for particles passing through a barrier at a detector located a distance L from the tunneling region. For this purpose, we use a Positive-Operator-Valued-Measure (POVM) for the time-of-arrival determined in quant-ph/0509020 [JMP 47, 122106 (2006)]. This only depends on the initial state, the Hamiltonian and the location of the detector. The POVM above provides a well-defined probability density and an unambiguous interpretation of all quantities involved. We demonstrate that for a class of localized initial states, the detection probability allows for an identification of tunneling time with the classic phase time. We also establish limits to the definability of tunneling time. We then generalize these results to a sequential measurement set-up: the phase space properties of the particles are determined by an unsharp sampling before their attempt to cross the barrier. For such measurements the tunneling time is defined as a genuine observable. This allows us to construct a probability distribution for its values that is definable for all initial states and potentials. We also identify a regime, in which these probabilities correspond to a tunneling-time operator.

id: 0706.2495
title: Fidelity susceptibility, scaling, and universality in quantum critical phenomena
authors: Shi-Jian Gu, Ho-Man Kwok, Wen-Qiang Ning, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 245109 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2495
abstract: We study fidelity susceptibility in one-dimensional asymmetric Hubbard model, and show that the fidelity susceptibility can be used to identify the universality class of the quantum phase transitions in this model. The critical exponents are found to be 0 and 2 for cases of half-filling and away from half-filling respectively.

id: 0706.2496
title: Time-of-arrival probabilities and quantum measurements: III Decay of unstable states
authors: Charis Anastopoulos
comments: 27 pages, 2 figs--revised version, small changes, references added, version to appear in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 022103 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2496
abstract: We study the decay of unstable states by formulating quantum tunneling as a time-of-arrival problem: we determine the detection probability for particles at a detector located a distance L from the tunneling region. For this purpose, we use a Positive-Operator-Valued-Measure (POVM) for the time-of-arrival determined in quant-ph/0509020 [JMP 7, 122106 (2006)]. This only depends on the initial state, the Hamiltonian and the location of the detector. The POVM above provides a well-defined probability density and an unambiguous interpretation of all quantities involved. We demonstrate that the exponential decay only arises if three specific mathematical conditions are met. Their physical content is the following: (i) the decay time is much larger than any microscopic timescale, so that the fine details of the initial state can be ignored, (ii) there is no quantum coherence between the different `attempts' of the particle to traverse the barrier, and (iii) the transmission probability varies little within the momentum spread of the initial state. We also determine the long time limits of the decay probability and we identify regimes, in which the decays have no exponential phase.

id: 0706.2507
title: Adaptive homodyne phase discrimination and qubit measurement
authors: Mohan Sarovar, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 76, 052316 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2507
abstract: Fast and accurate measurement is a highly desirable, if not vital, feature of quantum computing architectures. In this work we investigate the usefulness of adaptive measurements in improving the speed and accuracy of qubit measurement. We examine a particular class of quantum computing architectures, ones based on qubits coupled to well controlled harmonic oscillator modes (reminiscent of cavity-QED), where adaptive schemes for measurement are particularly appropriate. In such architectures, qubit measurement is equivalent to phase discrimination for a mode of the electromagnetic field, and we examine adaptive techniques for doing this. In the final section we present a concrete example of applying adaptive measurement to the particularly well-developed circuit-QED architecture.

id: 0706.2522
title: Grounding Bohmian Mechanics in Weak Values and Bayesianism
authors: H. M. Wiseman
comments: 11 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 9 165 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2522
abstract: Bohmian mechanics (BM) is a popular interpretation of quantum mechanics in which particles have real positions. The velocity of a point x in configuration space is defined as the standard probability current j(x) divided by the probability density P(x). However, this ``standard'' j is in fact only one of infinitely many that transform correctly and satisfy \dot P + \del . j=0. In this article I show that there is a unique j that can be determined experimentally as a weak value using techniques that would make sense to a classical physicist. Moreover, this operationally defined j equals the standard j, so, assuming \dot x = j/P, the possible Bohmian paths can also be determined experimentally from a large enough ensemble. Furthermore, this approach to deriving BM singles out x as the hidden variable, because (for example) the operationally defined momentum current is in general incompatible with the evolution of the momentum distribution. Finally I discuss how, in this setting, the usual quantum probabilities can be derived from a Bayesian standpoint, via the principle of indifference.

id: 0706.2536
title: Exact wave-packet decoherence dynamics in a discrete spectrum environment
authors: Matisse W. Y. Tu, Wei-Min Zhang
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41, 245501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2536
abstract: We find an exact analytical solution of the reduced density matrix from the Feynman-Vernon influence functional theory for a wave packet influenced by an environment containing a few discrete modes. We obtain two intrinsic energy scales relating to the time scales of the system and the environment. Different relationship between these two scales alters the overall form of the solution of the system. We also introduce a decoherence measure for a single wave packet which is defined as the ratio of Schr\"odinger uncertainty over the delocalization extension of the wave packet and characterizes the time-evolution behavior of the off-diagonal reduced density matrix element. We utilize the exact solution and the docherence measure to study the wave packet decoherence dynamics. We further demonstrate how the dynamical diffusion of the wave packet leads to non-Markovian decoherence in such a microscopic environment.

id: 0706.2539
title: Many body localization in Heisenberg XXZ magnet in a random field
authors: Marko Znidaric, Tomaz Prosen, Peter Prelovsek
comments: 6 pages, 5 PS figures; v2: few minor changes, one additional figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 064426 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2539
abstract: We numerically investigate Heisenberg XXZ spin-1/2 chain in a spatially random static magnetic field. We find that tDMRG simulations of time evolution can be performed efficiently, namely the dimension of matrices needed to efficiently represent the time-evolution increases linearly with time and entanglement entropies for typical chain bipartitions increase logarithmically. As a result, we show that for large enough random fields infinite temperature spin-spin correlation function displays exponential localization in space indicating insulating behavior of the model.

id: 0706.2550
title: Entanglement swapping in a Franson interferometer setup
authors: Ugo Messina, G.Massimo Palma
comments: Published on the special issue of JMO in honour of the 60th birthday of Sir Peter Knight, FRS. Submitted to JMO on 10 February 2007. While the present manuscript was processed an independent experimental implementation of the same scheme discussed in our manuscript has been made bythe Geneva GAP as described in arXiv:0704.0758v1
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 54, 2297-2306, (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2550
abstract: We propose a simple scheme to swap the non local correlations, characteristic of a Franson interferometric setup, between pairs of frequency entangled photons emitted by distinct non linear crystals in a parametric down conversion process. Our scheme consists of two distinct sources of frequency entangled photons. One photon of each pair is sent to a separate Mach - Zender interferometer while the other photons of the pairs are mixed by a beam splitter and then detected in a Ou - Mandel interferometer. For suitably postselected joint measuremetns, the photons sent at the Mach -Zender show a coincidence photocount statistics which depends non locally on the settings of the two interferometers.

id: 0706.2603
title: All quantum expectation values as classical statistical mean values
authors: Antonio Cassa
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2603
abstract: Given a physical quantum system described by a Hilbert H, for any bounded quantum observable (a bounded self-adjoint operator) T it is possible to define several ''hidden observable'' functions f:H->R associated to T and for any quantum mixed state (a density matrix) D it is possible to define several ''hidden mixed states'' (probability measures) m on H associated to D in such a way that the following equality is verified: Trace[ b(T). D] =integral[b(f(psi)).dm(psi) whatever is the continuous function b:R->R. This formula gives a general way to express any expectation value computable in a quantum theory as a classical statistical mean value.

id: 0706.2606
title: Randomness Extraction via Delta-Biased Masking in the Presence of a Quantum Attacker
authors: Serge Fehr, Christian Schaffner
comments: 17 pages, v2: mainly editorial changes taking into account referee comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2606
abstract: Randomness extraction is of fundamental importance for information-theoretic cryptography. It allows to transform a raw key about which an attacker has some limited knowledge into a fully secure random key, on which the attacker has essentially no information. Up to date, only very few randomness-extraction techniques are known to work against an attacker holding quantum information on the raw key. This is very much in contrast to the classical (non-quantum) setting, which is much better understood and for which a vast amount of different techniques are known and proven to work. We prove a new randomness-extraction technique, which is known to work in the classical setting, to be secure against a quantum attacker as well. Randomness extraction is done by XOR'ing a so-called delta-biased mask to the raw key. Our result allows to extend the classical applications of this extractor to the quantum setting. We discuss the following two applications. We show how to encrypt a long message with a short key, information-theoretically secure against a quantum attacker, provided that the attacker has enough quantum uncertainty on the message. This generalizes the concept of entropically-secure encryption to the case of a quantum attacker. As second application, we show how to do error-correction without leaking partial information to a quantum attacker. Such a technique is useful in settings where the raw key may contain errors, since standard error-correction techniques may provide the attacker with information on, say, a secret key that was used to obtain the raw key.

id: 0706.2620
title: Rhodium Mossbauer Supperadiance Induced by Liquid-Nitrogen Cooling
authors: Yao Cheng, Bing Xia, Zhongming Wang
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2620
abstract: In the previous report, we have demonstrated cascade branching channels of the multipolar E3 transition of rhodium Mossbauer gamma via the time- and energy-resolved spectroscopy. Moreover, superradiance in the Borrmann channel from inverted nuclei gives gamma entanglement. In this letter, we report further four observations of superradiance and its associated gamma entanglement at the liquid-nitrogen temperature, i.e. (i) speed-up decay, (ii) immediate recovery of the speed-up decay after quenching, (iii) simultaneous suppression of gamma and K lines, and (iv) enhanced multiple ionizations. Anisotropic superradiant channels open by quenching and recover back immediately after quenching. Enhanced K satellites and K hypersatellites induced by cooling are attributed to the inelastic scattering of more than three entangled gammas.

id: 0706.2626
title: Geometrical approach to mutually unbiased bases
authors: A. B. Klimov, J. L. Romero, G. Bjork, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 10 pages. Some typos in the journal version have been corrected
journal: J. Phys. A 40, 3987 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2626
abstract: We propose a unifying phase-space approach to the construction of mutually unbiased bases for a two-qubit system. It is based on an explicit classification of the geometrical structures compatible with the notion of unbiasedness. These consist of bundles of discrete curves intersecting only at the origin and satisfying certain additional properties. We also consider the feasible transformations between different kinds of curves and show that they correspond to local rotations around the Bloch-sphere principal axes. We suggest how to generalize the method to systems in dimensions that are powers of a prime.

id: 0706.2628
title: Phase Transition of Trapped Nuclear Exciton of Long-lived Rhodium Mossbauer States
authors: Yao Cheng, Bing Xia
comments: Revised by additional discovery
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2628
abstract: We report experimental observations of the long-lived rhodium Mossbauer emissions by the time- and energy-resolved spectroscopy. The extraordinary observations manifest the open-up of photonic band gap in analogy to the superconducting gap of remarkable symmetry breakings at transition point. These observations are of potential importance for detecting gravitational waves and development of the two-photon gamma laser. Firstly, phase transitions shown by spectral evolution of characteristic emissions reveal the different aggregate exciton orderings at room temperature. Six different phases are identified by spectra profiles emitted from the color centers. Secondly, the cascade branching of the multipolar nuclear transition is discovered being the spontaneous cascade down-conversion to generate entangled gammas. The macroscopic angular distribution of entangled gammas from the polycrystalline sample manifests a global photon-nucleus-photon bound state across the grain boundaries. Thirdly, the gamma-energy distributions depending on exciton phases reveal the photonic band gap typically on the order of several hundred eV.

id: 0706.2639
title: Apparatus for excitation and detection of Rydberg atoms in quantum gases
authors: Robert Loew, Ulrich Raitzsch, Rolf Heidemann, Vera Bendkowsky, Bjoern Butscher, Axel Grabowski, Tilman Pfau
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2639
abstract: We present and characterize a versatile experimental setup which allows for excitation and detection of Rydberg atoms in quantum gases. The novel concept of the setup features two charged particle detectors and eight electrical field plates inside the vacuum chamber, which allows the detection and manipulation of Rydberg atoms. The setup presented here is applicable to all atomic species used in the field of quantum gases. We describe and characterize the production of Bose-Einstein condensates, the excitation scheme into Rydberg states, the detection of Rydberg states by field ionization followed by ion detection and the various electric field configurations provided by the eight field plates.

id: 0706.2661
title: Einstein, incompleteness, and the epistemic view of quantum states
authors: Nicholas Harrigan, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures, 1 recipe for cupcakes; comments welcome
journal: Found. Phys. 40, 125 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2661
abstract: Does the quantum state represent reality or our knowledge of reality? In making this distinction precise, we are led to a novel classification of hidden variable models of quantum theory. Indeed, representatives of each class can be found among existing constructions for two-dimensional Hilbert spaces. Our approach also provides a fruitful new perspective on arguments for the nonlocality and incompleteness of quantum theory. Specifically, we show that for models wherein the quantum state has the status of something real, the failure of locality can be established through an argument considerably more straightforward than Bell's theorem. The historical significance of this result becomes evident when one recognizes that the same reasoning is present in Einstein's preferred argument for incompleteness, which dates back to 1935. This fact suggests that Einstein was seeking not just any completion of quantum theory, but one wherein quantum states are solely representative of our knowledge. Our hypothesis is supported by an analysis of Einstein's attempts to clarify his views on quantum theory and the circumstance of his otherwise puzzling abandonment of an even simpler argument for incompleteness from 1927.

id: 0706.2754
title: Detecting mode entanglement: The role of coherent states, superselection rules and particle statistics
authors: S. Ashhab, Koji Maruyama, Franco Nori
comments: 7 pages (two-column)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052113 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2754
abstract: We discuss the possibility of observing quantum nonlocality using the so-called mode entanglement, analyzing the differences between different types of particles in this context. We first discuss the role of coherent states in such experiments, and we comment on the existence of coherent states in nature. The discussion of coherent states naturally raises questions about the role of particle statistics in this problem. Although the Pauli exclusion principle precludes coherent states with a large number of fermionic particles, we find that a large number of fermionic coherent states, each containing at most one particle, can be used to achieve the same effect as a bosonic coherent state for the purposes of this problem. The discussion of superselection rules arises naturally in this context, because their applicability to a given situation prohibits the use of coherent states. This limitation particularly affects the scenario that we propose for detecting the mode entanglement of fermionic particles.

id: 0706.2757
title: Controlled dynamics of qubits in the presence of decoherence
authors: D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042312 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2757
abstract: An exactly solvable model for the decoherence of one and two-qubit states interacting with a spin-bath, in the presence of a time-dependent magnetic field is studied. The magnetic field is static along $\hat{z}$ direction and oscillatory in the transverse plane. The transition probability and Rabi oscillations between the spin-states of a single qubit is shown to depend on the size of bath, the distribution of qubit-bath couplings and the initial bath polarization. In contrast to the fast Gaussian decay for short times, the polarization of the qubit shows an oscillatory power-law decay for long times. The loss of entanglement for the maximally entangled two-qubit states, can be controlled by tuning the frequency of the rotating field. The decay rates of entanglement and purity for all the Bell-states are same when the qubits are non-interacting, and different when they are interacting.

id: 0706.2765
title: Detecting entanglement of random states with an entanglement witness
authors: Marko Znidaric, Tomaz Prosen, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures; minor typos corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 13787-13798
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2765
abstract: The entanglement content of high-dimensional random pure states is almost maximal, nevertheless, we show that, due to the complexity of such states, the detection of their entanglement using witness operators is rather difficult. We discuss the case of unknown random states, and the case of known random states for which we can optimize the entanglement witness. Moreover, we show that coarse graining, modeled by considering mixtures of m random states instead of pure ones, leads to a decay in the entanglement detection probability exponential with m. Our results also allow to explain the emergence of classicality in coarse grained quantum chaotic dynamics.

id: 0706.2791
title: Composition of quantum states and dynamical subadditivity
authors: Wojciech Roga, Mark Fannes, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 25 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 035305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2791
abstract: We introduce a composition of quantum states of a bipartite system which is based on the reshuffling of density matrices. This non-Abelian product is associative and stems from the composition of quantum maps acting on a simple quantum system. It induces a semi-group in the subset of states with maximally mixed partial traces. Subadditivity of the von Neumann entropy with respect to this product is proved. It is equivalent to subadditivity of the entropy of bistochastic maps with respect to their composition, where the entropy of a map is the entropy of the corresponding state under the Jamiolkowski isomorphism. Strong dynamical subadditivity of a concatenation of three bistochastic maps is established. Analogous bounds for the entropy of a composition are derived for general stochastic maps. In the classical case they lead to new bounds for the entropy of a product of two stochastic matrices.

id: 0706.2792
title: Practical quantum key distribution over 60 hours at an optical fiber distance of 20km using weak and vacuum decoy pulses for enhanced security
authors: J. F. Dynes, Z. L. Yuan, A. W. Sharpe, A. J. Shields
comments: Accepted for publication in Optics Express
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 15, Issue 13, pp. 8465-8471 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2792
abstract: Experimental one-way decoy pulse quantum key distribution running continuously for 60 hours is demonstrated over a fiber distance of 20km. We employ a decoy protocol which involves one weak decoy pulse and a vacuum pulse. The obtained secret key rate is on average over 10kbps. This is the highest rate reported using this decoy protocol over this fiber distance and duration.

id: 0706.2799
title: Gaussian localizable entanglement
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek, Ladislav Mista Jr
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, REVTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 060302 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2799
abstract: We investigate localization of entanglement of multimode Gaussian states into a pair of modes by local Gaussian measurements on the remaining modes and classical communication. We find that for pure states and for mixed symmetric states maximum entanglement between two modes can be localized by local homodyne detections, i.e. projections onto infinitely squeezed states. We also show that non-Gaussian measurements allow to localize more entanglement than Gaussian ones.

id: 0706.2830
title: A new look at the problem of gauge invariance in quantum field theory
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: Accepted by Physica Scripta. 27 pages
journal: Phys.Scripta.76:64-71,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2830
abstract: Quantum field theory is assumed to be gauge invariant. However it is well known that when certain quantities are calculated using perturbation theory the results are not gauge invariant. The non-gauge invariant terms have to be removed in order to obtain a physically correct result. In this paper we will examine this problem and determine why a theory that is supposed to be gauge invariant produces non-gauge invariant results.

id: 0706.2835
title: Comments on Extraction of Work from a Single Thermal Bath in the Quantum Regime
authors: Elias P. Gyftopoulos, Michael R. von Spakovsky
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2835
abstract: In a PRL [1], the authors claim to show that "the Clausius inequality can be violated, and that it is even possible to extract work from a thermal bath by cyclic variations of a parameter ("perpetuum mobile"), and that the physical cause for this behavior is traced back to quantum coherence in the presence of the nonequilibrium bath (sic)".

id: 0706.2842
title: Comments on testing the violation of the Clausius inequality in nanoscale electric circuits
authors: Elias P. Gyftopoulos, Michael R. von Spakovsky
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2842
abstract: The correct laws of thermodynamics, either classical or quantum without probabilities of statistical quantum mechanics are valid for all systems, large or small, including systems of one spin or one particle only. So no violations can occur in nanoscale electric circuits.

id: 0706.2848
title: Quantum Uncertainty and Nonlocality: Are they Correctly Understood?
authors: Elias P. Gyftopoulos
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2848
abstract: In a brief article [1], Seife refers to works by Einstein and Schroedinger and concludes that there is a relentless murmur of confusion underneath the chorus of praise for quantum theory. It is noteworthy that a "murmur" is not necessarily a cause for replacement of any scientific theory, and that the issues raised by Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen, and Schroedinger's responses to the EPR paper have been satisfactorily resolved by Gyftopoulos and von Spakovsky [2] in a manner that renders the relentless murmur mute and unwarranted.

id: 0706.2853
title: A spin based heat engine: demonstration of multiple rounds of algorithmic cooling
authors: C.A. Ryan, O. Moussa, J. Baugh, R. Laflamme
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, improved content due to referee critique
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 140401 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2853
abstract: We show experimental results demonstrating multiple rounds of heat-bath algorithmic cooling in a 3 qubit solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance quantum information processor. By dynamically pumping entropy out of the system of interest and into the heat-bath, we are able show purification of a single qubit to a polarization 1.69 times that of the heat-bath and thus go beyond the Shannon bound for closed system cooling. The cooling algorithm implemented requires both high fidelity coherent control and a deliberate controlled interaction with the environment. We discuss the improvements in control that allowed this demonstration. This experimental work shows that given this level of quantum control in systems with sufficiently large polarizations, nearly pure qubits should be achievable.

id: 0706.2860
title: Comments on Violations of the Second Law
authors: Elias P. Gyftopoulos
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2860
abstract: The authors of Ref. [1] claim to have experimental verification of violations of the second law of thermodynamics based on the assertions: (i) "for large systems and over long times the entropy production rate is necessarily positive"; (ii) Loschmidt's paradox interpreted as indicating that entropy production can be both positive and negative; (iii) and violations of the second law for small systems over short time scales predicted by the fluctuation theorem FT [2]. Neither the claim nor the assertions are correct.

id: 0706.2877
title: A wavelength-tunable fiber-coupled source of narrowband entangled photons
authors: Alessandro Fedrizzi, Thomas Herbst, Andreas Poppe, Thomas Jennewein, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures. Article rewritten, added Fig.(1a-1b). Published in Optics Express, comments welcome
journal: Opt. Express 15, 15377-15386 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2877
abstract: We demonstrate a wavelength-tunable, fiber-coupled source of polarization-entangled photons with extremely high spectral brightness and quality of entanglement. Using a 25 mm PPKTP crystal inside a polarization Sagnac interferometer we detect a spectral brightness of 273000 pairs/(s mW nm), a factor of 28 better than comparable previous sources while state tomography showed the two-photon state to have a tangle of T=0.987. This improvement was achieved by use of a long crystal, careful selection of focusing parameters and single-mode fiber coupling. We demonstrate that, due to the particular geometry of the setup, the signal and idler wavelengths can be tuned over a wide range without loss of entanglement.

id: 0706.2907
title: Optimal quantum source coding with quantum information at the encoder and decoder
authors: Jon Yard, Igor Devetak
comments: This is a detailed proof of a result announced in quant-ph/0612050
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2907
abstract: Consider many instances of an arbitrary quadripartite pure state of four quantum systems ACBR. Alice holds the AC part of each state, Bob holds B, while R represents all other parties correlated with ACB. Alice is required to redistribute the C systems to Bob while asymptotically retaining the purity of the global states. We prove that this is possible using Q qubits of communication and E ebits of shared entanglement between Alice and Bob provided that Q < I(R;C|B)/2 and Q + E < H(C|B). This matches the outer bound for this problem given in quant-ph/0611008. The optimal qubit rate provides the first known operational interpretation of quantum conditional mutual information. We also show how our protocol leads to a fully operational proof of strong subaddivity and uncover a general organizing principle, in analogy to thermodynamics, which underlies the optimal rates.

id: 0706.2947
title: Quantum Coherence Engines
authors: Elias P. Gyftopoulos
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2947
abstract: In a report published in Science, Scully et al propose to generate "phaseonium", and "extract work from a single heat bath via vanishing coherence" [1]. On the basis of the laws of physics, such a proposal is futile for at least two reasons.

id: 0706.2954
title: Ergodicity properties of quantum expectation values in entangled states
authors: C. Sudheesh, S. Lakshmibala, V. Balakrishnan
comments: 4 figures and one table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2954
abstract: Using a model Hamiltonian for a single-mode electromagnetic field interacting with a nonlinear medium, we show that quantum expectation values of subsystem observables can exhibit remarkably diverse ergodic properties even when the dynamics of the total system is regular. The time series of the mean photon number is studied over a range of values of the ratio of the strength $\gamma$ of the nonlinearity to that of the inter-mode coupling $g$. We obtain the power spectrum, estimate the embedding dimension of the reconstructed phase space and the maximal Liapunov exponent $\lambda_{\rm max}$, and find the recurrence-time distribution of the coarse-grained dynamics. The dynamical behavior ranges from quasiperiodicity (for $\gamma/g \ll 1$) to chaos as characterized by $\lambda_{\rm max} > 0$ (for $\gamma/g \gtrsim 1$), and is interpreted.

id: 0706.2957
title: Reply to Comment on "A local realist model for correlations of the singlet state"
authors: H. De Raedt, K. Michielsen, S. Miyashita, K. Keimpema
comments: Corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2957
abstract: The general conclusion of Seevinck and Larsson is that our model exploits the so-called coincidence-time loophole and produces sinusoidal (quantum-like) correlations but does not model the singlet state because it does not violate the relevant Bell inequality derived by Larsson and Gill, since in order to obtain the sinusoidal correlations the probability of coincidences in our model goes to zero. In this reply, we refute their arguments that lead to this conclusion and demonstrate that our model can reproduce results of photon and ion-trap experiments with frequencies of coincidences that are not in conflict with the observations.

id: 0706.2964
title: Local models and EPR quantum correlations
authors: A. Matzkin
comments: This preprint is now replaced by arXiv:0808.2420
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2964
abstract: A model for two entangled systems in an EPR setting is shown to reproduce the quantum-mechanical outcomes and expectation values. Each system is represented by a small sphere containing a point-like particle embedded in a field. A quantum state appears as an equivalence class of several possible particle-field configurations. Contrarily to Bell-type hidden variables models, the fields account for the non-commutative aspects of the measurements and deny the simultaneous reality of incompatible physical quantities, thereby allowing to escape EPR's ``completeness or locality'' dilemma.

id: 0706.2978
title: Quantum and semiclassical phase functions for the quantization of symmetric oscillators
authors: A. Matzkin, M. Lombardi
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A 38, 6211 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2978
abstract: We investigate symmetric oscillators, and in particular their quantization, by employing semiclassical and quantum phase functions introduced in the context of Liouville-Green transformations of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation. For anharmonic oscillators, first order semiclassical quantization is seldom accurate and the higher order expansions eventually break down given the asymptotic nature of the series. A quantum phase that allows in principle to retrieve the exact quantum mechanical quantization condition and wavefunctions is given along with an iterative scheme to compute it. The arbitrariness surrounding quantum phase functions is lifted by supplementing the phase with boundary conditions involving high order semiclassical expansions. This allows to extend the definition of oscillation numbers, that determine the quantization of the harmonic oscillator, to the anharmonic case. Several illustrations involving homogeneous as well as coupling constant dependant anharmonic oscillators are given.

id: 0706.2985
title: Characterization of an asynchronous source of heralded single photons generated at a wavelength of 1550 nm
authors: Maria Tengner, Daniel Ljunggren
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, ReVTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2985
abstract: We make a thorough analysis of heralded single photon sources regarding how factors such as the detector gate-period, the photon rates, the fiber coupling efficiencies, and the system losses affect the performance of the source. In the course of this we give a detailed description of how to determine fiber coupling efficiencies from experimentally measurable quantities. We show that asynchronous sources perform, under most conditions, better than synchronous sources with respect to multiphoton events, but only for nearly perfect coupling efficiencies. We apply the theory to an asynchronous source of heralded single photons based on spontaneous parametric downconversion in a periodically poled, bulk, KTiOPO4 crystal. The source generates light with highly non-degenerate wavelengths of 810 nm and 1550 nm, where the 810 nm photons are used to announce the presence of the 1550 nm photons inside a single-mode optical fiber. For our setup we find the probability of having a 1550 nm photon present in the single-mode fiber, as announced by the 810 nm photon, to be 48%. The probability of multiphoton events is strongly suppressed compared to a Poissonian light source, giving highly sub-Poisson photon statistics.

id: 0706.3038
title: Separability of a family of one parameter W and GHZ multiqubit states using Abe-Rajagopal q-conditional entropy approach
authors: R. Prabhu, A. R. Usha Devi, G. Padmanabha
comments: 7 pages, 5 ps figures, RevteX, Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042337 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3038
abstract: We employ conditional Tsallis q entropies to study the separability of symmetric one parameter W and GHZ multiqubit mixed states. The strongest limitation on separability is realized in the limit q-->infinity, and is found to be much superior to the condition obtained using the von Neumann conditional entropy (q=1 case). Except for the example of two qubit and three qubit symmetric states of GHZ family, the $q$-conditional entropy method leads to sufficient - but not necessary - conditions on separability.

id: 0706.3051
title: Molecular Dipolar Crystals as High Fidelity Quantum Memory for Hybrid Quantum Computing
authors: P. Rabl, P. Zoller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042308 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3051
abstract: We study collective excitations of rotational and spin states of an ensemble of polar molecules, which are prepared in a dipolar crystalline phase, as a candidate for a high fidelity quantum memory. While dipolar crystals are formed in the high density limit of cold clouds of polar molecules under 1D and 2D trapping conditions, the crystalline structure protects the molecular qubits from detrimental effects of short range collisions. We calculate the lifetime of the quantum memory by identifying the dominant decoherence mechanisms, and estimate their effects on gate operations, when a molecular ensemble qubit is transferred to a superconducting strip line cavity (circuit QED). In the case rotational excitations coupled by dipole-dipole interactions we identify phonons as the main limitation of the life time of qubits. We study specific setups and conditions, where the coupling to the phonon modes is minimized. Detailed results are presented for a 1D dipolar chain.

id: 0706.3072
title: Efficient vibrational state coupling in an optical tilted-washboard potential via multiple spatial translations and application to pulse echo
authors: Samansa Maneshi, Jalani F. Kanem, Chao Zhuang, Matt Partlow, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 13 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022303 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3072
abstract: We measure the application of simple and compound pulses consisting of time-dependent spatial translations to coupling vibrational states of ultracold 85Rb atoms in a far-detuned 1D optical lattice. The lattice wells are so shallow as to support only two bound states, and we prepare the atoms in the ground state. The lattice is oriented vertically, leading to a tilted-washboard potential analogous to those encountered in condensed-matter systems. Experimentally, we find that a square pulse consisting of lattice displacements and a delay is more efficient than single-step and Gaussian pulses. This is described as an example of coherent control. It is striking that contrary to the intuition that soft pulses minimize loss, the Gaussian pulse is outperformed by the square pulse. Numerical calculations are in strong agreement with our experimental results and show the superiority of the square pulse to the single-step pulse for all lattice depths and to the Gaussian pulse for lattice depths greater than 7 lattice recoil energies. We also compare the effectiveness of these pulses for reviving oscillations of atoms in vibrational superposition states using the pulse-echo technique. We find that the square and Gaussian pulses result in higher echo amplitudes than the single-step pulse. These improved echo pulses allow us to probe coherence at longer times than in the past, measuring a plateau which has yet to be explained. In addition, we show numerically that the vibrational state coupling due to such lattice manipulations is more efficient in shallow lattices than in deep lattices.

id: 0706.3102
title: Complete Hamiltonian description of wave-like features in classical and quantum physics
authors: A.Orefice, R.Giovanelli, D.Ditto
comments: The scientific content is unchanged. Abstract, Introduction and Conclusions were improved. The new version is given in 7 pages and double column and includes 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3102
abstract: The analysis of the Helmholtz equation is shown to lead to an exact Hamiltonian system of equations describing in terms of ray trajectories a very wide family of wave-like phenomena (including diffraction and interference) going much beyond the limits of the ordinary geometrical optics approximation, which is contained as a simple limiting case. Due to the fact that the time independent Schroedinger equation is itself a Helmoltz-like equation, the same mathematical solutions holding for a classical optical beam turn out to apply to a quantum particle beam, leading to a complete system of Hamiltonian equations which provide a set of particle trajectories and motion laws containing as a limiting case the ones encountered in classical Mechanics.

id: 0706.3133
title: Tunable photonic band gaps with coherently driven atoms in optical lattices
authors: David Petrosyan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 053823 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3133
abstract: Optical lattice loaded with cold atoms can exhibit a tunable photonic band gap for a weak probe field under the conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency. This system possesses a number of advantageous properties, including reduced relaxation of Raman coherence and the associated probe absorption, and simultaneous enhancement of the index modulation and the resulting reflectivity of the medium. This flexible system has a potential to serve as a testbed of various designs for the linear and nonlinear photonic band gap materials at a very low light level and can be employed for realizing deterministic entanglement between weak quantum fields.

id: 0706.3181
title: Simulation of the Single- and Double-Slit Experiments with Quantum Walkers
authors: Amanda C. Oliveira, Renato Portugal, Raul Donangelo
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3181
abstract: We employ the broken-link model to create a barrier with slits in a two-dimensional lattice. The diffraction and interference patterns of the probability distribution of quantum walkers passing through the slits are analyzed. Simulations were performed using the main types of coins, and display diffraction and interference patterns that depend on the choice of coins.

id: 0706.3183
title: Entanglement Production in Non-Equilibrium Thermodynamics
authors: V. Vedral
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3183
abstract: We define and analyse the concept of entanglement production during the evolution of a general quantum mechanical dissipative system. While it is important to minimise entropy production in order to achieve thermodynamical efficiency, maximising the rate of change of entanglement is important in quantum information processing. Quantitative relations are obtained between entropy and entanglement productions, under specific assumptions detailed in the text. We apply these to the processes of dephasing and decay of correlations between two initially entangled qubits. Both the Master equation treatment as well as the higher Hilbert space analysis are presented. Our formalism is very general and contains as special cases many reported individual instance of entanglement dynamics, such as, for example, the recently discovered notion of the sudden death of entanglement.

id: 0706.3186
title: Precision spectroscopy with two correlated atoms
authors: M. Chwalla, K. Kim, T. Monz, P. schindler, M. Riebe, C. F. Roos, R. Blatt
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. B 89, 483-488 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3186
abstract: We discuss techniques that allow for long coherence times in laser spectroscopy experiments with two trapped ions. We show that for this purpose not only entangled ions prepared in decoherence-free subspaces can be used but also a pair of ions that are not entangled but subject to the same kind of phase noise. We apply this technique to a measurement of the electric quadrupole moment of the 3d D5/2 state of 40Ca+ and to a measurement of the linewidth of an ultrastable laser exciting a pair of 40Ca+ ions.

id: 0706.3204
title: Optimal purifications and fidelity for displaced thermal states
authors: Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian
comments: published version
journal: Physical Review A 76, 054307 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3204
abstract: We evaluate the Uhlmann fidelity between two one-mode displaced thermal states as the maximal probability transition between appropriate purifications of the given states. The optimal purifications defining the fidelity are proved to be two-mode displaced Gaussian states.

id: 0706.3265
title: Unbounded-error One-way Classical and Quantum Communication Complexity
authors: Kazuo Iwama, Harumichi Nishimura, Rudy Raymond, Shigeru Yamashita
comments: 9 pages. To appear in Proc. ICALP 2007
journal: Proc. of the 34th International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming (ICALP 2007), LNCS 4596 pages 110 -- 121
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3265
abstract: This paper studies the gap between quantum one-way communication complexity $Q(f)$ and its classical counterpart $C(f)$, under the {\em unbounded-error} setting, i.e., it is enough that the success probability is strictly greater than 1/2. It is proved that for {\em any} (total or partial) Boolean function $f$, $Q(f)=\lceil C(f)/2 \rceil$, i.e., the former is always exactly one half as large as the latter. The result has an application to obtaining (again an exact) bound for the existence of $(m,n,p)$-QRAC which is the $n$-qubit random access coding that can recover any one of $m$ original bits with success probability $\geq p$. We can prove that $(m,n,>1/2)$-QRAC exists if and only if $m\leq 2^{2n}-1$. Previously, only the construction of QRAC using one qubit, the existence of $(O(n),n,>1/2)$-RAC, and the non-existence of $(2^{2n},n,>1/2)$-QRAC were known.

id: 0706.3269
title: Experimental characterization of Gaussian quantum communication channels
authors: James DiGuglielmo, Boris Hage, Alexander Franzen, Jaromir Fiurasek, Roman Schnabel
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3269
abstract: We present a full experimental characterization of continuous variable quantum communication channels established by shared entanglement together with local operations and classical communication. The resulting teleportation channel was fully characterized by measuring all elements of the covariance matrix of the shared two-mode squeezed Gaussian state. From the experimental data we determined the lower bound to the quantum channel capacity, the teleportation fidelity of coherent states and the logarithmic negativity and the purity of the shared state. Additionally, a positive secret key rate was obtained for two of the established channels.

id: 0706.3300
title: Trapped Bose gases with large positive scattering length
authors: M. Th?gersen, D.V. Fedorov, A.S. Jensen
comments: 
journal: EPL 79 (2007) 40002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3300
abstract: We calculate the energy and the condensate fraction of a system of trapped bosons interacting via a short-range two-body potential with positive scattering length. The potential is attractive and has a two-body bound state. When the scattering length is small compared to the trap length the system is model independent: all potential models -- attractive, repulsive and zero-range -- provide similar results. When the scattering length is large the attractive model differs qualitatively from the repulsive and zero-range models. In this regime the system with attractive potential becomes independent of the scattering length, with both the energy and the condensate fraction converging towards finite constants.

id: 0706.3302
title: Zero-point momentum in Complex media
authors: B.A. van Tiggelen
comments: submitted to EPJ D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3302
abstract: In this work we apply field regularization techniques to formulate a number of new phenomena related to momentum induced by electromagnetic zero-point fluctuations. We discuss the zero-point momentum associated with magneto-electric media, with moving media, and with magneto-chiral media.

id: 0706.3326
title: Three-qubit pure-state canonical forms for Perfect Teleportation
authors: Xin-Wei Zha, Hai-Yang Song
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3326
abstract: Recently, Agrawal and Pati [Phys. Rev. A 74, 062320 (2006)] have given a class of W-states that can be used for perfect teleportation. Here, two canonical forms of perfect quantum channel are presented by transformation operator and the GHZ state and the W state are special case of those two canonical forms of perfect quantum channel. Furthermore, the orthogonal complete measurement bases are given.

id: 0706.3329
title: Dirac Cat States in Relativistic Landau Levels
authors: A. Bermudez, M.A. Martin-Delgado, E. Solano
comments: Revtex4, color figures, submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 123602 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3329
abstract: We show that a relativistic version of Schrodinger cat states, here called Dirac cat states, can be built in relativistic Landau levels when an external magnetic field couples to a relativistic spin 1/2 charged particle. Under suitable initial conditions, the associated Dirac equation produces unitarily Dirac cat states involving the orbital quanta of the particle in a well defined mesoscopic regime. We demonstrate that the proposed Dirac cat states have a purely relativistic origin and cease to exist in the non-relativistic limit. In this manner, we expect to open relativistic quantum mechanics to the rich structures of quantum optics and quantum information.

id: 0706.3374
title: Laser ablation loading of a surface-electrode ion trap
authors: David R. Leibrandt, Robert J. Clark, Jaroslaw Labaziewicz, Paul Antohi, Waseem Bakr, Kenneth R. Brown, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3374
abstract: We demonstrate loading by laser ablation of $^{88}$Sr$^+$ ions into a mm-scale surface-electrode ion trap. The laser used for ablation is a pulsed, frequency-tripled Nd:YAG with pulse energies of 1-10 mJ and durations of 3-5 ns. An additional laser is not required to photoionize the ablated material. The efficiency and lifetime of several candidate materials for the laser ablation target are characterized by measuring the trapped ion fluorescence signal for a number of consecutive loads. Additionally, laser ablation is used to load traps with a trap depth (40 meV) below where electron impact ionization loading is typically successful ($\gtrsim$ 500 meV).

id: 0706.3400
title: Channel-Adapted Quantum Error Correction
authors: Andrew S. Fletcher
comments: Ph.D. dissertation, 163 pages, 38 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3400
abstract: Quantum error correction (QEC) is an essential concept for any quantum information processing device. Typically, QEC is designed with minimal assumptions about the noise process; this generic assumption exacts a high cost in efficiency and performance. In physical systems, errors are not likely to be arbitrary; rather we will have reasonable models for the structure of quantum decoherence. We may choose quantum error correcting codes and recovery operations that specifically target the most likely errors. We present a convex optimization method to determine the optimal (in terms of average entanglement fidelity) recovery operation for a given channel, encoding, and information source. This is solvable via a semidefinite program (SDP). We present computational algorithms to generate near-optimal recovery operations structured to begin with a projective syndrome measurement. These structured operations are more computationally scalable than the SDP required for computing the optimal; we can thus numerically analyze longer codes. Using Lagrange duality, we bound the performance of the structured recovery operations and show that they are nearly optimal in many relevant cases. We present two classes of channel-adapted quantum error correcting codes specifically designed for the amplitude damping channel. These have significantly higher rates with shorter block lengths than corresponding generic quantum error correcting codes. Both classes are stabilizer codes, and have good fidelity performance with stabilizer recovery operations. The encoding, syndrome measurement, and syndrome recovery operations can all be implemented with Clifford group operations.

id: 0706.3401
title: Measurement-based quantum computation beyond the one-way model
authors: D. Gross, J. Eisert, N. Schuch, D. Perez-Garcia
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052315 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3401
abstract: We introduce novel schemes for quantum computing based on local measurements on entangled resource states. This work elaborates on the framework established in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 220503 (2007), quant-ph/0609149]. Our method makes use of tools from many-body physics - matrix product states, finitely correlated states or projected entangled pairs states - to show how measurements on entangled states can be viewed as processing quantum information. This work hence constitutes an instance where a quantum information problem - how to realize quantum computation - was approached using tools from many-body theory and not vice versa. We give a more detailed description of the setting, and present a large number of new examples. We find novel computational schemes, which differ from the original one-way computer for example in the way the randomness of measurement outcomes is handled. Also, schemes are presented where the logical qubits are no longer strictly localized on the resource state. Notably, we find a great flexibility in the properties of the universal resource states: They may for example exhibit non-vanishing long-range correlation functions or be locally arbitrarily close to a pure state. We discuss variants of Kitaev's toric code states as universal resources, and contrast this with situations where they can be efficiently classically simulated. This framework opens up a way of thinking of tailoring resource states to specific physical systems, such as cold atoms in optical lattices or linear optical systems.

id: 0706.3411
title: Cavity QED with a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Ferdinand Brennecke, Tobias Donner, Stephan Ritter, Thomas Bourdel, Michael K?hl, Tilman Esslinger
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; version accepted for publication in Nature; updated Fig. 4; changed atom numbers due to new calibration
journal: Nature 450, 268-271 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3411
abstract: Cavity quantum electrodynamics (cavity QED) describes the coherent interaction between matter and an electromagnetic field confined within a resonator structure, and is providing a useful platform for developing concepts in quantum information processing. By using high-quality resonators, a strong coupling regime can be reached experimentally in which atoms coherently exchange a photon with a single light-field mode many times before dissipation sets in. This has led to fundamental studies with both microwave and optical resonators. To meet the challenges posed by quantum state engineering and quantum information processing, recent experiments have focused on laser cooling and trapping of atoms inside an optical cavity. However, the tremendous degree of control over atomic gases achieved with Bose-Einstein condensation has so far not been used for cavity QED. Here we achieve the strong coupling of a Bose-Einstein condensate to the quantized field of an ultrahigh-finesse optical cavity and present a measurement of its eigenenergy spectrum. This is a conceptually new regime of cavity QED, in which all atoms occupy a single mode of a matter-wave field and couple identically to the light field, sharing a single excitation. This opens possibilities ranging from quantum communication to a wealth of new phenomena that can be expected in the many-body physics of quantum gases with cavity-mediated interactions.

id: 0706.3416
title: Classical capacity of bosonic broadcast communication and a new minimum output entropy conjecture
authors: Saikat Guha, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Baris I. Erkmen
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032303 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3416
abstract: Previous work on the classical information capacities of bosonic channels has established the capacity of the single-user pure-loss channel, bounded the capacity of the single-user thermal-noise channel, and bounded the capacity region of the multiple-access channel. The latter is a multi-user scenario in which several transmitters seek to simultaneously and independently communicate to a single receiver. We study the capacity region of the bosonic broadcast channel, in which a single transmitter seeks to simultaneously and independently communicate to two different receivers. It is known that the tightest available lower bound on the capacity of the single-user thermal-noise channel is that channel's capacity if, as conjectured, the minimum von Neumann entropy at the output of a bosonic channel with additive thermal noise occurs for coherent-state inputs. Evidence in support of this minimum output entropy conjecture has been accumulated, but a rigorous proof has not been obtained. In this paper, we propose a new minimum output entropy conjecture that, if proved to be correct, will establish that the capacity region of the bosonic broadcast channel equals the inner bound achieved using a coherent-state encoding and optimum detection. We provide some evidence that supports this new conjecture, but again a full proof is not available.

id: 0706.3445
title: Analysis of a recent experimental test of Bell inequalities violating quantum predictions
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3445
abstract: A recent experiment by Brida et al. (arXiv:0705.0439 [quant-ph]) is analyzed with the conclusion that is shows a violation of standard quantum predictions. A simple local hidden variables model is studied which is compatible with the empirical results and fits fairly well the deviation from the quantum predictions.

id: 0706.3457
title: Quantum theory for spatial motion of polaritons in inhomogeneous fields
authors: Lan Zhou, Jing Lu, D. L. Zhou, C. P. Sun
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 023816 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3457
abstract: Polaritons are the collective excitations of many atoms dressed by resonant photons, which can be used to explain the slow light propagation with the mechanism of electromagnetically induced transparency. As quasi-particles, these collective excitations possess the typical feature of the matter particles, which can be reflected and deflected by the inhomogeneous medium in its spatial motion with some velocity. In this paper we develop a quantum theory to systematically describe the spatial motion of polaritons in inhomogeneous magnetic and optical fields. This theoretical approach treats these quasi-particles through an effective Schr\"{o}dinger equation with anisotropic depression that the longitudinal motion is like a ultra-relativistic motion of a "slow light velocity" while the transverse motion is of non-relativity with certain effective mass. We find that, after passing through the EIT medium, the light ray bends due to the spatial-dependent profile of external field. This phenomenon explicitly demonstrates the exotic corpuscular property of polaritons with anisotropic nature.

id: 0706.3461
title: Geometrization of quantum formalism
authors: O.A. Olkhov
comments: 11 pages, Proc.Int.WorkshopDICE2006 "Quantum Mechanics between Decoherence and Determinism", Piombino, Italy, September 11-15, 2006
journal: Journal of Phys.: Conf.Ser, 2007, 67, 012037
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3461
abstract: The hypothesis is suggested that the equation for the Dirac free wave field is, in fact, a group-theoretical relation describing propagation of specific microscopic deviations of space geometry from the euclidean one (closed topological manifolds). The Dirac equation for a hydrogen atom can also be interpreted as a relation that accounts for the symmetry properties of a piece of curved space. Within the framework of this concept, atoms have no any pointlike particles (electrons) inside, and the gauge invariance of electromagnetic field proves to be the natural consequence of the basic principles of the proposed geometrical approach.

id: 0706.3469
title: Entanglement and Timing-Based Mechanisms in the Coherent Control of Scattering Processes
authors: Michael Spanner, Paul Brumer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3469
abstract: The coherent control of scattering processes is considered, with electron impact dissociation of H$_2^+$ used as an example. The physical mechanism underlying coherently controlled stationary state scattering is exposed by analyzing a control scenario that relies on previously established entanglement requirements between the scattering partners. Specifically, initial state entanglement assures that all collisions in the scattering volume yield the desirable scattering configuration. Scattering is controlled by preparing the particular internal state wave function that leads to the favored collisional configuration in the collision volume. This insight allows coherent control to be extended to the case of time-dependent scattering. Specifically, we identify reactive scattering scenarios using incident wave packets of translational motion where coherent control is operational and initial state entanglement is unnecessary. Both the stationary and time-dependent scenarios incorporate extended coherence features, making them physically distinct. From a theoretical point of view, this work represents a large step forward in the qualitative understanding of coherently controlled reactive scattering. From an experimental viewpoint, it offers an alternative to entanglement-based control schemes. However, both methods present significant challenges to existing experimental technologies.

id: 0706.3470
title: Coherent Control and Entanglement in the Attosecond Electron Recollision Dissociation of D2+
authors: Michael Spanner, Paul Brumer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3470
abstract: We examine the attosecond electron recollision dissociation of D2+ recently demonstrated experimentally [H. Niikura et al., Nature (London) 421, 826 (2003)] from a coherent control perspective. In this process, a strong laser field incident on D2 ionizes an electron, accelerates the electron in the laser field to eV energies, and then drives the electron to recollide with the parent ion, causing D2+ dissociation. A number of results are demonstrated. First, a full dimensional Strong Field Approximation (SFA) model is constructed and shown to be in agreement with the original experiment. This is then used to rigorously demonstrate that the experiment is an example of coherent pump-dump control. Second, extensions to bichromatic coherent control are proposed by considering dissociative recollision of molecules prepared in a coherent superposition of vibrational states. Third, by comparing the results to similar scenarios involving field-free attosecond scattering of independently prepared D2+ and electron wave packets, recollision dissociation is shown to provide an example of wave-packet coherent control of reactive scattering. Fourth, this analysis makes clear that it is the temporal correlations between the continuum electron and D2+ wave packet, and not entanglement, that are crucial for the sub-femtosecond probing resolution demonstrated in the experiment. This result clarifies some misconceptions regarding the importance of entanglement in the recollision probing of D2+. Finally, signatures of entanglement between the recollision electron and the atomic fragments, detectable via coincidence measurements, are identified.

id: 0706.3507
title: Interference in Bohmian Mechanics with Complex Action
authors: Yair Goldfarb, David J Tannor
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3507
abstract: In recent years, intensive effort has gone into developing numerical tools for exact quantum mechanical calculations that are based on Bohmian mechanics. As part of this effort we have recently developed as alternative formulation of Bohmian mechanics in which the quantum action, S, is taken to be complex [JCP {125}, 231103 (2006)]. In the alternative formulation there is a significant reduction in the magnitude of the quantum force as compared with the conventional Bohmian formulation, at the price of propagating complex trajectories. In this paper we show that Bohmian mechanics with complex action is able to overcome the main computational limitation of conventional Bohmian methods -- the propagation of wavefunctions once nodes set in. In the vicinity of nodes, the quantum force in conventional Bohmian formulations exhibits rapid oscillations that pose severe difficulties for existing numerical schemes. We show that within complex Bohmian mechanics, multiple complex initial conditions can lead to the same real final position, allowing for the description of nodes as a sum of the contribution from two or more crossing trajectories. The idea is illustrated on the reflection amplitude from a one-dimensional Eckart barrier. We believe that trajectory crossing, although in contradiction to the conventional Bohmian trajectory interpretation, provides an important new tool for dealing with the nodal problem in Bohmian methods.

id: 0706.3508
title: Unified derivation of Bohmian methods and the incorporation of interference effects
authors: Yair Goldfarb, Jeremy Schiff, David J Tannor
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3508
abstract: We present a unified derivation of Bohmian methods that serves as a common starting point for the derivative propagation method (DPM), Bohmian mechanics with complex action (BOMCA) and the zero-velocity complex action method (ZEVCA). The unified derivation begins with the ansatz $\psi=e^{\frac{iS}{\hbar}}$ where the action, $S$, is taken to be complex and the quantum force is obtained by writing a hierarchy of equations of motion for the phase partial derivatives. We demonstrate how different choices of the trajectory velocity field yield different formulations such as DPM, BOMCA and ZEVCA. The new derivation is used for two purposes. First, it serves as a common basis for comparing the role of the quantum force in the DPM and BOMCA formulations. Second, we use the new derivation to show that superposing the contributions of real, crossing trajectories yields a nodal pattern essentially identical to that of the exact quantum wavefunction. The latter result suggests a promising new approach to deal with the challenging problem of nodes in Bohmian mechanics.

id: 0706.3510
title: Realistic solution to the tunneling time problem
authors: Wang Guowen
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3510
abstract: There remains the old question of how long a quantum particle takes to tunnel through a potential barrier higher than its incident kinetic energy. In this article a solution of the question is proposed on the basis of a realistic explanation of quantum mechanics. The explanation implies that the tunneling particle has a certain chance to borrow enough energy from self-interference to high-jump over the barrier. The root-mean-square velocity and the effective tunneling time of an electron tunneling through a rectangular barrier are numerically calculated. No superluminal effect (Hartman effect) is found for the tunneling electron. Heisenberg's energy-time uncertainty relation for the tunneling effect is verified by calculating an introduced coefficient representing uncertainty. The present author argues that phase time, dwell time and B\"{u}tticker-Landauer time are not appropriate expressions for the actual transit time in a tunneling process. A quantum high-jumping model is presented to resolve the paradox that kinetic energy of the tunneling particle is negative and its momentum is imaginary.

id: 0706.3526
title: "No Information Without Disturbance": Quantum Limitations of Measurement
authors: Paul Busch
comments: Invited contribution, "Quantum Reality, Relativistic Causality, and Closing the Epistemic Circle: An International Conference in Honour of Abner Shimony", Perimeter Institute, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, July 18-21, 2006, Editors J. Christian, W.Myrvold, Springer-Verlag, 2008, ISSN: 978-1-4020-9106
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3526
abstract: In this contribution I review rigorous formulations of a variety of limitations of measurability in quantum mechanics. To this end I begin with a brief presentation of the conceptual tools of modern measurement theory. I will make precise the notion that quantum measurements necessarily alter the system under investigation and elucidate its connection with the complementarity and uncertainty principles.

id: 0706.3574
title: The Characteristic Noise Induced by the Continious Measurements in Classical Open Systems
authors: E.D. Vol
comments: 13 p., 0 fig
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3574
abstract: We proposed the modified version of quantum-mechanical theory of continuous measurements for the case of classical open systems. In our approach the influence of measurement on evolution of distribution function of an open system is described by the Fokker-Planck equation of a special form. The diffusion tensor of this equation is uniquely defined by a type of the measured quantity. On the basis of the approach proposed the stationary states of the linear dissipative systems, induced by measurements in them, are considered. Also we demonstrate on the simple example, how in the conservative system, consisting of noninteracting parts, measurement of the integral of motion results in relaxation to the quasi-thermodynamic equilibrium between parts of the system. The "temperature" of such state is determined by energy of the system and by the mean value of measured integral of motion. PACS numbers: 03.65.Ta, 05.40.-a

id: 0706.3612
title: Chiral entanglement in triangular lattice models
authors: D.I. Tsomokos, J.J. Garcia-Ripoll, N.R. Cooper, J.K. Pachos
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, revised with more numerical results and further discussions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012106 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3612
abstract: We consider the low energy spectrum of spin-1/2 two-dimensional triangular lattice models subject to a ferromagnetic Heisenberg interaction and a three spin chiral interaction of variable strength. Initially, we consider quasi-one dimensional ladder systems of various geometries. Analytical results are derived that yield the behavior of the ground states, their energies and the transition points. The entanglement properties of the ground state of these models are examined and we find that the entanglement depends on the lattice geometry due to frustration effects. To this end, the chirality of a given quantum state is used as a witness of tripartite entanglement. Finally, the two dimensional model is investigated numerically by means of exact diagonalization and indications are presented that the low energy sector is a chiral spin liquid.

id: 0706.3633
title: Phase Diffusion in Quantum Dissipative Systems
authors: Subhashish Banerjee, R. Srikanth
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review A; changes in section V; 20 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3633
abstract: We study the dynamics of the quantum phase distribution associated with the reduced density matrix of a system for a number of situations of practical importance, as the system evolves under the influence of its environment, interacting via a quantum nondemoliton type of coupling, such that there is decoherence without dissipation, as well as when it interacts via a dissipative interaction, resulting in decoherence as well as dissipation. The system is taken to be either a two-level atom (or equivalently, a spin-1/2 system) or a harmonic oscillator, and the environment is modeled as a bath of harmonic oscillators, starting out in a squeezed thermal state. The impact of the different environmental parameters on the dynamics of the quantum phase distribution for the system starting out in various initial states, is explicitly brought out. An interesting feature that emerges from our work is that the relationship between squeezing and temperature effects depends on the type of system-bath interaction. In the case of quantum nondemolition type of interaction, squeezing and temperature work in tandem, producing a diffusive effect on the phase distribution. In contrast, in case of a dissipative interaction, the influence of temperature can be counteracted by squeezing, which manifests as a resistence to randomization of phase. We make use of the phase distributions to bring out a notion of complementarity in atomic systems. We also study the dispersion of the phase using the phase distributions conditioned on particular initial states of the system.

id: 0706.3653
title: Lower bound of minimal time evolution in quantum mechanics
authors: Pulak Ranjan Giri
comments: 4 pages, no figure, revtex4
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.47:2095-2100,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3653
abstract: We show that the total time of evolution from the initial quantum state to final quantum state and then back to the initial state, i.e., making a round trip along the great circle over S^2, must have a lower bound in quantum mechanics, if the difference between two eigenstates of the 2\times 2 Hamiltonian is kept fixed. Even the non-hermitian quantum mechanics can not reduce it to arbitrarily small value. In fact, we show that whether one uses a hermitian Hamiltonian or a non-hermitian, the required minimal total time of evolution is same. It is argued that in hermitian quantum mechanics the condition for minimal time evolution can be understood as a constraint coming from the orthogonality of the polarization vector \bf P of the evolving quantum state \rho={1/2}(\bf 1+ \bf{P}\cdot\boldsymbol{\sigma}) with the vector \boldsymbol{\mathcal O}(\Theta) of the 2\times 2 hermitian Hamiltonians H ={1/2}({\mathcal O}_0\boldsymbol{1}+ \boldsymbol{\mathcal O}(\Theta)\cdot\boldsymbol{\sigma}) and it is shown that the Hamiltonian H can be parameterized by two independent parameters {\mathcal O}_0 and \Theta.

id: 0706.3654
title: Catalytic Conversion Probabilities for Bipartite Pure States
authors: S. Turgut
comments: 4 pages; comments appreciated; the article is a modified version of this preprint combined with arXiv:0707.0444
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 12185-12212
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3654
abstract: For two given bipartite-entangled pure states, an expression is obtained for the least upper bound of conversion probabilities using catalysis. The attainability of the upper bound can also be decided if that bound is less than one.

id: 0706.3701
title: Continuous variable quantum teleportation with non-Gaussian resources
authors: F. Dell'Anno, S. De Siena, L. Albano Farias, F. Illuminati
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 022301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3701
abstract: We investigate continuous variable quantum teleportation using non-Gaussian states of the radiation field as entangled resources. We compare the performance of different classes of degaussified resources, including two-mode photon-added and two-mode photon-subtracted squeezed states. We then introduce a class of two-mode squeezed Bell-like states with one-parameter dependence for optimization. These states interpolate between and include as subcases different classes of degaussified resources. We show that optimized squeezed Bell-like resources yield a remarkable improvement in the fidelity of teleportation both for coherent and nonclassical input states. The investigation reveals that the optimal non-Gaussian resources for continuous variable teleportation are those that most closely realize the simultaneous maximization of the content of entanglement, the degree of affinity with the two-mode squeezed vacuum and the, suitably measured, amount of non-Gaussianity.

id: 0706.3749
title: Quantum Operation Time Reversal
authors: Gavin E. Crooks
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77 034101(4) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3749
abstract: The dynamics of an open quantum system can be described by a quantum operation, a linear, complete positive map of operators. Here, I exhibit a compact expression for the time reversal of a quantum operation, which is closely analogous to the time reversal of a classical Markov transition matrix. Since open quantum dynamics are stochastic, and not, in general, deterministic, the time reversal is not, in general, an inversion of the dynamics. Rather, the system relaxes towards equilibrium in both the forward and reverse time directions. The probability of a quantum trajectory and the conjugate, time reversed trajectory are related by the heat exchanged with the environment.

id: 0706.3755
title: Two-Pulse Propagation in Media with Quantum-Mixed Ground States
authors: B.D. Clader, J.H. Eberly
comments: 28 pages, 7 figures. Replaced with version accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A vol. 76, 053812 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3755
abstract: We examine fully coherent two-pulse propagation in a lambda-type medium, under two-photon resonance conditions and including inhomogeneous broadening. We examine both the effects of short pulse preparation and the effects of medium preparation. We contrast cases in which the two pulses have matched envelopes or not, and contrast cases in which ground state coherence is present or not. We find that an extended interpretation of the Area Theorem for single-pulse self-induced transparency (SIT) is able to unify two-pulse propagation scenarios, including some aspects of electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT) and stimulated Raman scattering (SRS). We present numerical solutions of both three-level and adiabatically reduced two-level density matrix equations and Maxwell's equations, and show that many features of the solutions are quickly interpreted with the aid of analytic solutions that we also provide for restricted cases of pulse shapes and preparation of the medium. In the limit of large one-photon detuning, we show that the two-level equations commonly used are not reliable for pulse Areas in the 2$\pi$ range, which allows puzzling features of previous numerical work to be understood.

id: 0706.3756
title: Choice of Measurement Sets in Qubit Tomography
authors: Mark D de Burgh, Nathan K. Langford, Andrew C. Doherty, Alexei Gilchrist
comments: 13 Pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3756
abstract: Optimal generalized measurements for state estimation are well understood. However, practical quantum state tomography is typically performed using a fixed set of projective measurements and the question of how to choose these measurements has been largely unexplored in the literature. In this work we develop theoretical asymptotic bounds for the average fidelity of pure qubit tomography using measurement sets whose axes correspond to vertices of Platonic solids. We also present complete simulations of maximum likelihood tomography for mixed qubit states using the Platonic solid measurements. We show that overcomplete measurement sets can be used to improve the accuracy of tomographic reconstructions.

id: 0706.3763
title: Suppression of Heating Rates in Cryogenic Surface-Electrode Ion Traps
authors: Jaroslaw Labaziewicz, Yufei Ge, Paul Antohi, David Leibrandt, Kenneth R. Brown, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3763
abstract: Dense arrays of trapped ions provide one way of scaling up ion trap quantum information processing. However, miniaturization of ion traps is currently limited by sharply increasing motional state decoherence at sub-100 um ion-electrode distances. We characterize heating rates in cryogenically cooled surface-electrode traps, with characteristic sizes in 75 um to 150 um range. Upon cooling to 6 K, the measured rates are suppressed by 7 orders of magnitude, two orders of magnitude below previously published data of similarly sized traps operated at room temperature. The observed noise depends strongly on fabrication process, which suggests further improvements are possible.

id: 0706.3791
title: Secure Reusable Base-String in Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Kai Wen, Fu Guo Deng, Gui Lu Long
comments: 4 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3791
abstract: Protecting secure random key from eavesdropping in quantum key distribution protocols has been well developed. In this letter, we further study how to detect and eliminate eavesdropping on the random base string in such protocols. The correlation between the base string and the key enables Alice and Bob to use specific privacy amplification to distill and reuse the previously shared base string with unconditional security and high efficiency. The analysis of the unconditional secure reusable base string brings about new concept and protocol design technique.

id: 0706.3800
title: Finding gaps in a spectrum
authors: Hector Giacomini, Amaury Mouchet
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics A Mathematical and Theoretical 40, 39 (2007) F921-F928
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3800
abstract: We propose a method for finding gaps in the spectrum of a differential operator. When applied to the one-dimensional Hamiltonian of the quartic oscillator, a simple algebraic algorithm is proposed that, step by step, separates with a remarkable precision all the energies even for a double-well configuration in a tunnelling regime. Our strategy may be refined and generalised to a large class of 1d-problems.

id: 0706.3813
title: Entanglement invariant for the double Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Isabel Sainz, Gunnar Bj?rk
comments: Sec. V has largely been rewritten. An error pertaining to the entanglement invariant has been corrected and a correct invariant valid for a much larger set of states have been found, Eq. (25)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042313 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3813
abstract: We study entanglement dynamics between four qubits interacting through two isolated Jaynes-Cummings hamiltonians, via the entanglement measure based on the wedge product. We compare the results with similar results obtained using bipartite concurrence resulting in what is referred to as "entanglement sudden death". We find a natural entanglement invariant under evolution demonstrating that entanglement sudden death is caused by ignoring (tracing over) some of the system's degrees of freedom that become entangled through the interaction.

id: 0706.3821
title: Quantum switching networks for perfect qubit routing
authors: C. Facer, J. Twamley, J. D. Cresser
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3821
abstract: We develop the work of Christandl et al. [M. Christandl, N. Datta, T. C. Dorlas, A. Ekert, A. Kay, and A. J. Landahl, Phys. Rev. A 71, 032312 (2005)], to show how a d-hypercube homogenous network can be dressed by additional links to perfectly route quantum information between any given input and output nodes in a duration which is independent of the routing chosen and, surprisingly, size of the network.

id: 0706.3844
title: Quantum Brachistochrone Problem and the Geometry of the State Space in Pseudo-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: A minor error in equation (8) is corrected, 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 130502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3844
abstract: A non-Hermitian operator with a real spectrum and a complete set of eigenvectors may serve as the Hamiltonian operator for a unitary quantum system provided that one makes an appropriate choice for the defining inner product of the physical Hilbert state. We study the consequences of such a choice for the representation of states in terms of projection operators and the geometry of the state space. This allows for a careful treatment of the quantum Brachistochrone problem and shows that it is indeed impossible to achieve faster unitary evolutions using PT-symmetric or other non-Hermitian Hamiltonians than those given by Hermitian Hamiltonians.

id: 0706.3851
title: A General Scheme for Construction of Coherent States of Anharmonic Oscillators
authors: Marcin Molski
comments: 5 pages. Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3851
abstract: A mixed supersymmetric-algebraic approach to construction of the minimum uncertainty coherent states of anharmonic oscillators is presented. It permits generating not only the well-known coherent states of the harmonic and Morse oscillators but also the so far unknown coherent states of the Wei Hua, Kratzer-Fues and generalized Morse and Kratzer-Fues oscillators. The method can be applied also to generate superpotentials indispensable for deriving the Schr\"odinger equation in the supersymmetric form amenable to direct solution in the SUSYQM scheme.

id: 0706.3867
title: The Heisenberg versus the Schroedinger picture and the problem of gauge invariance
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 25 pages. Additional material in this revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3867
abstract: It is generally assumed that quantum field theory (QFT) is gauge invariant. However it is well known that non-gauge invariant terms appear in various calculations. This problem was recently examined in [9] for a "simple" field theory and it was shown that for this case QFT in the Schroedinger picture is not, in fact, gauge invariant. In order to shed further light on this problem we will examine the Heisenberg and Schroedinger formulations of QFT. It is generally assumed that these two "pictures" are equivalent; however we will show that this is not necessarily the case. We shall consider a simple field theory consisting of a quantized fermion field in the presence of a classical electromagnetic field. We will show that, although the two pictures are formally equivalent, the Heisenberg picture is gauge invariant but that the Schroedinger picture is not. This suggests that the proper way to formulate QFT is to use the Heisenberg picture.

id: 0706.3869
title: An echo experiment in a strongly interacting Rydberg gas
authors: Ulrich Raitzsch, Vera Bendkowsky, Rolf Heidemann, Bj?rn Butscher, Robert L?w, Tilman Pfau
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, p. 013002 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3869
abstract: When ground state atoms are excited to a Rydberg state, van der Waals interactions among them can lead to a strong suppression of the excitation. Despite the strong interactions the evolution can still be reversed by a simple phase shift in the excitation laser field. We experimentally prove the coherence of the excitation in the strong blockade regime by applying an `optical rotary echo' technique to a sample of magnetically trapped ultracold atoms, analogous to a method known from nuclear magnetic resonance. We additionally measured the dephasing time due to the interaction between the Rydberg atoms.

id: 0706.3879
title: Coherent Quantum Optical Control with Subwavelength Resolution
authors: Alexey V. Gorshkov, Liang Jiang, Markus Greiner, Peter Zoller, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. V2: changes in presentation (text, figures, tables) and new references - final version as published in Phys. Rev. Lett.
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 093005 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3879
abstract: We suggest a new method for quantum optical control with nanoscale resolution. Our method allows for coherent far-field manipulation of individual quantum systems with spatial selectivity that is not limited by the wavelength of radiation and can, in principle, approach a few nanometers. The selectivity is enabled by the nonlinear atomic response, under the conditions of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency, to a control beam with intensity vanishing at a certain location. Practical performance of this technique and its potential applications to quantum information science with cold atoms, ions, and solid-state qubits are discussed.

id: 0706.3897
title: Romanovski polynomials in selected physics problems
authors: A. P. Raposo, H. J. Weber, D. Alvarez-Castillo, M. Kirchbach
comments: RevTex, 38 pages, 2 figures, review
journal: Central European Journal of Physics, 5(3), 2007, pp. 253-284
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3897
abstract: We briefly review the five possible real polynomial solutions of hypergeometric differential equations. Three of them are the well known classical orthogonal polynomials, but the other two are different with respect to their orthogonality properties. We then focus on the family of polynomials which exhibits a finite orthogonality. This family, to be referred to as the Romanovski polynomials, is required in exact solutions of several physics problems ranging from quantum mechanics and quark physics to random matrix theory. It appears timely to draw attention to it by the present study. Our survey also includes several new observations on the orthogonality properties of the Romanovski polynomials and new developments from their Rodrigues formula.

id: 0706.3902
title: Hierarchy of inequalities for quantitative duality
authors: Jesus Martinez-Linares
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A75, 052112 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3902
abstract: We derive different relations quantifying duality in a generic two-way interferometer. These relations set different upper bounds to the visibility V of the fringes measured at the output port of the interferometer. A hierarchy of inequalities is presented which exhibits the influence of the availability to the experimenter of different sources of which-way information contributing to the total distinguishability D of the ways. For mixed states and unbalanced interferometers an inequality is derived, V^2+ Xi^2 \leq 1, which can be more stringent than the one associated with the distinguishability (V^2+ D^2 \leq 1).

id: 0706.3929
title: The Exact Correspondence between Phase Times and Dwell Times in a Symmetrical Quantum Tunneling Configuration
authors: Alex E. Bernardini
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. C53 (2008) 673-678
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3929
abstract: The general and explicit relation between the phase time and the dwell time for quantum tunneling or scattering is investigated. Considering a symmetrical collision of two identical wave packets with an one-dimensional barrier, here we demonstrate that these two distinct transit time definitions give connected results where, however, the phase time (group delay) accurately describes the exact position of the scattered particles. The analytical difficulties that arise when the stationary phase method is employed for obtaining phase (traversal) times are all overcome. Multiple wave packet decomposition allows us to recover the exact position of the reflected and transmitted waves in terms of the phase time, which, in addition to the exact relation between the phase time and the dwell time, leads to right interpretation for both of them.

id: 0706.3930
title: Relativistic tunneling and accelerated transmission
authors: Alex E. Bernardini
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A41 (2008) 215302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3930
abstract: We obtain the solutions for the tunneling zone of a one-dimensional electrostatic potential in the relativistic (Dirac to Klein-Gordon) wave equation regime when the incoming wave packet exhibits the possibility of being almost totally transmitted through the potential barrier. The conditions for the occurrence of accelerated and, eventually, superluminal tunneling transmission probabilities are all quantified and the problematic superluminal interpretation originated from the study based on non-relativistic dynamics of tunneling is overcome. The treatment of the problem suggests revealing insights into condensed-matter experiments using electrostatic barriers in single- and bi-layer graphene, for which the accelerated tunneling effect deserves a more careful investigation.

id: 0706.3962
title: Quantum measurement, detection and locality
authors: Ian Percival, Barry Garraway
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures To be published in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3962
abstract: According to Bell's theorem, local realism is incompatible with quantum theory. However, it depends on an implied assumption about quantum measurement. We suggest that the assumption might be removed by a detailed quantum analysis of the interaction between the measured system and measuring apparatus using Born's statistical interpretation. But it is conceivable that detailed analysis of all possible Bell experiments would allow the compatibility of quantum theory and local realism. The difficulties of theory and experiment are closely related.

id: 0706.3966
title: A double-slit `which-way' experiment on the complementarity--uncertainty debate
authors: R. Mir, J. S. Lundeen, M. W. Mitchell, A. M. Steinberg, J. L. Garretson, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 287.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3966
abstract: A which-way measurement in Young's double-slit will destroy the interference pattern. Bohr claimed this complementarity between wave- and particle behaviour is enforced by Heisenberg's uncertainty principle: distinguishing two positions a distance s apart transfers a random momentum q \sim \hbar/s to the particle. This claim has been subject to debate: Scully et al. asserted that in some situations interference can be destroyed with no momentum transfer, while Storey et al. asserted that Bohr's stance is always valid. We address this issue using the experimental technique of weak measurement. We measure a distribution for q that spreads well beyond [-\hbar/s, \hbar/s], but nevertheless has a variance consistent with zero. This weakvalued momentum-transfer distribution P_{wv}(q) thus reflects both sides of the debate.

id: 0706.4064
title: Cryptogauge symmetry and cryptoghosts for crypto-Hermitian Hamiltonians
authors: A.V. Smilga
comments: 24 pages, 12 figures. Final version to be published in J.Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A41:244026,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4064
abstract: We discuss the Hamiltonian H = p^2/2 - (ix)^{2n+1} and the mixed Hamiltonian H = (p^2 + x^2)/2 - g(ix)^{2n+1}, which are crypto-Hermitian in a sense that, in spite of apparent complexity of the potential, a quantum spectral problem can be formulated such that the spectrum is real. We note first that the corresponding classical Hamiltonian system can be treated as a gauge system, with imaginary part of the Hamiltonian playing the role of the first class constraint. We observe then that, on the basis of this classical problem, several different nontrivial quantum problems can be formulated. We formulate and solve some such problems. We find in particular that the spectrum of the mixed Hamiltonian undergoes in certain cases rather amazing transformation when the coupling g is sent to zero. There is an infinite set of phase transitions in g when a couple of eigenstates of H coalesce and disappear from the spectrum. When quantization is done in the most natural way such that gauge constraints are imposed on quantum states, the spectrum should not be positive definite, but must involve the negative energy states (ghosts). We speculate that, in spite of the appearance of ghost states, unitarity might still be preserved.

id: 0706.4067
title: Partial Swapping, Unitarity and No-signalling
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: EJTP 6, No. 21 119--124 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4067
abstract: It is a well known fact that an quantum state $|\psi(\theta,\phi)>$ is represented by a point on the Bloch sphere, characterized by two parameters $\theta$ and $\phi$. In a recent work we already proved that it is impossible to partially swap these quantum parameters. Here in this work we will show that this impossibility theorem is consistent with principles like unitarity of quantum mechanics and no signalling principle.

id: 0706.4075
title: A novel interpretation of the Klein-Gordon equation
authors: K.B. Wharton
comments: v3: Extensively revised version accepted for publication by Found. Phys
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.962:339-343,2007; Found.Phys.40:313-332,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4075
abstract: The covariant Klein-Gordon equation requires twice the boundary conditions of the Schrodinger equation and does not have an accepted single-particle interpretation. Instead of interpreting its solution as a probability wave determined by an initial boundary condition, this paper considers the possibility that the solutions are determined by both an initial and a final boundary condition. By constructing an invariant joint probability distribution from the size of the solution space, it is shown that the usual measurement probabilities can nearly be recovered in the non-relativistic limit, provided that neither boundary constrains the energy to a precision near hbar/T (where T is the time duration between the boundary conditions). Otherwise, deviations from standard quantum mechanics are predicted.

id: 0706.4077
title: Mapping the Evolution of Optically-Generated Rotational Wavepackets in a Room Temperature Ensemble of D$_2$
authors: W. A. Bryan, E. M. L. English, J. McKenna, J. Wood, C. R. Calvert, R. Torres, I. C. E. Turcu, J. L. Collier, I. D. Williams, W. R. Newell
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A. Full reference to follow..
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 023414 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4077
abstract: A coherent superposition of rotational states in D$_2$ has been excited by nonresonant ultrafast (12 femtosecond) intense (2 $\times$ 10$^{14}$ Wcm$^{-2}$) 800 nm laser pulses leading to impulsive dynamic alignment. Field-free evolution of this rotational wavepacket has been mapped to high temporal resolution by a time-delayed pulse, initiating rapid double ionization, which is highly sensitive to the angle of orientation of the molecular axis with respect to the polarization direction, $\theta$. The detailed fractional revivals of the neutral D$_2$ wavepacket as a function of $\theta$ and evolution time have been observed and modelled theoretically.

id: 0706.4078
title: Exact closed form analytical solutions for vibrating cavities
authors: Pawel Wegrzyn
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 40, 2621-2640 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4078
abstract: For one-dimensional vibrating cavity systems appearing in the standard illustration of the dynamical Casimir effect, we propose an approach to the construction of exact closed-form solutions. As new results, we obtain solutions that are given for arbitrary frequencies, amplitudes and time regions. In a broad range of parameters, a vibrating cavity model exhibits the general property of exponential instability. Marginal behavior of the system manifests in a power-like growth of radiated energy.

id: 0706.4149
title: Integrating cavity quantum electrodynamics and ultracold-atom chips with on-chip dielectric mirrors and temperature stabilization
authors: T.P. Purdy, D.M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, corrected typos in eq. 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4149
abstract: We have fabricated an atom chip device which combines the circuitry for magnetic trapping of cold atoms with high-finesse optical resonators suitable for cavity QED in the single-atom strong coupling regime. Fabry-Perot optical resonators with finesse F > 2 X 10^5 were formed between a micropatterned on-chip planar mirror with lateral dimension of < 100 um and a curved mirror suspended above the chip. The strong and rapid thermal coupling between on-chip electrical and optical elements was utilized to stabilize the cavity mirror separation with servo bandwidth exceeding 100 kHz during simulated operation of the atom chip.

id: 0706.4159
title: Multimode analysis of the light emitted from a pulsed optical parametric oscillator
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 033832 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4159
abstract: We present a multimode treatment of the optical parametric oscillator, which is valid for both pulsed and continuous-wave pump fields. The two-time correlation functions of the output field are derived, and we apply the theory to analyze a scheme for heralded production of non-classical field states that may be subsequently stored in an atomic quantum memory.

id: 0706.4162
title: The entanglement of the XY spin chain in a random magnetic field
authors: Masashi Fujinaga, Naomichi Hatano
comments: 8 pages, to appear in J. Phys. Soc. Jpn
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 76 (2007) 094001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4162
abstract: We investigate the entanglement of the ferromagnetic XY model in a random magnetic field at zero temperature and in the uniform magnetic field at finite temperatures. We use the concurrence to quantify the entanglement. We find that, in the ferromagnetic region of the uniform magnetic field $h$, all the concurrences are \textit{generated} by the random magnetic field and by the thermal fluctuation. In one particular region of $h$, the next-nearest neighbor concurrence is generated by the random field but not at finite temperatures. We also find that the qualitative behavior of the maximum point of the entanglement in the random magnetic field depends on whether the variance of its distribution function is finite or not.

id: 0706.4176
title: Entanglement Transfer Through an Antiferromagnetic Spin Chain
authors: Abolfazl Bayat, Sugato Bose
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures. Modified version with more explanation
journal: Advances in Mathematical Physics, Vol: 2010, 127182 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4176
abstract: We study the possibility of using an uniformly coupled finite antiferromagnetic spin-1/2 Heisenberg chain as a channel for transmitting entanglement. One member of a pair of maximally entangled spins is initially appended to one end of a chain in its ground state and the dynamical propagation of this entanglement to the other end is calculated. We show that compared to the analogous scheme with a ferromagnetic chain in its ground state, here the entanglement is transmitted faster, with less decay, with a much higher purity and as a narrow pulse form rising non-analytically from zero. Here non-zero temperatures and depolarizing environments are both found to be less destructive in comparison to the ferromagnetic case. The entanglement is found to propagate through the chain in a peculiar fashion whereby it hops to skip alternate sites.

id: 0706.4207
title: Complex weak values in quantum measurement
authors: Richard Jozsa
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4207
abstract: In the weak measurement formalism of Y. Aharonov et al. the so-called weak value A_w of any observable A is generally a complex number. We derive a physical interpretation of its value in terms of the shift in the measurement pointer's mean position and mean momentum. In particular we show that the mean position shift contains a term jointly proportional to the imaginary part of the weak value and the rate at which the pointer is spreading in space as it enters the measurement interaction.

id: 0706.4255
title: Quantum key distribution over 25 km with an all-fiber continuous-variable system
authors: Jerome Lodewyck, Matthieu Bloch, Raul Garcia-Patron, Simon Fossier, Evgueni Karpov, Eleni Diamanti, Thierry Debuisschert, Nicolas J. Cerf, Rosa Tualle-Brouri, Steven W. McLaughlin, Philippe Grangier
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042305 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4255
abstract: We report on the implementation of a reverse-reconciliated coherent-state continuous-variable quantum key distribution system, with which we generated secret keys at a rate of more than 2 kb/s over 25 km of optical fiber. Time multiplexing is used to transmit both the signal and phase reference in the same optical fiber. Our system includes all experimental aspects required for a field implementation of a quantum key distribution setup. Real-time reverse reconciliation is achieved by using fast and efficient LDPC error correcting codes.

id: 0706.4271
title: Characteristic Time and Maximum Mixedness: Single Mode Gaussian States in Dissipative Channels
authors: Leonardo A. M. Souza, M. C. Nemes
comments: Accepted version
journal: Physics Letters A, 372 (2008) 3616.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4271
abstract: We derive an upper limit for the mixedness of single bosonic mode gaussian states propagating in dissipative channels. It is a function of the initial squeezing and temperature of the channel only. Moreover the time at which von Neumann's entropy reaches its maximum value coincides with that of complete loss of coherence, thus defining a quantum-classical transition.

id: 0706.4278
title: The minimal principals of Hermitian matrices and the negativity of bipartite of qubit states
authors: Joao Luzeilton de Oliveira, Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4278
abstract: Quantum entanglement is an enigmatic and powerful property that has attracted much attention due to its usefulness in new ways of communications, like quantum teleportation and quantum key distribution. Much effort has been done to quantify entanglement. Indeed, there exist some well-established separability criterion and analytical formulas for the entanglement of bipartite systems. In some of these, the crucial elements are the eigenvalues of the partial transpose of the density matrix. In this paper, we show that one can also have information about the entanglement of bipartite state, in C2xC2, looking at the minimal principals of the partial transpose.

id: 0706.4283
title: Heisenberg-limited eavesdropping on the continuous-variable quantum cryptographic protocol with no basis switching is impossible
authors: J. Sudjana, L. Magnin, R. Garcia-Patron, N. J. Cerf
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4283
abstract: The Gaussian quantum key distribution protocol based on coherent states and heterodyne detection [Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 170504 (2004)] has the advantage that no active random basis switching is needed on the receiver's side. Its security is, however, not very satisfyingly understood today because the bounds on the secret key rate that have been derived from Heisenberg relations are not attained by any known scheme. Here, we address the problem of the optimal Gaussian individual attack against this protocol, and derive tight upper bounds on the information accessible to an eavesdropper. The optical scheme achieving this bound is also exhibited, which concludes the security analysis of this protocol.

id: 0706.4335
title: A single-photon transistor using nano-scale surface plasmons
authors: D.E. Chang, A.S. S?rensen, E.A. Demler, M.D. Lukin
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4335
abstract: It is well known that light quanta (photons) can interact with each other in nonlinear media, much like massive particles do, but in practice these interactions are usually very weak. Here we describe a novel approach to realize strong nonlinear interactions at the single-photon level. Our method makes use of recently demonstrated efficient coupling between individual optical emitters and tightly confined, propagating surface plasmon excitations on conducting nanowires. We show that this system can act as a nonlinear two-photon switch for incident photons propagating along the nanowire, which can be coherently controlled using quantum optical techniques. As a novel application, we discuss how the interaction can be tailored to create a single-photon transistor, where the presence or absence of a single incident photon in a ``gate'' field is sufficient to completely control the propagation of subsequent ``signal'' photons.

id: 0706.4340
title: Analogue to multiple electromagnetically induced transparency in all-optical drop-filter systems
authors: Yun-Feng Xiao, Xu-Bo Zou, Wei Jiang, You-Ling Chen, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 75, 063833 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4340
abstract: We theoretically study a parallel optical configuration which includes N periodically coupled whispering-gallery-mode resonators. The model shows an obvious effect which has a direct analogy with the phenomenon of multiple electromagnetically induced transparency in quantum systems. The numerical simulations illuminate that the frequency transparency windows are sharp and highly transparent. We also briefly discuss the experimental feasibility of the current scheme in two practical systems, microrings and microdisks.

id: 0706.4372
title: Driving-dependent damping of Rabi oscillations in two-level semiconductor systems
authors: D. Mogilevtsev, A. P. Nisovtsev, S. Kilin, S. B. Cavalcanti, H. S. Brandi, L. E. Oliveira
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4372
abstract: We propose a mechanism to explain the nature of the damping of Rabi oscillations with increasing driving-pulse area in localized semiconductor systems, and have suggested a general approach which describes a coherently driven two-level system interacting with a dephasing reservoir. Present calculations show that the non-Markovian character of the reservoir leads to the dependence of the dephasing rate on the driving-field intensity, as observed experimentally. Moreover, we have shown that the damping of Rabi oscillations might occur as a result of different dephasing mechanisms for both stationary and non-stationary effects due to coupling to the environment. Present calculated results are found in quite good agreement with available experimental measurements.

id: 0706.4397
title: Egorov property in perturbed cat map
authors: Martin Horvat, Mirko Degli Esposti
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4397
abstract: We study the time evolution of the quantum-classical correspondence (QCC) for the well known model of quantised perturbed cat maps on the torus in the very specific regime of semi-classically small perturbations. The quality of the QCC is measured by the overlap of classical phase-space density and corresponding Wigner function of the quantum system called quantum-classical fidelity (QCF). In the analysed regime the QCF strongly deviates from the known general behaviour in particular it decays faster then exponential. Here we study and explain the observed behavior of the QCF and the apparent violation of the QCC principle.

id: 0706.4399
title: A criterion for entanglement in two two-level systems
authors: E. Ferraro, A. Napoli, A. Messina
comments: 4 pages, Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) F935-F941
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4399
abstract: We prove a necessary and sufficient condition for the occurrence of entanglement in two two-level systems, simple enough to be of experimental interest. Our results are illustrated in the context of a spin star system analyzing the exact entanglement evolution of the central couple of spins.

id: 0706.4410
title: Environment-Mediated Quantum State Transfer
authors: Yue Yin, S. N. Evangelou
comments: 6 pages and 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4410
abstract: We propose a scheme for quantum state transfer(QST) between two qubits which is based on their individual interaction with a common boson environment. The corresponding single mode spin-boson Hamiltonian is solved by mapping it onto a wave propagation problem in a semi-infinite ladder and the fidelity is obtained. High fidelity occurs when the qubits are equally coupled to the boson while the fidelity becomes smaller for nonsymmetric couplings. The complete phase diagram for such an arbitrary QST mediated by bosons is discussed.

id: 0706.4412
title: Optimal phase estimation in quantum networks
authors: Wim van Dam, G. Mauro D'Ariano, Artur Ekert, Chiara Macchiavello, Michele Mosca
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures; this is an extended version of arXiv:quant-ph/0609160. v2: minor corrections in references
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, Volume 40, pages 7971-7984 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4412
abstract: We address the problem of estimating the phase phi given N copies of the phase rotation u(phi) within an array of quantum operations in finite dimensions. We first consider the special case where the array consists of an arbitrary input state followed by any arrangement of the N phase rotations, and ending with a POVM. We optimise the POVM for a given input state and fixed arrangement. Then we also optimise the input state for some specific cost functions. In all cases, the optimal POVM is equivalent to a quantum Fourier transform in an appropriate basis. Examples and applications are given.

id: 0706.4433
title: Relaxation dynamics of a quantum Brownian particle in an ideal gas
authors: Bassano Vacchini, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 15 pages; to appear in Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics (2007)
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 151, 59-72 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4433
abstract: We show how the quantum analog of the Fokker-Planck equation for describing Brownian motion can be obtained as the diffusive limit of the quantum linear Boltzmann equation. The latter describes the quantum dynamics of a tracer particle in a dilute, ideal gas by means of a translation-covariant master equation. We discuss the type of approximations required to obtain the generalized form of the Caldeira-Leggett master equation, along with their physical justification. Microscopic expressions for the diffusion and relaxation coefficients are obtained by analyzing the limiting form of the equation in both the Schroedinger and the Heisenberg picture.

id: 0706.4436
title: On the moment limit of quantum observables, with an application to the balanced homodyne detection
authors: J. Kiukas, P. Lahti
comments: 22 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4436
abstract: We consider the moment operators of the observable (i.e. a semispectral measure or POM) associated with the balanced homodyne detection statistics, with paying attention to the correct domains of these unbounded operators. We show that the high amplitude limit, when performed on the moment operators, actually determines uniquely the entire statistics of a rotated quadrature amplitude of the signal field, thereby verifying the usual assumption that the homodyne detection achieves a measurement of that observable. We also consider, in a general setting, the possibility of constructing a measurement of a single quantum observable from a sequence of observables by taking the limit on the level of moment operators of these observables. In this context, we show that under some natural conditions (each of which is satisfied by the homodyne detector example), the existence of the moment limits ensures that the underlying probability measures converge weakly to the probability measure of the limiting observable. The moment approach naturally requires that the observables be determined by their moment operator sequences (which does not automatically happen), and it turns out, in particular, that this is the case for the balanced homodyne detector.

id: 0706.4438
title: Non-Markovian quantum jumps
authors: J. Piilo, S. Maniscalco, K. Harkonen, K.-A. Suominen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures.V2: rewritten abstract and introduction, title modified. V3: published version, new example case with photonic band gap
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 180402 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4438
abstract: Open quantum systems that interact with structured reservoirs exhibit non-Markovian dynamics. We present a quantum jump method for treating the dynamics of such systems. This approach is a generalization of the standard Monte Carlo Wave Function (MCWF) method for Markovian dynamics. The MCWF method identifies decay rates with jump probabilities and fails for non-Markovian systems where the time-dependent rates become temporarily negative. Our non-Markovian quantum jump (NMQJ) approach circumvents this problem and provides an efficient unravelling of the ensemble dynamics.

id: 0706.4478
title: The Optimal Single Copy Measurement for the Hidden Subgroup Problem
authors: Dave Bacon, Thomas Decker
comments: 8 pages. Error in main proof fixed
journal: Physical Review A, 77, 032335 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4478
abstract: The optimization of measurements for the state distinction problem has recently been applied to the theory of quantum algorithms with considerable successes, including efficient new quantum algorithms for the non-abelian hidden subgroup problem. Previous work has identified the optimal single copy measurement for the hidden subgroup problem over abelian groups as well as for the non-abelian problem in the setting where the subgroups are restricted to be all conjugate to each other. Here we describe the optimal single copy measurement for the hidden subgroup problem when all of the subgroups of the group are given with equal a priori probability. The optimal measurement is seen to be a hybrid of the two previously discovered single copy optimal measurements for the hidden subgroup problem.

id: 0706.4479
title: Experimental characterization of frequency dependent squeezed light
authors: Simon Chelkowski, Henning Vahlbruch, Boris Hage, Alexander Franzen, Nico Lastzka, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review A 71, 013806 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4479
abstract: We report on the demonstration of broadband squeezed laser beams that show a frequency dependent orientation of the squeezing ellipse. Carrier frequency as well as quadrature angle were stably locked to a reference laser beam at 1064nm. This frequency dependent squeezing was characterized in terms of noise power spectra and contour plots of Wigner functions. The later were measured by quantum state tomography. Our tomograph allowed a stable lock to a local oscillator beam for arbitrary quadrature angles with one degree precision. Frequency dependent orientations of the squeezing ellipse are necessary for squeezed states of light to provide a broadband sensitivity improvement in third generation gravitational wave interferometers. We consider the application of our system to long baseline interferometers such as a future squeezed light upgraded GEO600 detector.

id: 0706.0180
title: Weak measurement of quantum dot spin qubits
authors: Andrew N. Jordan, Bjoern Trauzettel, Guido Burkard
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 155324 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0180
abstract: The theory of weak quantum measurements is developed for quantum dot spin qubits. Building on recent experiments, we propose a control cycle to prepare, manipulate, weakly measure, and perform quantum state tomography. This is accomplished using a combination of the physics of electron spin resonance, spin blockade, and Coulomb blockade, resulting in a charge transport process. We investigate the influence of the surrounding nuclear spin environment, and find a regime where this environment significantly simplifies the dynamics of the weak measurement process, making this theoretical proposal realistic with existing experimental technology. We further consider spin-echo refocusing to combat dephasing, as well as discuss a realization of "quantum undemolition", whereby the effects of quantum state disturbance are undone.

id: 0706.0207
title: No-ghost theorem for the fourth-order derivative Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillator model
authors: Carl M. Bender, Philip D. Mannheim
comments: revtex4, 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.100:110402,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0207
abstract: Contrary to common belief, it is shown that theories whose field equations are higher than second order in derivatives need not be stricken with ghosts. In particular, the prototypical fourth-order derivative Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillator model is shown to be free of states of negative energy or negative norm. When correctly formulated (as a $\cP\cT$ symmetric theory), the theory determines its own Hilbert space and associated positive-definite inner product. In this Hilbert space the model is found to be a fully acceptable quantum-mechanical theory that exhibits unitary time evolution.

id: 0706.0212
title: Breakdown of the adiabatic limit in low dimensional gapless systems
authors: Anatoli Polkovnikov, Vladimir Gritsev
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, to appear in Nature Physics (originally submitted version)
journal: NaturePhys.4:477,2008
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0212
abstract: It is generally believed that a generic system can be reversibly transformed from one state into another by sufficiently slow change of parameters. A standard argument favoring this assertion is based on a possibility to expand the energy or the entropy of the system into the Taylor series in the ramp speed. Here we show that this argumentation is only valid in high enough dimensions and can break down in low-dimensional gapless systems. We identify three generic regimes of a system response to a slow ramp: (A) mean-field, (B) non-analytic, and (C) non-adiabatic. In the last regime the limits of the ramp speed going to zero and the system size going to infinity do not commute and the adiabatic process does not exist in the thermodynamic limit. We support our results by numerical simulations. Our findings can be relevant to condensed-matter, atomic physics, quantum computing, quantum optics, cosmology and others.

id: 0706.0268
title: Forward and Backward time observables for quantum evolution and quantum stochastic processes-I: The time observables
authors: Y. Strauss
comments: 26 pages, LaTex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0268
abstract: Given a Hamiltonian $H$ on a Hilbert space $\mathcal H$ it is shown that, under the assumption that $\sigma(H)=\sigma_{ac}(H)=R^+$, there exist unique positive operators $T_F$ and $T_B$ registering the Schr\"odinger time evolution generated by $H$ in the forward (future) direction and backward (past) direction respectively. These operators may be considered as time observables for the quantum evolution. Moreover, it is shown that the same operators may serve as time observables in the construction of quantum stochastic differential equations and quantum stochastic processes in the framework of the Hudson-Parthasarathy quantum stochastic calculus. The basic mechanism enabling for the definition of the time observables originates from the recently developed semigroup decomposition formalism used in the description of the time evolution of resonances in quantum mechanical scattering problems.

id: 0706.0286
title: The social aspects of quantum entanglement
authors: Gerardo Adesso
comments: 3 pages, 1 art figure; to appear (translated) in "Ordint la Trama", Catalan magazine of popular culture
journal: "Ordint la Trama", n. 56, pag. 3 (june 2007)
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0286
abstract: This brief article discusses some aspects of quantum theory and their impact on popular culture. The basic features of quantum entanglement between two or more parties are introduced in a language suitable for a general audience, and metaphorically connected to love and faithfulness in human relationships.

id: 0706.0757
title: Fractional Quantum Hall Effect in Optical Lattices
authors: Mohammad Hafezi, Anders S. Sorensen, Eugene Demler, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 023613 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0757
abstract: We analyze a recently proposed method to create fractional quantum Hall (FQH) states of atoms confined in optical lattices [A. S{\o}rensen {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 94} 086803 (2005)]. Extending the previous work, we investigate conditions under which the FQH effect can be achieved for bosons on a lattice with an effective magnetic field and finite onsite interaction. Furthermore, we characterize the ground state in such systems by calculating Chern numbers which can provide direct signatures of topological order and explore regimes where the characterization in terms of wavefunction overlap fails. We also discuss various issues which are relevant for the practical realization of such FQH states with ultracold atoms in an optical lattice, including the presence of the long-range dipole interaction which can improve the energy gap and stabilize the ground state. We also investigate a new detection technique based on Bragg spectroscopy to probe these system in an experimental realization.

id: 0706.0769
title: Characterization of topological states on a lattice with Chern number
authors: Mohammad Hafezi, Anders S. Sorensen, Mikhail D. Lukin, Eugene Demler
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, V2: changes in the presentation
journal: EPL 81 No 1 (January 2008) 10005
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0769
abstract: We study Chern numbers to characterize the ground state of strongly interacting systems on a lattice. This method allows us to perform a numerical characterization of bosonic fractional quantum Hall (FQH) states on a lattice where conventional overlap calculation with known continuum case such as Laughlin state, breaks down due to the lattice structure or dipole-dipole interaction. The non-vanishing Chern number indicates the existence of a topological order in the degenerate ground state manifold.

id: 0706.0839
title: Correlated bosons on a lattice: Dynamical mean-field theory for Bose-Einstein condensed and normal phases
authors: Krzysztof Byczuk, Dieter Vollhardt
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, extended version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 235106 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0839
abstract: We formulate a bosonic dynamical mean-field theory (B-DMFT) which provides a comprehensive, thermodynamically consistent framework for the theoretical investigation of correlated lattice bosons. The B-DMFT is applicable for arbitrary values of the coupling parameters and temperature and becomes exact in the limit of high spatial dimensions d or coordination number Z of the lattice. In contrast to its fermionic counterpart the construction of the B-DMFT requires different scalings of the hopping amplitudes with Z depending on whether the bosons are in their normal state or in the Bose-Einstein condensate. A detailed discussion of how this conceptual problem can be overcome by performing the scaling in the action rather than in the Hamiltonian itself is presented. The B-DMFT treats normal and condensed bosons on equal footing and thus includes the effects caused by their dynamic coupling. It reproduces all previously investigated limits in parameter space such as the Beliaev-Popov and Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov approximations and generalizes the existing mean-field theories of interacting bosons. The self-consistency equations of the B-DMFT are those of a bosonic single-impurity coupled to two reservoirs corresponding to bosons in the condensate and in the normal state, respectively. We employ the B-DMFT to solve a model of itinerant and localized, interacting bosons analytically. The local correlations are found to enhance the condensate density and the Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) transition temperature T_{BEC}. This effect may be used experimentally to increase T_{BEC} of bosonic atoms in optical lattices.

id: 0706.0934
title: Influence of an external magnetic field on the decoherence of a central spin coupled to an antiferromagnetic environment
authors: Xiao-Zhong Yuan, Hsi-Sheng Goan, Ka-Di Zhu
comments: 29 preprint pages, 4 figures, to appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 219.
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0934
abstract: Using the spin wave approximation, we study the decoherence dynamics of a central spin coupled to an antiferromagnetic environment under the application of an external global magnetic field. The external magnetic field affects the decoherence process through its effect on the antiferromagnetic environment. It is shown explicitly that the decoherence factor which displays a Gaussian decay with time depends on the strength of the external magnetic field and the crystal anisotropy field in the antiferromagnetic environment. When the values of the external magnetic field is increased to the critical field point at which the spin-flop transition (a first-order quantum phase transition) happens in the antiferromagnetic environment, the decoherence of the central spin reaches its highest point. This result is consistent with several recent quantum phase transition witness studies. The influences of the environmental temperature on the decoherence behavior of the central spin are also investigated.

id: 0706.0947
title: Pumping in quantum dots and non-Abelian matrix Berry phases
authors: N.Y. Hwang, S.C. Kim, P.S. Park, S.-R. Eric Yang
comments: 
journal: Solid State Commun. 145, 515 (2008) (Fast Track)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.0947
abstract: We have investigated pumping in quantum dots from the perspective of non-Abelian (matrix) Berry phases by solving the time dependent Schr{\"o}dinger equation exactly for adiabatic changes. Our results demonstrate that a pumped charge is related to the presence of a finite matrix Berry phase. When consecutive adiabatic cycles are performed the pumped charge of each cycle is different from the previous ones.

id: 0706.1114
title: Peculiarities of the hidden nonlinear supersymmetry of Poschl-Teller system in the light of Lame equation
authors: Francisco Correa, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 10 pages, typos corrected; to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A40:14403-14412,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1114
abstract: A hidden nonlinear bosonized supersymmetry was revealed recently in Poschl-Teller and finite-gap Lame systems. In spite of the intimate relationship between the two quantum models, the hidden supersymmetry in them displays essential differences. In particular, the kernel of the supercharges of the Poschl-Teller system, unlike the case of Lame equation, includes nonphysical states. By means of Lame equation, we clarify the nature of these peculiar states, and show that they encode essential information not only on the original hyperbolic Poschl-Teller system, but also on its singular hyperbolic and trigonometric modifications, and reflect the intimate relation of the model to a free particle system.

id: 0706.1258
title: Hestenes' Tetrad and Spin Connections
authors: Frank Reifler, Randall Morris
comments: 
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.44:1307-1324,2005
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1258
abstract: Defining a spin connection is necessary for formulating Dirac's bispinor equation in a curved space-time. Hestenes has shown that a bispinor field is equivalent to an orthonormal tetrad of vector fields together with a complex scalar field. In this paper, we show that using Hestenes' tetrad for the spin connection in a Riemannian space-time leads to a Yang-Mills formulation of the Dirac Lagrangian in which the bispinor field is mapped to a set of Yang-Mills gauge potentials and a complex scalar field. This result was previously proved for a Minkowski space-time using Fierz identities. As an application we derive several different non-Riemannian spin connections found in the literature directly from an arbitrary linear connection acting on Hestenes' tetrad and scalar fields. We also derive spin connections for which Dirac's bispinor equation is form invariant. Previous work has not considered form invariance of the Dirac equation as a criterion for defining a general spin connection.

id: 0706.1344
title: A Class of Partially Solvable Two-Dimensional Quantum Models with Periodic Potentials
authors: M. V. Ioffe, J. Mateos Guilarte, P. A. Valinevich
comments: 22 pages; some typos corrected; new reference added
journal: Nucl.Phys.B790:414-431,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1344
abstract: The supersymmetrical approach is used to analyse a class of two-dimensional quantum systems with periodic potentials. In particular, the method of SUSY-separation of variables allowed us to find a part of the energy spectra and the corresponding wave functions (partial solvability) for several models. These models are not amenable to conventional separation of variables, and they can be considered as two-dimensional generalizations of Lame, associated Lame, and trigonometric Razavy potentials. All these models have the symmetry operators of fourth order in momenta, and one of them (the Lame potential) obeys the property of self-isospectrality.

id: 0706.1805
title: The von Neumann entropy asymptotics in multidimensional fermionic systems
authors: S. Farkas, Z. Zimboras
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48, 102110 (2007)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1805
abstract: We study the von Neumann entropy asymptotics of pure translation-invariant quasi-free states of d-dimensional fermionic systems. It is shown that the entropic area law is violated by all these states: apart from the trivial cases, the entropy of a cubic subsystem with edge length L cannot grow slower than L^{d-1}ln L. As for the upper bound of the entropy asymptotics, the zero-entropy-density property of these pure states is the only limit: it is proven that arbitrary fast sub-L^d entropy growth is achievable.

id: 0706.1832
title: Adiabatic quantum dynamics of a random Ising chain across its quantum critical point
authors: Tommaso Caneva, Rosario Fazio, Giuseppe E. Santoro
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures; v2: added references, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 144427 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1832
abstract: We present here our study of the adiabatic quantum dynamics of a random Ising chain across its quantum critical point. The model investigated is an Ising chain in a transverse field with disorder present both in the exchange coupling and in the transverse field. The transverse field term is proportional to a function $\Gamma(t)$ which, as in the Kibble-Zurek mechanism, is linearly reduced to zero in time with a rate $\tau^{-1}$, $\Gamma(t)=-t/\tau$, starting at $t=-\infty$ from the quantum disordered phase ($\Gamma=\infty$) and ending at $t=0$ in the classical ferromagnetic phase ($\Gamma=0$). We first analyze the distribution of the gaps -- occurring at the critical point $\Gamma_c=1$ -- which are relevant for breaking the adiabaticity of the dynamics. We then present extensive numerical simulations for the residual energy $E_{\rm res}$ and density of defects $\rho_k$ at the end of the annealing, as a function of the annealing inverse rate $\tau$. %for different lenghts of the chain. Both the average $E_{\rm res}(\tau)$ and $\rho_k(\tau)$ are found to behave logarithmically for large $\tau$, but with different exponents, $[E_{\rm res}(\tau)/L]_{\rm av}\sim 1/\ln^{\zeta}(\tau)$ with $\zeta\approx 3.4$, and $[\rho_k(\tau)]_{\rm av}\sim 1/\ln^{2}(\tau)$. We propose a mechanism for $1/\ln^2{\tau}$-behavior of $[\rho_k]_{\rm av}$ based on the Landau-Zener tunneling theory and on a Fisher's type real-space renormalization group analysis of the relevant gaps. The model proposed shows therefore a paradigmatic example of how an adiabatic quantum computation can become very slow when disorder is at play, even in absence of any source of frustration.

id: 0706.1850
title: Casimir-Lifshitz force out of thermal equilibrium
authors: Mauro Antezza, Lev P. Pitaevskii, Sandro Stringari, Vitaly B. Svetovoy
comments: 26 pages, 11 figures. Published version, revised and more detailed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022901 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1850
abstract: We study the Casimir-Lifshitz interaction out of thermal equilibrium, with particular attention devoted to the surface-surface and surface-atom configurations. A systematic investigation of the contributions to the force coming from the propagating and evanescent components of the electromagnetic radiation is performed. The large distance behaviors of such interactions is discussed, and both analytical and numerical results are compared with the equilibrium ones. A detailed analysis of the crossing between the surface-surface and the surface-rarefied body, and finally the surface-atom force is shown, and a complete derivation and discussion of the recently predicted non-additivity effects and new asymptotic behaviors is presented.

id: 0706.1994
title: On the Quantum Jarzynski Identity
authors: Gavin E. Crooks
comments: 4 pages
journal: J. Stat. Mech.: Theor. Exp. P10023 (9pp) (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1994
abstract: In this note, we will discuss how to compactly express and prove the Jarzynski identity for an open quantum system with dissipative dynamics. We will avoid explicitly measuring the work directly, which is tantamount to continuously monitoring the system, and instead measure the heat flow from the environment. We represent the measurement of heat flow with Hermitian map superoperators that act on the system density matrix. Hermitian maps provide a convenient and compact representation of sequential measurement and correlation functions.

id: 0706.2141
title: Large deviations and Chernoff bound for certain correlated states on a spin chain
authors: Fumio Hiai, Milan Mosonyi, Tomohiro Ogawa
comments: some typos corrected, short proof of Lemma A.2 added
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48, 123301 (2007)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2141
abstract: In this paper we extend the results of Lenci and Rey-Bellet on the large deviation upper bound of the distribution measures of local Hamiltonians with respect to a Gibbs state, in the setting of translation-invariant finite-range interactions. We show that a certain factorization property of the reference state is sufficient for a large deviation upper bound to hold and that this factorization property is satisfied by Gibbs states of the above kind as well as finitely correlated states. As an application of the methods the Chernoff bound for correlated states with factorization property is studied. In the specific case of the distributions of the ergodic averages of a one-site observable with respect to an ergodic finitely correlated state the spectral theory of positive maps is applied to prove the full large deviation principle.

id: 0706.2312
title: Carrier-carrier entanglement and transport resonances in semiconductor quantum dots
authors: Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone, Andrea Bertoni
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, RevTex4 two-column format, submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 195317 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2312
abstract: We study theoretically the entanglement created in a scattering between an electron, incoming from a source lead, and another electron bound in the ground state of a quantum dot, connected to two leads. We analyze the role played by the different kinds of resonances in the transmission spectra and by the number of scattering channels, into the amount of quantum correlations between the two identical carriers. It is shown that the entanglement between their energy states is not sensitive to the presence of Breit-Wigner resonances, while it presents a peculiar behavior in correspondence of Fano peaks: two close maxima separated by a minimum, for a two-channel scattering, a single maximum for a multi-channel scattering. Such a behavior is ascribed to the different mechanisms characterizing the two types of resonances. Our results suggest that the production and detection of entanglement in quantum dot structures may be controlled by the manipulation of Fano resonances through external fields.

id: 0706.2518
title: Single nitrogen vacancy centers in chemical vapor deposited diamond nanocrystals
authors: J. R. Rabeau, A. Stacey, A. Rabeau, F. Jelezko, I. Mirza, J. Wrachtrup, S. Prawer
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, In Print Nano Letters (2007)
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2518
abstract: Nanodiamond crystals containing single color centers have been grown by chemical vapor deposition (CVD). The fluorescence from individual crystallites was directly correlated with crystallite size using a combined atomic force and scanning confocal fluorescence microscope. Under the conditions employed, the optimal size for single optically active nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center incorporation was measured to be 60 to 70 nm. The findings highlight a strong dependence of NV incorporation on crystal size, particularly with crystals less than 50 nm in size.

id: 0706.2596
title: Is the Interpretation of Delayed-Choice Experiments Misleading?
authors: P. Roussel, I. Stefan
comments: 5 pages TeX
journal: 
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2596
abstract: The interpretation of an experimental realization of Wheeler's delayed-choice gedanken experiment is discussed and called into question.

id: 0706.2744
title: Dynamical instabilities of Bose-Einstein condensates at the band-edge in one-dimensional optical lattices
authors: Andrew J. Ferris, Matthew J. Davis, Reece W. Geursen, P. Blair Blakie, Andrew C. Wilson
comments: v2: Added several references
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2744
abstract: We report on experiments that demonstrate dynamical instability in a Bose-Einstein condensate at the band-edge of a one-dimensional optical lattice. The instability manifests as rapid depletion of the condensate and conversion to a thermal cloud. We consider the collisional processes that can occur in such a system, and perform numerical modeling of the experiments using both a mean-field and beyond mean-field approach. We compare our numerical results to the experimental data, and find that the Gross-Pitaevskii equation is not able to describe this experiment. Our beyond mean-field approach, known as the truncated Wigner method, allows us to make quantitative predictions for the processes of parametric growth and thermalization that are observed in the laboratory, and we find good agreement with the experimental results.

id: 0706.2869
title: Supercurrent survival under Rosen-Zener quench of hard core bosons
authors: I. Klich, C. Lannert, G. Refael
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 205303 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2869
abstract: We study the survival of super-currents in a system of impenetrable bosons subject to a quantum quench from its critical superfluid phase to an insulating phase. We show that the evolution of the current when the quench follows a Rosen-Zener profile is exactly solvable. This allows us to analyze a quench of arbitrary rate, from a sudden destruction of the superfluid to a slow opening of a gap. The decay and oscillations of the current are analytically derived, and studied numerically along with the momentum distribution after the quench. In the case of small supercurrent boosts $\nu$, we find that the current surviving at long times is proportional to $\nu^3$.

id: 0706.2887
title: Casimir effect in a one-dimensional gas of free fermions
authors: Eugene B. Kolomeisky, Joseph P. Straley, Michael Timmins
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures. A generalization to the case of an arbitrary harmonic liquid is given and discussion is improved. Version to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A78:022104,2008
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.2887
abstract: We compute an analog Casimir effect in a one-dimensional spinless Luttinger liquid confined to a segment in the presence of a nearly-impenetrable partition dividing the segment into two compartments. The Casimir interaction is found to be a bounded piecewise-continuous oscillatory function whose maxima are points of force discontinuity and correspond to resonant tunneling across the partition. The well-known regularization-based results are reproduced by the lower envelope of this function, which corresponds to an approximation that ignores the rather large oscillations due to particle discreteness. These macroscopic conclusions are tested and confirmed via a rigorous analysis of the Casimir effect in an exactly-solvable model of a one-dimensional non-relativistic spinless gas of free fermions, thus resolving an objection that has been raised by Volovik (2003). Additionally we confirm the result of a recent calculation which employed an effective low-energy theory with a cutoff to find the Casimir interaction between two strong well-separated impurities placed in a Luttinger liquid.

id: 0706.3004
title: Strong extinction of a far-field laser beam by a single quantum dot
authors: A. N. Vamivakas, M. Atature, J. Dreiser, S. T. Yilmaz, A. Badolato, A. K. Swan, B. B. Goldberg, A. Imamoglu, M. S. Unlu
comments: 
journal: Nano Letters, 7, 2892-2896 (2007).
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3004
abstract: Through the utilization of index-matched GaAs immersion lens techniques we demonstrate a record extinction (12%) of a far-field focused laser by a single InAs/GaAs quantum dot. This contrast level enables us to report for the first time resonant laser transmission spectroscopy on a single InAs/GaAs quantum dot without the need for phase-sensitive lock-in detection.

id: 0706.3075
title: Stochastic Lorentz forces on a point charge moving near the conducting plate
authors: Jen-Tsung Hsiang, Tai-Hung Wu, Da-Shin Lee
comments: 33 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D77:105021,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3075
abstract: The influence of quantized electromagnetic fields on a nonrelativistic charged particle moving near a conducting plate is studied. We give a field-theoretic derivation of the nonlinear, non-Markovian Langevin equation of the particle by the method of Feynman-Vernon influence functional. This stochastic approach incorporates not only the stochastic noise manifested from electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations, but also dissipation backreaction on a charge in the form of the retarded Lorentz forces. Since the imposition of the boundary is expected to anisotropically modify the effects of the fields on the evolution of the particle, we consider the motion of a charge undergoing small-amplitude oscillations in the direction either parallel or normal to the plane boundary. Under the dipole approximation for nonrelativistic motion, velocity fluctuations of the charge are found to grow linearly with time in the early stage of the evolution at the rather different rate, revealing strong anisotropic behavior. They are then asymptotically saturated as a result of the fluctuation-dissipation relation, and the same saturated value is found for the motion in both directions. The observational consequences are discussed. plane boundary. Velocity fluctuations of the charge are found to grow linearly with time in the early stage of the evolution at the rate given by the relaxation constant, which turns out to be smaller in the parallel case than in the perpendicular one in a similar configuration. Then, they are asymptotically saturated as a result of the fluctuation-dissipation relation. For the electron, the same saturated value is obtained for motion in both directions, and is mainly determined by its oscillatory motion. Possible observational consequences are discussed.

id: 0706.3283
title: Novel constraints on light elementary particles and extra-dimensional physics from the Casimir effect
authors: R.S.Decca, D.Lopez, E.Fischbach, G.L.Klimchitskaya, D.E.Krause, V.M.Mostepanenko
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, 2 tables, svjor.cls is used, to appear in Eur. Phys. J. C
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C51:963-975,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3283
abstract: We present supplementary information on the recent indirect measurement of the Casimir pressure between two parallel plates using a micromachined oscillator. The equivalent pressure between the plates is obtained by means of the proximity force approximation after measuring the force gradient between a gold coated sphere and a gold coated plate. The data are compared with a new theoretical approach to the thermal Casimir force based on the use of the Lifshitz formula, combined with a generalized plasma-like dielectric permittivity which takes into account interband transitions of core electrons. The theoretical Casimir pressures calculated using the new approach are compared with those computed in the framework of the previously used impedance approach and also with the Drude model approach. The latter is shown to be excluded by the data at a 99.9% confidence level within a wide separation range from 210 to 620 nm. The level of agreement between the data and theoretical approaches based on the generalized plasma model, or the Leontovich surface impedance, is used to set stronger constraints on the Yukawa forces predicted from the exchange of light elementary particles and/or extra-dimensional physics. The resulting constraints are the strongest in the interaction region from 20 to 86 nm with a largest improvement by a factor of 4.4 at 26 nm.

id: 0706.3354
title: Reliability of the Heitler-London approach for the exchange coupling between electrons in semiconductor nanostructures
authors: A. L. Saraiva, M. J. Calderon, Belita Koiller
comments: 5 pages, 4 Postscript figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 233302 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3354
abstract: We calculate the exchange coupling J between electrons in a double-well potential in a two-dimensional semiconductor environment within the Heitler-London (HL) approach. Two functional forms are considered for the double-well potential. We show that by choosing an appropriate and relatively simple single-electron variational wave function it is possible, within the HL approach, to significantly improve the estimates for J. In all cases the present scheme overcomes the artifacts and limitations at short interdot distances, previously attributed to the HL method, where unphysical triplet ground states have been found, and leads to an overall agreement with analytic interpolated expressions for J obtained for a donor-type model potential.

id: 0706.3384
title: Form factors of branch-point twist fields in quantum integrable models and entanglement entropy
authors: J.L. Cardy, O.A. Castro-Alvaredo, B. Doyon
comments: 40 pages, 10 eps figures
journal: J. Stat. Phys.130:129-168, 2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3384
abstract: In this paper we compute the leading correction to the bipartite entanglement entropy at large sub-system size, in integrable quantum field theories with diagonal scattering matrices. We find a remarkably universal result, depending only on the particle spectrum of the theory and not on the details of the scattering matrix. We employ the "replica trick" whereby the entropy is obtained as the derivative with respect to n of the trace of the n-th power of the reduced density matrix of the sub-system, evaluated at n=1. The main novelty of our work is the introduction of a particular type of twist fields in quantum field theory that are naturally related to branch points in an n-sheeted Riemann surface. Their two-point function directly gives the scaling limit of the trace of the n-th power of the reduced density matrix. Taking advantage of integrability, we use the expansion of this two-point function in terms of form factors of the twist fields, in order to evaluate it at large distances in the two-particle approximation. Although this is a well-known technique, the new geometry of the problem implies a modification of the form factor equations satisfied by standard local fields of integrable quantum field theory. We derive the new form factor equations and provide solutions, which we specialize both to the Ising and sinh-Gordon models.

id: 0706.3437
title: Bell's inequality test with time-delayed two-particle correlations
authors: A. V. Lebedev, G. Blatter
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 035301 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3437
abstract: Adopting the frame of mesoscopic physics, we describe a Bell type experiment involving time-delayed two-particle correlation measurements. The indistinguishability of quantum particles results in a specific interference between different trajectories. We show how the non-locality in the time-delayed correlations due to the indistinguishability of the quantum particles manifests itself in the violation of a Bell inequality, where the degree of violation is related to the accuracy of the measurement. We demonstrate how the interrelation between the orbital- and the spin exchange symmetry can by exploited to infer knowledge on spin-entanglement from a measurement of orbital entanglement.

id: 0706.3527
title: Model for monitoring of a charge qubit using a radio-frequency quantum point contact including experimental imperfections
authors: Neil P. Oxtoby, Jay Gambetta, H.M. Wiseman
comments: 12 pages, 2 colour figures. v3 is published version (minor changes since v2)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 125304 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3527
abstract: The extension of quantum trajectory theory to incorporate realistic imperfections in the measurement of solid-state qubits is important for quantum computation, particularly for the purposes of state preparation and error-correction as well as for readout of computations. Previously this has been achieved for low-frequency (dc) weak measurements. In this paper we extend realistic quantum trajectory theory to include radio frequency (rf) weak measurements where a low-transparency quantum point contact (QPC), coupled to a charge qubit, is used to damp a classical oscillator circuit. The resulting realistic quantum trajectory equation must be solved numerically. We present an analytical result for the limit of large dissipation within the oscillator (relative to the QPC), where the oscillator slaves to the qubit. The rf+dc mode of operation is considered. Here the QPC is biased (dc) as well as subjected to a small-amplitude sinusoidal carrier signal (rf). The rf+dc QPC is shown to be a low-efficiency charge-qubit detector, that may nevertheless be higher than the dc-QPC (which is subject to 1/f noise).

id: 0706.3625
title: Two-dimensional cavity grid for scalable quantum computation with superconducting circuits
authors: Ferdinand Helmer, Matteo Mariantoni, Austin G. Fowler, Jan von Delft, Enrique Solano, Florian Marquardt
comments: version as published in EPL 95 No 5 (March 2009) 50007, 5 pages
journal: EPL 85 No 5 (March 2009) 50007 (5pp)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3625
abstract: Superconducting circuits are among the leading contenders for quantum information processing. This promising avenue has been strengthened with the advent of circuit quantum electrodynamics, underlined by recent experiments coupling on-chip microwave resonators to superconducting qubits. However, moving towards more qubits will require suitable novel architectures. Here, we propose a scalable setup for quantum computing where such resonators are arranged in a two-dimensional grid with a qubit at each intersection. Its versatility allows any two qubits on the grid to be coupled at a swapping overhead independent of their distance and yields an optimal balance between reducing qubit transition frequency spread and spurious cavity-induced couplings. These features make this setup unique and distinct from existing proposals in ion traps, optical lattices, or semiconductor spins. We demonstrate that this approach encompasses the fundamental elements of a scalable fault-tolerant quantum computing architecture.

id: 0706.3945
title: Slow light with integrated gain and large pulse delay
authors: Irina Novikova, David F. Phillips, Ronald L. Walsworth
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; abstract is shortened, some typo corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 173604 (2007).
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3945
abstract: We demonstrate slow and stored light in Rb vapor with a combination of desirable features: minimal loss and distortion of the pulse shape, and large fractional delay (> 10). This behavior is enabled by: (i) a group index that can be controllably varied during light pulse propagation; and (ii) controllable gain integrated into the medium to compensate for pulse loss. Any medium with the above two characteristics should be able to realize similarly high-performance slow light.

id: 0706.3976
title: Towards an Experimental Test of Gravity-induced Quantum State Reduction
authors: Jasper van Wezel, Tjerk Oosterkamp, Jan Zaanen
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phil. Mag., 88, 1005 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3976
abstract: According to the hypothesis of Penrose and Diosi, quantum state reduction is a manifestation of the incompatibilty of general relativity and the unitary time evolution of quantum physics. Dimensional analysis suggests that Schrodinger cat type states should collapse on measurable time scales when masses and lengths of the order of bacterial scales are involved. We analyze this hypothesis in the context of modern developments in condensed matter and cold atoms physics, aimed at realizing macroscopic quantum states. We first consider 'micromechanical' quantum states, analyzing the capacity of an atomic force microscopy based single spin detector to measure the gravitational state reduction, but we conclude that it seems impossible to suppress environmental decoherence to the required degree. We subsequently discuss 'split' cold atom condensates to find out that these are at present lacking the required mass scale by many orders of magnitude. We then extent Penrose's analysis to superpositions of mass current carrying states, and we apply this to the flux quantum bits realized in superconducting circuits. We find that the flux qubits approach the scale where gravitational state reduction should become measurable, but bridging the few remaining orders of magnitude appears to be very difficult with present day technology.

id: 0706.4094
title: Quantum Belief Propagation
authors: M. B. Hastings
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; revised time estimates due to improved implementation. Typographical corrections to Eq. 7 made; thanks to David Poulin for pointing out the mistake
journal: Phys. Rev. B Rapids 76, 201102 (2007)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4094
abstract: We present an accurate numerical algorithm, called quantum belief propagation (QBP), for simulation of one-dimensional quantum systems at non-zero temperature. The algorithm exploits the fact that quantum effects are short-range in these systems at non-zero temperature, decaying on a length scale inversely proportional to the temperature. We compare to exact results on a spin-1/2 Heisenberg chain. Even a very modest calculation, requiring diagonalizing only 10-by-10 matrices, reproduces the peak susceptibility with a relative error of less than $10^{-5}$, while more elaborate calculations further reduce the error.

id: 0706.4196
title: The paraboson Fock space and unitary irreducible representations of the Lie superalgebra osp(1|2n)
authors: S. Lievens, N. I. Stoilova, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: typos corrected
journal: Commun.Math.Phys.282:575,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4196
abstract: It is known that the defining relations of the orthosymplectic Lie superalgebra osp(1|2n) are equivalent to the defining (triple) relations of n pairs of paraboson operators $b^\pm_i$. In particular, with the usual star conditions, this implies that the ``parabosons of order p'' correspond to a unitary irreducible (infinite-dimensional) lowest weight representation V(p) of osp(1|2n). Apart from the simple cases p=1 or n=1, these representations had never been constructed due to computational difficulties, despite their importance. In the present paper we give an explicit and elegant construction of these representations V(p), and we present explicit actions or matrix elements of the osp(1|2n) generators. The orthogonal basis vectors of V(p) are written in terms of Gelfand-Zetlin patterns, where the subalgebra u(n) of osp(1|2n) plays a crucial role. Our results also lead to character formulas for these infinite-dimensional osp(1|2n) representations. Furthermore, by considering the branching $ osp(1|2n) \supset sp(2n) \supset u(n)$, we find explicit infinite-dimensional unitary irreducible lowest weight representations of sp(2n) and their characters.

id: 0706.4218
title: Association of heteronuclear molecules in a harmonic oscillator well
authors: Jesper Fevre Bertelsen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.4218
abstract: We describe the collisional interaction between two different atoms that are trapped in a harmonic potential. The atoms are exposed to a magnetic field, which is modulated in the vicinity of an s-wave Feshbach resonance, and we study the formation of molecular bound states and excited states of the trapped system with non-trivial angular correlations.

id: 0706.3532
title: On the Sharpness and Bias of Quantum Effects
authors: Paul Busch
comments: Substantially expanded version, with new results and some proofs corrected
journal: Foundations of Physics 39 (2009) 712-730
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.3532
abstract: The question of quantifying the sharpness (or unsharpness) of a quantum mechanical effect is investigated. Apart from sharpness, another property, bias, is found to be relevant for the joint measurability or coexistence of two effects. Measures of bias will be defined and examples given.

id: 0706.1989
title: Interplay and optimization of decoherence mechanisms in the optical control of spin quantum bits implemented on a semiconductor quantum dot
authors: A. Grodecka, C. Weber, P. Machnikowski, A. Knorr
comments: Final version, 14 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 205305 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1989
abstract: We study the influence of the environment on an optically induced rotation of a single electron spin in a charged semiconductor quantum dot. We analyze the decoherence mechanisms resulting from the dynamical lattice response to the charge evolution induced in a trion-based optical spin control scheme. Moreover, we study the effect of the finite trion lifetime and of the imperfections of the unitary evolution such as off-resonant excitations and the nonadiabaticity of the driving. We calculate the total error of the operation on a spin-based qubit in an InAs/GaAs quantum dot system and discuss possible optimization against the different contributions. We indicate the parameters which allow for coherent control of the spin with a single qubit gate error as low as $10^{-4}$.

id: 0706.1536
title: Canonical forms, higher rank numerical range, convexity, totally isotropic subspace, matrix equations
authors: Chi-Kwong Li, Nung-Sing Sze
comments: 10 pages. To appear in Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society
journal: Proc. Amer. Math. Soc., 136:3013-3023. 2008
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1536
abstract: Results on matrix canonical forms are used to give a complete description of the higher rank numerical range of matrices arising from the study of quantum error correction. It is shown that the set can be obtained as the intersection of closed half planes (of complex numbers). As a result, it is always a convex set in $\mathcal C$. Moreover, the higher rank numerical range of a normal matrix is a convex polygon determined by the eigenvalues. These two consequences confirm the conjectures of Choi et al. on the subject. In addition, the results are used to derive a formula for the optimal upper bound for the dimension of a totally isotropic subspace of a square matrix, and verify the solvability of certain matrix equations.

id: 0706.1540
title: Condition for the higher rank numerical range to be non-empty
authors: Chi-Kwong Li, Yiu-Tung Poon, Nung-Sing Sze
comments: 4 pages; to appear in LAMA
journal: Linear and Multilinear Algebra, 57:365-368, 2009
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1540
abstract: It is shown that the rank-$k$ numerical range of every $n$-by-$n$ complex matrix is non-empty if $n \ge 3k - 2$. The proof is based on a recent characterization of the rank-$k$ numerical range by Li and Sze, the Helly's theorem on compact convex sets, and some eigenvalue inequalities. In particular, the result implies that $\Lambda_2(A)$ is non-empty if $n \ge 4$. This confirms a conjecture of Choi et al. If $3k-2>n>0$, an $n$-by-$n$ complex matrix is given for which the rank-$k$ numerical range is empty. Extension of the result to bounded linear operators acting on an infinite dimensional Hilbert space is also discussed.

id: 0706.1644
title: Pseudo-Gaussian quantum models
authors: Ion I. Cotaescu
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1644
abstract: A new family of one-dimensional quantum models is proposed in terms of new potentials with a Gaussian asymptotic behavior but approaching to the potential of the harmonic o scillator when $x\to 0$. It is shown that, in the energy basis of the harmonic oscillator, the matrix elements of the Hamiltonian operators of these new models can be derived from generating functionals.

