id: 0707.0008
title: Reliable Final Computational Results from Faulty Quantum Computation
authors: Gerald Gilbert, Michael Hamrick, Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0008
abstract: In this paper we extend both standard fault tolerance theory and Kitaev's model for quantum computation, combining them so as to yield quantitative results that reveal the interplay between the two. Our analysis establishes a methodology that allows us to quantitatively determine design parameters for a quantum computer, the values of which ensure that an overall computation of interest yields a correct *final result* with some prescribed probability of success, as opposed to merely ensuring that the desired *final quantum state* is obtained. As a specific example of the practical application of our approach, we explicitly calculate the number of levels of error correction concatenation needed to achieve a correct final result for the overall computation with some prescribed success probability. Since our methodology allows one to determine parameters required in order to achieve the correct final result for the overall quantum computation, as opposed to merely ensuring that the desired final quantum state is produced, our method enables the determination of complete quantum computational resource requirements associated to the actual solution of practical problems.

id: 0707.0021
title: Towards Fault Tolerant Adiabatic Quantum Computation
authors: Daniel A. Lidar
comments: Replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 160506 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0021
abstract: I show how to protect adiabatic quantum computation (AQC) against decoherence and certain control errors, using a hybrid methodology involving dynamical decoupling, subsystem and stabilizer codes, and energy gaps. Corresponding error bounds are derived. As an example I show how to perform decoherence-protected AQC against local noise using at most two-body interactions.

id: 0707.0044
title: Application of Geometric Phase in Quantum Computations
authors: A.E. Shalyt-Margolin, V.I. Strazhev, A.Ya. Tregubovich
comments: 27 pages,minor corrections. This article is dedicated to memory of our dear friend, colleague and co-author Dr. Artur Tregubovich
journal: Computer Science and Quantum Computing, p.p.125-149, Nova Science Publishers 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0044
abstract: Geometric phase that manifests itself in number of optic and nuclear experiments is shown to be a useful tool for realization of quantum computations in so called holonomic quantum computer model (HQCM). This model is considered as an externally driven quantum system with adiabatic evolution law and finite number of the energy levels. The corresponding evolution operators represent quantum gates of HQCM. The explicit expression for the gates is derived both for one-qubit and for multi-qubit quantum gates as Abelian and non-Abelian geometric phases provided the energy levels to be time-independent or in other words for rotational adiabatic evolution of the system. Application of non-adiabatic geometric-like phases in quantum computations is also discussed for a Caldeira-Legett-type model (one-qubit gates) and for the spin 3/2 quadrupole NMR model (two-qubit gates). Generic quantum gates for these two models are derived. The possibility of construction of the universal quantum gates in both cases is shown.

id: 0707.0048
title: The Series Product and Its Application to Quantum Feedforward and Feedback Networks
authors: J. Gough, M.R. James
comments: To appear, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0048
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to present simple and general algebraic methods for describing series connections in quantum networks. These methods build on and generalize existing methods for series (or cascade) connections by allowing for more general interfaces, and by introducing an efficient algebraic tool, the series product. We also introduce another product, which we call the concatenation product, that is useful for assembling and representing systems without necessarily having connections. We show how the concatenation and series products can be used to describe feedforward and feedback networks. A selection of examples from the quantum control literature are analyzed to illustrate the utility of our network modeling methodology.

id: 0707.0059
title: The squeezed generalized amplitude damping channel
authors: R. Srikanth, Subhashish Banerjee
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review A; note on methods of generating bath squeezing added in Section II A; 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0059
abstract: Squeezing of a thermal bath introduces new features absent in an open quantum system interacting with an uncorrelated (zero squeezing) thermal bath. The resulting dynamics, governed by a Lindblad-type evolution, extends the concept of a generalized amplitude damping channel, which corresponds to a dissipative interaction with a purely thermal bath. Here we present the Kraus representation of this map, which we call the squeezed generalized amplitude damping channel. As an application of this channel to quantum information, we study the classical capacity of this channel.

id: 0707.0061
title: How to create and detect N-dimensional entangled photons with an active phase hologram
authors: Martin Stuetz, Simon Groeblacher, Thomas Jennewein, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 90, 261114 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0061
abstract: The experimental realization of multidimensional quantum states may lead to unexplored and interesting physics, as well as advanced quantum communication protocols. The orbital angular momentum of photons is a well suitable discrete degree of freedom for implementing high-dimensional quantum systems. The standard method to generate and manipulate such photon modes is to use bulk and fixed optics. Here the authors demonstrate the utilization of a spatial light modulator to manipulate the orbital angular momentum of entangled photons generated in spontaneous parametric downconversion. They show that their setup allows them to realize photonic entanglement of up to 21 dimensions, which in principle can be extended to even larger dimensions.

id: 0707.0063
title: The STIRAP-based unitary decelerating and accelerating processes of a single free atom
authors: Xijia Miao
comments: 93 pages, no figure. No change for the main ideas of the old versions published in 2007, e.g., the time evolution process is calculated in the three-state subspace rather than by using the original Schroedinger equation and unitarity is necessary to realize it. Two general adiabatic conditions are set up (See: the expanded section 7). The errors are corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0063
abstract: A STIRAP-based unitary decelerating (accelerating) process consists of a train of the standard three-state STIRAP pulse sequences which may act as the basic unitary decelerating (accelerating) sequences. The present work is focused on investigating analytically and quantitatively how the momentum distribution of a momentum superposition state such as a momentum Gaussian wave-packet state of a single freely moving atom affects the STIRAP state transfer in these decelerating and accelerating processes. The complete STIRAP state transfer and the unitarity of these processes are stressed highly in the investigation. It has been shown that the momentum distribution has an important influence upon the STIRAP state-transfer efficiency. In the ideal adiabatic condition these unitary decelerating and accelerating processes for a freely moving atom are studied in detail, and it is shown that they can be used to manipulate and control in time and space the center-of-mass position and momentum of a Gaussian wave-packet motional state of a free atom. Two general (strict and accurate) adiabatic conditions for the basic STIRAP decelerating and accelerating processes are derived analytically. With the help of the STIRAP theory and the unitary quantum dynamics it confirms theoretically that the time- and space-compressing processes of the quantum control process (quant-ph/0607144) can be realized almost perfectly by the STIRAP-based unitary decelerating and accelerating processes in the ideal or nearly ideal adiabatic condition.

id: 0707.0074
title: On the epistemic view of quantum states
authors: Michael Skotiniotis, Aidan Roy, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 082103 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0074
abstract: We investigate the strengths and limitations of the Spekkens toy model, which is a local hidden variable model that replicates many important properties of quantum dynamics. First, we present a set of five axioms that fully encapsulate Spekkens' toy model. We then test whether these axioms can be extended to capture more quantum phenomena, by allowing operations on epistemic as well as ontic states. We discover that the resulting group of operations is isomorphic to the projective extended Clifford Group for two qubits. This larger group of operations results in a physically unreasonable model; consequently, we claim that a relaxed definition of valid operations in Spekkens' toy model cannot produce an equivalence with the Clifford Group for two qubits. However, the new operations do serve as tests for correlation in a two toy bit model, analogous to the well known Horodecki criterion for the separability of quantum states.

id: 0707.0117
title: Complex trajectory method in time-dependent WKB
authors: Yair Goldfarb, Jeremy Schiff, David J Tannor
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0117
abstract: We present a significant improvement to a time-dependent WKB (TDWKB) formulation developed by Boiron and Lombardi [JCP {\bf108}, 3431 (1998)] in which the TDWKB equations are solved along classical trajectories that propagate in the complex plane. Boiron and Lombardi showed that the method gives very good agreement with the exact quantum mechanical result as long as the wavefunction does not exhibit interference effects such as oscillations and nodes. In this paper we show that this limitation can be overcome by superposing the contributions of crossing trajectories. We also demonstrate that the approximation improves when incorporating higher order terms in the expansion. These improvements could make the TDWKB formulation a competitive alternative to current time-dependent semiclassical methods.

id: 0707.0149
title: Experimental demonstration of continuous variable purification of squeezed states
authors: A. Franzen, B. Hage, J. DiGuglielmo, J. Fiurasek, R. Schnabel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 97, 150505 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0149
abstract: We report on the first experimental demonstration of purification of nonclassical continuous variable states. The protocol uses two copies of phase-diffused states overlapped on a beam splitter and provides Gaussified, less mixed states with the degree of squeezing improved. The protocol uses only linear optical devices such as beam splitters and homodyne detection, thereby proving these optical elements can be used for successful purification of this type of state decoherence which occurs in optical transmission channels.

id: 0707.0151
title: Cooperative enhancement of channeling of emission from atoms into a nanofiber
authors: Fam Le Kien, K. Hakuta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0151
abstract: We show the possibility of directional \textit{guided} superradiance from a string of atoms separated by one or several wavelengths in a line parallel to the axis of a nanofiber. We find that the rate and efficiency of channeling of emission from the atoms into the fiber are cooperatively enhanced by the guided modes.

id: 0707.0164
title: Coherent control of vacuum squeezing in the Gravitational-Wave Detection Band
authors: Henning Vahlbruch, Simon Chelkowski, Boris Hage, Alexander Franzen, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.97:011101,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0164
abstract: We propose and demonstrate a coherent control scheme for stable phase locking of squeezed vacuum fields. We focus on sideband fields at frequencies from 10Hz to 10kHz which is a frequency regime of particular interest in gravitational wave detection and for which conventional control schemes have failed so far. A vacuum field with broadband squeezing covering this entire band was produced using optical parametric oscillation and characterized with balanced homodyne detection. The system was stably controlled over long periods utilizing two coherent but frequency shifted control fields. In order to demonstrate the performance of our setup the squeezed field was used for a nonclassical sensitivity improvement of a Michelson interferometer at audio frequencies.

id: 0707.0166
title: Demonstration of a squeezed light enhanced power- and signal-recycled Michelson interferometer
authors: Henning Vahlbruch, Simon Chelkowski, Boris Hage, Alexander Franzen, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.95:211102,2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0166
abstract: We report on the experimental combination of three advanced interferometer techniques for gravitational wave detection, namely power-recycling, detuned signal-recycling and squeezed field injection. For the first time we experimentally prove the compatibility of especially the latter two. To achieve a broadband non-classical sensitivity improvement we applied a filter cavity for compensation of quadrature rotation. Signal to noise ratio was improved by up to 2.8 dB beyond the coherent state's shot noise. The complete set-up was stably locked for arbitrary times and characterized by injected single-sideband modulation fields.

id: 0707.0170
title: Elementary constructive approach to the higher-rank numerical ranges of unitary matrices
authors: A.Ya.Kazakov
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0170
abstract: Some problems of the quantum error-correcting codes theory can be reduced to the investigation of the higher-rank numerical ranges of the operators related to the error operators. We constructively verify a conjecture on the structure of higher-rank numerical range for unitary matrices.

id: 0707.0172
title: Non-Markovian quantum dynamics and the method of correlated projection superoperators
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 10 pages, to appear in Lecture Notes in Physics, Springer-Verlag
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0172
abstract: Efficient methods for the description of the non-Markovian dynamics of open systems play an important role in many proposed applications of quantum mechanics. Here we review some of the most important tools that are based on the projection operator techniques of nonequilibrium statistical mechanics. The standard product-state projection is generalized to a new class of correlated projection superoperators that allow the treatment of strong memory effects, and lead to a non-Markovian generalization of the Lindblad equation.

id: 0707.0184
title: Squeezed-field injection for gravitational wave interferometers
authors: Henning Vahlbruch, Simon Chelkowski, Boris Hage, Alexander Franzen, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.23:S251-S257,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0184
abstract: In a recent table-top experiment we demonstrated the compatibility of three advanced interferometer techniques for gravitational wave detection, namely power-recycling, detuned signal-recycling and squeezed field injection. The interferometer's signal to noise ratio was improved by up to 2.8 dB beyond the coherent state's shot-noise. This value was mainly limited by optical losses on the squeezed field. We present a detailed analysis of the optical losses of in our experiment and provide an estimation of the possible nonclassical performance of a future squeezed field enhanced GEO600 detector.

id: 0707.0211
title: Stochastic domination for iterated convolutions and catalytic majorization
authors: Guillaume Aubrun, Ion Nechita
comments: 
journal: Annales de l'Institut Henri Poincar\'e (B) Probabilit\'es et Statistiques 45, 3 (2009) 611-625
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0211
abstract: We study how iterated convolutions of probability measures compare under stochastic domination. We give necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of an integer $n$ such that $\mu^{*n}$ is stochastically dominated by $\nu^{*n}$ for two given probability measures $\mu$ and $\nu$. As a consequence we obtain a similar theorem on the majorization order for vectors in $\R^d$. In particular we prove results about catalysis in quantum information theory.

id: 0707.0268
title: Quantum Imaging
authors: Yanhua Shih
comments: IEEE review
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0268
abstract: One of the most surprising consequences of quantum mechanics is the entanglement of two or more distant particles. Although questions regarding fundamental issues of quantum theory still exist, quantum entanglement has started to play important roles in practical engineering applications. Quantum imaging is one of these exciting areas. Quantum imaging has demonstrated two peculiar features: (1) reproducing "ghost" images in a "nonlocal" manner, and (2) enhancing the spatial resolution of imaging beyond the diffraction limit. In this article, we start with the review of classical imaging to establish the basic concepts and formalisms of imaging. We then analyze two-photon imaging with particular emphasis on the physics of spatial resolution enhancement and the "ghost" imaging phenomenon.

id: 0707.0325
title: Excited state quantum phase transitions in many-body systems
authors: M. A. Caprio, P. Cejnar, F. Iachello
comments: LaTeX (elsart), 37 pages; to be published in Ann. Phys. (N.Y.)
journal: Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) 323, 1106 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0325
abstract: Phenomena analogous to ground state quantum phase transitions have recently been noted to occur among states throughout the excitation spectra of certain many-body models. These excited state phase transitions are manifested as simultaneous singularities in the eigenvalue spectrum (including the gap or level density), order parameters, and wave function properties. In this article, the characteristics of excited state quantum phase transitions are investigated. The finite-size scaling behavior is determined at the mean field level. It is found that excited state quantum phase transitions are universal to two-level bosonic and fermionic models with pairing interactions.

id: 0707.0327
title: Fault-tolerant linear optical quantum computing with small-amplitude coherent states
authors: A. P. Lund, T. C. Ralph, H. L. Haselgrove
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0327
abstract: Quantum computing using two optical coherent states as qubit basis states has been suggested as an interesting alternative to single photon optical quantum computing with lower physical resource overheads. These proposals have been questioned as a practical way of performing quantum computing in the short term due to the requirement of generating fragile diagonal states with large coherent amplitudes. Here we show that by using a fault-tolerant error correction scheme, one need only use relatively small coherent state amplitudes ($\alpha > 1.2$) to achieve universal quantum computing. We study the effects of small coherent state amplitude and photon loss on fault tolerance within the error correction scheme using a Monte Carlo simulation and show the quantity of resources used for the first level of encoding is orders of magnitude lower than the best known single photon scheme. %We study this reigem using a Monte Carlo simulation and incorporate %the effects of photon loss in this simulation.

id: 0707.0330
title: An Algebra of Quantum Processes
authors: Mingsheng Ying, Yuan Feng, Runyao Duan, Zhengfeng Ji
comments: 
journal: ACM Transactions on Computational Logic, 10(2009) art. no 19
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0330
abstract: We introduce an algebra qCCS of pure quantum processes in which no classical data is involved, communications by moving quantum states physically are allowed, and computations is modeled by super-operators. An operational semantics of qCCS is presented in terms of (non-probabilistic) labeled transition systems. Strong bisimulation between processes modeled in qCCS is defined, and its fundamental algebraic properties are established, including uniqueness of the solutions of recursive equations. To model sequential computation in qCCS, a reduction relation between processes is defined. By combining reduction relation and strong bisimulation we introduce the notion of strong reduction-bisimulation, which is a device for observing interaction of computation and communication in quantum systems. Finally, a notion of strong approximate bisimulation (equivalently, strong bisimulation distance) and its reduction counterpart are introduced. It is proved that both approximate bisimilarity and approximate reduction-bisimilarity are preserved by various constructors of quantum processes. This provides us with a formal tool for observing robustness of quantum processes against inaccuracy in the implementation of its elementary gates.

id: 0707.0334
title: Implementation of three-qubit Grover search in cavity QED
authors: W.L. Yang, C.Y. Chen, M. Feng
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76 054301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0334
abstract: Using resonant interaction of three Rydberg atoms with a single-mode microwave cavity, we consider a realization of three-qubit Grover search algorithm in the presence of weak cavity decay, based on a previous idea for three-qubit quantum gate [Phys. Rev. A 73, 064304 (2006)]. We simulate the searching process under the influence of the cavity decay and show that our scheme could be achieved efficiently to find the marked state with high fidelity. The required operations are very close to the reach with current cavity QED techniques.

id: 0707.0401
title: J.S. Bell's Concept of Local Causality
authors: Travis Norsen
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: American Journal of Physics, 79, 1261 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0401
abstract: John Stewart Bell's famous 1964 theorem is widely regarded as one of the most important developments in the foundations of physics. It has even been described as "the most profound discovery of science." Yet even as we approach the 50th anniversary of Bell's discovery, its meaning and implications remain controversial. Many textbooks and commentators report that Bell's theorem refutes the possibility (suggested especially by Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen in 1935) of supplementing ordinary quantum theory with additional ("hidden") variables that might restore determinism and/or some notion of an observer-independent reality. On this view, Bell's theorem supports the orthodox Copenhagen interpretation. Bell's own view of his theorem, however, was quite different. He instead took the theorem as establishing an "essential conflict" between the now well-tested empirical predictions of quantum theory and relativistic \emph{local causality}. The goal of the present paper is, in general, to make Bell's own views more widely known and, in particular, to explain in detail Bell's little-known mathematical formulation of the concept of relativistic local causality on which his theorem rests. We thus collect and organize many of Bell's crucial statements on these topics, which are scattered throughout his writings, into a self-contained, pedagogical discussion including elaborations of the concepts "beable", "completeness", and "causality" which figure in the formulation. We also show how local causality (as formulated by Bell) can be used to derive an empirically testable Bell-type inequality, and how it can be used to recapitulate the EPR argument.

id: 0707.0402
title: The maximum output p-norm of quantum channels is not multiplicative for any p>2
authors: Andreas Winter
comments: Superseded by arXiv:0807.4753! -- Old comment: Four pages only. If you write to me, please don't tell me how simple and obvious it is - I know that myself. I accept suggestions for journals to submit to, though; the obscurer the better. V2 has some corrections, and I removed one reference. Don't miss the more recent work arXiv:0707.3291
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0402
abstract: We prove the claim made in the title by showing that approximately randomising maps of large dimension are counterexamples to the multiplicativity conjecture.

id: 0707.0413
title: Detuned Twin-Signal-Recycling for ultra-high precision interferometers
authors: Andre Thuering, Roman Schnabel, Harald Lueck, Karsten Danzmann
comments: 
journal: Opt. Lett. 32, 985-987 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0413
abstract: We propose a new interferometer technique for high precision phase measurements such as those in gravitational wave detection. The technique utilizes a pair of optically coupled resonators that provides identical resonance conditions for the upper as well the lower phase modulation signal sidebands. This symmetry significantly reduces the noise spectral density in a wide frequency band compared with single sideband recycling topologies of current and planned gravitational wave detectors. Furthermore the application of squeezed states of light becomes less demanding.

id: 0707.0433
title: Unstable Semiclassical Trajectories in Tunneling
authors: D.G. Levkov, A.G. Panin, S.M. Sibiryakov
comments: Journal version; 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.99:170407,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0433
abstract: Some tunneling phenomena are described, in the semiclassical approximation, by unstable complex trajectories. We develop a systematic procedure to stabilize the trajectories and to calculate the tunneling probability, including both the suppression exponent and prefactor. We find that the instability of tunneling solutions modifies the power-law dependence of the prefactor on h as compared to the case of stable solutions.

id: 0707.0444
title: Necessary and Sufficient Conditions for the Trumping Relation
authors: S. Turgut
comments: 9 pages; comments appreciated; (this article is a corrected and modified version, which combines this preprint with arXiv:0706.3654)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 12185-12212
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0444
abstract: Entanglement catalysis allows one to convert certain entangled states into others by the temporary involvement of another entangled state (so-called catalyst), where after the conversion the catalyst is returned to the same state. For bipartite pure entangled states that can be transformed in this way with unit probability, the respective Schmidt coefficients are said to satisfy the trumping relation, a mathematical relation which is an extension of the majorization relation. This article provides all necessary and sufficient conditions for the trumping relation in terms of the Schmidt coefficients. The coefficients should satisfy strict inequalities for the entropy of entanglement and for power means excluding the special power 1.

id: 0707.0451
title: Robust and efficient generator of almost maximal multipartite entanglement
authors: Davide Rossini, Giuliano Benenti
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 060501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0451
abstract: Quantum chaotic maps can efficiently generate pseudo-random states carrying almost maximal multipartite entanglement, as characterized by the probability distribution of bipartite entanglement between all possible bipartitions of the system. We show that such multipartite entanglement is robust, in the sense that, when realistic noise is considered, distillable entanglement of bipartitions remains almost maximal up to a noise strength that drops only polynomially with the number of qubits.

id: 0707.0473
title: Entanglement generation resonances in XY chains
authors: R. Rossignoli, C.T. Schmiegelow
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 75, 012320 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0473
abstract: We examine the maximum entanglement reached by an initially fully aligned state evolving in an XY Heisenberg spin chain placed in a uniform transverse magnetic field. Both the global entanglement between one qubit and the rest of the chain and the pairwise entanglement between adjacent qubits is analyzed. It is shown that in both cases the maximum is not a monotonous decreasing function of the aligning field, exhibiting instead a resonant behavior for low anisotropies, with pronounced peaks (a total of [n/2] peaks in the global entanglement for an $n$-spin chain), whose width is proportional to the anisotropy and whose height remains finite in the limit of small anisotropy. It is also seen that the maximum pairwise entanglement is not a smooth function of the field even in small finite chains, where it may exhibit narrow peaks above strict plateaus. Explicit analytical results for small chains, as well as general exact results for finite n-spin chains obtained through the Jordan-Wigner mapping, are discussed.

id: 0707.0475
title: Nonlocal Interferometry: Beyond Bell's Inequality
authors: J.D. Franson
comments: 13 pages, 16 figures; proceedings of CQO9
journal: Proceedings of the Ninth Rochester Conference on Coherence and Quantum Optics, N.P. Bigelow, J.H. Eberly, and C.R. Stroud, Jr., eds. (Optical Society of America) 178-190 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0475
abstract: This paper presents a tutorial review of nonlocal interferometry. The role of the Feynman propagator in optical coherence is also discussed, including the possibility of generating optical coherence and entanglement outside of the light cone.

id: 0707.0496
title: Controlled spontaneous emission
authors: Jae-Seung Lee, Mary A. Rohrdanz, A. K. Khitrin
comments: 25 pages including 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0496
abstract: The problem of spontaneous emission is studied by a direct computer simulation of the dynamics of a combined system: atom + radiation field. The parameters of the discrete finite model, including up to 20k field oscillators, have been optimized by a comparison with the exact solution for the case when the oscillators have equidistant frequencies and equal coupling constants. Simulation of the effect of multi-pulse sequence of phase kicks and emission by a pair of atoms shows that both the frequency and the linewidth of the emitted spectrum could be controlled.

id: 0707.0524
title: Smart Electromechanical Pumping of Electrons in a Nanopillars Transistor
authors: Yue-Min Wan, Heng-Tien Lin
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0524
abstract: Analysis of room-temperature current-voltage (I-V) characteristics of a silicon box in a nanopillar transistor suggests that a weak electromechanical coupling of 0.17 is responsible for the stable tunnel of single-electron. The dynamics involves a few electrons and the numbers (N) specified are periodical at 3, 6, and 12. Quantized currents are observed at N = 7 and 13, indicating that the box is a man-made atom. At a large value of 0.5, instability however dominates the I-V by showing interference, channel closure and the change of tunnel direction. Overall, the interplay of even and odd electrons between different channels also shows that the box operates itself like a smart quantum pump.

id: 0707.0529
title: Realization of universal quantum cloning with SQUID qubits in a cavity
authors: Jian Yang, Ya-Fei Yu, Zhi-Ming Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0529
abstract: We propose a scheme to realize $1\to 2$ universal quantum cloning machine (UQCM) with superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) qubits, embeded in a high-Q cavity. CNOT operations are derived to present our scheme, and the two-photon Raman resonance processes are used to increase the operation rate. Compared with previous works, our scheme has advantages in the experimental realization and further utilization.

id: 0707.0591
title: Arbiter as the Third Man in classical and quantum games
authors: Jaroslaw Pykacz, Piotr Frackiewicz
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0591
abstract: We study possible influence of not necessarily sincere arbiter on the course of classical and quantum 2x2 games and we show that this influence in the quantum case is much bigger than in the classical case. Extreme sensitivity of quantum games on initial states of quantum objects used as carriers of information in a game shows that a quantum game, contrary to a classical game, is not defined by a payoff matrix alone but also by an initial state of objects used to play a game. Therefore, two quantum games that have the same payoff matrices but begin with different initial states should be considered as different games.

id: 0707.0603
title: Covariant Mappings for the Description of Measurement, Dissipation and Decoherence in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Bassano Vacchini
comments: Comments: 38 pages, to appear in Lecture Notes in Physics, Springer-Verlag
journal: Lecture Notes in Physics, vol. 787, pp. 39-77 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0603
abstract: The general formalism of quantum mechanics for the description of statistical experiments is briefly reviewed, introducing in particular position and momentum observables as POVM characterized by their covariance properties with respect to the isochronous Galilei group. Mappings describing state transformations both as a consequence of measurement and of dynamical evolution for a closed or open system are considered with respect to the general constraints they have to obey and their covariance properties with respect to symmetry groups. In particular different master equations are analyzed in view of the related symmetry group, recalling the general structure of mappings covariant under the same group. This is done for damped harmonic oscillator, two-level system and quantum Brownian motion. Special attention is devoted to the general structure of translation-covariant master equations. Within this framework a recently obtained quantum counterpart of the classical linear Boltzmann equation is considered, as well as a general theoretical framework for the description of different decoherence experiments, pointing to a connection between different possible behaviours in the description of decoherence and the characteristic functions of classical L\'evy processes.

id: 0707.0604
title: Not-so-normal mode decomposition
authors: Michael M. Wolf
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 070505 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0604
abstract: We provide a generalization of the normal mode decomposition for non-symmetric or locality constrained situations. This allows for instance to locally decouple a bipartitioned collection of arbitrarily correlated oscillators up to elementary pairs into which all correlations are condensed. Similarly, it enables us to decouple the interaction parts of multi-mode channels into single-mode and pair-interactions where the latter are shown to be a clear signature of squeezing between system and environment. In mathematical terms the result is a canonical matrix form with respect to real symplectic equivalence transformations.

id: 0707.0620
title: A generalized no-broadcasting theorem
authors: Howard Barnum, Jonathan Barrett, Matthew Leifer, Alexander Wilce
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99:240501 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0620
abstract: We prove a generalized version of the no-broadcasting theorem, applicable to essentially \emph{any} nonclassical finite-dimensional probabilistic model satisfying a no-signaling criterion, including ones with ``super-quantum'' correlations. A strengthened version of the quantum no-broadcasting theorem follows, and its proof is significantly simpler than existing proofs of the no-broadcasting theorem.

id: 0707.0685
title: Symmetrised Characterisation of Noisy Quantum Processes
authors: Joseph Emerson, Marcus Silva, Osama Moussa, Colm Ryan, Martin Laforest, Jonathan Baugh, David G. Cory, Raymond Laflamme
comments: About 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Science 317, 1893-1896 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0685
abstract: A major goal of developing high-precision control of many-body quantum systems is to realise their potential as quantum computers. Probably the most significant obstacle in this direction is the problem of "decoherence": the extreme fragility of quantum systems to environmental noise and other control limitations. The theory of fault-tolerant quantum error correction has shown that quantum computation is possible even in the presence of decoherence provided that the noise affecting the quantum system satisfies certain well-defined theoretical conditions. However, existing methods for noise characterisation have become intractable already for the systems that are controlled in today's labs. In this paper we introduce a technique based on symmetrisation that enables direct experimental characterisation of key properties of the decoherence affecting a multi-body quantum system. Our method reduces the number of experiments required by existing methods from exponential to polynomial in the number of subsystems. We demonstrate the application of this technique to the optimisation of control over nuclear spins in the solid state.

id: 0707.0691
title: Quantum entropic security and approximate quantum encryption
authors: Simon Pierre Desrosiers, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis
comments: Corrected mistakes in the proofs of Theorems 3 and 6; results unchanged. To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Theory.
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0691
abstract: We present full generalisations of entropic security and entropic indistinguishability to the quantum world where no assumption but a limit on the knowledge of the adversary is made. This limit is quantified using the quantum conditional min-entropy as introduced by Renato Renner. A proof of the equivalence between the two security definitions is presented. We also provide proofs of security for two different cyphers in this model and a proof for a lower bound on the key length required by any such cypher. These cyphers generalise existing schemes for approximate quantum encryption to the entropic security model.

id: 0707.0713
title: Algebraic structures of multipartite quantum systems
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 7 pages
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI), Vol. 6, No. 6 (2008) 1149 - 1154
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0713
abstract: We investigate the relation between multilinear mappings and multipartite states. We show that the isomorphism between multilinear mapping and tensor product completely characterizes decomposable multipartite states in a mathematically well-defined manner.

id: 0707.0720
title: Non-classical photon pair generation in atomic vapours
authors: S. N.Sandhya
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76 013802 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0720
abstract: A scheme for the generation of non-classical pairs of photons in atomic vapours is proposed. The scheme exploits the fact that the cross correlation of the emission of photons from the extreme transitions of a four-level cascade system shows anti-bunching which has not been reported earlier and which is unlike the case of the three level cascade emission which shows bunching. The Cauchy-Schwarz inequality which is the ratio of cross-correlation to the auto correlation function in this case is estimated to be $10^3-10^6$ for controllable time delay, and is one to four orders of magnitude larger compared to previous experiments. The choice of Doppler free geometry in addition to the fact that at three photon resonance the excitation/deexcitation processes occur in a very narrow frequency band, ensures cleaner signals.

id: 0707.0741
title: Realization of quantum walks with negligible decoherence in waveguide lattices
authors: Hagai B. Perets, Yoav Lahini, Francesca Pozzi, Marc Sorel, Roberto Morandotti, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Added subfigure. Accepted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 170506 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0741
abstract: Quantum random walks are the quantum counterpart of classical random walks, and were recently studied in the context of quantum computation. A quantum random walker is subject to self interference, leading to a remarkably different behavior than that of classical random walks such as ballistic propagation or localization due to disorder. Physical implementations of quantum walks have only been made in very small scale systems severely limited by decoherence. Here we show that the propagation of photons in waveguide lattices, which have been studied extensively in recent years, are essentially an implementation of quantum walks. Since waveguide lattices are easily constructed at large scales and display negligible decoherence, they can serve as an ideal and versatile experimental playground for the study of quantum walks and quantum algorithms. We experimentally observe quantum walks in large systems (~100 sites) and confirm quantum walks effects which were studied theoretically, including ballistic propagation, disorder and boundary related effects.

id: 0707.0759
title: Optimal state in the Knill-Laflamme-Milburn scheme of linear optical teleportation
authors: Andrzej Grudka, Joanna Modlawska
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 014301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0759
abstract: We discuss some properties of the Knill-Laflamme-Milburn scheme for quantum teleportation with both maximally and nonmaximally entangled states. We derive the error correction scheme when one performs teleportation with nonmaximally entangled states and we find the probability for perfect teleportation. We show that the maximally entangled state is optimal in such a case. We also show how the error correction scheme can be implemented experimentally when one uses polarization encoding.

id: 0707.0770
title: Conditional displacement operator for traveling fields
authors: Simone Souza, A. T. Avelar, J. M. C. Malbouisson, B. Baseia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0770
abstract: We show that the conditional displacement operator $\hat{U}_{CD}=\exp [\hat{b}^{\dagger}\hat{b}(\beta \hat{a}^{\dagger}-\beta ^{\ast}\hat{a})]$ acting upon an arbitrary state of traveling waves can be well approximated by the action of a Kerr medium placed between two beam splitters whose respective second ports are fed by highly excited coherent states. Applications to the generation of nonclassical states and measurement of Wigner function of arbitrary states are also considered.

id: 0707.0846
title: Solitons in interacting Dicke models of coupled cavities with two-level systems
authors: M. Paternostro, G. S. Agarwal, M. S. Kim
comments: 4 pages, two figures, RevTeX4
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 013059 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0846
abstract: We consider an array of coupled optical cavities, each containing a multi-atom ensemble. We show that the nonlinearity inherent in the cooperative dynamics of the atoms in each ensemble coupled to the respective cavity field allows for the formation of solitary waves. Such a prediction can be tested in state-of-the-art semiconducting photonic-crystal microcavities with embedded impurities.

id: 0707.0848
title: No-local-broadcasting theorem for quantum correlations
authors: Marco Piani, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki
comments: 5 pages, various changes (title, shortened, references added, corrected typos,...), submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 090502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0848
abstract: We prove that the correlations present in a multipartite quantum state have an \emph{operational} quantum character as soon as the state does not simply encode a multipartite classical probability distribution, i.e. does not describe the joint state of many classical registers. Even unentangled states may exhibit such \emph{quantumness}, that is pointed out by the new task of \emph{local broadcasting}, i.e. of locally sharing pre-established correlations: this task is feasible if and only if correlations are classical and derive a no-local-broadcasting theorem for quantum correlations. Thus, local broadcasting is able to point out the quantumness of correlations, as standard broadcasting points out the quantum character of single system states. Further, we argue that our theorem implies the standard no-broadcasting theorem for single systems, and that our operative approach leads in a natural way to the definition of measures for quantumness of correlations.

id: 0707.0898
title: Entanglement and Irreversibility in the Approach to Thermal Equilibrium
authors: Valerio Scarani
comments: To appear in EPJST, Proceedings of "Thermal Transport and Relaxation: Foundation and Perspectives" (Bad Honnef, January 2007)
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 151, 41 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0898
abstract: When a physical system is put in contact with a very large thermal bath, it undergoes a dissipative (i.e., an apparently irreversible) process that leads to thermal equilibrium. This dynamical process can be described fully within quantum physics, involving only unitary, therefore reversible, maps. The information, initially present in the system, is not erased, but is diluted in the bath because of entanglement. Irreversibility may arise if, after quantum information has been thus diluted, some classical information is lost. This paper reviews a model for thermalization that displays these features. Two new analytical results are provided for the zero-temperature channels: a new quantitative measure of entanglement, and a study of irreversibility in the case where the lost classical information is the label of the particles in the bath.

id: 0707.0902
title: Flow Representation of the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian : General Case
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Tatsuo Suzuki
comments: Latex ; 8 pages ; 1 figure ; minor changes
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys. 5(2008) 339-344
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0902
abstract: In this paper the explicit flow representation to the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian is given in the general case. This representation may be useful in creating cat states for the system of atoms trapped in the optical ring.

id: 0707.0903
title: Loss-tolerant operations in parity-code linear optics quantum computing
authors: A. J. F. Hayes, A. Gilchrist, T. C. Ralph
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0903
abstract: A heavy focus for optical quantum computing is the introduction of error-correction, and the minimisation of resource requirements. We detail a complete encoding and manipulation scheme designed for linear optics quantum computing, incorporating scalable operations and loss-tolerant architecture.

id: 0707.0936
title: Quantum Pattern Recognition of Classical Signal
authors: Chao-Yang Pang, Cong-Bao Ding, Ben-Qiong Hu
comments: 8 papges, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0936
abstract: It's the key research topic of signal processing that recognizing genuine targets real time from the disturbed signal which has giant amount of data. A quantum algorithm for pattern recognition of classical signal which has time complexity O(sqrt(N)) is presented in this paper. Key Words: Pattern recognition, Grover's algorithm, Rotation on subspace

id: 0707.0960
title: Rhodium Mossbauer Superradiance of Observable Gravitational Effect
authors: Yao Cheng, Bing Xia
comments: Revised collection including 0707.0960, 0707.2620, and 0706.2628
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0960
abstract: We summarize the experimental observations of three case studies on the long-lived rhodium Mossbauer Effect. Extraordinary observations reported in this work manifest the open-up of photonic band gap in analogy to the superconducting gap. Observable gravitational effect is manifested by the superradiance of different sample orientations corresponding to the earth gravity. These observations are of potential importance for detecting gravitational waves and development of the two-photon gamma laser.

id: 0707.0963
title: Randomized Benchmarking of Quantum Gates
authors: E. Knill, D. Leibfried, R. Reichle, J. Britton, R. B. Blakestad, J. D. Jost, C. Langer, R. Ozeri, S. Seidelin, D. J. Wineland
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0963
abstract: A key requirement for scalable quantum computing is that elementary quantum gates can be implemented with sufficiently low error. One method for determining the error behavior of a gate implementation is to perform process tomography. However, standard process tomography is limited by errors in state preparation, measurement and one-qubit gates. It suffers from inefficient scaling with number of qubits and does not detect adverse error-compounding when gates are composed in long sequences. An additional problem is due to the fact that desirable error probabilities for scalable quantum computing are of the order of 0.0001 or lower. Experimentally proving such low errors is challenging. We describe a randomized benchmarking method that yields estimates of the computationally relevant errors without relying on accurate state preparation and measurement. Since it involves long sequences of randomly chosen gates, it also verifies that error behavior is stable when used in long computations. We implemented randomized benchmarking on trapped atomic ion qubits, establishing a one-qubit error probability per randomized pi/2 pulse of 0.00482(17) in a particular experiment. We expect this error probability to be readily improved with straightforward technical modifications.

id: 0707.0972
title: Secure Direct Communication based on Ping-pong Protocol
authors: Arti Chamoli, C. M. Bhandari
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0972
abstract: Communication security with quantum key distribution has been one of the important features of quantum information theory. A novel concept of secured direct communication has been the next step forward without the need to establish any shared secret key. The present paper is based on the ping-pong protocol with three particle GHZ state as the initial state where the receiver can simultaneously receive information from two parties. Possible eavesdropping on the travelling particle has been examined.

id: 0707.0981
title: Boson Pairs in a One-dimensional Split Trap
authors: D.S. Murphy, J.F. McCann, J. Goold, Th. Busch
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0981
abstract: We describe the properties of a pair of ultracold bosonic atoms in a one-dimensional harmonic trapping potential with a tunable zero-ranged barrier at the trap centre. The full characterisation of the ground state is done by calculating the reduced single-particle density, the momentum distribution and the two-particle entanglement. We derive several analytical expressions in the limit of infinite repulsion (Tonks-Girardeau limit) and extend the treatment to finite interparticle interactions by numerical solution. As pair interactions in double wells form a fundamental building block for many-body systems in periodic potentials, our results have implications for a wide range of problems.

id: 0707.0996
title: Non-classical effects in wave packet dynamics
authors: C. Sudheesh
comments: PhD Thesis, IIT Madras, December 2005
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0996
abstract: Treating the ideal coherent state as a reference state, the effects due to departure from coherence of an initial wave packet propagating through a nonlinear medium, were examined, specifically in the context of non-classical effects such as revivals, fractional revivals, squeezing and higher-order squeezing during its temporal evolution. Further, these studies were extended to examine the role of quantum entanglement in bipartite systems. The dynamics of quantum expectation values were tracked carefully in various cases and the conditions under which a wave packet spreads chaotically, were investigated.

id: 0707.1011
title: Statistical Phases and Momentum Spacings for One-Dimensional Anyons
authors: Martin Greiter
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 064409 (2009) [5 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1011
abstract: Anyons and fractional statistics are by now well established in two-dimensional systems. In one dimension, fractional statistics has been established so far only through Haldane's fractional exclusion principle, but not via a fractional phase the wave function acquires as particles are interchanged. At first sight, the topology of the configuration space appears to preclude such phases in one dimension. Here we argue that the crossings of one-dimensional anyons are always unidirectional, which makes it possible to assign phases consistently and hence to introduce a statistical parameter theta. The fractional statistics then manifests itself in fractional spacings of the single-particle momenta of the anyons when periodic boundary conditions are imposed. These spacings are given by Delta p = 2 pi hbar/L (|theta|/pi+non-negative integer) for a system of length L. This condition is the analogue of the quantisation of relative angular momenta according to l_z=hbar(-theta/pi+2integer) for two-dimensional anyons.

id: 0707.1028
title: Minimal Length Uncertainty Relations and New Shape Invariant Models
authors: Donald Spector
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1028
abstract: This paper identifies a new class of shape invariant models. These models are based on extensions of conventional quantum mechanics that satisfy a string-motivated minimal length uncertainty relation. An important feature of our construction is the pairing of operators that are not adjoints of each other. The results in this paper thus show the broader applicability of shape invariance to exactly solvable systems.

id: 0707.1033
title: Continuously decoupling a Hadamard quantum gate from independent classes of errors
authors: F. F. Fanchini, J. E. M. Hornos, R. d. J. Napolitano
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032319 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1033
abstract: We consider protecting a Hadamard operation from independent dephasing, bit flipping, and dissipation. These environment-induced errors are represented by three uncorrelated reservoirs of thermalized bosons and we show that the protection is achievable through continuous dynamical decoupling. We find that, to decouple the Hadamard evolution from the environmental influence, we need a control field of higher frequency if the boson spectral density is super-ohmic than if it is ohmic. We also study the relevance of bit flipping and dissipation to the gate fidelity when it is protected from dephasing, showing how robust this partial protection is against these other perturbations. Finally, we calculate an efficient field arrangement capable of protecting simultaneously the gate operation from these three error classes.

id: 0707.1042
title: Grover's algorithm based multi-qubit secret sharing scheme
authors: Arti Chamoli, C. M. Bhandari
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1042
abstract: Some of the secret sharing schemes having unique quantum features like parallelism and entanglement are supposed to be relatively secure. Different schemes proposed by various researchers over the years have features which could be specific to the nature and need of a situation. Following Hsu's proposed scheme we propose a secret sharing scheme using Grover's search algorithm for a four qubit system with several marked states. Further, the scheme has been generalised to an n-qubit syatem.

id: 0707.1074
title: Quantum Dissipative Systems and Feedback Control Design by Interconnection
authors: Matthew R. James, John Gough
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1074
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to extend J.C. Willems' theory of dissipative systems to the quantum domain. This general theory, which combines perspectives from the quantum physics and control engineering communities, provides useful methods for analysis and design of dissipative quantum systems. We describe the interaction of the plant and a class of exosystems in general quantum feedback network terms. Our results include an infinitesimal characterization of the dissipation property, which generalizes the well-known Positive Real and Bounded Real Lemmas, and is used to study some properties of quantum dissipative systems. We also show how to formulate control design problems using quantum network models, which implements Willems' `control by interconnection' for open quantum systems. This control design formulation includes, for example, standard problems of stabilization, regulation, and robust control.

id: 0707.1097
title: The strong superadditivity conjecture holds for the quantum depolarizing channel in any dimension
authors: Grigori G. Amosov
comments: 3 pages
journal: Physical Review A 75 (2007) no. 6, P. 060304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1097
abstract: Given a quantum channel $\Phi $ in a Hilbert space $H$ put $\hat H_{\Phi}(\rho)=\min \limits_{\rho_{av}=\rho}\Sigma_{j=1}^{k}\pi_{j}S(\Phi (\rho_{j}))$, where $\rho_{av}=\Sigma_{j=1}^{k}\pi_{j}\rho_{j}$, the minimum is taken over all probability distributions $\pi =\{\pi_{j}\}$ and states $\rho_{j}$ in $H$, $S(\rho)=-Tr\rho\log\rho$ is the von Neumann entropy of a state $\rho$. The strong superadditivity conjecture states that $\hat H_{\Phi \otimes \Psi}(\rho)\ge \hat H_{\Phi}(Tr_{K}(\rho))+\hat H_{\Psi}(Tr_{H}(\rho))$ for two channels $\Phi $ and $\Psi $ in Hilbert spaces $H$ and $K$, respectively. We have proved the strong superadditivity conjecture for the quantum depolarizing channel in any dimensions.

id: 0707.1119
title: Globally controlled fault tolerant quantum computation
authors: J. Fitzsimons, J. Twamley
comments: 4 Pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1119
abstract: We describe a method to execute globally controlled quantum information processing which admits a fault tolerant quantum error correction scheme. Our scheme nominally uses three species of addressable two-level systems which are arranged in a one dimensional array in a specific periodic arrangement. We show that the scheme possesses a fault tolerant error threshold.

id: 0707.1136
title: On the power of quantum, one round, two prover interactive proof systems
authors: Alex Rapaport, Amnon Ta-Shma
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1136
abstract: We analyze quantum two prover one round interactive proof systems, in which noninteracting provers can share unlimited entanglement. The maximum acceptance probability is characterized as a superoperator norm. We get some partial results about the superoperator norm, and in particular we analyze the "rank one" case.

id: 0707.1164
title: Quantum coherences, K-way negativities and multipartite entanglement
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: 09 pages, revtex, new section added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042117 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1164
abstract: A characterization of N-partite states, based on K-way (K = 2 to N) negativities, is proposed. The K-way partial transpose with respect to a subsystem is defined so as to shift the focus to K-way coherences instead of K subsystems of the composite system. For an N-partite system the fraction of K-way negativity, contributing to global negativity, is obtained. The entanglement measures for a given state ${\rho}$ are identified as the partial K-way negativities of the corresponding canonical state.

id: 0707.1178
title: Characterization of EIT-based continuous variable quantum memories
authors: G. H¨¦tet, A. Peng, M. T. Johnsson, J. J. Hope, P. K. Lam
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1178
abstract: We present a quantum multi-modal treatment describing Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) as a mechanism for storing continuous variable quantum information in light fields. Taking into account the atomic noise and decoherences of realistic experiments, we model numerically the propagation, storage, and readout of signals contained in the sideband amplitude and phase quadratures of a light pulse. An analytical treatment of the effects predicted by this more sophisticated model is then presented. Finally, we use quantum information benchmarks to examine the properties of the EIT-based memory and show the parameters needed to operate beyond the quantum limit.

id: 0707.1199
title: Memory in a nonlocally damped oscillator
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Jacek Jurkowski
comments: minor corrections added; title changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1199
abstract: We analyze the new equation of motion for the damped oscillator. It differs from the standard one by a damping term which is nonlocal in time and hence it gives rise to a system with memory. Both classical and quantum analysis is performed. The characteristic feature of this nonlocal system is that it breaks local composition low for the classical Hamiltonian dynamics and the corresponding quantum propagator.

id: 0707.1211
title: Entanglement in bipartite generalized coherent states
authors: S. Sivakumar
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures; typos corrected and figures redrawn for better clarity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1211
abstract: Entanglement in a class of bipartite generalized coherent states is discussed. It is shown that a positive parameter can be associated with the bipartite generalized coherent states so that the states with equal value for the parameter are of equal entanglement. It is shown that the maximum possible entanglement of 1 bit is attained if the positive parameter equals $\sqrt{2}$. The result that the entanglement is one bit when the relative phase between the composing states is $\pi$ in bipartite coherent states is shown to be true for the class of bipartite generalized coherent states considered.

id: 0707.1221
title: Motional frequency shifts of trapped ions in the Lamb-Dicke regime
authors: I. Lizuain, J. G. Muga, J. Eschner
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 033808 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1221
abstract: First order Doppler effects are usually ignored in laser driven trapped ions when the recoil frequency is much smaller than the trapping frequency (Lamb-Dicke regime). This means that the central, carrier excitation band is supposed to be unaffected by vibronic transitions in which the vibrational number changes. While this is strictly true in the Lamb-Dicke limit (infinitely tight confinement), the vibronic transitions do play a role in the Lamb-Dicke regime. In this paper we quantify the asymptotic behaviour of their effect with respect to the Lamb-Dicke parameter. In particular, we give analytical expressions for the frequency shift, ``pulling'' or ``pushing'', produced in the carrier absorption band by the vibronic transitions both for Rabi and Ramsey schemes. This shift is shown to be independent of the initial vibrational state.

id: 0707.1227
title: Quantum Teleportation and Von Neumann Entropy
authors: You Hwan Ju, Eylee Jung, Mi-Ra Hwang, D. K. Park, Hungsoo Kim, Min-Soo Kim, Jin-Woo Son, Sahng-Kyoon Yoo, S. Tamaryan
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1227
abstract: The single qubit quantum teleportation (sender and receiver are Alice and Bob respectively) is analyzed from the aspect of the quantum information theories. The various quantum entropies are computed at each stage, which ensures the emergence of the entangled states in the intermediate step. The mutual information $S(B:C)$ becomes non-zero before performing quantum measurement, which seems to be consistent to the original purpose of the quantum teleportation. It is shown that if the teleported state $|\psi>$ is near the computational basis, the quantum measurement in $C$-system is dominantly responsible for the joint entropy $S(A,C)$ at the final stage. If, however, $|\psi>$ is far from the computational basis, this dominant responsibility is moved into the quantum measurement of system $A$. A possible extension of our results are briefly discussed.

id: 0707.1257
title: On the solution of trivalent decision problems by quantum state identification
authors: Karl Svozil, Josef Tkadlec
comments: 
journal: Natural Computing 8(3), 539-546 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1257
abstract: The trivalent functions of a trit can be grouped into equipartitions of three elements. We discuss the separation of the corresponding functional classes by quantum state identifications.

id: 0707.1260
title: An efficient quantum algorithm for the hidden subgroup problem in nil-2 groups
authors: G¨¢bor Ivanyos, Luc Sanselme, Miklos Santha
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1260
abstract: In this paper we extend the algorithm for extraspecial groups in \cite{iss07}, and show that the hidden subgroup problem in nil-2 groups, that is in groups of nilpotency class at most 2, can be solved efficiently by a quantum procedure. The algorithm presented here has several additional features. It contains a powerful classical reduction for the hidden subgroup problem in nilpotent groups of constant nilpotency class to the specific case where the group is a $p$-group of exponent $p$ and the subgroup is either trivial or cyclic. This reduction might also be useful for dealing with groups of higher nilpotency class. The quantum part of the algorithm uses well chosen group actions based on some automorphisms of nil-2 groups. The right choice of the actions requires the solution of a system of quadratic and linear equations. The existence of a solution is guaranteed by the Chevalley-Warning theorem, and we prove that it can also be found efficiently.

id: 0707.1305
title: Correlation in single-photon experiments
authors: Sandor Varro
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Fortschritte der Physics (Progress of Physics) Vol. 56, No. 1, 91-102 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1305
abstract: Correlations of detection events in photodetectors placed at the opposite sides of a beam splitter are studied in the frame of classical probability theory. It is assumed that there is always one photon present during one elementary measurement (one measurement act). Due to the conservation of energy, thereis a strict anticorrelation in detections in one elementary experiment, because the photon cannot excite both of the detectors at the same time. It is explicitely shown in several examples that the bunching or anti-bunching of the counts in serieses of elementary single-photon experiments are governed by the statistical properties of grouping the sequences of the elementary measurements.

id: 0707.1314
title: Fluorescence during Doppler cooling of a single trapped atom
authors: J. H. Wesenberg, R. J. Epstein, D. Leibfried, R. B. Blakestad, J. Britton, J. P. Home, W. M. Itano, J. D. Jost, E. Knill, C. Langer, R. Ozeri, S. Seidelin, D. J. Wineland
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures, Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 76, 053416 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1314
abstract: We investigate the temporal dynamics of Doppler cooling of an initially hot single trapped atom in the weak binding regime using a semiclassical approach. We develop an analytical model for the simplest case of a single vibrational mode for a harmonic trap, and show how this model allows us to estimate the initial energy of the trapped particle by observing the fluorescence rate during the cooling process. The experimental implementation of this temperature measurement provides a way to measure atom heating rates by observing the temperature rise in the absence of cooling. This method is technically relatively simple compared to conventional sideband detection methods, and the two methods are in reasonable agreement. We also discuss the effects of RF micromotion, relevant for a trapped atomic ion, and the effect of coupling between the vibrational modes on the cooling dynamics.

id: 0707.1331
title: Quantum Chaos, Delocalization, and Entanglement in Disordered Heisenberg Models
authors: Winton G. Brown, Lea F. Santos, David J. Starling, Lorenza Viola
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures, revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 021106 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1331
abstract: We investigate disordered one- and two-dimensional Heisenberg spin lattices across a transition from integrability to quantum chaos from both a statistical many-body and a quantum-information perspective. Special emphasis is devoted to quantitatively exploring the interplay between eigenvector statistics, delocalization, and entanglement in the presence of nontrivial symmetries. The implications of basis dependence of state delocalization indicators (such as the number of principal components) is addressed, and a measure of {\em relative delocalization} is proposed in order to robustly characterize the onset of chaos in the presence of disorder. Both standard multipartite and {\em generalized entanglement} are investigated in a wide parameter regime by using a family of spin- and fermion- purity measures, their dependence on delocalization and on energy spectrum statistics being examined. A distinctive {\em correlation between entanglement, delocalization, and integrability} is uncovered, which may be generic to systems described by the two-body random ensemble and may point to a new diagnostic tool for quantum chaos. Analytical estimates for typical entanglement of random pure states restricted to a proper subspace of the full Hilbert space are also established and compared with random matrix theory predictions.

id: 0707.1333
title: Disproof of Bell's Theorem: Further Consolidations
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 11 pages; This is a followup to arXiv:quant-ph/0703179; see also arXiv:quant-ph/0703244
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1333
abstract: The failure of Bell's theorem for Clifford algebra valued local variables is further consolidated by proving that the conditions of remote parameter independence and remote outcome independence are duly respected within the recently constructed exact, local realistic model for the EPR-Bohm correlations. Since the conjunction of these two conditions is equivalent to the locality condition of Bell, this provides an independent geometric proof of the local causality of the model, at the level of microstates. In addition to local causality, the model respects at least seven other conceptual and operational requirements, arising either from the predictions of quantum mechanics or the premises of Bell's theorem, including the Malus's law for sequential spin measurements. Since the agreement between the predictions of the model and those of quantum mechanics is quantitatively precise in all respects, the ensemble interpretation of the entangled singlet state becomes amenable.

id: 0707.1341
title: Coherence of an optically illuminated single nuclear spin qubit
authors: Liang Jiang, M. V. Gurudev Dutt, Emre Togan, Lily Childress, Paola Cappellaro, Jacob M. Taylor, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 073001 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1341
abstract: We investigate the coherence properties of individual nuclear spin quantum bits in diamond [Dutt et al., Science, 316, 1312 (2007)] when a proximal electronic spin associated with a nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center is being interrogated by optical radiation. The resulting nuclear spin dynamics are governed by time-dependent hyperfine interaction associated with rapid electronic transitions, which can be described by a spin-fluctuator model. We show that due to a process analogous to motional averaging in nuclear magnetic resonance, the nuclear spin coherence can be preserved after a large number of optical excitation cycles. Our theoretical analysis is in good agreement with experimental results. It indicates a novel approach that could potentially isolate the nuclear spin system completely from the electronic environment.

id: 0707.1410
title: The quadratic speedup in Grover's search algorithm from the entanglement perspective
authors: Pranaw Rungta
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1410
abstract: We analyze the role played by entanglement in the dynamical evolution of Grover's search algorithm in the space of qubits. We show that the algorithm can be equivalently described as an iterative change of the entanglement between the qubits, which governs the evolution of the initial state towards the target state, and where the entanglement can be quantified in terms a single entanglement monotone. We also provide a necessary and sufficient condition for the quadratic speedup, which illustrates how the change in the bipartite entanglement of the state after each iteration determines the corresponding increase in the probability of finding the target state. This allows us to reestablish from the entanglement perspective that Grover's search algorithm is the only optimal pure state search algorithm.

id: 0707.1457
title: Visibility Fringe Reduction Due to Noise-Induced Effects: Microscopic Approach to Interference Experiments
authors: Paula I. Villar, Fernando C. Lombardo
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures. Version to appear in Mod. Phys. B
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.B21:4659-4676,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1457
abstract: Decoherence is the main process behind the quantum to classical transition. It is a purely quantum mechanical effect by which the system looses its ability to exhibit coherent behavior. The recent experimental observation of diffraction and interference patterns for large molecules raises some interesting questions. In this context, we identify possible agents of decoherence to take into account when modeling these experiments and study theirs visible (or not) effects on the interference pattern. Thereby, we present an analysis of matter wave interferometry in the presence of a dynamic quantum environment and study how much the visibility fringe is reduced and in which timescale the decoherence effects destroy the interference of massive objects. Finally, we apply our results to the experimental data reported on fullerenes and cold neutrons.

id: 0707.1497
title: Polaritonic characteristics of insulator and superfluid phases in a coupled-cavity array
authors: E. K. Irish, C. D. Ogden, M. S. Kim
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures, 1 table, REVTeX 4; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 033801 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1497
abstract: Recent studies of quantum phase transitions in coupled atom-cavity arrays have focused on the similarities between such systems and the Bose-Hubbard model. However, the bipartite nature of the atom-cavity systems that make up the array introduces some differences. In order to examine the unique features of the coupled-cavity system, the behavior of a simple two-site model is studied over a wide range of parameters. Four regions are identified, in which the ground state of the system may be classified as either a polaritonic insulator, a photonic superfluid, an atomic insulator, or a polaritonic superfluid.

id: 0707.1511
title: Distilling entanglement from cascades with partial "Which Path" ambiguity
authors: E. A. Meirom, N. H. Lindner, Y. Berlatzky, E. Poem, N. Akopian, J. E. Avron, D. Gershoni
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062310 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1511
abstract: We develop a framework to calculate the density matrix of a pair of photons emitted in a decay cascade with partial "which path" ambiguity. We describe an appropriate entanglement distillation scheme which works also for certain random cascades. The qualitative features of the distilled entanglement are presented in a two dimensional "phase diagram". The theory is applied to the quantum tomography of the decay cascade of a biexciton in a semiconductor quantum dot. Agreement with experiment is obtained.

id: 0707.1521
title: Reexamination of entanglement of superpositions
authors: Gilad Gour
comments: 5 pages, Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052320 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1521
abstract: We find tight lower and upper bounds on the entanglement of a superposition of two bipartite states in terms of the entanglement of the two states constituting the superposition. Our upper bound is dramatically tighter than the one presented in Phys. Rev. Lett 97, 100502 (2006) and our lower bound can be used to provide lower bounds on different measures of entanglement such as the entanglement of formation and the entanglement of subspaces. We also find that in the case in which the two states are one-sided orthogonal, the entanglement of the superposition state can be expressed explicitly in terms of the entanglement of the two states in the superposition.

id: 0707.1527
title: Programming Telepathy: Implementing Quantum Non-Locality Games
authors: Anya Tafliovich, Eric C.R. Hehner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Programming Languages (cs.PL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1527
abstract: Quantum pseudo-telepathy is an intriguing phenomenon which results from the application of quantum information theory to communication complexity. To demonstrate this phenomenon researchers in the field of quantum communication complexity devised a number of quantum non-locality games. The setting of these games is as follows: the players are separated so that no communication between them is possible and are given a certain computational task. When the players have access to a quantum resource called entanglement, they can accomplish the task: something that is impossible in a classical setting. To an observer who is unfamiliar with the laws of quantum mechanics it seems that the players employ some sort of telepathy; that is, they somehow exchange information without sharing a communication channel. This paper provides a formal framework for specifying, implementing, and analysing quantum non-locality games.

id: 0707.1528
title: Simplified motional heating rate measurements of trapped ions
authors: R. J. Epstein, S. Seidelin, D. Leibfried, J. H. Wesenberg, J. J. Bollinger, J. M. Amini, R. B. Blakestad, J. Britton, J. P. Home, W. M. Itano, J. D. Jost, E. Knill, C. Langer, R. Ozeri, N. Shiga, D. J. Wineland
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 033411 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1528
abstract: We have measured motional heating rates of trapped atomic ions, a factor that can influence multi-ion quantum logic gate fidelities. Two simplified techniques were developed for this purpose: one relies on Raman sideband detection implemented with a single laser source, while the second is even simpler and is based on time-resolved fluorescence detection during Doppler recooling. We applied these methods to determine heating rates in a microfrabricated surface-electrode trap made of gold on fused quartz, which traps ions 40 microns above its surface. Heating rates obtained from the two techniques were found to be in reasonable agreement. In addition, the trap gives rise to a heating rate of 300 plus or minus 30 per second for a motional frequency of 5.25 MHz, substantially below the trend observed in other traps.

id: 0707.1565
title: Quantum state of an injected TROPO above threshold : purity, Glauber function and photon number distribution
authors: Tania Golubeva, Yuri Golubev, Claude Fabre, Nicolas Treps
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1565
abstract: In this paper we investigate several properties of the full signal-idler-pump mode quantum state generated by a triply resonant non-degenerate Optical Parametric Oscillator operating above threshold, with an injected wave on the signal and idler modes in order to lock the phase diffusion process. We determine and discuss the spectral purity of this state, which turns out not to be always equal to 1 even though the three interacting modes have been taken into account at the quantum level. We have seen that the purity is essentially dependent on the weak intensity of the injected light and on an asymmetry of the synchronization. We then derive the expression of its total three-mode Glauber P-function, and calculate the joint signal-idler photon number probability distribution and investigate their dependence on the injection.

id: 0707.1572
title: Switched Control of Electron Nuclear Spin Systems
authors: Navin Khaneja
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1572
abstract: In this article, we study control of electron-nuclear spin dynamics at magnetic field strengths where the Larmor frequency of the nucleus is comparable to the hyperfine coupling strength. The quantization axis for the nuclear spin differs from the static B_0 field direction and depends on the state of the electron spin. The quantization axis can be switched by flipping the state of electron spin, allowing for universal control on nuclear spin states. We show that by performing a sequence of flips (each followed by a suitable delay), we can perform any desired rotation on the nuclear spins, which can also be conditioned on the state of the electron spin. These operations, combined with electron spin rotations can be used to synthesize any unitary transformation on the coupled electron-nuclear spin system. We discuss how these methods can be used for design of experiments for transfer of polarization from the electron to the nuclear spins.

id: 0707.1575
title: Entanglement of a class of mixed two - qutrit states
authors: L. Derkacz, L. Jakobczyk
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1575
abstract: We compute the measure of entanglement for some classes of states belonging to the simplex of Bell - diagonal states of two qutrits.

id: 0707.1578
title: Entangled multi-qubit states without higher-tangle
authors: Heng Fan, Yong-Cheng Ou, Vwani Roychowdhury
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1578
abstract: We analyze mixed multi-qubit states composed of a W class state and a product state with all qubit in |0>. We find the optimal pure state decomposition and convex roofs for higher-tangle with bipartite partition between one qubit and the rest qubits for those mixed states. The optimality of the decomposition is ensured by the Coffman-Kundu-Wootters (CKW) inequality which describes the monogamy of quantum entanglement. The generalized monogamy inequality is found to be true for W class states with arbitrary partitions between one qubit and multi-qubit.

id: 0707.1623
title: Derivation of the Quantum Probability Rule without the Frequency Operator
authors: Sumio Wada
comments: 12 pages
journal: J.Phys.Soc.Jpn, Vol.76,094004(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1623
abstract: We present an alternative frequencists' proof of the quantum probability rule which does not make use of the frequency operator, with expectation that this can circumvent the recent criticism against the previous proofs which use it. We also argue that avoiding the frequency operator is not only for technical merits for doing so but is closely related to what quantum mechanics is all about from the viewpoint of many-world interpretation.

id: 0707.1629
title: Storing quantum states in bosonic dissipative networks
authors: M. A. de Ponte, S. S. Mizrahi, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1629
abstract: Considering a network of dissipative quantum harmonic oscillators we deduce and analyze the optimum topologies which are able to store, for the largest period of time, a quantum superposition previously prepared in one of the network oscillators. The storage of the superposition is made dynamically, in that the state to be protected evolves through the network before being retrieved back in the oscillator where it was prepared. The decoherence time during the dynamic storage process is computed and we demonstrate that it is proportional to the number of oscillators in the network for a particular regime of parameters.

id: 0707.1634
title: Optimal generation of entanglement under local control
authors: Raffaele Romano, Alessio Del Fabbro
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 044302 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1634
abstract: We study the optimal generation of entanglement between two qubits subject to local unitary control. With the only assumptions of linear control and unitary dynamics, by means of a numerical protocol based on the variational approach (Pontryagin's Minimum Principle), we evaluate the optimal control strategy leading to the maximal achievable entanglement in an arbitrary interaction time, taking into account the energy cost associated to the controls. In our model we can arbitrarily choose the relative weight between a large entanglement and a small energy cost.

id: 0707.1645
title: Decoherence in a Two Slit Diffraction Experiment with Massive Particles
authors: Paula I. Villar, Fernando C. Lombardo
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.67:012041,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1645
abstract: Matter-wave interferometry has been largely studied in the last few years. Usually, the main problem in the analysis of the diffraction experiments is to establish the causes for the loss of coherence observed in the interference pattern. In this work, we use different type of environmental couplings to model a two slit diffraction experiment with massive particles. For each model, we study the effects of decoherence on the interference pattern and define a visibility function that measures the loss of contrast of the interference fringes on a distant screen. Finally, we apply our results to the experimental reported data on massive particles $C_{70}$.

id: 0707.1653
title: Dynamical instability in kicked Bose-Einstein condensates: Bogoliubov resonances
authors: J. Reslen, C.E. Creffield, T.S. Monteiro
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1653
abstract: Bose-Einstein condensates subject to short pulses (`kicks') from standing waves of light represent a nonlinear analogue of the well-known chaos paradigm, the quantum kicked rotor. Previous studies of the onset of dynamical instability (ie exponential proliferation of non-condensate particles) suggested that the transition to instability might be associated with a transition to chaos. Here we conclude instead that instability is due to resonant driving of Bogoliubov modes. We investigate the excitation of Bogoliubov modes for both the quantum kicked rotor (QKR) and a variant, the double kicked rotor (QKR-2). We present an analytical model, valid in the limit of weak impulses which correctly gives the scaling properties of the resonances and yields good agreement with mean-field numerics.

id: 0707.1722
title: Multiplicativity of the maximal output 2-norm for depolarized Werner-Holevo channels
authors: Spyridon Michalakis
comments: 3 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys., 48, Issue 12 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1722
abstract: We study the multiplicativity of the output 2-norm for depolarized Werner-Holevo channels and show that multiplicativity holds for a product of two identical channels in this class. Moreover, it shown that the depolarized Werner-Holevo channels do not satisfy the entrywise positivity condition introduced by C. King and M.B. Ruskai, which suggests that the main result is non-trivial.

id: 0707.1724
title: Strong dispersive coupling of a high finesse cavity to a micromechanical membrane
authors: J. D. Thompson, B. M. Zwickl, A. M. Jayich, Florian Marquardt, S. M. Girvin, J. G. E. Harris
comments: 25 pages (including supplementary material), 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1724
abstract: Macroscopic mechanical objects and electromagnetic degrees of freedom couple to each other via radiation pressure. Optomechanical systems with sufficiently strong coupling are predicted to exhibit quantum effects and are a topic of considerable interest. Devices reaching this regime would offer new types of control of the quantum state of both light and matter and would provide a new arena in which to explore the boundary between quantum and classical physics. Experiments to date have achieved sufficient optomechanical coupling to laser-cool mechanical devices but have not yet reached the quantum regime. The outstanding technical challenge in this field is integrating sensitive micromechanical elements (which must be small, light, and flexible) into high finesse cavities (which are typically much more rigid and massive) without compromising the mechanical or optical properties of either. A second, and more fundamental, challenge is to read out the mechanical element's quantum state: displacement measurements (no matter how sensitive) cannot determine the energy eigenstate of an oscillator, and measurements which couple to quantities other than displacement have been difficult to realize. Here we present a novel optomechanical system which seems to resolve both these challenges. We demonstrate a cavity which is detuned by the motion of a thin dielectric membrane placed between two macroscopic, rigid, high-finesse mirrors. This approach segregates optical and mechanical functionality to physically distinct structures and avoids compromising either. It also allows for direct measurement of the square of the membrane's displacement, and thus in principle the membrane's energy eigenstate. We estimate it should be practical to use this scheme to observe quantum jumps of a mechanical system.

id: 0707.1729
title: Entanglement-Resistant Two-Prover Interactive Proof Systems and Non-Adaptive Private Information Retrieval Systems
authors: Richard Cleve, Dmitry Gavinsky, Rahul Jain
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1729
abstract: We show that, for any language in NP, there is an entanglement-resistant constant-bit two-prover interactive proof system with a constant completeness vs. soundness gap. The previously proposed classical two-prover constant-bit interactive proof systems are known not to be entanglement-resistant. This is currently the strongest expressive power of any known constant-bit answer multi-prover interactive proof system that achieves a constant gap. Our result is based on an "oracularizing" property of certain private information retrieval systems, which may be of independent interest.

id: 0707.1780
title: A classification of entanglement in three-qubit systems
authors: Carlos Sab¨ªn, Guillermo Garc¨ªa-Alcaine
comments: Shortened version. Accepted in EPJD
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 48, 435-442 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1780
abstract: We present a classification of three-qubit states based in their three-qubit and reduced two-qubit entanglements. For pure states these criteria can be easily implemented, and the different types can be related with sets of equivalence classes under Local Unitary operations. For mixed states characterization of full tripartite entanglement is not yet solved in general; some partial results will be presented here.

id: 0707.1795
title: Stochastic analysis and simulation of spin star systems
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 76, 016701 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1795
abstract: We discuss two methods of an exact stochastic representation of the non-Markovian quantum dynamics of open systems. The first method employs a pair of stochastic product vectors in the total system's state space, while the second method uses a pair of state vectors in the open system's state space and a random operator acting on the state space of the environment. Both techniques lead to an exact solution of the von Neumann equation for the density matrix of the total system. Employing a spin star model describing a central spin coupled to bath of surrounding spins, we perform Monte Carlo simulations for both variants of the stochastic dynamics. In addition, we derive analytical expression for the expectation values of the stochastic dynamics to obtain the exact solution for the density matrix of the central spin.

id: 0707.1814
title: Interference of multi-mode photon echoes generated in spatially separated solid-state atomic ensembles
authors: M. U. Staudt, M. Afzelius, H. de Riedmatten, S. R. Hastings-Simon, C. Simon, R. Ricken, H. Suche, W. Sohler, N. Gisin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 173602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1814
abstract: High-visibility interference of photon echoes generated in spatially separated solid-state atomic ensembles is demonstrated. The solid state ensembles were LiNbO$_3$ waveguides doped with Erbium ions absorbing at 1.53 $\mu$m. Bright coherent states of light in several temporal modes (up to 3) are stored and retrieved from the optical memories using two-pulse photon echoes. The stored and retrieved optical pulses, when combined at a beam splitter, show almost perfect interference, which demonstrates both phase preserving storage and indistinguishability of photon echoes from separate optical memories. By measuring interference fringes for different storage times, we also show explicitly that the visibility is not limited by atomic decoherence. These results are relevant for novel quantum repeaters architectures with photon echo based multimode quantum memories.

id: 0707.1819
title: One-way quantum computation via manipulation of polarization and momentum qubits in two-photon cluster states
authors: Giuseppe Vallone, Enrico Pomarico, Francesco De Martini, Paolo Mataloni
comments: RevTex4, 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1819
abstract: Four-qubit cluster states of two photons entangled in polarization and linear momentum have been used to realize a complete set of single qubit rotations and the C-NOT gate for equatorial qubits with high values of fidelity. By the computational equivalence of the two degrees of freedom our result demonstrate the suitability of two photon cluster states for rapid and efficient one-way quantum computing.

id: 0707.1829
title: Dirac equation: Representation independence and tensor transformation
authors: Mayeul Arminjon, Frank Reifler
comments: 28 pages, standard LaTeX. v3: matches version accepted in the Brazilian Journal of Physics: minor wording improvements, refs updated. v2: Intro and Conclusion improved (novelty more emphasized). Uniqueness and positive definiteness extended to any admissible affine coordinates. 10 new refs
journal: Braz.J.Phys.38:248-258,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1829
abstract: We define and study the probability current and the Hamiltonian operator for a fully general set of Dirac matrices in a flat spacetime with affine coordinates, by using the Bargmann-Pauli hermitizing matrix. We find that with some weak conditions on the affine coordinates, the current, as well as the spectrum of the Dirac Hamiltonian, thus all of quantum mechanics, are independent of that set. These results allow us to show that the tensor Dirac theory, which transforms the wave function as a spacetime vector and the set of Dirac matrices as a third-order affine tensor, is physically equivalent to the genuine Dirac theory, based on the spinor transformation. The tensor Dirac equation extends immediately to general coordinate systems, thus to non-inertial (e.g. rotating) coordinate systems.

id: 0707.1883
title: Quantum Optimal Control Theory
authors: J. Werschnik, E.K.U. Gross
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1883
abstract: The control of quantum dynamics via specially tailored laser pulses is a long-standing goal in physics and chemistry. Partly, this dream has come true, as sophisticated pulse shaping experiments allow to coherently control product ratios of chemical reactions. The theoretical design of the laser pulse to transfer an initial state to a given final state can be achieved with the help of quantum optimal control theory (QOCT). This tutorial provides an introduction to QOCT. It shows how the control equations defining such an optimal pulse follow from the variation of a properly defined functional. We explain the most successful schemes to solve these control equations and show how to incorporate additional constraints in the pulse design. The algorithms are then applied to simple quantum systems and the obtained pulses are analyzed. Besides the traditional final-time control methods, the tutorial also presents an algorithm and an example to handle time-dependent control targets.

id: 0707.1887
title: The Hahn polynomials in the nonrelativistic and relativistic Coulomb problems
authors: Sergei K. Suslov, Benjamin Trey
comments: 53 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1887
abstract: We derive closed formulas for mean values of all powers of r in nonrelativistic and relativistic Coulomb problems in terms of the Hahn and Chebyshev polynomials of a discrete variable. A short review on special functions and solution of the Coulomb problems in quantum mechanics is given.

id: 0707.1894
title: Polynomial-time algorithm for simulation of weakly interacting quantum spin systems
authors: Sergey Bravyi, David DiVincenzo, Daniel Loss
comments: 27 pages
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 284, pp. 481-507 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1894
abstract: We describe an algorithm that computes the ground state energy and correlation functions for 2-local Hamiltonians in which interactions between qubits are weak compared to single-qubit terms. The running time of the algorithm is polynomial in the number of qubits and the required precision. Specifically, we consider Hamiltonians of the form $H=H_0+\epsilon V$, where H_0 describes non-interacting qubits, V is a perturbation that involves arbitrary two-qubit interactions on a graph of bounded degree, and $\epsilon$ is a small parameter. The algorithm works if $|\epsilon|$ is below a certain threshold value that depends only upon the spectral gap of H_0, the maximal degree of the graph, and the maximal norm of the two-qubit interactions. The main technical ingredient of the algorithm is a generalized Kirkwood-Thomas ansatz for the ground state. The parameters of the ansatz are computed using perturbative expansions in powers of $\epsilon$. Our algorithm is closely related to the coupled cluster method used in quantum chemistry.

id: 0707.1935
title: On the distillation and purification of phase-diffused squeezed states
authors: B. Hage, A. Franzen, J. DiGuglielmo, P. Marek, J. Fiur¨¢?ek, R. Schnabel
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 9 (2007) 227
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1935
abstract: Recently it was discovered that non-Gaussian decoherence processes, such as phase-diffusion, can be counteracted by purification and distillation protocols that are solely built on Gaussian operations. Here, we make use of this experimentally highly accessible regime, and provide a detailed experimental and theoretical analysis of several strategies for purification/distillation protocols on phase-diffused squeezed states. Our results provide valuable information for the optimization of such protocols with respect to the choice of the trigger quadrature, the trigger threshold value and the probability of generating a distilled state.

id: 0707.1947
title: Conditions for entanglement transformation between a class of multipartite pure states with generalized Schmidt decompositions
authors: Yu Xin, Runyao Duan
comments: 3 pages (Revetex 4), no figures. A brief note on entanglement transformation. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys.Rev.A 76, 044301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1947
abstract: In this note we generalize Nielsen's marjoization criterion for the convertibility of bipartite pure states [Phys. Rev. Lett \textbf{83}, 436(1999)] to a special class of multipartite pure states which have generalized Schmidt decompositions.

id: 0707.1969
title: Doppler cooling of calcium ions using a dipole-forbidden transition
authors: R. J. Hendricks, J. L. S?rensen, C. Champenois, M. Knoop, M. Drewsen
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, minor changes to commentary and references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1969
abstract: Doppler cooling of calcium ions has been experimentally demonstrated using the S1/2 to D5/2 dipole-forbidden transition. Scattering forces and fluorescence levels a factor of 5 smaller than for usual Doppler cooling on the dipole allowed S1/2 to P1/2 transition have been achieved. Since the light scattered from the ions can be monitored at (violet) wavelengths that are very different from the excitation wavelengths, single ions can be detected with an essentially zero background level. This, as well as other features of the cooling scheme, can be extremely valuable for ion trap based quantum information processing.

id: 0707.1971
title: Observation of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency for a Squeezed Vacuum with the Time Domain Method
authors: M. Arikawa, K. Honda, D. Akamatsu, Y. Yokoi, K. Akiba, S. Nagatsuka, A. Furusawa, M. Kozuma
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 15, Issue 19, pp. 11849-11854 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1971
abstract: A probe light in a squeezed vacuum state was injected into cold 87 $Rb atoms with an intense control light in a coherent state. A sub-MHz window was created due to electromagnetically induced transparency, and the incident squeezed vacuum could pass through the cold atoms without optical loss, as was successfully monitored using a time-domain homodyne method.

id: 0707.1985
title: Intensity correlations, entanglement properties and ghost imaging in multimode thermal-seeded parametric downconversion: Theory
authors: Ivo P. Degiovanni, Maria Bondani, Emiliano Puddu, Alessandra Andreoni, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 062309 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1985
abstract: We address parametric-downconversion seeded by multimode pseudo-thermal fields. We show that this process may be used to generate multimode pairwise correlated states with entanglement properties that can be tuned by controlling the seed intensities. Multimode pseudo-thermal fields seeded parametric-downconversion represents a novel source of correlated states, which allows one to explore the classical-quantum transition in pairwise correlations and to realize ghost imaging and ghost diffraction in regimes not yet explored by experiments.

id: 0707.2020
title: Error exponents in hypothesis testing for correlated states on a spin chain
authors: Fumio Hiai, Milan Mosonyi, Tomohiro Ogawa
comments: 26 pages; discussions extended, 2 figures added
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49 032112 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2020
abstract: We study various error exponents in a binary hypothesis testing problem and extend recent results on the quantum Chernoff and Hoeffding bounds for product states to a setting when both the null-hypothesis and the counter-hypothesis can be correlated states on a spin chain. Our results apply to states satisfying a certain factorization property; typical examples are the global Gibbs states of translation-invariant finite-range interactions as well as certain finitely correlated states.

id: 0707.2035
title: Effect of Minimal lengths on Electron Magnetism
authors: Khireddine Nouicer
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 No 9 (2 March 2007) 2125-2135
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2035
abstract: We study the magnetic properties of electron in a constant magnetic field and confined by a isotropic two dimensional harmonic oscillator on a space where the coordinates and momenta operators obey generalized commutation relations leading to the appearance of a minimal length. Using the momentum space representation we determine exactly the energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions. We prove that the usual degeneracy of Landau levels is removed by the presence of the minimal length in the limits of weak and strong magnetic field.The thermodynamical properties of the system, at high temperature, are also investigated showing a new magnetic behavior in terms of the minimal length.

id: 0707.2037
title: Single photon absorption by a single quantum emitter
authors: D. Pinotsi, A. Imamoglu
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 9, 093603 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2037
abstract: We show that a three-level lambda quantum emitter with equal spontaneous emission rates on both optically active transitions can absorb an incident light field with a probability approaching unity, provided that the focused light profile matches that of the emitter dipole emission pattern. Even with realistic focusing geometries, our results could find applications in long-distance entanglement of spin qubits.

id: 0707.2038
title: Self-cooling of a movable mirror to the ground state using radiation pressure
authors: Aurelien Dantan, Claudiu Genes, David Vitali, Michel Pinard
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 011804 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2038
abstract: We show that one can cool a micro-mechanical oscillator to its quantum ground state using radiation pressure in an appropriately detuned cavity (self-cooling). From a simple theory based on Heisenberg-Langevin equations we find that optimal self-cooling occurs in the good cavity regime, when the cavity bandwidth is smaller than the mechanical frequency, but still larger than the effective mechanical damping. In this case the intracavity field and the vibrational mechanical mode coherently exchange their fluctuations. We also present dynamical calculations which show how to access the mirror final temperature from the fluctuations of the field reflected by the cavity.

id: 0707.2043
title: Coulomb potential in one dimension with minimal length: A path integral approach
authors: Khireddine Nouicer
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys 48, 112104 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2043
abstract: We solve the path integral in momentum space for a particle in the field of the Coulomb potential in one dimension in the framework of quantum mechanics with the minimal length given by $(\Delta X)_{0}=\hbar \sqrt{\beta}$, where $\beta$ is a small positive parameter. From the spectral decomposition of the fixed energy transition amplitude we obtain the exact energy eigenvalues and momentum space eigenfunctions.

id: 0707.2051
title: Quantum Auctions using Adiabatic Evolution: The Corrupt Auctioneer and Circuit Implementations
authors: Saikat Guha, Tad Hogg, David Fattal, Timothy Spiller, Raymond G. Beausoleil
comments: 26 pages, 10 figures, accepted for publication by International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI)
journal: Int. J. of Quantum Information, Vol. 6, No. 4, August 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2051
abstract: We examine a proposed auction using quantum states to represent bids and distributed adiabatic search to find the winner. When the auctioneer follows the protocol, the final measurement giving the outcome of the auction also destroys the bid states, thereby preserving privacy of losing bidders. We describe how a dishonest auctioneer could alter the protocol to violate this privacy guarantee, and present methods by which bidders can counter such attacks. We also suggest possible quantum circuit implementations of the auctions protocol, and quantum circuits to perpetrate and to counter attacks by a dishonest auctioneer.

id: 0707.2060
title: Decoherence of a Single Qubit from Quantum Anomaly
authors: W. F. Chen, R. Kobes, G. Kunstatter
comments: 8 pages, no figures, RevTex 4. We have shortened the paper and corrected some misprints
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2060
abstract: We show via an explicit example that quantum anomalies can lead to decoherence of a single quantum qubit through phase relaxation. The anomaly causes the Hamiltonian to develop a non-self-adjoint piece due to the non-invariance of the domain of the Hamiltonian under symmetry transformation. The resulting decoherence originates completely from the dynamics of the system itself and not, as usually considered, from interactions with the environment.

id: 0707.2071
title: Symmetric Informationally-Complete Quantum States as Analogues to Orthonormal Bases and Minimum-Uncertainty States
authors: D. M. Appleby, Hoan Bui Dang, Christopher A. Fuchs
comments: 4 pages, no figures, revtex. Version 2: new title, result in Section 1 strengthened, otherwise minor changes only
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2071
abstract: Since Renes et al. [J. Math. Phys. 45, 2171 (2004)], there has been much effort in the quantum information community to prove (or disprove) the existence of symmetric informationally complete (SIC) sets of quantum states in arbitrary finite dimension. This paper strengthens the urgency of this question by showing that if SIC-sets exist: 1) by a natural measure of orthonormality, they are as close to being an orthonormal basis for the space of density operators as possible, and 2) in prime dimensions, the standard construction for complete sets of mutually unbiased bases and Weyl-Heisenberg covariant SIC-sets are intimately related: The latter represent minimum uncertainty states for the former in the sense of Wootters and Sussman. Finally, we contribute to the question of existence by conjecturing a quadratic redundancy in the equations for Weyl-Heisenberg SIC-sets.

id: 0707.2096
title: Non-Markovian dynamics of a qubit coupled to an Ising spin bath
authors: Hari Krovi, Ognyan Oreshkov, Mikhail Ryazanov, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 17 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052117 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2096
abstract: We study the analytically solvable Ising model of a single qubit system coupled to a spin bath. The purpose of this study is to analyze and elucidate the performance of Markovian and non-Markovian master equations describing the dynamics of the system qubit, in comparison to the exact solution. We find that the time-convolutionless master equation performs particularly well up to fourth order in the system-bath coupling constant, in comparison to the Nakajima-Zwanzig master equation. Markovian approaches fare poorly due to the infinite bath correlation time in this model. A recently proposed post-Markovian master equation performs comparably to the time-convolutionless master equation for a properly chosen memory kernel, and outperforms all the approximation methods considered here at long times. Our findings shed light on the applicability of master equations to the description of reduced system dynamics in the presence of spin-baths.

id: 0707.2137
title: A classical model for a photodetector in the presence of electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations
authors: Trevor W. Marshall, Emilio Santos
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2137
abstract: The main argument against the reality of the electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations is that they do not activate photon detectors. In order to meet this objection we propose a classical model of a photodetector which, in the simple case of a light signal with constant intensity, gives a counting rate which is a non-linear function of the intensity. For sufficiently large signal intensity, the counting rate is proportional to the intensity, in agreement with the standard quantum results, but there is a dark rate when the signal intensity is low.

id: 0707.2155
title: The modular multiplication operator and the quantized bakers maps
authors: Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042330 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2155
abstract: The modular multiplication operator, a central subroutine in Shor's factoring algorithm, is shown to be a coherent superposition of two quantum bakers maps when the multiplier is 2. The classical limit of the maps being completely chaotic, it is shown that there exist perturbations that push the modular multiplication operator into regimes of generic quantum chaos with spectral fluctuations that are those of random matrices. For the initial state of relevance to Shor's algorithm we study fidelity decay due to phase and bit-flip errors in a single qubit and show exponential decay with shoulders at multiples or half-multiples of the order. A simple model is used to gain some understanding of this behavior.

id: 0707.2195
title: Generalized information theoretic measure to discern the quantumness of correlations
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 5 pages, no figures, Revtex, Minor changes; Accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 140502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2195
abstract: A novel measure, quantumness of correlations is introduced here for bipartite states, by incorporating the required measurement scheme crucial in defining any such quantity. Quantumness coincides with the previously proposed measures in special cases and it vanishes for separable states - a feature not captured by the measures proposed earlier. It is found that an optimal generalized measurement on one of the parts leaves the overall state in its closest separable form, which shares the same marginal for the other part, implying that quantumness is non-zero for all entangled bipartite states and it serves as an upper bound to the relative entropy of entanglement.

id: 0707.2215
title: Detection of massive multi-particle beams by two-particle ionization
authors: Pedro Sancho
comments: Accepted in PLA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2215
abstract: Multi-photon absorption is a well-known phenomenon. With atom lasers a similar process could take place for massive particles, the ionization of an atom or molecule by the successive interaction with various particles. This process would lead to multi-particle detection events for incident multi-particle beams. We show that two-particle detections would introduce a correction (proportional to the fourth power of the wavefunction modulus) to the usual one-particle detection probability (only proportional to the second power).

id: 0707.2223
title: "Disproof of Bell's Theorem" : more critics
authors: Philippe Grangier
comments: 2 pages, no figure - in v2 some remarks and one simple example are added - in v3 a more explicit conclusion is added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2223
abstract: In a series of recent papers (quant-ph/0703179, quant-ph/0703244, arXiv:0707.1333) Joy Christian claims to have "disproved Bell's theorem". Though his work is certainly intellectually stimulating, we argue below that his main claim is unwarranted.

id: 0707.2260
title: PEPS as unique ground states of local Hamiltonians
authors: David Perez-Garcia, Frank Verstraete, J. Ignacio Cirac, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 8 pages
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 8, 0650-0663 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2260
abstract: In this paper we consider projected entangled pair states (PEPS) on arbitrary lattices. We construct local parent Hamiltonians for each PEPS and isolate a condition under which the state is the unique ground state of the Hamiltonian. This condition, verified by generic PEPS and examples like the AKLT model, is an injective relation between the boundary and the bulk of any local region. While it implies the existence of an energy gap in the 1D case we will show that in certain cases (e.g., on a 2D hexagonal lattice) the parent Hamiltonian can be gapless with a critical ground state. To show this we invoke a mapping between classical and quantum models and prove that in these cases the injectivity relation between boundary and bulk solely depends on the lattice geometry.

id: 0707.2271
title: Entanglement magnification induced by local manipulations
authors: Raffaele Romano
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042315 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2271
abstract: We study the entanglement capability of the evolution of a pair of qubits evolving under unitary dynamics, when the local dynamical parameters cannot be modified during the time-evolution. Unlike the fast local control regime, we find that local and non-local contributions to the dynamics are strictly interconnected. Moreover, it is possible to strongly increase the entanglement capability by suitably initializing the characteristic energies of the two parties.

id: 0707.2278
title: Non-Markovian entanglement dynamics of noisy continuous variable quantum channels
authors: Jun-Hong An, Wei-Min Zhang
comments: The final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042127 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2278
abstract: We investigate the entanglement dynamics of continuous-variable quantum channels in terms of an entangled squeezed state of two cavity fields in a general non-Markovian environment. Using the Feynman-Vernon influence functional theory in the coherent-state representation, we derive an exact master equation with time-dependent coefficients reflecting the non-Markovian influence of the environment. The influence of environments with different spectral densities, e.g., Ohmic, sub-Ohmic, and super-Ohmic, is numerically studied. The non-Markovian process shows its remarkable influences on the entanglement dynamics due to the sensitive time-dependence of the dissipation and noise functions within the typical time scale of the environment. The Ohmic environment shows a weak dissipation-noise effect on the entanglement dynamics, while the sub-Ohmic and super-Ohmic environments induce much more severe noise. In particular, the memory of the system interacting with the environment contributes a strong decoherence effect to the entanglement dynamics in the super-Ohmic case.

id: 0707.2319
title: Classical mechanics as nonlinear quantum mechanics
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 7 pages, invited talk given at conference Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations 4, Vaxjo, Sweden, June 11-16, 2007
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.962:162-167,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2319
abstract: All measurable predictions of classical mechanics can be reproduced from a quantum-like interpretation of a nonlinear Schrodinger equation. The key observation leading to classical physics is the fact that a wave function that satisfies a linear equation is real and positive, rather than complex. This has profound implications on the role of the Bohmian classical-like interpretation of linear quantum mechanics, as well as on the possibilities to find a consistent interpretation of arbitrary nonlinear generalizations of quantum mechanics.

id: 0707.2325
title: SiPM used as fast Photon-Counting Module and for Multiphoton Detection
authors: P. Eraerds, M. Legre, A. Rochas, H. Zbinden, N. Gisin
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2325
abstract: We demonstrate fast counting and multiphoton detection abilities of a Silicon Photo Multiplier (SiPM). In fast counting mode we are able to detect two consecutive photons separated by only 2.3 ns corresponding to 430 MHz. The counting efficiency for small optical intensities at a wavelength of 532 nm was found to be around 8.3% with a dark count rate of 50 kHz at T=-7 degrees Celsius. Using the SiPM in multiphoton detection mode, we find a good signal discrimination for different numbers of simultaneous detected photons.

id: 0707.2398
title: Production of mesoscopic superpositions with ultracold atoms
authors: H. T. Ng
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 033617 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2398
abstract: We study mesoscopic superpositions of two component Bose-Einstein condensates. Atomic condensates, with long coherence times, are good systems in which to study such quantum phenomenon. We show that the mesoscopic superposition states can be rapidly generated in which the atoms dispersively interact with the photon field in a cavity. We also discuss the production of compass states which are generalized Schr\"{o}dinger cat states. The physical realization of mesoscopic states is important in studying decoherence and precision measurement.

id: 0707.2420
title: Noise-Induced Sampling of Alternative Hamiltonian Paths in Quantum Adiabatic Search
authors: Frank Gaitan
comments: 16 pages; 5 figures; 4 tables; to appear in Complexity
journal: Complexity vol. 14, 21 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2420
abstract: We numerically simulate the effects of noise-induced sampling of alternative Hamiltonian paths on the ability of quantum adiabatic search (QuAdS) to solve randomly generated instances of the NP-Complete problem N-bit Exact Cover 3. The noise-averaged median runtime is determined as the noise-power and number of bits N are varied, and power-law and exponential fits are made to the data. Noise is seen to slowdown QuAdS, though a downward shift in the scaling exponent is found for N > 12 over a range of noise-power values. We discuss whether this shift might be connected to arguments in the literature that suggest that altering the Hamiltonian path might benefit QuAdS performance.

id: 0707.2445
title: The Wigner-Fokker-Planck equation: Stationary states and large time behavior
authors: Anton Arnold, Irene M. Gamba, Maria Pia Gualdani, Christof Sparber
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to a crucial error in the proof of the main result. In a new manuscript (with two new authors) available at arXiv:1010.2791v1 this problem has been resolved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2445
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to a crucial error in the proof of the main result. In a new manuscript (with two new authors) available at arXiv:1010.2791v1 this problem has been resolved.

id: 0707.2473
title: Coulomb analogy for nonhermitian degeneracies near quantum phase transitions
authors: P. Cejnar, S. Heinze, M. Macek
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.99:100601,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2473
abstract: Degeneracies near the real axis in a complex-extended parameter space of a hermitian Hamiltonian are studied. We present a method to measure distributions of such degeneracies on the Riemann sheet of a selected level and apply it in classification of quantum phase transitions. The degeneracies are shown to behave similarly as complex zeros of a partition function.

id: 0707.2528
title: On the Feigel Effect: Extraction of Momentum from Vacuum?
authors: Ole Jakob Birkeland, Iver Brevik
comments: 26 pages LaTeX, one figure; discussion expanded, especially in section 6, references added. Version to appear in Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2528
abstract: The Green-function formalism for the electromagnetic field in a magnetoelectric (ME) medium is constructed, as a generalization of conventional Casimir theory. Zero temperature is assumed. It is shown how the formalism predicts electromagnetic momentum to be extracted from the vacuum field, just analogous to how energy is extracted in the Casimir case. The possibility of extracting momentum from vacuum was discussed recently by Feigel [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 020404 (2004)]. By contrast to Feigel's approach, we assume that the ME coupling occurs naturally, and is not produced by external strong fields. We also find the same effect qualitatively via another route, by considering one single electromagnetic mode.

id: 0707.2534
title: Renyi Entropy of the XY Spin Chain
authors: F. Franchini, A. R. Its, V. E. Korepin
comments: 28 Pages, 1 Figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 025302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2534
abstract: We consider the one-dimensional XY quantum spin chain in a transverse magnetic field. We are interested in the Renyi entropy of a block of L neighboring spins at zero temperature on an infinite lattice. The Renyi entropy is essentially the trace of some power $\alpha$ of the density matrix of the block. We calculate the asymptotic for $L \to \infty$ analytically in terms of Klein's elliptic $\lambda$ - function. We study the limiting entropy as a function of its parameter $\alpha$. We show that up to the trivial addition terms and multiplicative factors, and after a proper re-scaling, the Renyi entropy is an automorphic function with respect to a certain subgroup of the modular group; moreover, the subgroup depends on whether the magnetic field is above or below its critical value. Using this fact, we derive the transformation properties of the Renyi entropy under the map $\alpha \to \alpha^{-1}$ and show that the entropy becomes an elementary function of the magnetic field and the anisotropy when $\alpha$ is a integer power of 2, this includes the purity $tr \rho^2$. We also analyze the behavior of the entropy as $\alpha \to 0$ and $\infty$ and at the critical magnetic field and in the isotropic limit [XX model].

id: 0707.2539
title: Three-dimensional Monte Carlo simulations of the quantum linear Boltzmann equation
authors: Heinz-Peter Breuer, Bassano Vacchini
comments: 11 pages, revtex, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 76 (2007) 036706
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2539
abstract: Recently the general form of a translation-covariant quantum Boltzmann equation has been derived which describes the dynamics of a tracer particle in a quantum gas. We develop a stochastic wave function algorithm that enables full three-dimensional Monte Carlo simulations of this equation. The simulation method is used to study the approach to equilibrium for various scattering cross sections and to determine dynamical deviations from Gaussian statistics through an investigation of higher-order cumulants. Moreover, we examine the loss of coherence of superpositions of momentum eigenstates and determine the corresponding decoherence time scales to quantify the transition from quantum to classical behavior of the state of the test particle.

id: 0707.2579
title: Dynamical invariants and nonadiabatic geometric phases in open quantum systems
authors: M. S. Sarandy, E. I. Duzzioni, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. v2: minor corrections and subsection IV.D added. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052112 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2579
abstract: We introduce an operational framework to analyze non-adiabatic Abelian and non-Abelian, cyclic and non-cyclic, geometric phases in open quantum systems. In order to remove the adiabaticity condition, we generalize the theory of dynamical invariants to the context of open systems evolving under arbitrary convolutionless master equations. Geometric phases are then defined through the Jordan canonical form of the dynamical invariant associated with the super-operator that governs the master equation. As a by-product, we provide a sufficient condition for the robustness of the phase against a given decohering process. We illustrate our results by considering a two-level system in a Markovian interaction with the environment, where we show that the non-adiabatic geometric phase acquired by the system can be constructed in such a way that it is robust against both dephasing and spontaneous emission.

id: 0707.2593
title: Many lives in many worlds
authors: Max Tegmark
comments: Nature version with better graphics at this http URL Everett bio and other links at this http URL
journal: Nature 448:23,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2593
abstract: I argue that accepting quantum mechanics to be universally true means that you should also believe in parallel universes. I give my assessment of Everett's theory as it celebrates its 50th anniversary.

id: 0707.2611
title: Do all states undergo sudden death of entanglement at finite temperature?
authors: Asma Al-Qasimi, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2611
abstract: In this paper we consider the decay of quantum entanglement, quantified by the concurrence, of a pair of two-level systems each of which is interacting with a reservoir at finite temperature T. For a broad class of initially entangled states, we demonstrate that the system always becomes disentangled in a finite time i.e."entanglement sudden death" (ESD) occurs. This class includes all states which previously had been found to have long-lived entanglement in zero temperature reservoirs. Our general result is illustrated by an example.

id: 0707.2632
title: Coupled quantum electrodynamics in photonic crystal nanocavities
authors: Yun-Feng Xiao, Jie Gao, Xu-Bo Zou, James F. McMillan, Xiaodong Yang, You-Ling Chen, Zheng-Fu Han, Guang-Can Guo, Chee Wei Wong
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2632
abstract: We show that a scalable photonic crystal nanocavity array, in which single embedded quantum dots are coherently interacting, can perform as an universal single-operation quantum gate. In a passive system, the optical analogue of electromagnetically-induced-transparency is observed. The presence of a single two-level system in the array dramatically controls the spectral lineshapes. When each cavity couples with a two-level system, our scheme achieves two-qubit gate operations with high fidelity and low photon loss, even in the bad cavity limit and with non-ideal detuning and decoherence.

id: 0707.2633
title: Winterberg's conjectured breaking of the superluminal quantum correlations over large distances
authors: Eleftherios Gkioulekas
comments: 7 pages, submitted to Int. J. Theor. Phys
journal: E. Gkioulekas (2008): Int. J. Theor. Phys. 47, 1195-1205
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2633
abstract: We elaborate further on a hypothesis by Winterberg that turbulent fluctuations of the zero point field may lead to a breakdown of the superluminal quantum correlations over very large distances. A phenomenological model that was proposed by Winterberg to estimate the transition scale of the conjectured breakdown, does not lead to a distance that is large enough to be agreeable with recent experiments. We consider, but rule out, the possibility of a steeper slope in the energy spectrum of the turbulent fluctuations, due to compressibility, as a possible mechanism that may lead to an increased lower-bound for the transition scale. Instead, we argue that Winterberg overestimated the intensity of the ZPF turbulent fluctuations. We calculate a very generous corrected lower bound for the transition distance which is consistent with current experiments.

id: 0707.2710
title: Local cloning of genuine entangled states of three qubit
authors: Sujit K. Choudhary, Guruprasad Kar, Samir Kunkri, Ramij Rahaman, Anirban Roy
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physical Review A 76, 062312 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2710
abstract: We discuss (im)possibility of the exact cloning of orthogonal but genuinely entangled three qubit states aided with entangled ancila under local operation and classical communication. Whereas any two orthogonal GHZ states taken from the canonical GHZ basis, can be cloned with the help of a known GHZ state, surprisingly we find that no two W states can be cloned by using any known three qubit (possibly entangled) state as blank copy.

id: 0707.2734
title: Pulsating Casimir force
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. (Fast Track Communication)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor., v. 40, p.F841-F847, 2007.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2734
abstract: Based on the Lifshitz theory we show that the illumination of one (Si) plate in the three-layer systems Au--ethanol--Si, Si--ethanol--Si and $\alpha$-Al${}_2$O${}_3$--ethanol--Si with laser pulses can change the Casimir attraction to Casimir repulsion and vice versa. The proposed effect opens novel opportunities in nanotechnology to actuate the periodic movement in electro- and optomechanical micromachines based entirely on the zero-point oscillations of the quantum vacuum without the action of mechanical springs.

id: 0707.2736
title: Non-Hermitian Quantum Systems and Time-Optimal Quantum Evolution
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 069, 17 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2736
abstract: Recently, Bender et al. have considered the quantum brachistochrone problem for the non-Hermitian $\cal PT$-symmetric quantum system and have shown that the optimal time evolution required to transform a given initial state $|\psi_i\rangle$ into a specific final state $|\psi_f\rangle$ can be made arbitrarily small. Additionally, it has been shown that finding the shortest possible time requires only the solution of the two-dimensional problem for the quantum system governed by the effective Hamiltonian acting in the subspace spanned by $|\psi_i\rangle$ and $|\psi_f\rangle$. In this paper, we study a similar problem for the generic non-Hermitian Hamiltonian, focusing our attention on the geometric aspects of the problem.

id: 0707.2772
title: Bures metric over thermal state manifolds and quantum criticality
authors: Paolo Zanardi, Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Paolo Giorda
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, LaTeX problems fixed, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 062318 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2772
abstract: We analyze the Bures metric over the manifold of thermal density matrices for systems featuring a zero temperature quantum phase transition. We show that the quantum critical region can be characterized in terms of the temperature scaling behavior of the metric tensor itself. Furthermore, the analysis of the metric tensor when both temperature and an external field are varied, allows to complement the understanding of the phase diagram including cross-over regions which are not characterized by any singular behavior. These results provide a further extension of the scope of the metric approach to quantum criticality.

id: 0707.2773
title: The dynamical hole in ultrafast photoassociation: analysis of the compression effect
authors: Eliane Luc-Koenig, Fran?oise Masnou-Seeuws, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 31 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2773
abstract: Photoassociation of a pair of cooled atoms by excitation with a short chirped laser pulse creates a dynamical hole in the initial continuum wavefunction. This hole is manifested by a void in the pair wavefunction and a momentum kick. Photoassociation into loosely bound levels of the external well in Cs_2 0$_g^-$(6S + 6P$_{3/2}$ is considered as a case study. After the pulse, the free evolution of the ground triplet state wavepacket is analyzed. Due to a negative momentum kick, motion to small distances is manifested and a compression effect is pointed out, markedly increasing the density of atom pairs at short distance. A consequence of the hole is the redistribution of the vibrational population in the ground triplet state, with population of the last bound level and creation of pairs of hot atoms. The physical interpretation makes use of the time dependence of the probability current and population on each channel to understand the role of the parameters of the photoassociation pulse. By varying such parameters, optimization of the compression effect in the ground state wavepacket is demonstrated. Due to an increase of the short range density probability by more than two orders of magnitude, we predict important photoassociation rates into deeply bound levels of the excited state by a second pulse, red-detuned relative to the first one and conveniently delayed.

id: 0707.2779
title: Independent Noise Approximation for Spin-Boson Decoherence
authors: Man-Hong Yung
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2779
abstract: Quantum error correction is a solution to preserve the fidelity of quantum information encoded in physical systems subject to noise. However, unfavorable correlated errors could be induced even for non-interacting qubits through the environment (bath), when they are "packed" together. The question is, to what extent can we treat the noise induced by the bath as independent? In the context of the spin-boson model, we show that, under some reasonable constraints, the independent noise approximation could be valid. On the other hand, in the strongly correlated limit, we show how the method of decoherence free subspace can be made applicable. Combining these two methods makes fault-tolerant quantum computation promising in fighting against correlated errors.

id: 0707.2792
title: Distributed Compression and Multiparty Squashed Entanglement
authors: David Avis, Patrick Hayden, Ivan Savov
comments: 26 pages, 6 figures thanks to jPicEdt. In v2 we fixed some typos and made minor clarifications and updates
journal: J. Phys. A 41 (2008) 115301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2792
abstract: We study a protocol in which many parties use quantum communication to transfer a shared state to a receiver without communicating with each other. This protocol is a multiparty version of the fully quantum Slepian-Wolf protocol for two senders and arises through the repeated application of the two-sender protocol. We describe bounds on the achievable rate region for the distributed compression problem. The inner bound arises by expressing the achievable rate region for our protocol in terms of its vertices and extreme rays and, equivalently, in terms of facet inequalities. We also prove an outer bound on all possible rates for distributed compression based on the multiparty squashed entanglement, a measure of multiparty entanglement.

id: 0707.2807
title: Experimental Realization of Polarization Qutrits from Non-Maximally Entangled States
authors: Giuseppe Vallone, Enrico Pomarico, Paolo Mataloni, Francesco De Martini, Marco Barbieri
comments: RevTex, 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 012319 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2807
abstract: Based on a recent proposal [Phys. Rev. A 71, 062337 (2005)], we have experimentally realized two photon polarization qutrits by using non-maximally entangled states and linear optical transformations. By this technique high fidelity mutually unbiased qutrits are generated at a high brilliance level.

id: 0707.2809
title: Multipartite positive-partial-transpose inequalities exponentially stronger than local reality inequalities
authors: Koji Nagata
comments: 4 pages, To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 024101 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2809
abstract: We show that positivity of {\it every} partial transpose of $N$-partite quantum states implies new inequalities on Bell correlations which are stronger than standard Bell inequalities by a factor of $2^{(N-1)/2}$. A violation of the inequality implies the system is in a bipartite distillable entangled state. It turns out that a family of $N$-qubit bound entangled states proposed by D\"ur {[Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 87}, 230402 (2001)]} violates the inequality for $N\geq 4$.

id: 0707.2811
title: Operational Quantification of Continuous Variable Correlations
authors: C. Rod¨®, Gerardo Adesso, A. Sanpera
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, improved presentation, a subfigure and some explicit analytical expressions added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 110505 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2811
abstract: We quantify correlations (quantum and/or classical) between two continuous variable modes in terms of how many correlated bits can be extracted by measuring the sign of two local quadratures. On Gaussian states, such `bit quadrature correlations' majorize entanglement, reducing to an entanglement monotone for pure states. For non-Gaussian states, such as photonic Bell states, ideal and real de-Gaussified photon-subtracted states, and mixtures of pure Gaussian states, the bit correlations are shown to be a {\em monotonic} function of the negativity. This yields a feasible, operational way to quantitatively measure non-Gaussian entanglement in current experiments by means of direct homodyne detection, without a full tomographical reconstruction of the Wigner function.

id: 0707.2831
title: Estimating Jones polynomials is a complete problem for one clean qubit
authors: Peter W. Shor, Stephen P. Jordan
comments: 29 pages, 12 figures. Improved presentation and removed typos
journal: Quantum Information and Computation Vol. 8 pg. 681 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Geometric Topology (math.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2831
abstract: It is known that evaluating a certain approximation to the Jones polynomial for the plat closure of a braid is a BQP-complete problem. That is, this problem exactly captures the power of the quantum circuit model. The one clean qubit model is a model of quantum computation in which all but one qubit starts in the maximally mixed state. One clean qubit computers are believed to be strictly weaker than standard quantum computers, but still capable of solving some classically intractable problems. Here we show that evaluating a certain approximation to the Jones polynomial at a fifth root of unity for the trace closure of a braid is a complete problem for the one clean qubit complexity class. That is, a one clean qubit computer can approximate these Jones polynomials in time polynomial in both the number of strands and number of crossings, and the problem of simulating a one clean qubit computer is reducible to approximating the Jones polynomial of the trace closure of a braid.

id: 0707.2832
title: Relative States and the Environment: Einselection, Envariance, Quantum Darwinism, and the Existential Interpretation
authors: Wojciech Hubert Zurek
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2832
abstract: Starting with basic axioms of quantum theory I revisit "Relative State Interpretation'' set out 50 years ago by Hugh Everett.

id: 0707.2845
title: Quantum engineering of squeezed states for quantum communication and metrology
authors: Henning Vahlbruch, Simon Chelkowski, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 9 (2007) 371
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2845
abstract: We report the experimental realization of squeezed quantum states of light, tailored for new applications in quantum communication and metrology. Squeezed states in a broad Fourier frequency band down to 1 Hz has been observed for the first time. Nonclassical properties of light in such a low frequency band is required for high efficiency quantum information storage in electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) media. The states observed also cover the frequency band of ultra-high precision laser interferometers for gravitational wave detection and can be used to reach the regime of quantum non-demolition interferometry. And furthermore, they cover the frequencies of motions of heavily macroscopic objects and might therefore support the attempts to observe entanglement in our macroscopic world.

id: 0707.2846
title: Disentanglement of two qubits coupled to an XY spin chain: Role of quantum phase transition
authors: Zi-Gang Yuan, Ping Zhang, Shu-Shen Li
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2846
abstract: We study the disentanglement of two spin qubits which interact with a general XY spin-chain environment. The dynamical process of the disentanglement is numerically and analytically investigated in the vicinity of quantum phase transition (QPT) of the spin chain in both weak and strong coupling cases. We find that the disentanglement of the two qubits is in general enhanced greatly when the environmental spin chain is exposed to QPT. We give a detailed analysis to facilitate the understanding of the QPT-enhanced decaying behavior of the disentanglement factor. Furthermore, the scaling behavior in the disentanglement dynamics is also revealed and analyzed.

id: 0707.2868
title: Constructing quantum games from non-factorizable joint probabilities
authors: Azhar Iqbal, Taksu Cheon
comments: Revised in light of referee's comments, submitted to Physical Review E
journal: Physical Review E 76, 061122 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2868
abstract: A probabilistic framework is developed that gives a unifying perspective on both the classical and the quantum games. We suggest exploiting peculiar probabilities involved in Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) experiments to construct quantum games. In our framework a game attains classical interpretation when joint probabilities are factorizable and a quantum game corresponds when these probabilities cannot be factorized. We analyze how non-factorizability changes Nash equilibria in two-player games while considering the games of Prisoner's Dilemma, Stag Hunt, and Chicken. In this framework we find that for the game of Prisoner's Dilemma even non-factorizable EPR joint probabilities cannot be helpful to escape from the classical outcome of the game. For a particular version of the Chicken game, however, we find that the two non-factorizable sets of joint probabilities, that maximally violates the Clauser-Holt-Shimony-Horne (CHSH) sum of correlations, indeed result in new Nash equilibria.

id: 0707.2880
title: Manipulating biphotonic qutrits
authors: B. P. Lanyon, T. J. Weinhold, N. K. Langford, J. L. O'Brien, K. J. Resch, A. Gilchrist, A. G. White
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 060504 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2880
abstract: Quantum information carriers with higher dimension than the canonical qubit offer significant advantages. However, manipulating such systems is extremely difficult. We show how measurement induced non-linearities can be employed to dramatically extend the range of possible transforms on biphotonic qutrits; the three level quantum systems formed by the polarisation of two photons in the same spatio-temporal mode. We fully characterise the biphoton-photon entanglement that underpins our technique, thereby realising the first instance of qubit-qutrit entanglement. We discuss an extension of our technique to generate qutrit-qutrit entanglement and to manipulate any bosonic encoding of quantum information.

id: 0707.2912
title: Frictional quantum decoherence
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Stephen M. Barnett, John Jeffers
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 9437-9453
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2912
abstract: The dynamics associated with a measurement-based master equation for quantum Brownian motion are investigated. A scheme for obtaining time evolution from general initial conditions is derived. This is applied to analyze dissipation and decoherence in the evolution of both a Gaussian and a Schr\"{o}dinger cat initial state. Dependence on the diffusive terms present in the master equation is discussed with reference to both the coordinate and momentum representations.

id: 0707.2924
title: On the Quantum Kolmogorov Complexity of Classical Strings
authors: Markus Mueller
comments: 10 pages, no figures. Published version
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 7, 701-711 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2924
abstract: We show that classical and quantum Kolmogorov complexity of binary strings agree up to an additive constant. Both complexities are defined as the minimal length of any (classical resp. quantum) computer program that outputs the corresponding string. It follows that quantum complexity is an extension of classical complexity to the domain of quantum states. This is true even if we allow a small probabilistic error in the quantum computer's output. We outline a mathematical proof of this statement, based on an inequality for outputs of quantum operations and a classical program for the simulation of a universal quantum computer.

id: 0707.2940
title: The Hilbert space operator formalism within dynamical reduction models
authors: A. Bassi, G.C. Ghirardi, D.G.M. Salvetti
comments: 25 pages, RevTeX. Changes made and two figures added
journal: Journ. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, 13755-13772 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2940
abstract: Unlike standard quantum mechanics, dynamical reduction models assign no particular a priori status to `measurement processes', `apparata', and `observables', nor self-adjoint operators and positive operator valued measures enter the postulates defining these models. In this paper, we show why and how the Hilbert-space operator formalism, which standard quantum mechanics postulates, can be derived from the fundamental evolution equation of dynamical reduction models. Far from having any special ontological meaning, we show that within the dynamical reduction context the operator formalism is just a compact and convenient way to express the statistical properties of the outcomes of experiments.

id: 0707.2954
title: On Randomness in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Alberto C. de la Torre
comments: 
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 29 567-575 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2954
abstract: The quantum mechanical probability densities are compared with the probability densities treated by the theory of random variables. The relevance of their difference for the interpretation of quantum mechanics is commented.

id: 0707.2956
title: Universal Control of Nuclear Spins Via Anisotropic Hyperfine Interactions
authors: Jonathan S. Hodges, Jamie C. Yang, Chandrasekhar Ramanathan, David G. Cory
comments: RevTeX4, 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2956
abstract: We show that nuclear spin subsystems can be completely controlled via microwave irradiation of resolved anisotropic hyperfine interactions with a nearby electron spin. Such indirect addressing of the nuclear spins via coupling to an electron allows us to create nuclear spin gates whose operational time is significantly faster than conventional direct addressing methods. We experimentally demonstrate the feasibility of this method on a solid-state ensemble system consisting of one electron and one nuclear spin.

id: 0707.3001
title: Optimality of feedback control strategies for qubit purification
authors: Howard M. Wiseman, Luc Bouten
comments: 6 pages. very minor improvements
journal: Quantum Information Processing 7 (2008) 71-83
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3001
abstract: Recently two papers [K. Jacobs, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 67}, 030301(R) (2003); H. M. Wiseman and J. F. Ralph, New J. Physics {\bf 8}, 90 (2006)] have derived control strategies for rapid purification of qubits, optimized with respect to various goals. In the former paper the proof of optimality was not mathematically rigorous, while the latter gave only heuristic arguments for optimality. In this paper we provide rigorous proofs of optimality in all cases, by applying simple concepts from optimal control theory, including Bellman equations and verification theorems.

id: 0707.3002
title: SIC-POVMs exist in all dimensions
authors: Joanne L. Hall, Asha Rao
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3002
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to mathematical errors.

id: 0707.3007
title: Relation between three-qubit entanglement invariants and two-qubit concurrence
authors: Wen-Long Yang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 034301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3007
abstract: In this Brief Report we show the relation between three-qubit entanglement invariants and two-qubit concurrence with the help of projective measurements. How to use these invariants to represent the entanglement property of three-qubit pure states is also investigated.

id: 0707.3031
title: Conceptual Problems in Scattering from Localized non-Hermitian Potentials
authors: H. F. Jones
comments: The emphasis has been changed from v1, recognizing that it makes physical sense that the wave functions of scattering states are fundamentally changed in the quasi-Hermitian framework. In contrast, bound states should not be significantly affected by the introduction of a distant non-Hermitian scattering potential
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3031
abstract: We highlight the conceptual issues that arise when one applies the quasi-Hermitian framework to analyze scattering from localized non-Hermitian potentials, in particular complex square-wells or delta-functions. When treated in the framework of conventional quantum mechanics, these potentials are generally considered as effective theories, in which probability is not conserved because of processes that have been ignored. However, if they are treated as fundamental theories, the Hilbert-space metric must be changed. In order for the newly-defined probability to be conserved, it must differ from the standard one, even at asymptotically large distances from the scattering centre, and the mechanism for this is the non-locality of the new metric, as we show in detail in the model of a single complex delta function. However, properties of distant bound-state systems, which do not interact physically with the non-Hermitian scattering potential, should not be affected. We analyze a model Hamiltonian that supports this contention.

id: 0707.3054
title: Adiabatic quantum search with atoms in a cavity driven by lasers
authors: D. Daems, S. Gu¨¦rin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 170503 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3054
abstract: We propose an implementation of the quantum search algorithm of a marked item in an unsorted list of N items by adiabatic passage in a cavity-laser-atom system. We use an ensemble of N identical three-level atoms trapped in a single-mode cavity and driven by two lasers. In each atom, the same level represents a database entry. One of the atoms is marked by having an energy gap between its two ground states. Appropriate time delays between the two laser pulses allow one to populate the marked state starting from an initial entangled state within a decoherence-free adiabatic subspace. The time to achieve such a process is shown to exhibit the Grover speedup.

id: 0707.3068
title: Experimental Validation of Quantum Game Theory
authors: Matthias Hanauske, Steffen Bernius, Wolfgang K?enig, Berndt Dugall
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3068
abstract: This article uses data from two experimental studies of two-person Prisoner's Dilemma games [1, 2] and compares the data with the theoretic predictions calculated with the use of a quantum game theoretical method. The experimental findings of the cooperation percentage Cp indicate a strong connectivity with the properties of a novel function (N), which depends on the payoff parameters of the game and the entanglement parameter . A classification scheme depending on four quantum cooperation indicators is developed to describe cooperation in real two-person games. The quantum indicators lead to results, that are at least as good as the cooperation predictions derived from classical game theory.

id: 0707.3075
title: Metric Operators for Quasi-Hermitian Hamiltonians and Symmetries of Equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonians
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 6 pages, published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theo., 41, 055304 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3075
abstract: We give a simple proof of the fact that every diagonalizable operator that has a real spectrum is quasi-Hermitian and show how the metric operators associated with a quasi-Hermitian Hamiltonian are related to the symmetry generators of an equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian.

id: 0707.3094
title: Stratificational and antipodean properties of boundary states for N x N density matrices
authors: S Kryszewski, M Zachcia?, ?Szparaga
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3094
abstract: We investigate the space of N x N dimensional density matrices. We show that there exist strata such that boundary states \rho_{p} with p zero eigenvalues lie on or outside the spheres with radii r_{p}=\sqrt{p/N(N-p)}. Moreover, we show that if in a certain direction there is a boundary state with q=N-p equal eigenvalues, then in the opposite (antipodean) direction exists a boundary state with p=N-q equal eigenvalues.

id: 0707.3134
title: Photon emission rate from atomic systems in the CSL model
authors: Stephen L. Adler, Fethi M. Ramazanoglu
comments: LaTex 16pages; minor revisions in published version v3, Added Note in v4
journal: J.Phys.A40:13395-13406,2007; J.Phys.A42:109801,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3134
abstract: We calculate the photon emission rate from a general atomic system in the mass- proportional CSL model. For an isolated charged particle emitting kilovolt gamma rays, our results agree with those obtained by Fu. For a neutral atomic system, photon emission is strongly suppressed for photon wavelengths much larger than the atomic radius. However, for kilovolt gamma rays, Fu's result is modified by a structure factor that is of order unity, giving no rate suppression. Our calculation is readily generalized to the case of non-white noise, noise couplings that are not mass-proportional, and general (non-Gaussian) spatial correlation functions, and corresponding results are given. We briefly discuss the implications of our calculation for upper bounds on the CSL model parameters.

id: 0707.3200
title: Enhancing single-molecule photostability by optical feedback from quantum-jump detection
authors: Vincent Jacques, John Murray, Fran?ois Marquier, Dominique Chauvat, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Grosshans, Fran?ois Treussart, Jean-Fran?ois Roch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3200
abstract: We report an optical technique that yields an enhancement of single-molecule photostability, by greatly suppressing photobleaching pathways which involve photoexcitation from the triplet state. This is accomplished by dynamically switching off the excitation laser when a quantum-jump of the molecule to the triplet state is optically detected. This procedure leads to a lengthened single-molecule observation time and an increased total number of detected photons. The resulting improvement in photostability unambiguously confirms the importance of photoexcitation from the triplet state in photobleaching dynamics, and may allow the investigation of new phenomena at the single-molecule level.

id: 0707.3213
title: Demonstration of Temporal Distinguishability of Three and Four Photons with Asymmetric Beam Splitter
authors: Z. Y. Ou, B. H. Liu, F. W. Sun, Y. X. Gong, Y. F. Huang, G. C. Guo
comments: to be published in the proceedings of Coherence and Quantum Optics 9
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3213
abstract: By using an asymmetric beam splitter, we observe the generalized Hong-Ou-Mandel effects for three and four photons, respectively. Furthermore, we can use this generalized Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer to characterize temporal distinguishability.

id: 0707.3215
title: Many-Body Separability of Warm Qubits
authors: Ting Yu, J. H. Eberly
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3215
abstract: We analyze the separability of the joint state of a collection of two-level systems at finite temperature T. The fact that only separable states are found in the neighborhood of their thermal equilibrium state guarantees that decoherence will destroy any initially arranged entanglement in a finite time.

id: 0707.3238
title: Quantum Limits of Measurements Induced by Multiplicative Conservation Laws: Extension of the Wigner-Araki-Yanase Theorem
authors: Gen Kimura, Bernhard K. Meister, Masanao Ozawa
comments: 8 pages, REVTEX; typo added, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032106 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3238
abstract: The Wigner-Araki-Yanase (WAY) theorem shows that additive conservation laws limit the accuracy of measurements. Recently, various quantitative expressions have been found for quantum limits on measurements induced by additive conservation laws, and have been applied to the study of fundamental limits on quantum information processing. Here, we investigate generalizations of the WAY theorem to multiplicative conservation laws. The WAY theorem is extended to show that an observable not commuting with the modulus of, or equivalently the square of, a multiplicatively conserved quantity cannot be precisely measured. We also obtain a lower bound for the mean-square noise of a measurement in the presence of a multiplicatively conserved quantity. To overcome this noise it is necessary to make large the coefficient of variation (the so-called relative fluctuation), instead of the variance as is the case for additive conservation laws, of the conserved quantity in the apparatus.

id: 0707.3259
title: Generalized Harmonic Oscillator and the Schr?dinger Equation with Position-Dependent Mass
authors: Ju Guo-Xing, Cai Chang-Ying, Ren Zhong-Zhou
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3259
abstract: We study the generalized harmonic oscillator which has both the position-dependent mass and the potential depending on the form of mass function in a more general framework. The explicit expressions of the eigenvalue and eigenfunction for such system are given, they have the same forms as those for the usual harmonic oscillator with constant mass. The coherent state and the its properties for the system with PDM are also discussed. We give the corresponding effective potentials for several mass functions, the systems with such potentials are isospectral to the usual harmonic oscillator.

id: 0707.3284
title: Geometric characterization of separability and entanglement in pure Gaussian states by single-mode unitary operations
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Salvatore M. Giampaolo, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. Discussion expanded, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042334 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3284
abstract: We present a geometric approach to the characterization of separability and entanglement in pure Gaussian states of an arbitrary number of modes. The analysis is performed adapting to continuous variables a formalism based on single subsystem unitary transformations that has been recently introduced to characterize separability and entanglement in pure states of qubits and qutrits [arXiv:0706.1561]. In analogy with the finite-dimensional case, we demonstrate that the $1 \times M$ bipartite entanglement of a multimode pure Gaussian state can be quantified by the minimum squared Euclidean distance between the state itself and the set of states obtained by transforming it via suitable local symplectic (unitary) operations. This minimum distance, corresponding to a, uniquely determined, extremal local operation, defines a novel entanglement monotone equivalent to the entropy of entanglement, and amenable to direct experimental measurement with linear optical schemes.

id: 0707.3291
title: The maximal p-norm multiplicativity conjecture is false
authors: Patrick Hayden
comments: 
journal: Merged into arXiv:0807.4753, which is published as Comm. Math. Phys. 284(1)263-280, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3291
abstract: For all 1 < p < 2, we demonstrate the existence of quantum channels with non-multiplicative maximal p-norms. Equivalently, the minimum output Renyi entropy of order p of a quantum channel is not additive for all 1 < p < 2. The violations found are large. As p approaches 1, the minimum output Renyi entropy of order p for a product channel need not be significantly greater than the minimum output entropy of its individual factors. Since p=1 corresponds to the von Neumann entropy, these counterexamples demonstrate that if the additivity conjecture of quantum information theory is true, it cannot be proved as a consequence of maximal p-norm multiplicativity.

id: 0707.3296
title: Comments on "An experimental test of non-local realism" by S. Groeblacher, T. Paterek, R. Kaltenbaek, C. Brukner, M. Zukowski, M. Aspelmeyer, and A. Zeilinger, Nature 446 (2007), 871-875
authors: Stephen Parrott
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX. Version 2: Misspellings of authors' names corrected; text unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3296
abstract: A simple proof of a key inequality required by the paper's analysis is presented. An introductory section discussing the paper's setup may be helpful to some readers. An alternative statistical analysis is suggested.

id: 0707.3311
title: Linear and nonlinear optical spectroscopy of a strongly-coupled microdisk-quantum dot system
authors: Kartik Srinivasan, Oskar Painter
comments: adjusted references, added minor clarifications
journal: Nature, v450, no. 7171, pp. 862-865, Dec. 6, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3311
abstract: A fiber taper waveguide is used to perform direct optical spectroscopy of a microdisk-quantum-dot system, exciting the system through the photonic (light) channel rather than the excitonic (matter) channel. Strong coupling, the regime of coherent quantum interactions, is demonstrated through observation of vacuum Rabi splitting in the transmitted and reflected signals from the cavity. The fiber coupling method also allows the examination of the system's steady-state nonlinear properties, where saturation of the cavity-QD response is observed for less than one intracavity photon.

id: 0707.3352
title: Wavepacket Solutions of the Klein-Gordon Equation
authors: Shaun N. Mosley
comments: plianTeX, 9 pages, velocity operator canonical transformation included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3352
abstract: We find dispersion-free wavepacket solutions to the Klein-Gordon equation, with the only free parameter being the wavepacket velocity $ {\bf v} $. These wavefunctions are eigenvectors of a velocity operator with commuting components which is symmetric in a certain scalar product space. We show that this velocity operator corresponds to a classical generator which may be obtained by a canonical tranformation from $ {\bf x}, {\bf k} $.

id: 0707.3383
title: Relaxation to equilibrium driven via indirect control in Markovian dynamics
authors: Raffaele Romano
comments: revtex4, 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042315 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3383
abstract: We characterize to what extent it is possible to modify the stationary states of a quantum dynamical semigroup, that describes the irreversible evolution of a two-level system, by means of an auxiliary two-level system. We consider systems that can be initially entangled or uncorrelated. We find that the indirect control of the stationary states is possible, even if there are not initial correlations, under suitable conditions on the dynamical parameters characterizing the evolution of the joint system.

id: 0707.3398
title: Efficient coupling of photons to a single molecule and the observation of its resonance fluorescence
authors: Gert Wrigge, Ilja Gerhardt, Jaesuk Hwang, Gert Zumofen, Vahid Sandoghdar
comments: 6 figures
journal: Nature Physics 4, 60 - 66 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3398
abstract: Single dye molecules at cryogenic temperatures display many spectroscopic phenomena known from free atoms and are thus promising candidates for fundamental quantum optical studies. However, the existing techniques for the detection of single molecules have either sacrificed the information on the coherence of the excited state or have been inefficient. Here we show that these problems can be addressed by focusing the excitation light near to the absorption cross section of a molecule. Our detection scheme allows us to explore resonance fluorescence over 9 orders of magnitude of excitation intensity and to separate its coherent and incoherent parts. In the strong excitation regime, we demonstrate the first observation of the Mollow triplet from a single solid-state emitter. Under weak excitation we report the detection of a single molecule with an incident power as faint as 150 attoWatt, paving the way for studying nonlinear effects with only a few photons.

id: 0707.3434
title: Photons in polychromatic rotating modes
authors: S.J. van Enk, G. Nienhuis
comments: enormously expanded: 12 pages, 3 figures; a new, more informative, but less elegant title, especially designed for Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 053825 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3434
abstract: We propose a quantum theory of rotating light beams and study some of its properties. Such beams are polychromatic and have either a slowly rotating polarization or a slowly rotating transverse mode pattern. We show there are, for both cases, three different natural types of modes that qualify as rotating, one of which is a new type not previously considered. We discuss differences between these three types of rotating modes on the one hand and non-rotating modes as viewed from a rotating frame of reference on the other. We present various examples illustrating the possible use of rotating photons, mostly for quantum information processing purposes. We introduce in this context a rotating version of the two-photon singlet state.

id: 0707.3458
title: Causal vs. Noncausal Description of Nonlinear Wave Mixing; Resolving the Damping-Sign Controversy
authors: Shaul Mukamel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3458
abstract: Frequency-domain nonlinear wave mixing processes may be described either using response functions whereby the signal is generated after all interactions with the incoming fields, or in terms of scattering amplitudes where all fields are treated symetrically with no specific time ordering. Closed Green's function expressions derived for the two types of signals have different analytical properties. The recent controversy regarding the sign of radiative damping in the linear (Kramers Heisenberg) formula is put in a broader context.

id: 0707.3474
title: Groundstate with Zero Eigenvalue for Generalized Sombrero-shaped Potential in $N$-dimensional Space
authors: Zhao Wei-Qin
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3474
abstract: Based on an iterative method for solving the goundstate of Schroedinger equation, it is found that a kind of generalized Sombrero-shaped potentials in N-dimensional space has groundstates with zero eigenvalue. The restrictions on the parameters in the potential are discussed.

id: 0707.3479
title: Quantum Algorithms for Learning and Testing Juntas
authors: Alp Atici, Rocco A. Servedio
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure. Uses synttree package. To appear in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol. 6, No. 5, 323 - 348 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Learning (cs.LG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3479
abstract: In this article we develop quantum algorithms for learning and testing juntas, i.e. Boolean functions which depend only on an unknown set of k out of n input variables. Our aim is to develop efficient algorithms: - whose sample complexity has no dependence on n, the dimension of the domain the Boolean functions are defined over; - with no access to any classical or quantum membership ("black-box") queries. Instead, our algorithms use only classical examples generated uniformly at random and fixed quantum superpositions of such classical examples; - which require only a few quantum examples but possibly many classical random examples (which are considered quite "cheap" relative to quantum examples). Our quantum algorithms are based on a subroutine FS which enables sampling according to the Fourier spectrum of f; the FS subroutine was used in earlier work of Bshouty and Jackson on quantum learning. Our results are as follows: - We give an algorithm for testing k-juntas to accuracy $\epsilon$ that uses $O(k/\epsilon)$ quantum examples. This improves on the number of examples used by the best known classical algorithm. - We establish the following lower bound: any FS-based k-junta testing algorithm requires $\Omega(\sqrt{k})$ queries. - We give an algorithm for learning $k$-juntas to accuracy $\epsilon$ that uses $O(\epsilon^{-1} k\log k)$ quantum examples and $O(2^k \log(1/\epsilon))$ random examples. We show that this learning algorithms is close to optimal by giving a related lower bound.

id: 0707.3487
title: A minimalist pilot-wave model for quantum electrodynamics
authors: W. Struyve, H. Westman
comments: LaTex, 17 pages, no figures; v2 minor corrections, journal version
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 463, 3115-3129 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3487
abstract: We present a way to construct a pilot-wave model for quantum electrodynamics. The idea is to introduce beables corresponding only to the bosonic degrees of freedom and not to the fermionic degrees of freedom of the quantum state. We show that this is sufficient to reproduce the quantum predictions. The beables will be field beables corresponding to the electromagnetic field and they will be introduced in a similar way to that of Bohm's model for the free electromagnetic field. Our approach is analogous to the situation in non-relativistic quantum theory, where Bell treated spin not as a beable but only as a property of the wavefunction. After presenting this model we also discuss a simple way for introducing additional beables that represent the fermionic degrees of freedom.

id: 0707.3512
title: A Curious Geometrical Fact About Entanglement
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: Talk at the Vaxjo conference on Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations - 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3512
abstract: I sketch how the set of pure quantum states forms a phase space, and then point out a curiousity concerning maximally entangled pure states: they form a minimal Lagrangian submanifold of the set of all pure states. I suggest that this curiousity should have an interesting physical interpretation.

id: 0707.3539
title: Introduction to Quantum Mechanics and the Quantum-Classical transition
authors: J. F. Carinena, J. Clemente-Gallardo, G. Marmo
comments: Survey paper based on the lectures delivered at the XV International Workshop on Geometry and Physics Puerto de la Cruz, Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain September 11-16, 2006. To appear in Publ. de la RSME
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3539
abstract: In this paper we present a survey of the use of differential geometric formalisms to describe Quantum Mechanics. We analyze Schroedinger and Heisenberg frameworks from this perspective and discuss how the momentum map associated to the action of the unitary group on the Hilbert space allows to relate both approaches. We also study Weyl-Wigner approach to Quantum Mechanics and discuss the implications of bi-Hamiltonian structures at the quantum level.

id: 0707.3541
title: Security analysis of decoy state quantum key distribution incorporating finite statistics
authors: Jun Hasegawa, Masahito Hayashi, Tohya Hiroshima, Akihisa Tomita
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3541
abstract: Decoy state method quantum key distribution (QKD) is one of the promising practical solutions to BB84 QKD with coherent light pulses. In the real world, however, statistical fluctuations with the finite code length cannot be negligible, and the securities of theoretical and experimental researches of the decoy method state QKD so far are based on the asymptotic GLLP's formula which guarantees only that the limit of eavesdropper's information becomes zero as the code length approaches infinity. In this paper, we propose a substantially improved decoy state QKD in the framework of the finite code length and derive the upper bound of eavesdropper's information in the finite code length decoy state QKD with arbitrary number of decoy states of different intensities incorporating the finite statistics. We also show the performance of our decoy QKD and optimal values of parameters by numerical simulation.

id: 0707.3556
title: Coherence of an Entangled Exciton-Photon State
authors: A. J. Hudson, R. M. Stevenson, A. J. Bennett, R. J. Young, C. A. Nicoll, P. Atkinson, K. Cooper, D. A. Ritchie, A. J. Shields
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3556
abstract: We study the effect of the exciton fine-structure splitting on the polarisation-entanglement of photon pairs produced by the biexciton cascade in a single quantum dot. The entanglement is found to persist despite separations between the intermediate energy levels of up to 4 micro-eV. Measurements demonstrate that entanglement of the photon pair is robust to the dephasing of the intermediate exciton state responsible for the first order coherence time of either single photon. We present a theoretical framework taking into account the effects of spin-scattering, background light and dephasing. We distinguish between the first-order coherence time, and a parameter which we measure for the first time and define as the cross-coherence time.

id: 0707.3581
title: Characterizing locally distinguishable orthogonal product states
authors: Yuan Feng, Yaoyun Shi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3581
abstract: Bennett et al. \cite{BDF+99} identified a set of orthogonal {\em product} states in the $3\otimes 3$ Hilbert space such that reliably distinguishing those states requires non-local quantum operations. While more examples have been found for this counter-intuitive ``nonlocality without entanglement'' phenomenon, a complete and computationally verifiable characterization for all such sets of states remains unknown. In this Letter, we give such a characterization for the $3\otimes 3$ space.

id: 0707.3612
title: Comment on Nongeometric Conditional Phase Shift via Adiabatic Evolution of Dark Eigenstate
authors: Hua Zhong Li
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3612
abstract: In a recent letter [Phy. Rev. Lett. 95, 080502 (2005)], it is claimed that based on a new kind of quantum mechanical phase of wave function which is neither dynamical nor geometrical a new kind of phase gate for quantum computation is discovered. The origin of this phase is the adiabatic evolution of a dark state. I would like to point out that these claims are questionable. The so called new phase gate was based on a phase which was nothing new but has been known for decades. It is something which has no physical meaning and is not observable. It was also pointed out by [quant-ph/0509150v1] that [Phy. Rev. Lett. 95, 080502 (2005)] was incorrect and the phase is the known geometric phase. Here we present a totally different argument.

id: 0707.3624
title: Shape-invariant quantum Hamiltonian with position-dependent effective mass through second order supersymmetry
authors: A. Ganguly, L. M. Nieto
comments: 16 pages, 5 figs; Present e-mail of AG: gangulyasish@rediffmail.com
journal: J.Phys.A40:7265-7281,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3624
abstract: Second order supersymmetric approach is taken to the system describing motion of a quantum particle in a potential endowed with position-dependent effective mass. It is shown that the intertwining relations between second order partner Hamiltonians may be exploited to obtain a simple shape-invariant condition. Indeed a novel relation between potential and mass functions is derived, which leads to a class of exactly solvable model. As an illustration of our procedure, two examples are given for which one obtains whole spectra algebraically. Both shape-invariant potentials exhibit harmonic-oscillator-like or singular-oscillator-like spectra depending on the values of the shape-invariant parameter.

id: 0707.3646
title: Transport quantum logic gates for trapped ions
authors: D. Leibfried, E. Knill, C. Ospelkaus, D. J. Wineland
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures, minor improvements in figures and notation, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032324 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3646
abstract: Many efforts are currently underway to build a device capable of large scale quantum information processing (QIP). Whereas QIP has been demonstrated for a few qubits in several systems, many technical difficulties must be overcome in order to construct a large-scale device. In one proposal for large-scale QIP, trapped ions are manipulated by precisely controlled light pulses and moved through and stored in multizone trap arrays. The technical overhead necessary to precisely control both the ion geometrical configurations and the laser interactions is demanding. Here we propose methods that significantly reduce the overhead on laser beam control for performing single and multiple qubit operations on trapped ions. We show how a universal set of operations can be implemented by controlled transport of ions through stationary laser beams. At the same time, each laser beam can be used to perform many operations in parallel, potentially reducing the total laser power necessary to carry out QIP tasks. The overall setup necessary for implementing transport gates is simpler than for gates executed on stationary ions. We also suggest a transport-based two-qubit gate scheme utilizing microfabricated permanent magnets that can be executed without laser light.

id: 0707.3678
title: Spin Networks and Anyonic Topological Computing II
authors: Louis H. Kauffman, Samuel J. Lomonaco Jr
comments: 13 pages, 14 figures, LaTeX document
journal: In "Quantum Information and Computation V"', edited by Donkor, Pirich and Brandt, pp. 64730U1-13, Volume 6573, Intl. Soc. Opt. Eng. (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3678
abstract: We review the q-deformed spin network approach to topological quantum field theory and apply these methods to produce unitary representations of the braid groups that are dense in the unitary groups. The simplest case of these models is the Fibonacci model, itself universal for quantum computation. We here formulate these braid group representations in a shape suitable for computation and algebraic work.

id: 0707.3684
title: Harmonic entanglement in a degenerate parametric down conversion
authors: Sintayehu Tesfa
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3684
abstract: We study the harmonic entanglement and squeezing in a two-mode radiation produced in a degenerate parametric down conversion process coupled to a two-mode vacuum reservoir employing the linearization procedure. It is found that there is a quadrature entanglement between the harmonically related fundamental and second-harmonic modes and the superimposed radiation exhibits a significant two-mode squeezing. The entanglement exits even when there is no two-mode squeezing, since the correlation leading to these phenomena are essentially different. In addition, the more the external coherent light is down converted, the more stronger the entanglement and mean photon number of the two-mode radiation would be which is not generally true for squeezing.

id: 0707.3685
title: Pilot-wave theory and quantum fields
authors: Ward Struyve
comments: 65 pages, no figures, LaTex; v2 minor changes, some extensions; v3 minor improvements; v4 some typos corrected
journal: Rept.Prog.Phys.73:106001,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3685
abstract: Pilot-wave theories provide possible solutions to the measurement problem. In such theories, quantum systems are not only described by the state vector, but also by some additional variables. These additional variables, also called beables, can be particle positions, field configurations, strings, etc. In this paper we focus our attention on pilot-wave theories in which the additional variables are field configurations. The first such theory was proposed by Bohm for the free electromagnetic field. Since Bohm, similar pilot-wave theories have been proposed for other quantum fields. The purpose of this paper is to present an overview and further development of these proposals. We discuss various bosonic quantum field theories such as the Schroedinger field, the free electromagnetic field, scalar quantum electrodynamics and the Abelian Higgs model. In particular, we compare the pilot-wave theories proposed by Bohm and by Valentini for the electromagnetic field, finding that they are equivalent. We further discuss the proposals for fermionic fields by Holland and Valentini. In the case of Holland's model we indicate that further work is required in order to show that the model is capable of reproducing the standard quantum predictions. We also consider a similar model, which does not seem to reproduce the standard quantum predictions. In the case of Valentini's model we point out a problem that seems hard to overcome.

id: 0707.3686
title: Quantum optics of spatial transformation media
authors: Ulf Leonhardt, Thomas G. Philbin
comments: To appear in NANOMETA Special Issue of Journal of Optics A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3686
abstract: Transformation media are at the heart of invisibility devices, perfect lenses and artificial black holes. In this paper, we consider their quantum theory. We show how transformation media map quantum electromagnetism in physical space to QED in empty flat space.

id: 0707.3707
title: Storing images in warm atomic vapor
authors: M. Shuker, O. Firstenberg, R. Pugatch, A. Ron, N. Davidson
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev Lett. 100, 223601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3707
abstract: Reversible and coherent storage of light in atomic medium is a key-stone of future quantum information applications. In this work, arbitrary two-dimensional images are slowed and stored in warm atomic vapor for up to 30 $\mu$s, utilizing electromagnetically induced transparency. Both the intensity and the phase patterns of the optical field are maintained. The main limitation on the storage resolution and duration is found to be the diffusion of atoms. A techniqueanalogous to phase-shift lithography is employed to diminish the effect of diffusion on the visibility of the reconstructed image.

id: 0707.3710
title: Casimir Effect for Quantum Graphs
authors: D. U. Matrasulov, J. R. Yusupov, P. K. Khabibullaev, A. A. Saidov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3710
abstract: The Casimir effects for one-dimensional fractal networks, so-called quantum graphs is studied. Based on the Green function approach for quantum graphs zero-point energy for some simplest topologies is written explicitly.

id: 0707.3728
title: Fiber-optic realization of anisotropic depolarizing quantum channels
authors: Michal Karpinski, Czeslaw Radzewicz, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 25, 668 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3728
abstract: We employed an electrically-driven polarization controller to implement anisotropic depolarizing quantum channels for the polarization state of single photons. The channels were characterized by means of ancilla-assisted quantum process tomography using polarization-entangled photons generated in the process of spontaneous parametric down-conversion. The demonstrated depolarization method offers good repeatability, low cost, and compatibility with fiber-optic setups. It does not perturb the modal structure of single photons, and therefore can be used to verify experimentally protocols for managing decoherence effects based on multiphoton interference.

id: 0707.3738
title: Non-Hermitian von Roos Hamiltonian's $¦Ç$-weak-pseudo-Hermiticity, isospectrality and exact solvability
authors: Omar Mustafa, S.Habib Mazharimousavi
comments: 11 pages, no figures,
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 244020 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3738
abstract: A complexified von Roos Hamiltonian is considered and a Hermitian first-order intertwining differential operator is used to obtain the related position dependent mass $\eta$-weak-pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians. Using a Liouvillean-type change of variables, the $\eta$-weak-pseudo-Hermitian von Roos Hamiltonians H(x) are mapped into the traditional Schrodinger Hamiltonian form H(q), where exact isospectral correspondence between H(x) and H(q) is obtained. Under a user-friendly position dependent mass settings, it is observed that for each exactly-solvable $\eta$-weak-pseudo-Hermitian reference-Hamiltonian H(q)there is a set of exactly-solvable $\eta$-weak-pseudo-Hermitian isospectral target-Hamiltonians H(x). A non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Scarf II and a non-Hermitian periodic-type PT-symmetric Samsonov-Roy potentials are used as reference models and the corresponding $\eta$-weak-pseudo-Hermitian isospectral target-Hamiltonians are obtained.

id: 0707.3752
title: Types of quantum information
authors: Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Minor changes so as to agree with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76 (Dec. 2007) 062320
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3752
abstract: Quantum, in contrast to classical, information theory, allows for different incompatible types (or species) of information which cannot be combined with each other. Distinguishing these incompatible types is useful in understanding the role of the two classical bits in teleportation (or one bit in one-bit teleportation), for discussing decoherence in information-theoretic terms, and for giving a proper definition, in quantum terms, of ``classical information.'' Various examples (some updating earlier work) are given of theorems which relate different incompatible kinds of information, and thus have no counterparts in classical information theory.

id: 0707.3753
title: Detection of incompatible properties
authors: Angela Sestito
comments: 25 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3753
abstract: In a typical two-slits experiments we face the question whether it is possible or not to attain knowledge about properties incompatible with Which-Slit property together with the measurement of the final impact point. A wide family of solutions is concretely found and an ideal experiment realizing such a detection is designed, relatively to the detection of three such incompatible properties. In the case of four incompatible properties, general conditions for the existence of solutions are singled out and a particular family of solutions is provided.

id: 0707.3759
title: The space of density states in geometrical quantum mechanics
authors: J. Clemente-Gallardo, G. Marmo
comments: Amslatex, 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: Chapter in the book "Differential Geometric Methods in Mechanics and Field Theory", Volume in Honour of Willy Sarlet, Eds. F. Cantrijn, M. Crampin and B. Langerock, Gent Academia Press 2007, pag. 35-56
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3759
abstract: We present a geometrical description of the space of density states of a quantum system of finite dimension. After presenting a brief summary of the geometrical formulation of Quantum Mechanics, we proceed to describe the space of density states $\D(\Hil)$ from a geometrical perspective identifying the stratification associated to the natural $GL(\Hil)$--action on $\D(\Hil)$ and some of its properties. We apply this construction to the cases of quantum systems of two and three levels.

id: 0707.3774
title: Spin geometry of entangled qubits under bilocal decoherence modes
authors: Katharina Durstberger
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008) 1789 - 1798
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3774
abstract: The Lindblad generators of the master equation define which kind of decoherence happens in an open quantum system. We are working with a two qubit system and choose the generators to be projection operators on the eigenstates of the system and unitary bilocal rotations of them. The resulting decoherence modes are studied in detail. Besides the general solutions we investigate the special case of maximally entangled states - the Bell singlet states. The results are depicted in the so-called spin geometry picture which allows to illustrate the evolution of the (nonlocal) correlations stored in a certain state. The question for which conditions the path traced out in the geometric picture depends only on the relative angle between the bilocal rotations is addressed.

id: 0707.3803
title: Energy Measurements and Preparation of Canonical Phase States of a Nano-Mechanical Resonator
authors: Kurt Jacobs, Andrew N. Jordan, Elinor K. Irish
comments: 4 pages, revtex 4, 3 eps figures. v2: improvements to presentation
journal: Europhys. Lett. 82, 18003 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3803
abstract: We show that a continuous quantum non-demolition measurement of the energy of a nanomechanical resonator can be achieved by monitoring the resonator with a quantum point contact via a Cooper-pair box. This technique can further be used to prepare highly non-classical states of two resonators, such as canonical phase-reference states, and so-called "noon" states.

id: 0707.3821
title: One-way quantum computing in optical lattices with many atom addressing
authors: Timothy P. Friesen, David L. Feder
comments: 11 pages, revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032312 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3821
abstract: One of the fundamental conditions for one-way quantum computation (1WQC) is the ability to make sequential measurements on isolated qubits that comprise the highly entangled resource for 1WQC, the cluster state. This has been a significant impediment in the implementation of 1WQC with ultracold atoms confined in optical lattices, because the width of the measuring lasers is generally much greater than the atomic (qubit) spacing. We demonstrate that deterministic 1WQC is nevertheless possible, with a polynomial increase in the number of operations, as long as the center of the beams can be positioned with high accuracy. Extending the number of cluster atoms, the scheme is also able to compensate for accidental measurements of an arbitrary number of nearby qubits.

id: 0707.3834
title: Spin squeezing in optical lattice clocks via lattice-based QND measurements
authors: D. Meiser, Jun Ye, M. J. Holland
comments: Substantially expanded version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3834
abstract: Quantum projection noise will soon limit the best achievable precision of optical atomic clocks based on lattice-confined neutral atoms. Squeezing the collective atomic pseudo-spin via measurement of the clock state populations during Ramsey interrogation suppresses the projection noise. We show here that the lattice laser field can be used to perform ideal quantum non-demolition measurements without clock shifts or decoherence and explore the feasibility of such an approach in theory with the lattice field confined in a ring-resonator. Detection of the motional sideband due to the atomic vibration in the lattice wells can yield signal sizes a hundredfold above the projection noise limit.

id: 0707.3857
title: Exact solution of a model of qubit dephasing due to telegraph noise
authors: Bin Cheng, Qiang-Hua Wang, Robert Joynt
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, revised and extended
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3857
abstract: We present a general and exact formalism for finding the evolution of a quantum system subject to external telegraph noise. The various qubit decoherence rates are determined by the eigenvalues of a transfer matrix. The formalism can be applied to a qubit subject to an arbitrary combination of dephasing and relaxational telegraph noise, in contrast to existing non-perturbative methods that treat only one or the other of these limits. We present 3 applications: 1) We obtain the full qubit dynamics on time scales short compared with the enviromental correlation times. In the strong coupling cases this reveals unexpected oscillations and induced magnetization components; 2) We find in strong coupling case strong violations of the widely used relation 1/T$_2$ = 1/2T$_1$ + 1/T$_{\phi}$, which is a result of perturbation theory; 3) We discuss the effects of bang-bang and spin-echo controls of the qubit dynamics in general settings of the telegraph noises. %The result shows that these methods are not very effective in %reducing decoherence arising from a single telegraph noise. Finally, we discuss the extension of the method to the cases of many telegraph noise sources and multiple qubits. The method still works when white noise is also present.

id: 0707.3868
title: Finite quantum tomography via semidefinite programming
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, M. Mirzaee, M. Rezaee
comments: 25 pages
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, Vol. 46, No. 6, June 2007, page 1471
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3868
abstract: Using the the convex semidefinite programming method and superoperator formalism we obtain the finite quantum tomography of some mixed quantum states such as: qudit tomography, N-qubit tomography, phase tomography and coherent spin state tomography, where that obtained results are in agreement with those of References \cite{schack,Pegg,Barnett,Buzek,Weigert}.

id: 0707.3870
title: Spontaneously induced atom-radiation entanglement in an ensemble of two-level atoms
authors: Sintayehu Tesfa
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3870
abstract: Analysis of the spontaneously induced correlation on atom-radiation entanglement in an ensemble of two-level atoms initially prepared in the upper level and placed in a cavity containing a squeezed radiation employing the method of evaluating the coherent-state propagator is presented. It is found that the cavity radiation exhibits squeezing which is directly attributed to the squeezed radiation in the cavity. The intensity of the cavity radiation increases with the squeeze parameter and interaction time. It is also shown that substantial degree of entanglement between the atomic states and radiation mode exits at a particular time that depends on the coupling constant and squeeze parameter. We come to understand that though the squeezed radiation is directly accountable for the cavity squeezing, it significantly destroys the atom-radiation entanglement.

id: 0707.3872
title: Accuracy matrix in generalized simultaneous measurement of a qubit system
authors: Takahiro Sagawa, Masahito Ueda
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012313 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3872
abstract: We formulate the accuracy of quantum measurement for a qubit system in terms of a 3 by 3 matrix. This matrix, which we refer to as the accuracy matrix, can be calculated from a positive operator-valued measure (POVM) corresponding to the quantum measurement. Based on the accuracy matrix, we derive new trade-off relations between the measurement accuracy of two or three noncommuting observables of a qubit system. These trade-off relations offer a quantitative information-theoretic representation of Bohr's principle of complementarity. They can be interpreted as the uncertainty relations between measurement errors in simultaneous measurements, and also as the trade-off relations between the measurement error and back-action of measurement. A no-cloning inequality is derived from the trade-off relations. Furthermore, our formulation and the obtained results can be applied to analyze quantum state tomography. We also show that the accuracy matrix is closely related to the maximum-likelihood estimation and the Fisher information matrix for a finite number of samples; the accuracy matrix tells us how accurately we can estimate the probability distributions of observables of an unknown state by quantum measurement.

id: 0707.3880
title: Progressive field-state collapse and quantum non-demolition photon counting
authors: Christine Guerlin, Julien Bernu, Samuel Del¨¦glise, Cl¨¦ment Sayrin, S¨¦bastien Gleyzes, Stefan Kuhr, Michel Brune, Jean-Michel Raimond, Serge Haroche
comments: 
journal: Nature 448, 23 (2007) 889
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3880
abstract: The irreversible evolution of a microscopic system under measurement is a central feature of quantum theory. From an initial state generally exhibiting quantum uncertainty in the measured observable, the system is projected into a state in which this observable becomes precisely known. Its value is random, with a probability determined by the initial system's state. The evolution induced by measurement (known as 'state collapse') can be progressive, accumulating the effects of elementary state changes. Here we report the observation of such a step-by-step collapse by measuring non-destructively the photon number of a field stored in a cavity. Atoms behaving as microscopic clocks cross the cavity successively. By measuring the light-induced alterations of the clock rate, information is progressively extracted, until the initially uncertain photon number converges to an integer. The suppression of the photon number spread is demonstrated by correlations between repeated measurements. The procedure illustrates all the postulates of quantum measurement (state collapse, statistical results and repeatability) and should facilitate studies of non-classical fields trapped in cavities.

id: 0707.3882
title: Dimensionality induced entanglement in macroscopic dimer systems
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Wonmin Son, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 054302 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3882
abstract: We investigate entanglement properties of mixtures of short-range spin-s dimer coverings in lattices of arbitrary topology and dimension. We show that in one spacial dimension nearest neighbour entanglement exists for any spin $s$. Surprisingly, in higher spatial dimensions there is a threshold value of spin $s$ below which the nearest neighbour entanglement disappears. The traditional "classical" limit of large spin value corresponds to the highest nearest neighbour entanglement that we quantify using the negativity.

id: 0707.3913
title: Deterministic Rendering of BB84 for Practical Quantum Cryptography
authors: M. Lucamarini, J. S. Shaari, M. R. B. Wahiddin
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3913
abstract: We describe how to modify the BB84 protocol for quantum cryptography in order to make it deterministic. We study both theoretical and experimental aspects of this issue, showing that the new scheme is as secure as the old one, more efficient on small-scale distances, and within the range of current technology.

id: 0707.3916
title: High-fidelity ion-trap quantum computing with hyperfine clock states
authors: L. Aolita, K. Kim, J. Benhelm, C. F. Roos, H. H?ffner
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 040303(R) 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3916
abstract: We propose the implementation of a geometric-phase gate on magnetic-field-insensitive qubits with $\hat{\sigma}^z$-dependent forces for trapped ion quantum computing. The force is exerted by two laser beams in a Raman configuration. Qubit-state dependency is achieved by a small frequency detuning from the virtually-excited state. Ion species with excited states of long radiative lifetimes are used to reduce the chance of a spontaneous photon emission to less than 10$^{-8}$ per gate-run. This eliminates the main source of gate infidelity of previous implementations. With this scheme it seems possible to reach the fault tolerant threshold.

id: 0707.3917
title: Weak Values and Continuous-Variable Entanglement Concentration
authors: David Menzies, Natalia Korolkova
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, Final version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3917
abstract: We demonstrate a general weak measurement model which allows Gaussian preserving entanglement concentration of the two mode squeezed vacuum. The power of this simple and elegant protocol is through the constraints it places on possible ancilla states and measurement strategies that will allow entanglement concentration. In particular, it is shown how previously discovered protocols of this kind emerge as special examples of the general model described here. Finally, as evidence of its utility, we use it to provide another novel example of such a protocol.

id: 0707.3938
title: On the conundrum of deriving exact solutions from approximate master equations
authors: Roland Doll, David Zueco, Martijn Wubs, Sigmund Kohler, Peter Hanggi
comments: 7 pages; revised version; to appear in Chem. Phys
journal: Chem. Phys. 347, 243-249 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3938
abstract: We derive the exact time-evolution for a general quantum system under the influence of pure phase-noise and demonstrate that for a Gaussian initial state of the bath, the exact result can be obtained also within a perturbative time-local master equation approach already in second order of the system-bath coupling strength. We reveal that this equivalence holds if the initial state of the bath can be mapped to a Gaussian phase-space distribution function. Moreover, we discuss the relation to the standard Bloch-Redfield approach.

id: 0707.3946
title: Implementing universal quantum gates in coupled cavities
authors: Dimitris G. Angelakis, Alastair Kay
comments: Accepted to appear in the AIP proceedings of the "Quantum Control and Light-Matter Interactions: Recent Computational and Theoretical Results" Symposium of ICCMSE 2007
journal: Am. Inst. of Phys. Vol. 963, 763 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3946
abstract: We study a linear array of coupled cavities interacting with two level systems and show how to construct individually addressable qubits in this system from the long-lived atom-photon excitations (polaritons) at each site. We derive the system dynamics and show that is described by an XY Hamiltonian. We proceed by showing how to implement non-local quantum gates and show that combined with the inherent ability for individual addressing, universal quantum computation is possible in this system. We finally discuss the prospects for experimental implementation using various technologies involving dopants as atoms, quantum dots or Cooper pair boxes.

id: 0707.3970
title: Minimum-error discrimination between mixed quantum states
authors: Daowen Qiu
comments: A further revised version, and some results have been added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012328 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3970
abstract: We derive a general lower bound on the minimum-error probability for {\it ambiguous discrimination} between arbitrary $m$ mixed quantum states with given prior probabilities. When $m=2$, this bound is precisely the well-known Helstrom limit. Also, we give a general lower bound on the minimum-error probability for discriminating quantum operations. Then we further analyze how this lower bound is attainable for ambiguous discrimination of mixed quantum states by presenting necessary and sufficient conditions related to it. Furthermore, with a restricted condition, we work out a upper bound on the minimum-error probability for ambiguous discrimination of mixed quantum states. Therefore, some sufficient conditions are obtained for the minimum-error probability attaining this bound. Finally, under the condition of the minimum-error probability attaining this bound, we compare the minimum-error probability for {\it ambiguously} discriminating arbitrary $m$ mixed quantum states with the optimal failure probability for {\it unambiguously} discriminating the same states.

id: 0707.3987
title: Controlling passively-quenched single photon detectors by bright light
authors: Vadim Makarov
comments: Experimental results from a third detector model added. Minor corrections and edits made. 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 065003 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3987
abstract: Single photon detectors based on passively-quenched avalanche photodiodes can be temporarily blinded by relatively bright light, of intensity less than a nanowatt. I describe a bright-light regime suitable for attacking a quantum key distribution system containing such detectors. In this regime, all single photon detectors in the receiver Bob are uniformly blinded by continuous illumination coming from the eavesdropper Eve. When Eve needs a certain detector in Bob to produce a click, she modifies polarization (or other parameter used to encode quantum states) of the light she sends to Bob such that the target detector stops receiving light while the other detector(s) continue to be illuminated. The target detector regains single photon sensitivity and, when Eve modifies the polarization again, produces a single click. Thus, Eve has full control of Bob and can do a successful intercept-resend attack. To check the feasibility of the attack, 3 different models of passively-quenched detectors have been tested. In the experiment, I have simulated the intensity diagrams the detectors would receive in a real quantum key distribution system under attack. Control parameters and side effects are considered. It appears that the attack could be practically possible.

id: 0707.4000
title: The LU-LC conjecture, diagonal local operations and quadratic forms over GF(2)
authors: D. Gross, M. Van den Nest
comments: 24 pages. Reference added
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 8, 263 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4000
abstract: We report progress on the LU-LC conjecture - an open problem in the context of entanglement in stabilizer states (or graph states). This conjecture states that every two stabilizer states which are related by a local unitary operation, must also be related by a local operation within the Clifford group. The contribution of this paper is a reduction of the LU-LC conjecture to a simpler problem - which, however, remains to date unsolved. As our main result, we show that, if the LU-LC conjecture could be proved for the restricted case of diagonal local unitary operations, then the conjecture is correct in its totality. Furthermore, the reduced version of the problem, involving such diagonal local operations, is mapped to questions regarding quadratic forms over the finite field GF(2). Finally, we prove that correctness of the LU-LC conjecture for stabilizer states implies a similar result for the more general case of stabilizer codes.

id: 0707.4017
title: Casimir forces in a T operator approach
authors: Oded Kenneth, Israel Klich
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 014103 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4017
abstract: We explore the scattering approach to Casimir forces. Our main tool is the description of Casimir energy in terms of transition operators, as presented in Kenneth and Klich, Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 160401 (2006). We study the convergence properties of the formula and how to utilize it, together with scattering data to compute the force. We illustrate the approach by describing the force between scatterers in 1d and 3d,, and in particular show how it may be applied in order to study the interaction between two spherical bodies at all distances.

id: 0707.4020
title: Geometric measures of entanglement and the Schmidt decomposition
authors: D. Ostapchuk, G. Passante, R. Kobes, G. Kunstatter
comments: 7 pages, latex, 1 figure; changed emphasis to Schmidt decomposition
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4020
abstract: In the standard geometric approach to a measure of entanglement of a pure state, $\sin^2\theta$ is used, where $\theta$ is the angle between the state to the closest separable state of products of normalized qubit states. We consider here a generalization of this notion to separable states consisting of products of unnormalized states of different dimension. In so doing, the entanglement measure $\sin^2\theta$ is found to have an interpretation as the distance between the state to the closest separable state. We also find the components of the closest separable state and its norm have an interpretation in terms of, respectively, the eigenvectors and eigenvalues of the reduced density matrices arising in the Schmidt decomposition of the state vector.

id: 0707.4068
title: Experimental macroscopic coherence by phase-covariant cloning of a single photon
authors: Eleonora Nagali, Tiziano De Angelis, Fabio Sciarrino, Francesco De Martini
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042126 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4068
abstract: We investigate the multiphoton states generated by high-gain optical parametric amplification of a single injected photon, polarization encoded as a ''qubit''. The experiment configuration exploits the optimal phase-covariant cloning in the high gain regime. The interference fringe pattern showing the non local transfer of coherence between the injected qubit and the mesoscopic amplified output field involving up to 4000 photons has been investigated. A probabilistic new method to extract full information about the multiparticle output wavefunction has been implemented.

id: 0707.4069
title: Atomic cluster state build up with macroscopic heralding
authors: Jeremy Metz, Christian Schoen, Almut Beige
comments: 14 pages, 12 figures; minor changes, mainly clarifications
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052307 (2007).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4069
abstract: We describe a measurement-based state preparation scheme for the efficient build up of cluster states in atom-cavity systems. As in a recent proposal for the generation of maximally entangled atom pairs [Metz et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 040503 (2006)], we use an electron shelving technique to avoid the necessity for the detection of single photons. Instead, the successful fusion of smaller into larger clusters is heralded by an easy-to-detect macroscopic fluorescence signal. High fidelities are achieved even in the vicinity of the bad cavity limit and are essentially independent of the concrete size of the system parameters.

id: 0707.4092
title: Protection of entanglement from sudden death using continuous dynamical decoupling
authors: F. F. Fanchini, R. d. J. Napolitano
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 76, 062306 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4092
abstract: We show that continuous dynamical decoupling can protect a two-qubit entangled state from sudden death at finite temperature due to uncorrelated dephasing, bit flipping, and dissipation. We consider a situation where an entangled state shared between two non-interacting qubits is initially prepared and left evolve under the environmental perturbations and the protection of external fields. To illustrate the protection of the entanglement, we solve numerically a master equation in the Born approximation, considering independent boson fields at the same temperature coupled to the different error agents of each qubit.

id: 0707.4158
title: Spontaneous emission from a two--level atom tunneling in a double--well potential
authors: Daniel Braun, John Martin
comments: 24 pages, 4 figures; improved discussion on the limitations of the theory
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032102 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4158
abstract: We study a two-level atom in a double--well potential coupled to a continuum of electromagnetic modes (black body radiation in three dimensions at zero absolute temperature). Internal and external degrees of the atom couple due to recoil during emission of a photon. We provide a full analysis of the problem in the long wavelengths limit up to the border of the Lamb-Dicke regime, including a study of the internal dynamics of the atom (spontaneous emission), the tunneling motion, and the electric field of the emitted photon. The tunneling process itself may or may not decohere depending on the wavelength corresponding to the internal transition compared to the distance between the two wells of the external potential, as well as on the spontaneous emission rate compared to the tunneling frequency. Interference fringes appear in the emitted light from a tunneling atom, or an atom in a stationary coherent superposition of its center--of--mass motion, if the wavelength is comparable to the well separation, but only if the external state of the atom is post-selected.

id: 0707.4164
title: Any-order propagation of the nonlinear Schroedinger equation
authors: Frederick W. Strauch
comments: 10 pages, no figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4164
abstract: We derive an exact propagation scheme for nonlinear Schroedinger equations. This scheme is entirely analogous to the propagation of linear Schroedinger equations. We accomplish this by defining a special operator whose algebraic properties ensure the correct propagation. As applications, we provide a simple proof of a recent conjecture regarding higher-order integrators for the Gross-Pitaevskii equation, extend it to multi-component equations, and to a new class of integrators.

id: 0707.4195
title: Experiments with Probabilistic Quantum Auctions
authors: Kay-Yut Chen, Tad Hogg
comments: extended description of experiment setup and results
journal: Quantum Information Processing 7:139-152 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4195
abstract: We describe human-subject laboratory experiments on probabilistic auctions based on previously proposed auction protocols involving the simulated manipulation and communication of quantum states. These auctions are probabilistic in determining which bidder wins, or having no winner, rather than always having the highest bidder win. Comparing two quantum protocols in the context of first-price sealed bid auctions, we find the one predicted to be superior by game theory also performs better experimentally. We also compare with a conventional first price auction, which gives higher performance. Thus to provide benefits, the quantum protocol requires more complex economic scenarios such as maintaining privacy of bids over a series of related auctions or involving allocative externalities.

id: 0707.4206
title: Interferometry of non-Abelian Anyons
authors: Parsa Bonderson, Kirill Shtengel, J. K. Slingerland
comments: 4+epsilon pages (where epsilon=58), 3 figures; v2: minor corrections and clarifications made, references added
journal: Annals Phys. 323, 2709-2755 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4206
abstract: We develop the general quantum measurement theory of non-Abelian anyons through interference experiments. The paper starts with a terse introduction to the theory of anyon models, focusing on the basic formalism necessary to apply standard quantum measurement theory to such systems. This is then applied to give a detailed analysis of anyonic charge measurements using a Mach-Zehnder interferometer for arbitrary anyon models. We find that, as anyonic probes are sent through the legs of the interferometer, superpositions of the total anyonic charge located in the target region collapse when they are distinguishable via monodromy with the probe anyons, which also determines the rate of collapse. We give estimates on the number of probes needed to obtain a desired confidence level for the measurement outcome distinguishing between charges, and explicitly work out a number of examples for some significant anyon models. We apply the same techniques to describe interferometry measurements in a double point-contact interferometer realized in fractional quantum Hall systems. To lowest order in tunneling, these results essentially match those from the Mach-Zehnder interferometer, but we also provide the corrections due to processes involving multiple tunnelings. Finally, we give explicit predictions describing state measurements for experiments in the Abelian hierarchy states, the non-Abelian Moore-Read state at $\nu=5/2$ and Read-Rezayi state at $\nu = 12/5$.

id: 0707.4223
title: Spatial reflection and renormalization group flow of quantum many-body systems with matrix product state representation
authors: Li-Xiang Cen, Z. D. Wang
comments: updated version, accepted by Europhys. Lett.
journal: EPL, 82 (2008) 40003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4223
abstract: The property of quantum many-body systems under spatial reflection and the relevant physics of renormalization group (RG) procedure are revealed. By virtue of the matrix product state (MPS) representation, various attributes for translational invariant systems associated with spatial reflection are manifested. We demonstrate subsequently a conservation rule of the conjugative relation for reflectional MPS pairs under RG transformations and illustrate further the property of the fixed points of RG flows. Finally, we show that a similar rule exists with respect to the target states in the density matrix renormalization group algorithm.

id: 0707.4233
title: On the Synthesis of Sequential Reversible Circuit
authors: Anindita Banerjee, Anirban Pathak
comments: 9 pages, 8 Figures, LaTeX 2e,
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4233
abstract: Reversible circuits for SR flip flop, JK flip flop, D flip flop, T flip flop, Master Slave D flip flop and Master Slave JK flip flop have been provided with three different logical approaches. All the circuits have been optimized with the help of existing local optimization algorithms (e.g. template matching, moving rule and deletion rule) and the optimized sequential circuits have been compared with the earlier proposals for the same. It has been shown that the present proposals have lower gate complexities and lower number of garbage bits compared to the earlier proposals. It has also been shown that the advantage in gate count obtained in some of the earlier proposals by introduction of New gates is an \textcolor{black}{artifact} and if it is allowed then every circuit block (unless there is a measurement) can be reduced to a single gate. Further, it is shown that a reversible flip flop can be constructed even without a feedback. In this context, some important conceptual issues related to the designing and optimization of sequential reversible circuits have also been addressed.

id: 0707.4295
title: Task-Oriented Maximally Entangled States
authors: Pankaj Agrawal, B. Pradhan
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4295
abstract: We introduce the notion of a task-oriented maximally entangled state (TMES). This notion depends on the tasks for which a quantum state is used as the resource. This concept may be more fruitful than that of a general maximally entangled state in the case of a multipartite system. We illustrate this idea by giving an operational definition of maximally entangled states on the basis of communication tasks of teleportation and superdense coding. We also give examples and a procedure to obtain such TMESs for {\em n}-qubit systems.

id: 0707.4307
title: High speed single photon detection in the near-infrared
authors: Z. L. Yuan, B. E. Kardynal, A. W. Sharpe, A. J. Shields
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 91, 041114(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4307
abstract: InGaAs avalanche photodiodes (APDs) are convenient for single photon detection in the near-infrared (NIR) including the fibre communication bands (1.31/1.55 $\mu$m). However, to suppress afterpulse noise due to trapped avalanche charge, they must be gated with MHz repetition frequencies, thereby severely limiting the count rate in NIR applications. Here we show gating frequencies for InGaAs-APDs well beyond 1 GHz. Using a self-differencing technique to sense much weaker avalanches, we reduce drastically afterpulse noise. At 1.25 GHz, we obtain a detection efficiency of 10.8% with an afterpulse probability of 6.16%. In addition, the detector features low jitter (55 ps) and a count rate of 100 MHz.

id: 0707.4315
title: Beyond the standard entropic inequalities: stronger scalar separability criteria and their applications
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak, Julia Stasi¨½ska, Pawel Horodecki
comments: 15 Pages, RevTex, 7 figures, some new results were added, few references changed, typos corrected
journal: Physical Review A 77, 012333 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4315
abstract: Recently it was shown that if a given state fulfils the reduction criterion it must also satisfy the known entropic inequalities. Now the questions arises whether on the assumption that stronger criteria based on positive but not completely positive maps are satisfied, it is possible to derive some scalar inequalities stronger than the entropic ones. In this paper we show that under some assumptions the extended reduction criterion [H.-P. Breuer, Phys. Rev. Lett 97, 080501 (2006); W. Hall, J. Phys. A 40, 6183 (2007)] leads to some entropic--like inequalities which are much stronger than their entropic counterparts. The comparison of the derived inequalities with other separability criteria shows that such approach might lead to strong scalar criteria detecting both distillable and bound entanglement. In particular, in the case of SO(3)-invariant states it is shown that the present inequalities detect entanglement in regions in which entanglement witnesses based on extended reduction map fail. It should be also emphasized that in the case of $2\otimes N$ states the derived inequalities detect entanglement efficiently, while the extended reduction maps are useless when acting on the qubit subsystem. Moreover, there is a natural way to construct a many-copy entanglement witnesses based on the derived inequalities so, in principle, there is a possibility of experimental realization. Some open problems and possibilities for further studies are outlined.

id: 0707.4325
title: Renormalization of Singular Potentials and Power Counting
authors: B. Long, U. van Kolck
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures
journal: AnnalsPhys.323:1304-1323,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4325
abstract: We use a toy model to illustrate how to build effective theories for singular potentials. We consider a central attractive 1/r^2 potential perturbed by a 1/r^4 correction. The power-counting rule, an important ingredient of effective theory, is established by seeking the minimum set of short-range counterterms that renormalize the scattering amplitude. We show that leading-order counterterms are needed in all partial waves where the potential overcomes the centrifugal barrier, and that the additional counterterms at next-to-leading order are the ones expected on the basis of dimensional analysis.

id: 0707.4335
title: Strongly-correlated multi-particle transport in one-dimension through a quantum impurity: an outline of exact and complete solutions
authors: Jung-Tsung Shen, Shanhui Fan
comments: 67 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 062709 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4335
abstract: We consider the transport properties of multiple-particle quantum states in a class of one-dimensional systems with a single quantum impurity. In these systems, the local interaction at the quantum impurity induces strong and non-trivial correlations between the multi-particles. We outline an exact theoretical approach, based upon real-space equations of motion and the Bethe ansatz, that allows one to construct the full scattering matrix (S-matrix) for these systems. In particular, we emphasize the need for completeness check upon the eigenstates of the S-matrix, when these states obtained from Bethe Ansatz are used for describing the scattering properties. As a detailed example of our approach, we solve the transport properties of two photons incident on a single two-level atom, when the photons are restricted to a one-dimensional system such as a photonic crystal waveguide. Our approach predicts a number of novel nonlinear effects involving only two photons, including background fluorescence, spatial attraction and repulsion between the photons, as well as the emergence of a two-photon bound state.

id: 0707.4379
title: Runge-Lenz Vector, Accidental SU(2) Symmetry, and Unusual Multiplets for Motion on a Cone
authors: M. H. Al-Hashimi, U.-J. Wiese
comments: 26 pages, 7 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 323 (2008) 82-104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4379
abstract: We consider a particle moving on a cone and bound to its tip by $1/r$ or harmonic oscillator potentials. When the deficit angle of the cone divided by $2 \pi$ is a rational number, all bound classical orbits are closed. Correspondingly, the quantum system has accidental degeneracies in the discrete energy spectrum. An accidental SU(2) symmetry is generated by the rotations around the tip of the cone as well as by a Runge-Lenz vector. Remarkably, some of the corresponding multiplets have fractional ``spin'' and unusual degeneracies.

id: 0707.4398
title: Pure state estimation and the characterization of entanglement
authors: Miguel Navascues
comments: Closer to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 070503 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4398
abstract: A connection between the state estimation problem and the separability problem is noticed and exploited to find efficient numerical algorithms to solve the first one. Based on these ideas, we also derive a systematic method to obtain upper bounds on the maximum local fidelity when the states are distributed among several distant parties.

id: 0707.4401
title: Entanglement measures: state ordering vs local operations
authors: Mario Ziman, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, presented at NATO Advanced Research Workshop on Quantum Communication and Security (September 2006, Gdansk, Poland)
journal: Quantum Communication and Security (edited by M.Zukowski et al.), pp. 196-204 (IOS Press, 2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4401
abstract: A set of all states of a bi-partite quantum system can be divided into subsets each of which contains states with the same degree of entanglement. In this paper we address a question whether local operations (without classical communication) affect the entanglement-induced state ordering. We show that arbitrary unilocal channel (i.e., a channel that acts on one sub-system of a bi-partite system only) might change the ordering for an arbitrary nontrivial measure of entanglement. A slightly weaker result holds for the maximally entangled states. In particular, the maximally entangled states might not remain the most entangled ones at the output of a unilocal noise channel.

id: 0707.4428
title: Only n-Qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger States are Undetermined by their Reduced Density Matrices
authors: Scott N. Walck, David W. Lyons
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 050501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4428
abstract: The generalized n-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states and their local unitary equivalents are the only states of n qubits that are not uniquely determined among pure states by their reduced density matrices of n-1 qubits. Thus, among pure states, the generalized GHZ states are the only ones containing information at the n-party level. We point out a connection between local unitary stabilizer subgroups and the property of being determined by reduced density matrices.

id: 0707.4432
title: Bright and dark excitons in an atom--pair filled optical lattice within a cavity
authors: Hashem Zoubi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 82, 14001 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4432
abstract: We study electronic excitations of a degenerate gas of atoms trapped in pairs in an optical lattice. Local dipole-dipole interactions produce a long lived antisymmetric and a short lived symmetric superposition of individual atomic excitations as the lowest internal on-site excitations. Due to the much larger dipole moment the symmetric states couple efficiently to neighbouring lattice sites and can be well represented by Frenkel excitons, while the antisymmetric dark states stay localized. Within a cavity only symmetric states couple to cavity photons inducing long range interactions to form polaritons. We calculate their dispersion curves as well as cavity transmission and reflection spectra to observe them. For a lattice with aspherical sites bright and dark states get mixed and their relative excitation energies depend on photon polarizations. The system should allow to study new types of solid state phenomena in atom filled optical lattices.

id: 0707.4441
title: Robust ultrafast currents in molecular wires through Stark shifts
authors: Ignacio Franco, Moshe Shapiro, Paul Brumer
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, accepted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4441
abstract: A novel way to induce ultrafast currents in molecular wires using two incident laser frequencies, $\omega$ and $2\omega$, is demonstrated. The mechanism relies on Stark shifts, instead of photon absorption, to transfer population to the excited states and exploits the temporal profile of the field to generate phase controllable transport. Calculations in a \emph{trans}-polyacetylene oligomer coupled to metallic leads indicate that the mechanism is highly efficient and robust to ultrafast electronic dephasing processes induced by vibronic couplings.

id: 0707.4443
title: Qubit quantum channels: A characteristic function approach
authors: Filippo Caruso, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 10 pages (minor editing)
journal: Physical Review A 76, 042331 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4443
abstract: A characterization of qubit quantum channels is introduced. In analogy to what happens in the context of Bosonic channels we exploit the possibility of representing the states of the system in terms of characteristic function. The latter are functions of non-commuting variables (Grassmann variables) and are defined in terms of generalized displacement operators. In this context we introduce the set of Gaussian channels and show that they share similar properties with the corresponding Bosonic counterpart.

id: 0707.4450
title: Generalized Landau-Pollak Uncertainty Relation
authors: Takayuki Miyadera, Hideki Imai
comments: Simplified the proofs. To be published in Phys.Rev.A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 062108 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4450
abstract: The Landau-Pollak uncertainty relation treats a pair of rank one projection valued measures and imposes a restriction on their probability distributions. It gives a nontrivial bound for summation of their maximum values. We give a generalization of this bound (weak version of the Landau-Pollak uncertainty relation). Our generalization covers a pair of positive operator valued measures. A nontrivial but slightly weak inequality that can treat an arbitrary number of positive operator valued measures is also presented.

id: 0707.4485
title: Entanglement sudden death in qubit-qutrit systems
authors: Kevin Ann, Gregg Jaeger
comments: 10 pages. To appear in Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4485
abstract: We demonstrate the existence of entanglement sudden death (ESD), the complete loss of entanglement in finite time, in qubit-qutrit systems. In particular, ESD is shown to occur in such systems initially prepared in a one-parameter class of entangled mixed states and then subjected to local dephasing noise. Together with previous results, this proves the existence of ESD for some states in all quantum systems for which rigorously defined mixed-state entanglement measures have been identified. We conjecture that ESD exists in all quantum systems prepared in appropriate bipartite states.

id: 0707.4508
title: Transport phenomena in the asymmetric quantum multibaker map
authors: Leonardo Ermann, Gabriel G. Carlo, Marcos Saraceno
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Accepted version, minor changes, Journal-ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 011126 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4508
abstract: By studying a modified (unbiased) quantum multibaker map, we were able to obtain a {\em finite} asymptotic quantum current without a classical analogue. This result suggests a general method for the design of {\em purely} quantum ratchets, and sheds light on the investigation of the mechanisms leading to net transport generation by breaking symmetries of quantum systems. Moreover, we propose the multibaker map as a resource to study directed transport phenomena in chaotic systems without bias. In fact, this is a paradigmatic model in classical and quantum chaos, but also in statistical mechanics.

id: 0707.4523
title: Quantum Entanglement and Teleportation in Higher Dimensional Black Hole Spacetimes
authors: Xian-Hui Ge, Sang Pyo Kim
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures,contents expanded
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.25:075011,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4523
abstract: We study the properties of quantum entanglement and teleportation in the background of stationary and rotating curved space-times with extra dimensions. We show that a maximally entangled Bell state in an inertial frame becomes less entangled in curved space due to the well-known Hawking-Unruh effect. The degree of entanglement is found to be degraded with increasing the extra dimensions. For a finite black hole surface gravity, the observer may choose higher frequency mode to keep high level entanglement. The fidelity of quantum teleporation is also reduced because of the Hawking-Unruh effect. We discuss the fidelity as a function of extra dimensions, mode frequency, black hole mass and black hole angular momentum parameter for both bosonic and fermionic resources.

id: 0707.4531
title: Algebraic structure of the Feynman propagator and a new correspondence for canonical transformations
authors: Akihiro Ogura, Motoo Sekiguchi
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48, 072102 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4531
abstract: We investigate the algebraic structure of the Feynman propagator with a general time-dependent quadratic Hamiltonian system. Using the Lie-algebraic technique we obtain a normal-ordered form of the time-evolution operator, and then the propagator is easily derived by a simple ``Integration Within Ordered Product" (IWOP) technique.It is found that this propagator contains a classical generating function which demonstrates a new correspondence between classical and quantum mechanics.

id: 0707.4559
title: Information-Disturbance theorem and Uncertainty Relation
authors: Takayuki Miyadera, Hideki Imai
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4559
abstract: It has been shown that Information-Disturbance theorem can play an important role in security proof of quantum cryptography. The theorem is by itself interesting since it can be regarded as an information theoretic version of uncertainty principle. It, however, has been able to treat restricted situations. In this paper, the restriction on the source is abandoned, and a general information-disturbance theorem is obtained. The theorem relates information gain by Eve with information gain by Bob.

id: 0707.4574
title: Ground-state fidelity in one-dimensional gapless model
authors: Min-Fong Yang
comments: 4+ pages, no figure, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 180403(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4574
abstract: A general relation between quantum phase transitions and the second derivative of the fidelity (or the "fidelity susceptibility") is proposed. The validity and the limitation of the fidelity susceptibility in characterizing quantum phase transitions is thus established. Moreover, based on the bosonization method, general formulas of the fidelity and the fidelity susceptibility are obtained for a class of one-dimensional gapless systems known as the Tomonaga-Luttinger liquid. Applying these formulas to the one-dimensional spin-1/2 $XXZ$ model, we find that quantum phase transitions, even of the Beresinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless type, can be signaled by the fidelity susceptibility.

id: 0707.4664
title: One-way quantum computation with four-dimensional photonic qudits
authors: Jaewoo Joo, Peter L. Knight, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Terry Rudolph
comments: 10 figures (typos are corrected)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052326 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4664
abstract: We consider the possibility of performing linear optical quantum computation making use of extra photonic degrees of freedom. In particular we focus on the case where we use photons as quadbits. The basic 2-quadbit cluster state is a hyper-entangled state across polarization and two spatial mode degrees of freedom. We examine the non-deterministic methods whereby such states can be created from single photons and/or Bell pairs, and then give some mechanisms for performing higher-dimensional fusion gates.

id: 0707.4667
title: Macroscopic Distinguishability Between Quantum States Defining Different Phases of Matter: Fidelity and the Uhlmann Geometric Phase
authors: Nikola Paunkovic, Vitor Rocha Vieira
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures. Version to be published
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 011129 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4667
abstract: We study the fidelity approach to quantum phase transitions (QPTs) and apply it to general thermal phase transitions (PTs). We analyze two particular cases: the Stoner-Hubbard itinerant electron model of magnetism and the BCS theory of superconductivity. In both cases we show that the sudden drop of the mixed state fidelity marks the line of the phase transition. We conduct a detailed analysis of the general case of systems given by mutually commuting Hamiltonians, where the non-analyticity of the fidelity is directly related to the non-analyticity of the relevant response functions (susceptibility and heat capacity), for the case of symmetry-breaking transitions. Further, on the case of BCS theory of superconductivity, given by mutually non-commuting Hamiltonians, we analyze the structure of the system's eigenvectors in the vicinity of the line of the phase transition showing that their sudden change is quantified by the emergence of a generically non-trivial Uhlmann mixed state geometric phase.

id: 0707.0041
title: Classical bifurcations and entanglement in smooth Hamiltonian system
authors: M. S. Santhanam, V. B. Sheorey, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 026213 (2008).
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0041
abstract: We study entanglement in two coupled quartic oscillators. It is shown that the entanglement, as measured by the von Neumann entropy, increases with the classical chaos parameter for generic chaotic eigenstates. We consider certain isolated periodic orbits whose bifurcation sequence affects a class of quantum eigenstates, called the channel localized states. For these states, the entanglement is a local minima in the vicinity of a pitchfork bifurcation but is a local maxima near a anti-pitchfork bifurcation. We place these results in the context of the close connections that may exist between entanglement measures and conventional measures of localization that have been much studied in quantum chaos and elsewhere. We also point to an interesting near-degeneracy that arises in the spectrum of reduced density matrices of certain states as an interplay of localization and symmetry.

id: 0707.0145
title: Laser Pulse Amplification with Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Alphan Sennaroglu, Ozgur E. Mustecaplioglu, Devrim Tarhan
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to incompleteness investigation of feasibility of using BECs for laser pulse amplification.
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0145
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author.

id: 0707.0217
title: Regular-to-chaotic tunneling rates using a fictitious integrable system
authors: A. B?cker, R. Ketzmerick, S. L?ck, L. Schilling
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 104101 (2008)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0217
abstract: We derive a formula predicting dynamical tunneling rates from regular states to the chaotic sea in systems with a mixed phase space. Our approach is based on the introduction of a fictitious integrable system that resembles the regular dynamics within the island. For the standard map and other kicked systems we find agreement with numerical results for all regular states in a regime where resonance-assisted tunneling is not relevant.

id: 0707.0266
title: Increasing entanglement through engineered disorder in the random Ising chain
authors: D. Binosi, G. De Chiara, S. Montangero, A. Recati
comments: 4 pages, published version, a few typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 140405(R) (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0266
abstract: The ground state entanglement entropy between block of sites in the random Ising chain is studied by means of the Von Neumann entropy. We show that in presence of strong correlations between the disordered couplings and local magnetic fields the entanglement increases and becomes larger than in the ordered case. The different behavior with respect to the uncorrelated disordered model is due to the drastic change of the ground state properties. The same result holds also for the random 3-state quantum Potts model.

id: 0707.0343
title: Particle interference as a test of Lorentz-violating electrodynamics
authors: Archil Kobakhidze, Bruce H. J. McKellar
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.D76:093004,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0343
abstract: In Lorentz-violating electrodynamics a steady current (and similarly a static charge) generates both static magnetic and electric fields. These induced fields, acting on interfering particles, change the interference pattern. We find that particle interference experiments are sensitive to small Lorentz violating effects, and thus they can be used to improve current bounds on some Lorentz-violating parameters.

id: 0707.0383
title: Pair condensation of bosonic atoms induced by optical lattices
authors: Maria Eckholt, Juan Jose Garcia-Ripoll
comments: Improved readability
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 063603 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0383
abstract: We design a model of correlated hopping for bosonic atoms in optical lattices. Such model exhibits three kinds of phases, comprehending a Mott insulator, a charge density wave and a pair quasi-condensate. The implementation of the model relies on two-state atoms embedded in state-dependent lattices and having spin-dependent interactions. Contrary to other models of pairing, our design is not based on perturbative effects and should be observable in current experiments.

id: 0707.0403
title: Dynamical control of matter-wave tunneling in periodic potentials
authors: H. Lignier, C. Sias, D. Ciampini, Y. Singh, A. Zenesini, O. Morsch, E. Arimondo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0403
abstract: We report on measurements of dynamical suppression of inter-well tunneling of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in a strongly driven optical lattice. The strong driving is a sinusoidal shaking of the lattice corresponding to a time-varying linear potential, and the tunneling is measured by letting the BEC freely expand in the lattice. The measured tunneling rate is reduced and, for certain values of the shaking parameter, completely suppressed. Our results are in excellent agreement with theoretical predictions. Furthermore, we have verified that in general the strong shaking does not destroy the phase coherence of the BEC, opening up the possibility of realizing quantum phase transitions by using the shaking strength as the control parameter.

id: 0707.0635
title: Possible Connection between Probability, Spacetime Geometry and Quantum Mechanics
authors: E. Canessa
comments: in press
journal: PhysicaA385:185-190,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0635
abstract: Following our discussion [Physica A, 375 (2007) 123] to associate an analogous probabilistic description with spacetime geometry in the Schwarzschild metric from the macro- to the micro-domain, we argue that there is a possible connection among normalized probabilities, spacetime geometry (in the form of Schwarzschild radii) and quantum mechanics (in the form of complex wave functions). We show how this association along different (n)-nested surfaces --representing curve space due to an inhomogeneous density of matter-- preserves the postulates of quantum mechanics at different geometrical scales.

id: 0707.0667
title: Information entropy of Gegenbauer polynomials of integer parameter
authors: Julio I. de Vicente, Silvia Gandy, Jorge S¨¢nchez-Ruiz
comments: 19 pages, 1 Postscript figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40, 8345-8361 (2007)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0667
abstract: The position and momentum information entropies of $D$-dimensional quantum systems with central potentials, such as the isotropic harmonic oscillator and the hydrogen atom, depend on the entropies of the (hyper)spherical harmonics. In turn, these entropies are expressed in terms of the entropies of the Gegenbauer (ultraspherical) polynomials $C_n^{(\lambda)}(x)$, the parameter $\lambda$ being either an integer or a half-integer number. Up to now, however, the exact analytical expression of the entropy of Gegenbauer polynomials of arbitrary degree $n$ has only been obtained for the particular values of the parameter $\lambda=0,1,2$. Here we present a novel approach to the evaluation of the information entropy of Gegenbauer polynomials, which makes use of trigonometric representations for these polynomials and complex integration techniques. Using this method, we are able to find the analytical expression of the entropy for arbitrary values of both $n$ and $\lambda\in\mathbb{N}$.

id: 0707.0686
title: Adiabatic elimination in quantum stochastic models
authors: Luc Bouten, Andrew Silberfarb
comments: 17 pages, no figures, corrected mistakes
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 283, 491-505 (2008)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0686
abstract: We consider a physical system with a coupling to bosonic reservoirs via a quantum stochastic differential equation. We study the limit of this model as the coupling strength tends to infinity. We show that in this limit the solution to the quantum stochastic differential equation converges strongly to the solution of a limit quantum stochastic differential equation. In the limiting dynamics the excited states are removed and the ground states couple directly to the reservoirs.

id: 0707.1037
title: Concatenated dynamical decoupling in a solid-state spin bath
authors: W. M. Witzel, S. Das Sarma
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 241303(R) (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1037
abstract: Concatenated dynamical decoupling (CDD) pulse sequences hold much promise as a strategy to mitigate decoherence in quantum information processing. It is important to investigate the actual performance of these dynamical decoupling strategies in real systems that are promising qubit candidates. In this Rapid Communication, we compute the echo decay of concatenations of the Hahn echo sequence for a solid-state electronic spin qubit in a nuclear spin bath using a cluster expansion technique. We find that each level of concatenation reverses the effect of successive levels of intrabath fluctuations. On the one hand, this advances CDD as a versatile and realistic decoupling strategy. On the other hand, this invalidates, as overly optimistic, results of the simple pair approximation used previously to study restoration, through CDD, of coherence lost to a mesoscopic spin bath.

id: 0707.1267
title: Production of multipartite entanglement for electron spins in quantum dots
authors: F. Bodoky, M. Blaauboer
comments: 8 pages, 2 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052309 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1267
abstract: We propose how to generate genuine multipartite entanglement of electron spin qubits in a chain of quantum dots using the naturally available single-qubit rotations and two-qubit Heisenberg exchange interaction in the system. We show that the minimum number of required operations to generate entangled states of the GHZ-, cluster and W-type scales linearly with the number of qubits and estimate the fidelities of the generated entangled cluster states. As the required single and two-qubit operations have recently been realized, our proposed scheme opens the way for experimental investigation of multipartite entanglement with electron spin qubits.

id: 0707.1348
title: Engineering Quantum States of a Nano-Resonator via a Simple Auxiliary System
authors: Kurt Jacobs
comments: 4 pages, revtex4, 1 eps figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 117203 (2007) (cover article, Sept. 14)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1348
abstract: We show how to engineer an extensive range of non-linear Hamiltonians for a nano-mechanical resonator. The technique requires only a time dependent drive applied to a Cooper-pair box or second oscillator to which the nano-resonator is coupled. This method allows one to generate a large number of non-classical states, as well as Hamiltonians whose classical counterparts are chaotic.

id: 0707.1553
title: Nonlinear Dirac Equations
authors: Wei-Khim Ng, Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 023, 20 pages
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1553
abstract: We construct nonlinear extensions of Dirac's relativistic electron equation that preserve its other desirable properties such as locality, separability, conservation of probability and Poincar\'e invariance. We determine the constraints that the nonlinear term must obey and classify the resultant non-polynomial nonlinearities in a double expansion in the degree of nonlinearity and number of derivatives. We give explicit examples of such nonlinear equations, studying their discrete symmetries and other properties. Motivated by some previously suggested applications we then consider nonlinear terms that simultaneously violate Lorentz covariance and again study various explicit examples. We contrast our equations and construction procedure with others in the literature and also show that our equations are not gauge equivalent to the linear Dirac equation. Finally we outline various physical applications for these equations.

id: 0707.1781
title: Calculation of the metric in the Hilbert space of a PT-symmetric model via the spectral theorem
authors: David Krejcirik
comments: LaTeX, 6 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 244012.
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1781
abstract: In a previous paper (arXiv:math-ph/0604055) we introduced a very simple PT-symmetric non-Hermitian Hamiltonian with real spectrum and derived a closed formula for the metric operator relating the problem to a Hermitian one. In this note we propose an alternative formula for the metric operator, which we believe is more elegant and whose construction -- based on a backward use of the spectral theorem for self-adjoint operators -- provides new insights into the nature of the model.

id: 0707.1805
title: Diffusion and transfer of entanglement in an array of inductively coupled flux qubits
authors: Rosanna Migliore, Kazuya Yuasa, Marina Guccione, Hiromichi Nakazato, Antonino Messina
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, to be published on Phys. Rev. B 2007
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1805
abstract: A theoretical scheme to generate multipartite entangled states in a Josephson planar-designed architecture is reported. This scheme improves the one published in [Phys. Rev. B 74, 104503 (2006)] since it speeds up the generation of W entangled states in an MxN array of inductively coupled Josephson flux qubits by reducing the number of necessary steps. In addition, the same protocol is shown to be able to transfer the W state from one row to the other.

id: 0707.1862
title: Casimir forces between arbitrary compact objects
authors: T. Emig, N. Graham, R. L. Jaffe, M. Kardar
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.99:170403,2007
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1862
abstract: We develop an exact method for computing the Casimir energy between arbitrary compact objects, either dielectrics or perfect conductors. The energy is obtained as an interaction between multipoles, generated by quantum current fluctuations. The objects' shape and composition enter only through their scattering matrices. The result is exact when all multipoles are included, and converges rapidly. A low frequency expansion yields the energy as a series in the ratio of the objects' size to their separation. As an example, we obtain this series for two dielectric spheres and the full interaction at all separations for perfectly conducting spheres.

id: 0707.2084
title: A quantum topological phase transition at the microscopic level
authors: C. Castelnovo, C. Chamon
comments: (13 pages, 4 figures) v2: updated references and acknowledgments; v3: final update (references) after publication
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 054433 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2084
abstract: We study a quantum phase transition between a phase which is topologically ordered and one which is not. We focus on a spin model, an extension of the toric code, for which we obtain the exact ground state for all values of the coupling constant that takes the system across the phase transition. We compute the entanglement and the topological entropy of the system as a function of this coupling constant, and show that the topological entropy remains constant all the way up to the critical point, and jumps to zero beyond it. Despite the jump in the topological entropy, the transition is second order as detected via any local observable.

id: 0707.2335
title: Quasielastic He atom scattering from surfaces: A stochastic description of the dynamics of interacting adsorbates
authors: R. Martinez-Casado, J. L. Vega, A. S. Sanz, S Miret-Artes
comments: 32 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 19, 305002 (2007)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2335
abstract: The study of diffusion and low frequency vibrational motions of particles on metal surfaces is of paramount importance; it provides valuable information on the nature of the adsorbate-substrate and the substrate-substrate interactions. In particular, the experimental broadening observed in the diffusive peak with increasing coverage is usually interpreted in terms of a dipole-dipole like interaction among adsorbates via extensive molecular dynamics calculations within the Langevin framework. Here we present an alternative way to interpret this broadening by means of a purely stochastic description, namely the interacting single adsorbate approximation, where two noise sources are considered: (1) a Gaussian white noise accounting for the surface friction and temperature, and (2) a white shot noise replacing the interaction potential between adsorbates. Standard Langevin numerical simulations for flat and corrugated surfaces (with a separable potential) illustrate the dynamics of Na atoms on a Cu(100) surface which fit fairly well to the analytical expressions issued from simple models (free particle and anharmonic oscillator) when the Gaussian approximation is assumed. A similar broadening is also expected for the frustrated translational mode peaks.

id: 0707.2372
title: Importance of bath dynamics for decoherence in spin systems
authors: Shengjun Yuan, Mikhail I. Katsnelson, Hans De Raedt
comments: submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2372
abstract: We study the decoherence of two coupled spins that interact with a chaotic spin-bath environment. It is shown that connectivity of spins in the bath is of crucial importance for the decoherence of the central system. The previously found phenomenon of two-step decoherence (Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 90}, 210401 (2003)) turns out to be typical for the bath with a slow enough dynamics or no dynamics. For a generic random system with chaotic dynamics a conventional exponential relaxation to the pointer states takes place. Our results confirm a conjecture of Paz and Zurek (Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 82}, 5181 (1999)) that for weak enough interactions the pointer states are eigenstates of the central system.

id: 0707.2571
title: Dynamical and energetic instabilities in multi-component Bose-Einstein condensates in optical lattices
authors: J. Ruostekoski, Zachary Dutton
comments: 17 pages, 12 figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76 (2007) 063607
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2571
abstract: We study dynamical and energetic instabilities in the transport properties of Bloch waves for atomic multi-component Bose-Einstein condensates in optical lattices in the tight-binding limit. We obtain stability criteria analytically, as a function of superfluid velocities and interaction parameters, in several cases for two-component and spinor condensates. In the two-species case we find that the presence of the other condensate component can stabilize the superfluid flow of an otherwise unstable condensate and that the free space dynamical miscibility condition of the two species can be reversed by tuning the superfluid flow velocities. In spin-1 condensates, we find the steady-state Bloch wave solutions and characterize their stability criteria. We find generally more regions of dynamical instability arise for the polar than for the ferromagnetic solutions. In the presence of magnetic Zeeman shifts, we find a richer variety of condensate solutions and find that the linear Zeeman shift can stabilize the superfluid flow in several cases of interest.

id: 0707.2624
title: Analytic Approach for Controlling Realistic Quantum Chaotic Systems
authors: Toshiya Takami, Hiroshi Fujisaki
comments: 4 pages with 4 PostScript figures, to appear in the Proceedings of ICCMSE 2007 in a section of Symposium 8 "Quantum Control and Light-Matter Interactions: Recent Computational and Theoretical Results"
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 963, 821-824 (2007)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2624
abstract: An analytic approach for controlling quantum states, which was originally applied to fully random matrix systems [T. Takami and H. Fujisaki, Phys. Rev. E 75, 036219 (2007)], is extended to deal with more realistic quantum systems with a banded random matrix (BRM). The validity of the new analytic field is confirmed by directly solving the Schroedinger equation with a BRM interaction. We find a threshold of the width of the BRM for the quantum control to be successful.

id: 0707.2708
title: On the self-adjointness of certain reduced Laplace-Beltrami operators
authors: L. Feher, B.G. Pusztai
comments: 9 pages, minor changes, updated references in v2
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 61 (2008) 163-170
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.2708
abstract: The self-adjointness of the reduced Hamiltonian operators arising from the Laplace-Beltrami operator of a complete Riemannian manifold through quantum Hamiltonian reduction based on a compact isometry group is studied. A simple sufficient condition is provided that guarantees the inheritance of essential self-adjointness onto a certain class of restricted operators and allows us to conclude the self-adjointness of the reduced Laplace-Beltrami operators in a concise way. As a consequence, the self-adjointness of spin Calogero-Sutherland type reductions of `free' Hamiltonians under polar actions of compact Lie groups follows immediately.

id: 0707.3039
title: PT-symmetric waveguides
authors: Denis Borisov, David Krejcirik
comments: LaTeX, 25 pages; more detailed description of various types of spectra; version accepted for publication in Integral Equations Operator Theory
journal: Integral Equations Operator Theory 62 (2008), no. 4, 489-515.
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3039
abstract: We introduce a planar waveguide of constant width with non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Robin boundary conditions. We study the spectrum of this system in the regime when the boundary coupling function is a compactly supported perturbation of a homogeneous coupling. We prove that the essential spectrum is positive and independent of such perturbation, and that the residual spectrum is empty. Assuming that the perturbation is small in the supremum norm, we show that it gives rise to real weakly-coupled eigenvalues converging to the threshold of the essential spectrum. We derive sufficient conditions for these eigenvalues to exist or to be absent. Moreover, we construct the leading terms of the asymptotic expansions of these eigenvalues and the associated eigenfunctions.

id: 0707.3140
title: Interaction-controlled transport of an ultracold Fermi gas
authors: Niels Strohmaier, Yosuke Takasu, Kenneth G¨¹nter, Robert J?rdens, Michael K?hl, Henning Moritz, Tilman Esslinger
comments: 4 pages, 4 Postscript figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 220601 (2007)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3140
abstract: We explore the transport properties of an interacting Fermi gas in a three-dimensional optical lattice. The center of mass dynamics of the atoms after a sudden displacement of the trap minimum is monitored for different interaction strengths and lattice fillings. With increasingly strong attractive interactions the weakly damped oscillation, observed for the non-interacting case, turns into a slow relaxational drift. Tuning the interaction strength during the evolution allows us to dynamically control the transport behavior. Strong attraction between the atoms leads to the formation of local pairs with a reduced tunneling rate. The interpretation in terms of pair formation is supported by a measurement of the number of doubly occupied lattice sites. This quantity also allows us to determine the temperature of the non-interacting gas in the lattice to be as low as (27\pm2)% of the Fermi temperature.

id: 0707.3286
title: Galilei invariant theories. II. Wave equations for massive fields
authors: J. Niederle, A.G. Nikitin
comments: 33 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3286
abstract: Galilei invariant equations for massive fields with various spins are found and classified. They have been obtained directly, i.e., by using requirement of Galilei invariance and the facts on representations of the Galilei group deduced in our previous paper de Montigny M, Niederle J and Nikitin A G, J. Phys. A {\bf 39}, 1-21, 2006 . It is shown that the collection of non-equivalent Galilei-invariant wave equations for vector and scalar fields is very broad and describes many physically consistent systems.

id: 0707.3341
title: Quantum Information from Graviton-Matter Gas
authors: Lukasz-Andrzej Glinka
comments: This is a contribution to the Proc. of the Seventh International Conference ''Symmetry in Nonlinear Mathematical Physics'' (June 24-30, 2007, Kyiv, Ukraine), published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 3:087,2007
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3341
abstract: We present basics of conceptually new-type way for explaining of the origin, evolution and current physical properties of our Universe from the graviton-matter gas viewpoint. Quantization method for the Friedmann-Lemaitre Universe based on the canonical Hamilton equations of motion is proposed and quantum information theory way to physics of the Universe is showed. The current contribution from the graviton-matter gas temperature in quintessence approximation is discussed.

id: 0707.3386
title: Galilei invariant theories. III. Wave equations for massless fields
authors: J. Niederle, A.G. Nikitin
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3386
abstract: Galilei invariant equations for massless fields are obtained via contractions of relativistic wave equations. It is shown that the collection of non-equivalent Galilei-invariant wave equations for massless fields with spin equal 1 and 0 is very broad and describes many physically consistent systems. In particular, there exist a huge number of such equations for massless fields which correspond to various contractions of representations of the Lorentz group to those of the Galilei one.

id: 0707.3400
title: The Physics of Maxwell's demon and information
authors: Koji Maruyama, Franco Nori, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 24 pages, 13 figures. v2: some refs added, figs improved
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 81, 1 (2009).
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3400
abstract: Maxwell's demon was born in 1867 and still thrives in modern physics. He plays important roles in clarifying the connections between two theories: thermodynamics and information. Here, we present the history of the demon and a variety of interesting consequences of the second law of thermodynamics, mainly in quantum mechanics, but also in the theory of gravity. We also highlight some of the recent work that explores the role of information, illuminated by Maxwell's demon, in the arena of quantum information theory.

id: 0707.3427
title: Weak values and the Leggett-Garg inequality in solid-state qubits
authors: Nathan S. Williams, Andrew N. Jordan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 026804 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3427
abstract: An implementation of weak values is investigated in solid-state qubits. We demonstrate that a weak value can be non-classical if and only if a Leggett-Garg inequality can also be violated. Generalized weak values are described, where post-selection on a range of weak measurement results. Imposing classical weak values permits the derivation of Leggett-Garg inequalities for bounded operators. Our analysis is presented in terms of kicked quantum nondemolition measurements on a quantum double-dot charge qubit.

id: 0707.3622
title: Constant-degree graph expansions that preserve the treewidth
authors: Igor Markov, Yaoyun Shi
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, the main result used by quant-ph/0511070
journal: Algorithmica, Volume 59, Number 4, 461-470,2011
subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3622
abstract: Many hard algorithmic problems dealing with graphs, circuits, formulas and constraints admit polynomial-time upper bounds if the underlying graph has small treewidth. The same problems often encourage reducing the maximal degree of vertices to simplify theoretical arguments or address practical concerns. Such degree reduction can be performed through a sequence of splittings of vertices, resulting in an _expansion_ of the original graph. We observe that the treewidth of a graph may increase dramatically if the splittings are not performed carefully. In this context we address the following natural question: is it possible to reduce the maximum degree to a constant without substantially increasing the treewidth? Our work answers the above question affirmatively. We prove that any simple undirected graph G=(V, E) admits an expansion G'=(V', E') with the maximum degree <= 3 and treewidth(G') <= treewidth(G)+1. Furthermore, such an expansion will have no more than 2|E|+|V| vertices and 3|E| edges; it can be computed efficiently from a tree-decomposition of G. We also construct a family of examples for which the increase by 1 in treewidth cannot be avoided.

id: 0707.3633
title: Do mixtures of bosonic and fermionic atoms adiabatically heat up in optical lattices?
authors: M. Cramer, S. Ospelkaus, C. Ospelkaus, K. Bongs, K. Sengstock, J. Eisert
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 140409 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3633
abstract: Mixtures of bosonic and fermionic atoms in optical lattices provide a promising arena to study strongly correlated systems. In experiments realizing such mixtures in the quantum degenerate regime the temperature is a key parameter. In this work, we investigate the intrinsic heating and cooling effects due to an entropy-preserving raising of the optical lattice potential. We analyze this process, identify the generic behavior valid for a wide range of parameters, and discuss it quantitatively for the recent experiments with 87Rb and 40K atoms. In the absence of a lattice, we treat the bosons in the Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov-Popov-approximation, including the fermions in a self-consistent mean field interaction. In the presence of the full three-dimensional lattice, we use a strong coupling expansion. As a result of the presence of the fermions, the temperature of the mixture after the lattice ramp-up is always higher than for the pure bosonic case. This sheds light onto a key point in the analysis of recent experiments.

id: 0707.3787
title: Effective su_q(2) models and polynomial algebras for fermion-boson Hamiltonians
authors: Angel Ballesteros, Osvaldo Civitarese, Francisco J. Herranz, Marta Reboiro
comments: 15 pages
journal: Theor. Math. Phys. 13 (2003) 1495-1504
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3787
abstract: Schematic su(2)+h3 interaction Hamiltonians, where su(2) plays the role of the pseudo-spin algebra of fermion operators and h3 is the Heisenberg algebra for bosons, are shown to be closely related to certain nonlinear models defined on a single quantum algebra q-su(2) of quasifermions. In particular, q-su(2) analogues of the Da Providencia-Schutte and extended Lipkin models are presented. The connection between q and the physical parameters of the fermion-boson system is analysed, and the integrability properties of the interaction Hamiltonians are discussed by using polynomial algebras.

id: 0707.3790
title: Conditions for exact equivalence of Kaluza-Klein and Yang-Mills theories
authors: Frank Reifler, Randall Morris
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3790
abstract: Although it is well known that Kaluza-Klein and Yang-Mills theories define equivalent structures on principal bundles, the general conditions for equivalence of their Lagrangians have not been explicitly stated. In this paper we address the conditions for equivalence. The formulation of these conditions is based on previous work in which the Dirac and Einstein equations were unified in a tetrad formulation of the Kaluza-Klein model. This Kaluza-Klein model is derived from mapping a bispinor field to a set of SL(2,R) x U(1) gauge potentials and a complex scalar field. (A straightforward derivation of this map using Hestenes' tetrad for the spin connection in a Riemannian space-time is included in this paper.) Investigation of this Kaluza-Klein model reveals two general conditions for establishing an exact equivalence between Kaluza-Klein and Yang-Mills theories. The first condition is that only horizontal vector fields occur in the Kaluza-Klein Lagrangian. The second is that the scalar curvature be restricted to a sum over horizontal sectional curvatures. We conclude that all known fields (including fermion fields) can then be represented as components of a Kaluza-Klein metric together with scalar fields.

id: 0707.3964
title: Universality in quantum chaos and the one parameter scaling theory
authors: Antonio M. Garcia-Garcia, Jiao Wang
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, acknowledgment added, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 070603 (2008)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3964
abstract: We adapt the one parameter scaling theory (OPT) to the context of quantum chaos. As a result we propose a more precise characterization of the universality classes associated to Wigner-Dyson and Poisson statistics which takes into account Anderson localization effects. Based also on the OPT we predict a new universality class in quantum chaos related to the metal-insulator transition and provide several examples. In low dimensions it is characterized by classical superdiffusion or a fractal spectrum, in higher dimensions it can also have a purely quantum origin as in the case of disordered systems. Our findings open the possibility of studying the metal insulator transition experimentally in a much broader type of systems.

id: 0707.3985
title: Direct Observation of Second Order Atom Tunnelling
authors: S. Foelling, S. Trotzky, P. Cheinet, M. Feld, R. Saers, A. Widera, T. Mueller, I. Bloch
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in Nature
journal: Nature, 448, p. 1029-1032 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.3985
abstract: Tunnelling of material particles through a classically impenetrable barrier constitutes one of the hallmark effects of quantum physics. When interactions between the particles compete with their mobility through a tunnel junction, intriguing novel dynamical behaviour can arise where particles do not tunnel independently. In single-electron or Bloch transistors, for example, the tunnelling of an electron or Cooper pair can be enabled or suppressed by the presence of a second charge carrier due to Coulomb blockade. Here we report on the first direct and time-resolved observation of correlated tunnelling of two interacting atoms through a barrier in a double well potential. We show that for weak interactions between the atoms and dominating tunnel coupling, individual atoms can tunnel independently, similar to the case in a normal Josephson junction. With strong repulsive interactions present, two atoms located on one side of the barrier cannot separate, but are observed to tunnel together as a pair in a second order co-tunnelling process. By recording both the atom position and phase coherence over time, we fully characterize the tunnelling process for a single atom as well as the correlated dynamics of a pair of atoms for weak and strong interactions. In addition, we identify a conditional tunnelling regime, where a single atom can only tunnel in the presence of a second particle, acting as a single atom switch. Our work constitutes the first direct observation of second order tunnelling events with ultracold atoms, which are the dominating dynamical effect in the strongly interacting regime. Similar second-order processes form the basis of superexchange interactions between atoms on neighbouring lattice sites of a periodic potential, a central component of quantum magnetism.

id: 0707.4040
title: Leakage-induced decoherence during single electron spin manipulation in a double quantum dot
authors: Shi-Hua Ouyang, Chi-Hang Lam, J. Q. You
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4040
abstract: Coherent single electron spin oscillation in a double quantum dot system driven by a magnetic electron spin resonance field is studied theoretically using a Bloch-type rate equation approach. The oscillation frequency and relaxation time obtained using typical model parameters are consistent with experiment findings. The dominant decoherence mechanism is identified to be a leakage current through a Coulomb blockade barrier at a quantum dot during the spin manipulation. Nuclear field fluctuations which induce a long relaxation time are found to contribute only negligibly to the decoherence despite an earlier suggestion.

id: 0707.4115
title: Dynamics of the attractive 1D Bose gas: analytical treatment from integrability
authors: P. Calabrese, J.-S. Caux
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2007) P08032
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4115
abstract: The physics of the attractive one-dimensional Bose gas (Lieb-Liniger model) is investigated with techniques based on the integrability of the system. Combining a knowledge of particle quasi-momenta to exponential precision in the system size with determinant representations of matrix elements of local operators coming from the Algebraic Bethe Ansatz, we obtain rather general analytical results for the zero-temperature dynamical correlation functions of the density and field operators. Our results thus provide quantitative predictions for possible future experiments in atomic gases or optical waveguides.

id: 0707.4390
title: Control of the Casimir force by the modification of dielectric properties with light
authors: F. Chen, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen
comments: 30 pages, 10 figures, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.76, N3, 035338-(1-15), 2007
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4390
abstract: The experimental demonstration of the modification of the Casimir force between a gold coated sphere and a single-crystal Si membrane by light pulses is performed. The specially designed and fabricated Si membrane was irradiated with 514 nm laser pulses of 5 ms width in high vacuum leading to a change of the charge-carrier density. The difference in the Casimir force in the presence and in the absence of laser radiation was measured by means of an atomic force microscope as a function of separation at different powers of the absorbed light. The total experimental error of the measured force differences at a separation of 100 nm varies from 10 to 20% in different measurements. The experimental results are compared with theoretical computations using the Lifshitz theory at both zero and laboratory temperatures. The total theoretical error determined mostly by the uncertainty in the concentration of charge carriers when the light is incident is found to be about 14% at separations less than 140 nm. The experimental data are consistent with the Lifshitz theory at laboratory temperature, if the static dielectric permittivity of high-resistivity Si in the absence of light is assumed to be finite. If the dc conductivity of high-resistivity Si in the absence of light is included into the model of dielectric response, the Lifshitz theory at nonzero temperature is shown to be experimentally inconsistent at 95% confidence. The demonstrated phenomenon of the modification of the Casimir force through a change of the charge-carrier density is topical for applications of the Lifshitz theory to real materials in fields ranging from nanotechnology and condensed matter physics to the theory of fundamental interactions.

id: 0707.4476
title: Entanglement in neutrino oscillations
authors: Massimo Blasone, Fabio Dell'Anno, Silvio De Siena, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 85, 50002 (2009)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4476
abstract: Flavor oscillations in elementary particle physics are related to multi-mode entanglement of single-particle states. We show that mode entanglement can be expressed in terms of flavor transition probabilities, and therefore that single-particle entangled states acquire a precise operational characterization in the context of particle mixing. We treat in detail the physically relevant cases of two- and three-flavor neutrino oscillations, including the effective measure of CP violation. We discuss experimental schemes for the transfer of the quantum information encoded in single-neutrino states to spatially delocalized two-flavor charged lepton states, thus showing, at least in principle, that single-particle entangled states of neutrino mixing are legitimate physical resources for quantum information tasks.

id: 0707.4520
title: Correlation Functions of One-Dimensional Lieb-Liniger Anyons
authors: Ovidiu I. Patu, Vladimir E. Korepin, Dmitri V. Averin
comments: 19 pages, RevTeX 4
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 14963-14984
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4520
abstract: We have investigated the properties of a model of 1D anyons interacting through a $\delta$-function repulsive potential. The structure of the quasi-periodic boundary conditions for the anyonic field operators and the many-anyon wavefunctions is clarified. The spectrum of the low-lying excitations including the particle-hole excitations is calculated for periodic and twisted boundary conditions. Using the ideas of the conformal field theory we obtain the large-distance asymptotics of the density and field correlation function at the critical temperature T=0 and at small finite temperatures. Our expression for the field correlation function extends the results in the literature obtained for harmonic quantum anyonic fluids.

id: 0707.0036
title: Analysis of Bell inequality violation in superconducting qubits
authors: Abraham G. Kofman, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 104502 (2008)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.0036
abstract: We analyze conditions for violation of the Bell inequality in the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt form, focusing on the Josephson phase qubits. We start the analysis with maximum violation in the ideal case, and then take into account the effects of the local measurement errors and decoherence. A special attention is paid to configurations of the qubit measurement directions in the pseudospin space lying within either horizontal or vertical planes; these configurations are optimal in certain cases. Besides local measurement errors and decoherence, we also discuss the effect of measurement crosstalk, which affects both the classical inequality and the quantum result. In particular, we propose a version of the Bell inequality which is insensitive to the crosstalk.

id: 0707.1454
title: Algorithms for entanglement renormalization
authors: G. Evenbly, G. Vidal
comments: 23 pages, 28 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 144108 (2009)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.1454
abstract: We describe an iterative method to optimize the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA) for the low-energy subspace of local Hamiltonians on a D-dimensional lattice. For translation invariant systems the cost of this optimization is logarithmic in the linear system size. Specialized algorithms for the treatment of infinite systems are also described. Benchmark simulation results are presented for a variety of 1D systems, namely Ising, Potts, XX and Heisenberg models. The potential to compute expected values of local observables, energy gaps and correlators is investigated.

id: 0707.4062
title: Quantum suppression of chaotic tunneling
authors: Akiyuki Ishikawa, Atushi Tanaka, Akira Shudo
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 40, (2007) F397-F405
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0707.4062
abstract: The interplay between chaotic tunneling and dynamical localization in mixed phase space is investigated. Semiclassical analysis using complex classical orbits reveals that tunneling through torus regions and transport in chaotic regions are not independent processes, rather they are strongly correlated and described by complex orbits with both properties. This predicts a phenomenon analogous to the quantum suppression of classical diffusion: chaotic tunneling is suppressed as a result of dynamical localization in chaotic regions. This hypothesis is confirmed by numerical experiments where the effect of destructive interference is attenuated.

