id: 0708.0068
title: Faithful qubit transmission against collective noise without ancillary qubits
authors: Xi-Han Li, Fu-Guo Deng, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 91, 144101 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0068
abstract: We present a faithful qubit transmission scheme with linear optics against collective noise, not resorting to ancillary qubits. Its set-up is composed of three unbalanced polarization interferometers, based on a polarizing beam splitter, a beam splitter and a half-wave plate, which makes this scheme more feasible than others with present technology. The fidelity of successful transmission is 1, independent of the parameters of the collective noise, and the success probability for obtaining an uncorrupted state can be improved to 100% with some time delayers. Moreover, this scheme has some good applications in one-way quantum communication for rejecting the errors caused by the collective noise in quantum channel.

id: 0708.0070
title: Bohmian Mechanics at Space-Time Singularities. I. Timelike Singularities
authors: Roderich Tumulka
comments: 20 pages LaTeX, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0070
abstract: We develop an extension of Bohmian mechanics by defining Bohm-like trajectories for (one or more) quantum particles in a curved background space-time containing a singularity. Part one, the present paper, focuses on timelike singularities, part two will be devoted to spacelike singularities. We use the timelike singularity of the (super-critical) Reissner-Nordstrom geometry as an example. While one could impose boundary conditions at the singularity that would prevent the particles from falling into the singularity, in the case we are interested in here particles have positive probability to hit the singularity and get annihilated. The wish for reversibility, equivariance and the Markov property then dictate that particles must also be created by the singularity, and indeed dictate the rate at which this must occur. That is, a stochastic law prescribes what comes out of the singularity. We specify explicit model equations, involving a boundary condition on the wave function at the singularity, which is applicable also to other versions of quantum theory besides Bohmian mechanics.

id: 0708.0077
title: Multi-Photon Interference and Temporal Distinguishability of Photons
authors: Z. Y. Ou
comments: fixed figures 4,5,7
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0077
abstract: A number of recent interference experiments involving multiple photons are reviewed. These experiments include generalized photon bunching effects, generalized Hong-Ou-Mandel interference effects and multi-photon interferometry for demonstrations of multi-photon de Broglie wavelength. The multi-photon states used in these experiments are from two pairs of photons in parametric down-conversion. We find that the size of the interference effect in these experiments, characterized by the visibility of interference pattern, is governed by the degree of distinguishability among different pairs of photons. Based on this discovery, we generalize the concept of multi-photon temporal distinguishability and relate it to a number of multi-photon interference effects. Finally, we make an attempt to interpret the coherence theory by the multi-photon interference via the concept of temporal distinguishability of photons.

id: 0708.0087
title: Quantum toboggans with two branch points
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 19pp, 3 figs, presented also as a part of the lecture for QTS-5 conference in Valladolid, Spain, during July 22-28, 2007 (see its webpage this http URL)
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008) 584 - 590
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0087
abstract: Wave functions describing quantum toboggans with two branch points (QT2) are defined along complex contours of coordinates which spiral around these branch points. The classification of QT2 is found in terms of certain ``winding descriptors" $\varrho$. A mapping $x^{(\varrho)}(s) \to y^{(0)}(s)$ is then presented which rectifies the contours for a subset of the simplest $\varrho=\varrho_0$.

id: 0708.0145
title: Programmable Quantum State Transfer
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: 4+ pages, 2 columns, revtex4; v2 some clarification, couple new examples and references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0145
abstract: A programmable quantum networks model is used in this paper for development of methods of control of a quantum state transport. These methods may be applied for a wide variety of patterns of controlled state transmission and spreading in quantum systems. The programmable perfect state transfer and quantum walk, mobile quantum (ro)bots and lattice gas automata may be described by unified way with such approach.

id: 0708.0176
title: Extreme statistics of complex random and quantum chaotic states
authors: Arul Lakshminarayan, Steven Tomsovic, Oriol Bohigas, Satya N. Majumdar
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 044103 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0176
abstract: An exact analytical description of extreme intensity statistics in complex random states is derived. These states have the statistical properties of the Gaussian and Circular Unitary Ensemble eigenstates of random matrix theory. Although the components are correlated by the normalization constraint, it is still possible to derive compact formulae for all values of the dimensionality N. The maximum intensity result slowly approaches the Gumbel distribution even though the variables are bounded, whereas the minimum intensity result rapidly approaches the Weibull distribution. Since random matrix theory is conjectured to be applicable to chaotic quantum systems, we calculate the extreme eigenfunction statistics for the standard map with parameters at which its classical map is fully chaotic. The statistical behaviors are consistent with the finite-N formulae.

id: 0708.0180
title: A Factorization Law for Entanglement Decay
authors: Thomas Konrad, Fernando de Melo, Markus Tiersch, Christian Kasztelan, Adriano Aragao, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Physics 4, 99 - 102 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0180
abstract: We present a simple and general factorization law for quantum systems shared by two parties, which describes the time evolution of entanglement upon passage of either component through an arbitrary noisy channel. The robustness of entanglement-based quantum information processing protocols is thus easily and fully characterized by a single quantity.

id: 0708.0184
title: Non-stationary quantum walks on the cycle
authors: Domenico D'Alessandro, Gianfranco Parlangeli, Francesca Albertini
comments: Revised version with minor changes
journal: J. Phys. A Math. Theor. (2007) 40 14447-14455
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0184
abstract: We consider quantum walks on the cycle in the non-stationary case where the `coin' operation is allowed to change at each time step. We characterize, in algebraic terms, the set of possible state transfers and prove that, as opposed to the stationary case, it is possible to asymnptotically reach a uniform distribution among the nodes of the associated graph.

id: 0708.0201
title: Four-wave mixing, quantum control and compensating losses in doped negative-index photonic metamaterials
authors: Alexander K. Popov, Sergey A. Myslivets, Thomas F. George, Vladimir M. Shalaev
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures, LaTeX, corrected typos in eqs. (1) and (2)
journal: Optics Letters vol. 32, No 20, October 15, 2007, pp. 3044-3046
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0201
abstract: The possibility of compensating absorption in negative-index metatamterials (NIMs) doped by resonant nonlinear-optical centers is shown. The role of quantum interference and extraordinary properties of four-wave parametric amplification of counter-propagating electromagnetic waves in NIMs are discussed.

id: 0708.0237
title: Fractal states in quantum information processing
authors: Gregg Jaeger
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A, 358, 373 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0237
abstract: The fractal character of some quantum properties has been shown for systems described by continuous variables. Here, a definition of quantum fractal states is given that suits the discrete systems used in quantum information processing, including quantum coding and quantum computing. Several important examples are provided.

id: 0708.0253
title: Many-body quantum coherence and interaction blockade in Josephson-linked Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Chaohong Lee, Libin Fu, Yuri S. Kivshar
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in EPL (Europhysics Letters)
journal: EPL, 81 (2008) 60006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0253
abstract: We study many-body quantum coherence and interaction blockade in two Josephson-linked Bose-Einstein condensates. We introduce universal operators for characterizing many-body coherence without limitations on the system symmetry and total particle number $N$. We reproduce the results for both coherence fluctuations and number squeezing in {\em symmetric} systems of large $N$, and reveal several peculiar phenomena that may occur in {\em asymmetric} systems and systems of small $N$. For asymmetric systems, we show that, due to an interplay between asymmetry and inter-particle interaction, the coherence fluctuations are suppressed dramatically when $|E_{C}/E_{J}|\ll 1$, and both {\it resonant tunneling} and {\it interaction blockade} take place for large values of $|E_{C}/E_{J}|$, where $E_C$ and $E_J$ are the interaction and tunneling energies, respectively. We emphasize that the resonant tunneling and interaction blockade may allow creating single-atom devices with promising technology applications. We demonstrate that for the systems at finite temperatures the formation of self-trapped states causes an anomalous behavior.

id: 0708.0261
title: An Introduction to Quantum Computing
authors: Noson S. Yanofsky
comments: 33 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0261
abstract: Quantum Computing is a new and exciting field at the intersection of mathematics, computer science and physics. It concerns a utilization of quantum mechanics to improve the efficiency of computation. Here we present a gentle introduction to some of the ideas in quantum computing. The paper begins by motivating the central ideas of quantum mechanics and quantum computation with simple toy models. From there we move on to a formal presentation of the small fraction of (finite dimensional) quantum mechanics that we will need for basic quantum computation. Central notions of quantum architecture (qubits and quantum gates) are described. The paper ends with a presentation of one of the simplest quantum algorithms: Deutsch's algorithm. Our presentation demands neither advanced mathematics nor advanced physics.

id: 0708.0274
title: Efficiency of feedback process in cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: H.T. Fung, P.T. Leung
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Journal of Physics B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0274
abstract: Utilizing the continuous frequency mode quantization scheme, we study from first principle the efficiency of a feedback scheme that can generate maximally entangled states of two atoms in an optical cavity through their interactions with a single input photon. The spectral function of the photon emitted from the cavity, which will be used as the input of the next round in the feedback process, is obtained analytically. We find that the spectral function of the photon is modified in each round and deviates from the original one. The efficiency of the feedback scheme consequently deteriorates gradually after several rounds of operation.

id: 0708.0291
title: Quantum Entanglement of Neutrino Pairs
authors: Junli Li, Cong-Feng Qiao
comments: 7 pages, 5 eps figures; This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to the efficiency of detections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0291
abstract: It is practically shown that a pair of neutrinos from tau decay can form a flavor entangled state. With this kind of state we show that the locality constrains imposed by Bell inequality are violated by the quantum mechanics, and an experimental test of this effect is feasible within the earth's length scale. Theoretically, the quantum entanglement of neutrino pairs can be employed to the use of long distance cryptography distribution in a protocol similar to the BB84.

id: 0708.0292
title: Comment on ``Geometric phase of entangled spin pairs in a magnetic field''
authors: Yang Xiang, Shi-Jie Xiong
comments: 2 pages, comment on Phys. Rev. A {\bf72}, 052101(2005), and to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 036101 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0292
abstract: The degree of entanglement between two spins may change due to interaction. About this we find that a wrong result in a recent work by Ge and Wadati [Phys. Rev. A {\bf72}, 052101(2005)] which breach the basic principle.

id: 0708.0301
title: Fast recognition of single molecules based on single event photon statistics
authors: Shuangli Dong, Tao Huang, Yuan Liu, Jun Wang, Guofeng Zhang, Liantuan Xiao+, Suotang Jia
comments: 13 pages, 4figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0301
abstract: Mandel Q-parameter, which is determined from single event photon statistics, provides an alternative to differentiate single-molecule with fluorescence detection. In this work, by using the Q-parameter of the sample fluorescence compared to that of an ideal double-molecule system with the same average photon number, we present a novel and fast approach for identifying single molecules based on single event photon statistics analyses, compared with commonly used two-time correlation measurements. The error estimates for critical values of photon statistics are also presented for single-molecule determination.

id: 0708.0320
title: Analytic results on long distance entanglement mediated by gapped spin chains
authors: A. Ferreira, J. M. B. Lopes dos Santos
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 77 (2008) 034301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0320
abstract: We give an analytical description of long distance entanglement (LDE) mediated by one-dimensional quantum spin chains recently found in numerical studies. We develop a formalism that allows the computation of LDE for weakly interacting probes with gapped many-body systems. At zero temperature, a DC response function determines the ability of the physical system to generate genuine quantum correlations between the probes. We show that the biquadratic Heisenberg spin-1 chain is able to produce LDE in the thermodynamical limit and that the finite antiferromagnetic Heisenberg chain maximally entangles two spin-1/2 probes very far apart. These results support the current perspective of using quantum spin chains as entanglers or quantum channels in quantum information devices.

id: 0708.0356
title: Quantum phase diffusion of a Bose system: beyond the Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov approximation
authors: Ferdinando de Pasquale, Gian Luca Giorgi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0356
abstract: A diffusion process is usually assumed for the phase of the order parameter of a Bose system of finite size. The theoretical basis is limited to the so called Bogoliubov approximation. We show that a suitable generalization of the Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov approach recovers phase diffusion.

id: 0708.0358
title: Entanglement, BEC, and superfluid-like behavior of two-mode photon systems
authors: Ferdinando de Pasquale, Gian Luca Giorgi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0358
abstract: A system of two interacting photon modes, without constraints on the photon number, in the presence of a Kerr nonlinearity, exhibits BEC if the transfer amplitude is greater than the mode frequency. A symmetry-breaking field (SBF) can be introduced by taking into account a classical electron current. The ground state, in the limit of small nonlinearity, becomes a squeezed state, and thus the modes become entangled. The smaller is the SBF, the greater is entanglement. Superfluid-like behavior is observed in the study of entanglement growth from an initial coherent state, since in the short-time range the growth does not depend on the SBF amplitude, and on the initial state amplitude. On the other hand, the latter is the only parameter which determines entanglement in the absence of the SBF.

id: 0708.0365
title: Uncollapsing the wavefunction
authors: Andrew N. Jordan, Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, proceedings paper for Coherence and Quantum Optics 9
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0365
abstract: The undoing of quantum measurements is discussed in the broader context of irreversibility in physics. We give explicit examples of how a wavefunction can be uncollapsed in two solid-state experimental set-ups. Wavefunction uncollapse shows the quantum observer paradox in a new and significantly clearer way.

id: 0708.0399
title: Diffusion induced decoherence of stored optical vortices
authors: T. Wang, L. Zhao, L. Jiang, S. F. Yelin
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0399
abstract: We study the coherence properties of optical vortices stored in atomic ensembles. In the presence of thermal diffusion, the topological nature of stored optical vortices is found not to guarantee slow decoherence. Instead the stored vortex state has decoherence surprisingly larger than the stored Gaussian mode. Generally, the less phase gradient, the more robust for stored coherence against diffusion. Furthermore, calculation of coherence factor shows that the center of stored vortex becomes completely incoherent once diffusion begins and, when reading laser is applied, the optical intensity at the center of the vortex becomes nonzero. Its implication for quantum information is discussed. Comparison of classical diffusion and quantum diffusion is also presented.

id: 0708.0410
title: Correlated projection operator approach to non-Markovian dynamics in spin baths
authors: Jan Fischer, Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052119 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0410
abstract: The dynamics of an open quantum system is usually studied by performing a weak-coupling and weak-correlation expansion in the system-bath interaction. For systems exhibiting strong couplings and highly non-Markovian behavior this approach is not justified. We apply a recently proposed correlated projection superoperator technique to the model of a central spin coupled to a spin bath via full Heisenberg interaction. Analytical solutions to both the Nakajima-Zwanzig and the time-convolutionless master equation are determined and compared with the results of the exact solution. The correlated projection operator technique significantly improves the standard methods and can be applied to many physical problems such as the hyperfine interaction in a quantum dot.

id: 0708.0434
title: Reduction of the Casimir force using aerogels
authors: R. Esquivel-Sirvent
comments: to appear J. Appl. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0434
abstract: By using silicon oxide based aerogels we show numerically that the Casimir force can be reduced several orders of magnitude, making its effect negligible in nanodevices. This decrease in the Casimir force is also present even when the aerogels are deposited on metallic substrates. To calculate the Casimir force we model the dielectric function of silicon oxide aerogels using an effective medium dielectric function such as the Clausius-Mossotti approximation. The results show that both the porosity of the aerogel and its thickness can be use as control parameters to reduce the magnitude of the Casimir force.

id: 0708.0436
title: Direct Estimation of Single- and Two-Qubit Hamiltonians and Relaxation Rates
authors: M. Mohseni, A. T. Rezakhani, A. Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 5 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042320 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0436
abstract: We provide a novel approach for characterization of quantum Hamiltonian systems via utilizing a single measurement device. Specifically, we demonstrate how external quantum correlations can be used for Hamiltonian identification tasks. We explicitly introduce experimental procedures for direct estimation of single- and two-qubit Hamiltonian parameters, and also for simultaneous estimation of transverse and longitudinal relaxation rates, using a single Bell-state analyzer. An advantage of our method over the earlier approaches is that it has a built-in feature which makes it suitable for partial characterization of Hamiltonian parameters.

id: 0708.0444
title: Practical scheme for non-postselection entanglement concentration using linear optical elements
authors: Myung-Joong Hwang, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0444
abstract: We report a practical non-postselection entanglement concentration scheme in which a maximally entangled Bell-state photon pair is produced from two pairs of partially (or non-maximally) entangled photons. Since this scheme is built only upon linear optical elements and does not require photon-number resolving detectors, it has immediate applications in experimental implementations of various quantum information protocols which require two-photon Bell-states.

id: 0708.0447
title: Scalable scheme for entangling multiple ququarts using linear optical elements
authors: So-Young Baek, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0447
abstract: We report a scalable linear optical scheme for generating entangled states of multiple ququarts in which the individual single-ququart state is prepared with the biphoton polarization state of frequency-nondegenerate spontaneous parametric down-conversion. The output state is calculated with the full consideration of the higher order effect (double-pair events) of spontaneous parametric down-conversion. Scalability to multiple-ququart entanglement is demonstrated with examples: linear optical entanglement of three and four individual biphoton ququarts.

id: 0708.0449
title: Unitary Solution to a Quantum Gravity Information Paradox
authors: T. C. Ralph
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A76:012336,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0449
abstract: We consider a toy model of the interaction of a qubit with an exotic space-time containing a time-like curve. Consistency seems to require that the global evolution of the qubit be non-unitary. Given that quantum mechanics is globally unitary, this then is an example of a quantum gravity information paradox. However, we show that a careful analysis of the problem in the Heisenberg picture reveals an underlying unitarity, thus resolving the paradox.

id: 0708.0460
title: Quasi-bound states in continuum
authors: Hiroaki Nakamura, Naomichi Hatano, Sterling Garmon, Tomio Petrosky
comments: 4 pages, 4figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 210404 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0460
abstract: We report the prediction of quasi-bound states (resonant states with very long lifetimes) that occur in the eigenvalue continuum of propagating states for a wide region of parameter space. These quasi-bound states are generated in a quantum wire with two channels and an adatom, when the energy bands of the two channels overlap. A would-be bound state that lays just below the upper energy band is slightly destabilized by the lower energy band and thereby becomes a resonant state with a very long lifetime (a second QBIC lays above the lower energy band).

id: 0708.0470
title: Entanglement of superposition and pair coherent states
authors: Jitesh R. Bhatt, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 6 pages with 6 (eps) figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0470
abstract: Entanglement characteristics of a pair coherent state is studied using entanglement of superposition. It is demonstrated only few states in the expansion of a pair coherent state, in a harmonic oscillator basis, contribute significantly to the entanglement. We also study a case of two superposed pair coherent states

id: 0708.0478
title: QLib - A Matlab Package for Quantum Information Theory Calculations with Applications
authors: Shai Machnes
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0478
abstract: Developing intuition about quantum information theory problems is difficult, as is verifying or ruling-out of hypothesis. We present a Matlab package intended to provide the QIT community with a new and powerful tool-set for quantum information theory calculations. The package covers most of the "QI textbook" and includes novel parametrization of quantum objects and a robust optimization mechanism. New ways of re-examining well-known results is demonstrated. QLib is designed to be further developed and enhanced by the community and is available for download at www.qlib.info

id: 0708.0552
title: Quantitative aspects of entanglement in the optically driven quantum dots
authors: A.-S. F. Obada, Mahmoud Abdel-Aty
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review B, 75, pp. 195310-195316 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0552
abstract: We present a novel approach to look for the existence of maximum entanglement in a system of two identical quantum dots coupled by the Forster process and interacting with a classical laser field. Our approach is not only able to explain the existing treatments, but also provides further detailed insights into the coupled dynamics of quantum dots systems. The result demonstrates that there are two ways for generating maximum entangled states, one associated with far off-resonance interaction, and the other associated with the weak field limit. Moreover, it is shown that exciton decoherence results in the decay of entanglement.

id: 0708.0557
title: Nested entangled states for distributed quantum channels
authors: C. Di Franco, M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 020303(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0557
abstract: We find a coupling-strength configuration for a linear chain of N spins which gives rise to simultaneous multiple Bell states. We suggest a way such an interesting entanglement pattern can be used in order to distribute maximally entangled channels to remote locations and generate multipartite entanglement with a minimum-control approach. Our proposal thus provides a way to achieve the core resources in distributed information processing. The schemes we describe can be efficiently tested in chains of coupled cavities interacting with three-level atoms.

id: 0708.0577
title: Theoretical analysis of perfect quantum state transfer with superconducting qubits
authors: Frederick W. Strauch, Carl J. Williams
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures; title changed, minor errors corrected, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 094516 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0577
abstract: Superconducting quantum circuits, fabricated with multiple layers, are proposed to implement perfect quantum state transfer between nodes of a hypercube network. For tunable devices such as the phase qubit, each node can transmit quantum information to any other node at a constant rate independent of the distance between qubits. The physical limits of quantum state transfer in this network are theoretically analyzed, including the effects of disorder, decoherence, and higher-order couplings.

id: 0708.0584
title: Experimental Falsification of Leggett's Non-Local Variable Model
authors: Cyril Branciard, Alexander Ling, Nicolas Gisin, Christian Kurtsiefer, Antia Lamas-Linares, Valerio Scarani
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 210407 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0584
abstract: Bell's theorem guarantees that no model based on local variables can reproduce quantum correlations. Also some models based on non-local variables, if subject to apparently "reasonable" constraints, may fail to reproduce quantum physics. In this paper, we introduce a family of inequalities, which allow testing Leggett's non-local model versus quantum physics, and which can be tested in an experiment without additional assumptions. Our experimental data falsify Leggett's model and are in agreement with quantum predictions.

id: 0708.0587
title: Long-distance entanglement and quantum teleportation in XX spin chains
authors: L. Campos Venuti, S. M. Giampaolo, F. Illuminati, P. Zanardi
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052328 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0587
abstract: Isotropic XX models of one-dimensional spin-1/2 chains are investigated with the aim to elucidate the formal structure and the physical properties that allow these systems to act as channels for long-distance, high-fidelity quantum teleportation. We introduce two types of models: I) open, dimerized XX chains, and II) open XX chains with small end bonds. For both models we obtain the exact expressions for the end-to-end correlations and the scaling of the energy gap with the length of the chain. We determine the end-to-end concurrence and show that model I) supports true long-distance entanglement at zero temperature, while model II) supports {\it ``quasi long-distance''} entanglement that slowly falls off with the size of the chain. Due to the different scalings of the gaps, respectively exponential for model I) and algebraic in model II), we demonstrate that the latter allows for efficient qubit teleportation with high fidelity in sufficiently long chains even at moderately low temperatures.

id: 0708.0625
title: Hybrid protocol of remote implementations of quantum operations
authors: Ning Bo Zhao, An Min Wang
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0625
abstract: We propose a protocol of remote implementations of quantum operations by hybridizing bidirectional quantum state teleportation's (BQST) and Wang's one. The protocol is available for remote implemetations of quantum operations in the restricted sets specified in Sec. III. We also give the proof of the protocol and point out its optimization. As an extension, this hybrid protocol can be reduced to BQST and Wang protocols.

id: 0708.0653
title: Experimental Violation of Bell's Inequality in Spatial-Parity Space
authors: Timothy Yarnall, Ayman F. Abouraddy, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, 1 Table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 170408 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0653
abstract: We report the first experimental violation of Bell's inequality in the spatial domain using the Einstein--Podolsky--Rosen state. Two-photon states generated via optical spontaneous parametric downconversion are shown to be entangled in the parity of their one-dimensional transverse spatial profile. Superpositions of Bell states are prepared by manipulation of the optical pump's transverse spatial parity--a classical parameter. The Bell-operator measurements are made possible by devising simple optical arrangements that perform rotations in the one-dimensional spatial-parity space of each photon of an entangled pair and projective measurements onto a basis of even--odd functions. A Bell-operator value of 2.389 +- 0.016 is recorded, a violation of the inequality by more than 24 standard deviations.

id: 0708.0657
title: Manipulation and Detection of a Trapped Yb+ Ion Hyperfine Qubit
authors: S. Olmschenk, K. C. Younge, D. L. Moehring, D. Matsukevich, P. Maunz, C. Monroe
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052314 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0657
abstract: We demonstrate the use of trapped ytterbium ions as quantum bits for quantum information processing. We implement fast, efficient state preparation and state detection of the first-order magnetic field-insensitive hyperfine levels of 171Yb+, with a measured coherence time of 2.5 seconds. The high efficiency and high fidelity of these operations is accomplished through the stabilization and frequency modulation of relevant laser sources.

id: 0708.0664
title: Shortnote on local hidden Grassmann variables vs. quantum correlations
authors: Lajos Di¨®si
comments: 2pp
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0664
abstract: Grassmannian local hidden variables are shown to generate all possible quantum correlations in a bipartite quantum system. Grassmann representation of fermions, common in field theory, opens a related perspective. Although Grassmann hidden variables can not challange Bell's locality theorem, they can become an interesting mathematical tool to investigate entanglement.

id: 0708.0667
title: Nonmaximally entangled states can be better for multiple linear optical teleportation
authors: Joanna Modlawska, Andrzej Grudka
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 110503 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0667
abstract: We investigate multiple linear optical teleportation in the Knill-Laflamme-Milburn scheme with both maximally and nonmaximally entangled states. We show that if the qubit is teleported several times via nonmaximally entangled state then the errors introduced in the previous teleportations can be corrected by the errors introduced in the following teleportations. This effect is so strong that it leads to another interesting phenomenon, i.e., the total probability of successful multiple linear optical teleportation is higher for nonmaximally entangled states than maximally entangled states.

id: 0708.0681
title: Macroscopic violation of special relativity
authors: G. Nimtz, A. A. Stahlhofen
comments: 2 pages pdf-file, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0681
abstract: Feynman one of the founders of Quantum Electronic Dynamics (QED) introduced in his diagrams virtual particles as intermediate states of an interaction process. Such virtual particles are not observable, however, from the theoretical point of view they represent necessary intermediate states between observable real states. Such virtual particles were introduced for describing the interaction process between an electron and a positron and for much more complicated interaction processes. Other candidates for virtual photons are evanescent modes known from optics. Evanescent modes have a purely imaginary wave number, they represent the mathematical analogy of the tunneling solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation. Evanescent modes are present in the optical processes of total reflection and in undersized wave guides for instance. The most prominent example of the occurrence of evanescent modes is frustrated total internal reflection at double prisms. In 1949 Sommerfeld \cite{Sommerfeld} pointed out that this optical phenomenon represents the analogy of quantum mechanical tunneling. The evanescent modes and tunneling violate the theory of special relativity, obviously, they represent the exception which proves the special theory of relativity. We demonstrate the quantum mechanical behavior of evanescent modes \textbf{with digital microwave} signals at a macroscopic scale of the order of a meter and show that evanescent modes are well described by virtual photons as predicted by former QED calculations.

id: 0708.0709
title: Quantum cryptography with finite resources: unconditional security bound for discrete-variable protocols with one-way post-processing
authors: Valerio Scarani, Renato Renner
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 200501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0709
abstract: We derive a bound for the security of QKD with finite resources under one-way post-processing, based on a definition of security that is composable and has an operational meaning. While our proof relies on the assumption of collective attacks, unconditional security follows immediately for standard protocols like Bennett-Brassard 1984 and six-states. For single-qubit implementations of such protocols, we find that the secret key rate becomes positive when at least N\sim 10^5 signals are exchanged and processed. For any other discrete-variable protocol, unconditional security can be obtained using the exponential de Finetti theorem, but the additional overhead leads to very pessimistic estimates.

id: 0708.0749
title: Nodal free geometric phases: Concept and application to geometric quantum computation
authors: Marie Ericsson, David Kult, Erik Sj?qvist, Johan Aberg
comments: Small typo corrected, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372, 596 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0749
abstract: Nodal free geometric phases are the eigenvalues of the final member of a parallel transporting family of unitary operators. These phases are gauge invariant, always well-defined, and can be measured interferometrically. Nodal free geometric phases can be used to construct various types of quantum phase gates.

id: 0708.0764
title: Experimental quantum state tomography of a solid state qubit
authors: L. Rippe, B. Julsgaard, A. Walther, Yan Ying, S. Kr?ll
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures (eps)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0764
abstract: Full quantum state tomography is used to characterize the state of an ensemble based qubit implemented through two hyperfine levels in Pr3+ ions, doped into a Y2SiO5 crystal. We experimentally verify that single-qubit rotation errors due to inhomogeneities of the ensemble can be suppressed using the Roos-Moelmer dark state scheme. Fidelities above >90%, presumably limited by excited state decoherence, were achieved. Although not explicitly taken care of in the Roos-Moelmer scheme, it appears that also decoherence due to inhomogeneous broadening on the hyperfine transition is largely suppressed.

id: 0708.0770
title: Control of atomic entanglement by dynamic Stark effect
authors: Biplab Ghosh, A. S. Majumdar, N. Nayak
comments: 7 pages, Revtex, 6 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0770
abstract: We study the entanglement properties of two three-level Rydberg atoms passing through a single-mode cavity. The interaction of an atom with the cavity field allows the atom to make a transition from the upper most (lower most) to the lower most (upper most) level by emission (absoprtion) of two photons via the middle level. We employ an effective Hamiltonian that describes the system with a Stark shifted two-photon atomic transition. We compute the entanglement of formation of the joint two-atom state as a function of Rabi angle $gt$. It is shown that the Stark shift can be used to enhance the magnitude of atomic entanglement over that obtained in the resonant condition for certain parameter values. We find that though the two-atom entanglement generally diminishes with the increase of the two-photon detuning and the Stark shift, it is possible to sustain the entanglement over a range of interaction times by making the detuning and the Stark shift compensate each other. Similar characteristics are obtained for a thermal state cavity field too.

id: 0708.0772
title: Design of a mode converter for efficient light-atom coupling in free space
authors: M. Sondermann, R. Maiwald, H. Konermann, N. Lindlein, U. Peschel, G. Leuchs
comments: RevTex4, 3 figures, revised version, accepted for publication at Appl. Phys. B
journal: Appl. Phys. B, vol. 89, 489-492 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0772
abstract: In this article, we describe how to develop a mode converter that transforms a plane electromagnetic wave into an inward moving dipole wave. The latter one is intended to bring a single atom or ion from its ground state to its excited state by absorption of a single photon wave packet with near-100% efficiency.

id: 0708.0808
title: Statistical comparison of ensemble implementations of Grover's search algorithm to classical sequential searches
authors: Tomasz M. Kott, David Collins
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0808
abstract: We compare pseudopure state ensemble implementations, quantified by their initial polarization and ensemble size, of Grover's search algorithm to probabilistic classical sequential search algorithms in terms of their success and failure probabilities. We propose a criterion for quantifying the resources used by the ensemble implementation via the aggregate number of oracle invocations across the entire ensemble and use this as a basis for comparison with classical search algorithms. We determine bounds for a critical polarization such that the ensemble algorithm succeeds with a greater probability than the probabilistic classical sequential search. Our results indicate that the critical polarization scales as N^(-1/4) where N is the database size and that for typical room temperature solution state NMR, the polarization is such that the ensemble implementation of Grover's algorithm would be advantageous for N > 10^22

id: 0708.0813
title: Experimental test of nonlocal realistic theories without the rotational symmetry assumption
authors: Tomasz Paterek, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Simon Groeblacher, Thomas Jennewein, Marek Zukowski, Markus Aspelmeyer, Anton Zeilinger
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 210406 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0813
abstract: We analyze the class of nonlocal realistic theories that was originally considered by Leggett [Found. Phys. 33, 1469 (2003)] and tested by us in a recent experiment [Nature (London) 446, 871 (2007)]. We derive an incompatibility theorem that works for finite numbers of polarizer settings and that does not require the previously assumed rotational symmetry of the two-particle correlation functions. The experimentally measured case involves seven different measurement settings. Using polarization-entangled photon pairs, we exclude this broader class of nonlocal realistic models by experimentally violating a new Leggett-type inequality by 80 standard deviations.

id: 0708.0827
title: Simulating Quantum Correlations with Finite Communication
authors: Oded Regev, Ben Toner
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures, preliminary version in IEEE FOCS 2007; to appear in SICOMP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0827
abstract: Assume Alice and Bob share some bipartite $d$-dimensional quantum state. A well-known result in quantum mechanics says that by performing two-outcome measurements, Alice and Bob can produce correlations that cannot be obtained locally, i.e., with shared randomness alone. We show that by using only two bits of communication, Alice and Bob can classically simulate any such correlations. All previous protocols for exact simulation required the communication to grow to infinity with the dimension $d$. Our protocol and analysis are based on a power series method, resembling Krivine's bound on Grothendieck's constant, and on the computation of volumes of spherical tetrahedra.

id: 0708.0831
title: Photon wave functions, wave-packet quantization of light, and coherence theory
authors: Brian J. Smith, M. G. Raymer
comments: 34 pages, 3 figures, minor corrections
journal: NewJ.Phys.9:414,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0831
abstract: The monochromatic Dirac and polychromatic Titulaer-Glauber quantized field theories (QFTs) of electromagnetism are derived from a photon-energy wave function in much the same way that one derives QFT for electrons, that is, by quantization of a single-particle wave function. The photon wave function and its equation of motion are established from the Einstein energy-momentum-mass relation, assuming a local energy density. This yields a theory of photon wave mechanics (PWM). The proper Lorentz-invariant single-photon scalar product is found to be non-local in coordinate space, and is shown to correspond to orthogonalization of the Titulaer-Glauber wave-packet modes. The wave functions of PWM and mode functions of QFT are shown to be equivalent, evolving via identical equations of motion, and completely describe photonic states. We generalize PWM to two or more photons, and show how to switch between the PWM and QFT viewpoints. The second-order coherence tensors of classical coherence theory and the two-photon wave functions are shown to propagate equivalently. We give examples of beam-like states, which can be used as photon wave functions in PWM, or modes in QFT. We propose a practical mode converter based on spectral filtering to convert between wave packets and their corresponding biorthogonal dual wave packets.

id: 0708.0851
title: Towards linear phononics and nonlocality tests in ion traps
authors: Alessio Serafini, Alex Retzker, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0851
abstract: We explore the possibility to manipulate massive, i.e. motional, degrees of freedom of trapped ions. In particular, we demonstrate that, if local control of the trapping frequencies is achieved, one can reproduce the full toolbox of linear optics on radial modes. Furthermore, assuming only global control of the trapping potential, we show that unprecedented degrees of continuous variable entanglement can be obtained and that nonlocality tests with massive degrees of freedom can be carried out.

id: 0708.0856
title: Triple oscillating field technique for accurate measurements of couplings in homonuclear spin systems
authors: Navin Khaneja, Niels Chr. Nielsen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0856
abstract: We present a new concept for homonuclear dipolar recoupling in magic-angle-spinning (MAS) solid-state NMR experiments which avoids the problem of dipolar truncation. This is accomplished through the introduction of a new NMR pulse sequence design principle: the triple oscillating field technique. We demonstrate this technique as an efficient means to accomplish broadband dipolar recoupling of homonuclear spins, while decoupling heteronuclear dipolar couplings and anisotropic chemicals shifts and retaining influence from isotropic chemical shifts. In this manner, it possible to synthesize Ising interactions in homonuclear spin networks and thereby avoid dipolar truncation - a serious problem essentially all previous homonuclear dipolar recoupling experiments suffer from. Combination of this recoupling concept with rotor assisted dipolar refocusing enables easy readout of internuclear distances through comparison with analytical Fresnel curves. This forms the basis for a new class of solid-state NMR experiments with potential for structure analysis of uniformly carbon labelled proteins through accurate measurement of {13}C-{13}C internuclear distances. The concept is demonstrated experimentally by measurement of C_alpha-C', C_\beta-C', and C_\gamma-C' internuclear distances in powder samples of the amino acids \textit{L}-alanine and \textit{L}-threonine.

id: 0708.0859
title: Exponential Separation of Quantum and Classical Non-Interactive Multi-Party Communication Complexity
authors: Dmitry Gavinsky, Pavel Pudl¨¢k
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0859
abstract: We give the first exponential separation between quantum and classical multi-party communication complexity in the (non-interactive) one-way and simultaneous message passing settings. For every k, we demonstrate a relational communication problem between k parties that can be solved exactly by a quantum simultaneous message passing protocol of cost O(log n) and requires protocols of cost n^{c/k^2}, where c>0 is a constant, in the classical non-interactive one-way message passing model with shared randomness and bounded error. Thus our separation of corresponding communication classes is superpolynomial as long as k=o(\sqrt{\log n / \log\log n}) and exponential for k=O(1).

id: 0708.0866
title: Singular Potentials in Quantum Mechanics and Ambiguity in the Self-Adjoint Hamiltonian
authors: Tam¨¢s F¨¹l?p
comments: This is a contribution to the Proc. of the 3-rd Microconference "Analytic and Algebraic Methods III"(June 19, 2007, Prague, Czech Republic), published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 3 (2007), 107, 12 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0866
abstract: For a class of singular potentials, including the Coulomb potential (in three and less dimensions) and $V(x) = g/x^2$ with the coefficient $g$ in a certain range ($x$ being a space coordinate in one or more dimensions), the corresponding Schr\"odinger operator is not automatically self-adjoint on its natural domain. Such operators admit more than one self-adjoint domain, and the spectrum and all physical consequences depend seriously on the self-adjoint version chosen. The article discusses how the self-adjoint domains can be identified in terms of a boundary condition for the asymptotic behaviour of the wave functions around the singularity, and what physical differences emerge for different self-adjoint versions of the Hamiltonian. The paper reviews and interprets known results, with the intention to provide a practical guide for all those interested in how to approach these ambiguous situations.

id: 0708.0882
title: Quantum Brownian Motion of a Macroscopic Object in a General Environment
authors: Chung-Hsien Chou, B. L. Hu, Ting Yu
comments: 19 pages
journal: Physica A 387, 432 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0882
abstract: For the purpose of understanding the quantum behavior such as quantum decoherence, fluctuations, dissipation, entanglement and teleportation of a mesoscopic or macroscopic object interacting with a general environment, we derive here a set of exact master equations for the reduced density matrix of $N$ interacting harmonic oscillators in a heat bath with arbitrary spectral density and temperature. Two classes of problems of interest to us which these equations can be usefully applied to are that of the quantum dynamics of nanoelectromechanical oscillators and the entanglement evolution of multi-partite macroscopic states such as quantum superposition of mirrors in a high Q cavity. To address a key conceptual issue for macroscopic quantum phenomena we examine the conditions for an assumption often implicitly made in these studies to be valid, namely, that the quantum behavior of a macroscopic object in an environment can be accurately represented by only treating the dynamics of its center-of-mass variable. We also mention how these results can be used to calculate the uncertainty principle governing a macroscopic object at finite temperature.

id: 0708.0890
title: Operational Semantics and Type Soundness of Quantum Programming Language LanQ
authors: Hynek Mlnarik
comments: 71 pages, 16 figures; simulator available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0890
abstract: We present an imperative quantum programming language LanQ which was designed to support combination of quantum and classical programming and basic process operations - process creation and interprocess communication. The language can thus be used for implementing both classical and quantum algorithms and protocols. Its syntax is similar to that of C language what makes it easy to learn for existing programmers. In this paper, we present operational semantics of the language and a proof of type soundness of the noncommunicating part of the language. We provide an example run of a quantum random number generator.

id: 0708.0902
title: Quantum multiparty key distribution protocol without use of entanglement
authors: Ryutaroh Matsumoto
comments: 8 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 062316 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0902
abstract: We propose a quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol that enables three parties agree at once on a shared common random bit string in presence of an eavesdropper without use of entanglement. We prove its unconditional security and analyze the key rate.

id: 0708.0933
title: How not to discard half of the cases in QKD
authors: Marcin Pawlowski
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0933
abstract: All known QKD protocols require the parties to discard the results when they have chosen differen bases. In this paper we show that it is not necessary. We give examples of QKD protocols that are as safe as standard ones but do not involve the discarding the results when the bases are different or even that do not require the announcement of the bases. This leads to greater communication channel capacities and render some eavesdropping strategies useless but the most important thing is that they provide us better insight into the general structures that underlie the quantum cryptography and help to establish the boundaries of what is possible and what is not.

id: 0708.0938
title: Cavity cooling of translational and ro-vibrational motion of molecules: ab initio-based simulations for OH and NO
authors: Markus Kowalewski, Giovanna Morigi, Pepijn W. H. Pinkse, Regina de Vivie-Riedle
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. B 89, p 459 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0938
abstract: We present detailed calculations at the basis of our recent proposal for simultaneous cooling the rotational, vibrational and external molecular degrees of freedom. In this method, the molecular rovibronic states are coupled by an intense laser and an optical cavity via coherent Raman processes enhanced by the strong coupling with the cavity modes. For a prototype system, OH, we showed that the translational motion is cooled to few micro Kelvin and the molecule is brought to the internal ground state in about a second. Here, we investigate numerically the dependence of the cooling scheme on the molecular polarizability, selecting NO as a second example. Furthermore, we demonstrate the general applicability of the proposed cooling scheme to initially vibrationally and rotationally hot molecular systems.

id: 0708.0956
title: Quantum estimation via minimum Kullback entropy principle
authors: Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 7 pages, slightly revised version, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042120 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0956
abstract: We address quantum estimation in situations where one has at disposal data from the measurement of an incomplete set of observables and some a priori information on the state itself. By expressing the a priori information in terms of a bias toward a given state the problem may be faced by minimizing the quantum relative entropy (Kullback entropy) with the constraint of reproducing the data. We exploit the resulting minimum Kullback entropy principle for the estimation of a quantum state from the measurement of a single observable, either from the sole mean value or from the complete probability distribution, and apply it as a tool for the estimation of weak Hamiltonian processes. Qubit and harmonic oscillator systems are analyzed in some details.

id: 0708.0960
title: Experimental Demonstration of Decoherence-Free One-Way Information Transfer
authors: R. Prevedel, M. S. Tame, A. Stefanov, M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim, A. Zeilinger
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 250503 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0960
abstract: We report the experimental demonstration of a one-way quantum protocol reliably operating in the presence of decoherence. Information is protected by designing an appropriate decoherence-free subspace for a cluster state resource. We demonstrate our scheme in an all-optical setup, encoding the information into the polarization states of four photons. A measurement-based one-way information-transfer protocol is performed with the photons exposed to severe symmetric phase-damping noise. Remarkable protection of information is accomplished, delivering nearly ideal outcomes.

id: 0708.0969
title: One-way quantum computing in a decoherence-free subspace
authors: M. S. Tame, M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4
journal: New J. Phys. 9, 201 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0969
abstract: We introduce a novel scheme for one-way quantum computing (QC) based on the use of information encoded qubits in an effective cluster state resource. With the correct encoding structure, we show that it is possible to protect the entangled resource from phase damping decoherence, where the effective cluster state can be described as residing in a Decoherence-Free Subspace (DFS) of its supporting quantum system. One-way QC then requires either single or two-qubit adaptive measurements. As an example where this proposal can be realized, we describe an optical lattice setup where the scheme provides robust quantum information processing. We also outline how one can adapt the model to provide protection from other types of decoherence.

id: 0708.1013
title: Noise-induced energy excitation by a general environment
authors: Fernando C. Lombardo, Paula I. Villar
comments: 14 pages; 7 figures. Version to appear in Phys Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1013
abstract: We analyze the effects that general environments, namely ohmic and non-ohmic, at zero and high temperature induce over a quantum Brownian particle. We state that the evolution of the system can be summarized in terms of two main environmental induced physical phenomena: decoherence and energy activation. In this article we show that the latter is a post-decoherence phenomenon. As the energy is an observable, the excitation process is a direct indication of the system-environment entanglement particularly useful at zero temperature.

id: 0708.1021
title: Codeword Stabilized Quantum Codes
authors: Andrew Cross, Graeme Smith, John A. Smolin, Bei Zeng
comments: 5 pages, 1 eps figure, ((11,48,3)) code removed, encoding circuits added, typos corrected in codewords and elsewhere
journal: IEEE Trans. Info. Theory 55, 1, 433-438 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1021
abstract: We present a unifying approach to quantum error correcting code design that encompasses additive (stabilizer) codes, as well as all known examples of nonadditive codes with good parameters. We use this framework to generate new codes with superior parameters to any previously known. In particular, we find ((10,18,3)) and ((10,20,3)) codes. We also show how to construct encoding circuits for all codes within our framework.

id: 0708.1025
title: Entanglement Distribution in Pure-State Quantum Networks
authors: S. Perseguers, J. Wehr, A. Acin, M. Lewenstein, J. I. Cirac
comments: revtex4, 14 pages, 15 figures (.eps), submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022308 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1025
abstract: We investigate entanglement distribution in pure-state quantum networks. We consider the case when non-maximally entangled two-qubit pure states are shared by neighboring nodes of the network. For a given pair of nodes, we investigate how to generate the maximal entanglement between them by performing local measurements, assisted by classical communication, on the other nodes. We find optimal measurement protocols for both small and large 1D networks. Quite surprisingly, we prove that Bell measurements are not always the optimal ones to perform in such networks. We generalize then the results to simple small 2D networks, finding again counter-intuitive optimal measurement strategies. Finally, we consider large networks with hierarchical lattice geometries and 2D networks. We prove that perfect entanglement can be established on large distances with probability one in a finite number of steps, provided the initial entanglement shared by neighboring nodes is large enough. We discuss also various protocols of entanglement distribution in 2D networks employing classical and quantum percolation strategies.

id: 0708.1086
title: Recycling of quantum information: Multiple observations of quantum systems
authors: Peter Rapcan, John Calsamiglia, Ramon Munoz-Tapia, Emilio Bagan, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Scripta T 140, 014059 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1086
abstract: Given a finite number of copies of an unknown qubit state that have already been measured optimally, can one still extract any information about the original unknown state? We give a positive answer to this question and quantify the information obtainable by a given observer as a function of the number of copies in the ensemble, and of the number of independent observers that, one after the other, have independently measured the same ensemble of qubits before him. The optimality of the protocol is proven and extensions to other states and encodings are also studied. According to the general lore, the state after a measurement has no information about the state before the measurement. Our results manifestly show that this statement has to be taken with a grain of salt, specially in situations where the quantum states encode confidential information.

id: 0708.1089
title: Quantum criticality as a resource for quantum estimation
authors: Paolo Zanardi, Matteo G A Paris, Lorenzo Campos Venuti
comments: 7 pages. Revised and extended version. Gained one author and a specific example
journal: Phys Rev A vol 78, 042105 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1089
abstract: We address quantum critical systems as a resource in quantum estimation and derive the ultimate quantum limits to the precision of any estimator of the coupling parameters. In particular, if L denotes the size of a system and \lambda is the relevant coupling parameters driving a quantum phase transition, we show that a precision improvement of order 1/L may be achieved in the estimation of \lambda at the critical point compared to the non-critical case. We show that analogue results hold for temperature estimation in classical phase transitions. Results are illustrated by means of a specific example involving a fermion tight-binding model with pair creation (BCS model).

id: 0708.1129
title: Experimental realization of a quantum game on a one-way quantum computer
authors: Robert Prevedel, Andre Stefanov, Philip Walther, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 9 (2007) 205
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1129
abstract: We report the first demonstration of a quantum game on an all-optical one-way quantum computer. Following a recent theoretical proposal we implement a quantum version of Prisoner's Dilemma, where the quantum circuit is realized by a 4-qubit box-cluster configuration and the player's local strategies by measurements performed on the physical qubits of the cluster. This demonstration underlines the strength and versatility of the one-way model and we expect that this will trigger further interest in designing quantum protocols and algorithms to be tested in state-of-the-art cluster resources.

id: 0708.1137
title: Quantum Walks on a Random Environment
authors: Yue Yin, D.E. Katsanos, S.N. Evangelou
comments: 7 pages 8 figures (for high resolution figures send an email to dkatsan@uoi.gr)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1137
abstract: Quantum walks are considered in a one-dimensional random medium characterized by static or dynamic disorder. Quantum interference for static disorder can lead to Anderson localization which completely hinders the quantum walk and it is contrasted with the decoherence effect of dynamic disorder having strength W, where a quantum to classical crossover at time $t_{c}\propto W^{-2}$ transforms the quantum walk into an ordinary random walk with diffusive spreading. We demonstrate these localization and decoherence phenomena in quantum carpets of the observed time evolution and examine in detail a dimer lattice which corresponds to a single qubit subject to randomness.

id: 0708.1159
title: Efficiency of energy transfer in a light-harvesting system under quantum coherence
authors: Alexandra Olaya-Castro, Chiu Fan Lee, Francesca Fassioli Olsen, Neil F. Johnson
comments: Extended version of original paper. 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review B 78, 085115 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1159
abstract: We investigate the role of quantum coherence in the efficiency of excitation transfer in a ring-hub arrangement of interacting two-level systems, mimicking a light-harvesting antenna connected to a reaction center as it is found in natural photosynthetic systems. By using a quantum jump approach, we demonstrate that in the presence of quantum coherent energy transfer and energetic disorder, the efficiency of excitation transfer from the antenna to the reaction center depends intimately on the quantum superposition properties of the initial state. In particular, we find that efficiency is sensitive to symmetric and asymmetric superposition of states in the basis of localized excitations, indicating that initial state properties can be used as a efficiency control parameter at low temperatures.

id: 0708.1221
title: Finite automata for caching in matrix product algorithms
authors: Gregory M. Crosswhite, Dave Bacon
comments: 18 pages, 19 figures, LaTeX; numerous improvements have been made to the manuscript in response to referee feedback
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012356 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1221
abstract: A diagram is introduced for visualizing matrix product states which makes transparent a connection between matrix product factorizations of states and operators, and complex weighted finite state automata. It is then shown how one can proceed in the opposite direction: writing an automaton that ``generates'' an operator gives one an immediate matrix product factorization of it. Matrix product factorizations have the advantage of reducing the cost of computing expectation values by facilitating caching of intermediate calculations. Thus our connection to complex weighted finite state automata yields insight into what allows for efficient caching in matrix product algorithms. Finally, these techniques are generalized to the case of multiple dimensions.

id: 0708.1288
title: Dynamical approach to chains of scatterers
authors: Martin Horvat, Tomaz Prosen
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1288
abstract: Linear chains of quantum scatterers are studied in the process of lengthening, which is treated and analysed as a discrete dynamical system defined over the manifold of scattering matrices. Elementary properties of such dynamics relate the transport through the chain to the spectral properties of individual scatterers. For a single-scattering channel case some new light is shed on known transport properties of disordered and noisy chains, whereas translationally invariant case can be studied analytically in terms of a simple deterministic dynamical map. The many-channel case was studied numerically by examining the statistical properties of scatterers that correspond to a certain type of transport of the chain i.e. ballistic or (partially) localised.

id: 0708.1297
title: Decoherent quantum walks driven by a generic coin operation
authors: G. Abal, R. Donangelo, F. Severo, R. Siri
comments: 
journal: Physica A, Vol 387/1 pp 335-345 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1297
abstract: We consider the effect of different unitary noise mechanisms on the evolution of a quantum walk (QW) on a linear chain with a generic coin operation: (i) bit-flip channel noise, restricted to the coin subspace of the QW, and (ii) topological noise caused by randomly broken links in the linear chain. Similarities and differences in the respective decoherent dynamics of the walker as a function of the probability per unit time of a decoherent event taking place are discussed.

id: 0708.1307
title: Theoretical study of dark resonances in micro-metric thin cells
authors: Horacio Failache, Lorenzo Lenci, Arturo Lezama, Daniel Bloch, Martial Ducloy
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures theoretical article
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1307
abstract: We investigate theoretically dark resonance spectroscopy for a dilute atomic vapor confined in a thin (micro-metric) cell. We identify the physical parameters characterizing the spectra and study their influence. We focus on a Hanle-type situation, with an optical irradiation under normal incidence and resonant with the atomic transition. The dark resonance spectrum is predicted to combine broad wings with a sharp maximum at line-center, that can be singled out when detecting a derivative of the dark resonance spectrum. This narrow signal derivative, shown to broaden only sub-linearly with the cell length, is a signature of the contribution of atoms slow enough to fly between the cell windows in a time as long as the characteristic ground state optical pumping time. We suggest that this dark resonance spectroscopy in micro-metric thin cells could be a suitable tool for probing the effective velocity distribution in the thin cell arising from the atomic desorption processes, and notably to identify the limiting factors affecting desorption under a grazing incidence.

id: 0708.1308
title: Universal Dephasing Control During Quantum Computation
authors: Goren Gordon, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 4 pages,3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1308
abstract: Dephasing is a ubiquitous phenomenon that leads to the loss of coherence in quantum systems and the corruption of quantum information. We present a universal dynamical control approach to combat dephasing during all stages of quantum computation, namely, storage, single- and two-qubit operators. We show that (a) tailoring multi-frequency gate pulses to the dephasing dynamics can increase fidelity; (b) cross-dephasing, introduced by entanglement, can be eliminated by appropriate control fields; (c) counter-intuitively and contrary to previous schemes, one can increase the gate duration, while simultaneously increasing the total gate fidelity.

id: 0708.1330
title: Parameter Estimation with Mixed-State Quantum Computation
authors: Rolando D. Somma, Sergio Boixo
comments: 12 pages. Improved introduction and technical details moved to Appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052320 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1330
abstract: We present a quantum algorithm to estimate parameters at the quantum metrology limit using deterministic quantum computation with one bit. When the interactions occurring in a quantum system are described by a Hamiltonian $H= \theta H_0$, we estimate $\theta$ by zooming in on previous estimations and by implementing an adaptive Bayesian procedure. The final result of the algorithm is an updated estimation of $\theta$ whose variance has been decreased in proportion to the time of evolution under H. For the problem of estimating several parameters, we implement dynamical-decoupling techniques and use the results of single parameter estimation. The cases of discrete-time evolution and reference-frame alignment are also discussed within the adaptive approach.

id: 0708.1332
title: Quantum Electric Circuits Analogous to Ballistic Conductors
authors: Daniela Dragoman
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1332
abstract: The conductance steps in a constricted two-dimensional electron gas and the minimum conductivity in graphene are related to a new uncertainty relation between electric charge and conductance in a quantized electric circuit that mimics the electric transport in mesoscopic systems. This uncertainty relation makes specific use of the discreteness of electric charge. Quantum electric circuits analogous to both constricted two-dimensional electron gas and graphene are introduced. In the latter case a new insight into the origin of minimum conductivity is obtained.

id: 0708.1337
title: Quantum Graphical Models and Belief Propagation
authors: Matthew Leifer, David Poulin
comments: 58 pages, 9 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. 323 1899 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1337
abstract: Belief Propagation algorithms acting on Graphical Models of classical probability distributions, such as Markov Networks, Factor Graphs and Bayesian Networks, are amongst the most powerful known methods for deriving probabilistic inferences amongst large numbers of random variables. This paper presents a generalization of these concepts and methods to the quantum case, based on the idea that quantum theory can be thought of as a noncommutative, operator-valued, generalization of classical probability theory. Some novel characterizations of quantum conditional independence are derived, and definitions of Quantum n-Bifactor Networks, Markov Networks, Factor Graphs and Bayesian Networks are proposed. The structure of Quantum Markov Networks is investigated and some partial characterization results are obtained, along the lines of the Hammersely-Clifford theorem. A Quantum Belief Propagation algorithm is presented and is shown to converge on 1-Bifactor Networks and Markov Networks when the underlying graph is a tree. The use of Quantum Belief Propagation as a heuristic algorithm in cases where it is not known to converge is discussed. Applications to decoding quantum error correcting codes and to the simulation of many-body quantum systems are described.

id: 0708.1356
title: Characterization of the Critical Submanifolds in Quantum Ensemble Control Landscapes
authors: Rebing Wu, Herschel Rabitz, Michael Hsieh
comments: 13 pages. submitted to Journal of Physics A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1356
abstract: A quantum control landscape is defined as the physical objective as a function of the control variables to be optimized. Analyzing the topology of these landscapes is important for understanding the origins of the increasing number of laboratory successes in the optimal control of quantum processes. This paper proposes a simple scheme to compute the characteristics of the critical topology of the quantum ensemble control landscapes for observables, showing that the set of disjoint critical submanifolds one-to-one corresponds to a finite number of contingency tables that solely depend on the degeneracy structure of the eigenvalues of the initial system density matrix and the observable to be controlled. The landscape characteristics can be calculated as functions of the table entries, including the dimensions and the numbers of positive and negative eigenvalues of the Hessian quadratic form of each of the connected components of the critical submanifolds. Typical examples are given to illustrate the effectiveness of this method.

id: 0708.1361
title: Stationary photon-atom entanglement and flow equation
authors: Yuichi Itto, Sumiyoshi Abe
comments: 21 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1361
abstract: Stationary photon-atom entanglement is discussed by applying the method of flow equation to the Jaynes-Cummings model. A nonlocal continuous unitary transformation is explicitly constructed and the associated positive operator-valued measures for the photons and atom are obtained. Then, flow of the entanglement entropy is analyzed. A comment is also made on implementing the unitary operation in the method of flow equation. This method may offer a new strategy for quantum-state engineering.

id: 0708.1385
title: Beating the Standard Quantum Limit with Four Entangled Photons
authors: Tomohisa Nagata, Ryo Okamoto, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Keiji Sasaki, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures Author name was slightly modified
journal: Science 316, 726-729 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1385
abstract: Precision measurements are important across all fields of science. In particular, optical phase measurements can be used to measure distance, position, displacement, acceleration and optical path length. Quantum entanglement enables higher precision than would otherwise be possible. We demonstrate an optical phase measurement with an entangled four photon interference visibility greater than the threshold to beat the standard quantum limit--the limit attainable without entanglement. These results open the way for new high-precision measurement applications.

id: 0708.1386
title: Quantum computing with collective ensembles of multi-level systems
authors: E. Brion, K. Moelmer, M. Saffman
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1386
abstract: We propose a new physical approach for encoding and processing of quantum information in ensembles of multi-level quantum systems, where the different bits are not carried by individual particles but associated with the collective population of different internal levels. One- and two-bit gates are implemented by collective internal state transitions taking place in the presence of an excitation blockade mechanism which restricts the population of each internal state to the values zero and unity. 10-20 bit quantum computers can be built via this scheme in single trapped clouds of ground state atoms subject to the Rydberg excitation blockade mechanism, and the linear dependence between register size and the number of internal quantum states in atoms offers realistic means to reach larger registers.

id: 0708.1390
title: Non-linear optics with two trapped atoms
authors: Sonia Fern¨¢ndez-Vidal, Stefano Zippilli, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 053829 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1390
abstract: We show theoretically that two atomic dipoles in a resonator constitute a non-linear medium, whose properties can be controlled through the relative position of the atoms inside the cavity and the detuning and intensity of the driving laser. We identify the parameter regime where the system operates as a parametric amplifier, based on the cascade emission of the collective dipole of the atoms, and determine the corresponding spectrum of squeezing of the field at the cavity output. This dynamics could be observed as a result of self-organization of laser-cooled atoms in resonators.

id: 0708.1392
title: Chirality of wave functions for three coalescing levels
authors: W.D. Heiss
comments: Manuscript has been discussed in June 2007 with the experimental group under Professor Achim Richter at the TU Darmstadt. It has been presented at the 6th International Workshop on Pseudo Hermitian Hamiltonians, London, 16-18 July 2007. An expanded version is being prepared for publication. 3 Figures, 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1392
abstract: The coalescence of three levels has particular attractive features. Even though it may be difficult to realise such event in the laboratory (three additional real parameters must be adjusted), to take up the challenge seems worthwhile. In the same way as the chiral behaviour of a usual EP can give a direction on a line, the state vectors in the vicinity of an EP3 provide an orientation in the plane. The distinction between left and right handedness depends on the distribution of the widths of the three levels in the vicinity of the point of coalescence.

id: 0708.1395
title: Multiple copy distillation and purification of phase diffused squeezed states
authors: Petr Marek, Jaromir Fiurasek, Boris Hage, Alexander Franzen, James DiGugliemo, Roman Schnabel
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 053820 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1395
abstract: We provide a detailed theoretical analysis of multiple copy purification and distillation protocols for phase diffused squeezed states of light. The standard iterative distillation protocol is generalized to a collective purification of an arbitrary number of N copies. We also derive a semi-analytical expression for the asymptotic limit of the iterative distillation and purification protocol and discuss its properties.

id: 0708.1409
title: Diffusive spin transport
authors: Cord A. Mueller
comments: Lecture notes, published in A. Buchleitner, C. Viviescas, and M. Tiersch (Eds.), "Entanglement and Decoherence. Foundations and Modern Trends", Lecture Notes in Physics 768, Springer, Berlin (2009)
journal: Lect. Notes Phys. 768, 277-314 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1409
abstract: Information to be stored and transported requires physical carriers. The quantum bit of information (qubit) can for instance be realised as the spin 1/2 degree of freedom of a massive particle like an electron or as the spin 1 polarisation of a massless photon. In this lecture, I first use irreducible representations of the rotation group to characterise the spin dynamics in a least redundant manner. Specifically, I describe the decoherence dynamics of an arbitrary spin S coupled to a randomly fluctuating magnetic field in the Liouville space formalism. Secondly, I discuss the diffusive dynamics of the particle's position in space due to the presence of randomly placed impurities. Combining these two dynamics yields a coherent, unified picture of diffusive spin transport, as applicable to mesoscopic electronic devices or photons propagating in cold atomic clouds.

id: 0708.1418
title: Dynamical generalization of a solvable family of two-electron model atoms with general interparticle repulsion
authors: T.A. Niehaus, S. Suhai, N.H. March
comments: 5 pages, submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1418
abstract: Holas, Howard and March [Phys. Lett. A {\bf 310}, 451 (2003)] have obtained analytic solutions for ground-state properties of a whole family of two-electron spin-compensated harmonically confined model atoms whose different members are characterized by a specific interparticle potential energy u($r_{12}$). Here, we make a start on the dynamic generalization of the harmonic external potential, the motivation being the serious criticism levelled recently against the foundations of time-dependent density-functional theory (e.g. [J. Schirmer and A. Dreuw, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 75}, 022513 (2007)]). In this context, we derive a simplified expression for the time-dependent electron density for arbitrary interparticle interaction, which is fully determined by an one-dimensional non-interacting Hamiltonian. Moreover, a closed solution for the momentum space density in the Moshinsky model is obtained.

id: 0708.1449
title: Slow beams of massive molecules
authors: Sarayut Deachapunya, Paul J. Fagan, Andras G. Major, Elisabeth Reiger, Helmut Ritsch, Andre Stefanov, Hendrik Ulbricht, Markus Arndt
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 46, 307 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1449
abstract: Slow beams of neutral molecules are of great interest for a wide range of applications, from cold chemistry through precision measurements to tests of the foundations of quantum mechanics. We report on the quantitative observation of thermal beams of perfluorinated macromolecules with masses up to 6000 amu, reaching velocities down to 11 m/s. Such slow, heavy and neutral molecular beams are of importance for a new class of experiments in matter-wave interferometry and we also discuss the requirements for further manipulation and cooling schemes with molecules in this unprecedented mass range.

id: 0708.1484
title: A quantum dot implementation of the quantum NAND algorithm
authors: J. M. Taylor
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1484
abstract: We propose a physical implementation of the quantum NAND tree evaluation algorithm. Our approach, based on continuous time quantum walks, uses the wave interference of a single electron in a heirarchical set of tunnel coupled quantum dots. We find that the query complexity of the NAND tree evaluation does not suffer strongly from disorder and dephasing, nor is it directly limited by temperature or restricted dimensionality for 2-d structures. Finally, we suggest a potential application of this algorithm to the efficient determination of high-order correlation functions of complex quantum systems.

id: 0708.1497
title: Information Rate Loss due to Radiation Decoherence
authors: Alfonso Martinez
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1497
abstract: The information rates achievable by using electromagnetic radiation affected by thermal noise and signal decoherence are studied. The standard coherent Gaussian model is compared with an alternative photon gas model which represents lack of a shared phase reference between transmitter and receiver. At any frequency, information rates over the photon gas model essentially coincide with those over the Gaussian model when the signal-to-noise ratio is below a threshold. Only above the threshold does decoherence cause a loss in information rates; the loss can amount to half of the capacity. The threshold exceeds 40 dB for radio frequencies and vanishes at optical frequencies.

id: 0708.1498
title: Optimizing Optical Quantum Logic Gates using Genetic Algorithms
authors: Zhanghan Wu, Sean D. Huver, Dmitry Uskov, Hwang Lee, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1498
abstract: We introduce the method of using an annealing genetic algorithm to the numerically complex problem of looking for quantum logic gates which simultaneously have highest fidelity and highest success probability. We first use the linear optical quantum nonlinear sign (NS) gate as an example to illustrate the efficiency of this method. We show that by appropriately choosing the annealing parameters, we can reach the theoretical maximum success probability (1/4 for NS) for each attempt. We then examine the controlled-z (CZ) gate as the first new problem to be solved. We show results that agree with the highest known maximum success probability for a CZ gate (2/27) while maintaining a fidelity of 0.9997. Since the purpose of our algorithm is to optimize a unitary matrix for quantum transformations, it could easily be applied to other areas of interest such as quantum optics and quantum sensors.

id: 0708.1505
title: How much is a quantum controller controlled by the controlled system?
authors: Dominik Janzing, Thomas Decker
comments: 17 pages, references added, results slightly improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1505
abstract: We consider unitary transformations on a bipartite system A x B. To what extent entails the ability to transmit information from A to B the ability to transfer information in the converse direction? We prove a dimension-dependent lower bound on the classical channel capacity C(A<--B) in terms of the capacity C(A-->B) for the case that the bipartite unitary operation consists of controlled local unitaries on B conditioned on basis states on A. This can be interpreted as a statement on the strength of the inevitable backaction of a quantum system on its controller. If the local operations are given by the regular representation of a finite group G we have C(A-->B)=log |G| and C(A<--B)=log N where N is the sum over the degrees of all inequivalent representations. Hence the information deficit C(A-->B)-C(A<--B) between the forward and the backward capacity depends on the "non-abelianness" of the control group. For regular representations, the ratio between backward and forward capacities cannot be smaller than 1/2. The symmetric group S_n reaches this bound asymptotically. However, for the general case (without group structure) all bounds must depend on the dimensions since it is known that the ratio can tend to zero.

id: 0708.1536
title: Physics and Commonsense - Reassessing the connection in the light of quantum theory
authors: R. Gomatam
comments: 37 pages (including 4 figures); a few sentence constructions improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1536
abstract: Scientific realism in classical (i.e. pre-quantum) physics has remained compatible with the naive realism of everyday thinking on the whole; whereas it has proven impossible to find any consistent way to visualize the world underlying quantum theory in terms of our pictures in the everyday world. The general conclusion is that in quantum theory naive realism, although necessary at the level of observations, fails at the microscopic level. In this paper I offer a counter view that what fails in quantum theory is naive realism at the level of observations itself.

id: 0708.1539
title: The Structure of Classical Extensions of Quantum Probability Theory
authors: Werner Stulpe, Paul Busch
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49 (2008) 032104/1-22
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1539
abstract: On the basis of a suggestive definition of a classical extension of quantum mechanics in terms of statistical models, we prove that every such classical extension is essentially given by the so-called Misra-Bugajski reduction map. We consider how this map enables one to understand quantum mechanics as a reduced classical statistical theory on the projective Hilbert space as phase space and discuss features of the induced hidden-variables model. Moreover, some relevant technical results on the topology and Borel structure of the projective Hilbert space are reviewed.

id: 0708.1540
title: Optimal bounded-error strategies for projective measurements in non-orthogonal state discrimination
authors: M.A.P. Touzel, R.B.A. Adamson, A.M. Steinberg
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, Revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1540
abstract: Research in non-orthogonal state discrimination has given rise to two conventional optimal strategies: unambiguous discrimination (UD) and minimum error (ME) discrimination. This paper explores the experimentally relevant range of measurement strategies between the two, where the rate of inconclusive results is minimized for a bounded-error rate. We first provide some constraints on the problem that apply to generalized measurements (POVMs). We then provide the theory for the optimal projective measurement (PVM) in this range. Through analytical and numerical results we investigate this family of projective, bounded-error strategies and compare it to the POVM family as well as to experimental implementation of UD using POVMs. We also discuss a possible application of these bounded-error strategies to quantum key distribution.

id: 0708.1559
title: Investigation on the superluminality of evanescent modes via quantum Lorentz transformation
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong
comments: 15 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1559
abstract: Applying the fact that guided photons inside a waveguide can be treated as massive particles, one can study the superluminality of evanescent modes via showing that a massive particle can propagate over a spacelike interval, which corresponds to quantum tunneling effects. For this purpose, we treat the particle as a quantum reference frame, while attach an inertia observer to a classical reference frame, and then quantize the formulae for the Lorentz transformation between the quantum and classical reference frames, from which we obtain the conclusion that, owing to the Heisenberg's uncertainty relation, the particle can propagate over a spacelike interval.

id: 0708.1567
title: Strings, Projected Entangled Pair States, and variational Monte Carlo methods
authors: Norbert Schuch, Michael M. Wolf, Frank Verstraete, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 4 pages. v2: Submitted version, containing more numerical data. Changed title and renamed "string states" to "string-bond states" to comply with PRL conventions. v3: Accepted version, Journal-Ref. added (title differs from journal)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 040501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1567
abstract: We introduce string-bond states, a class of states obtained by placing strings of operators on a lattice, which encompasses the relevant states in Quantum Information. For string-bond states, expectation values of local observables can be computed efficiently using Monte Carlo sampling, making them suitable for a variational abgorithm which extends DMRG to higher dimensional and irregular systems. Numerical results demonstrate the applicability of these states to the simulation of many-body sytems.

id: 0708.1587
title: Quantum theory and the observation problem
authors: Ravi Gomatam
comments: 19 pages
journal: (1999) Journal of consciousness studies, 6 (11-12), 173-90
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1587
abstract: Quantum theory is applicable, in principle, to both the microscopic and macroscopic realms. It is therefore worthwhile to investigate whether it is possible to evolve a quantum-compatible view of the properties and states of macroscopic objects in everyday thinking. It will allow a realistic interpretation of quantum theory in a manner directly consistent with the observations. The construction of such a view will provide a solution to what I term the observation problem. Toward solving the observation problem, I identify a category of new objective properties called 'relational properties' that are (so to speak) in-between primary and secondary properties. We regularly associate such properties with everyday objects, and I discuss how in fact these are quantum-compatible. If this relational-property viewpoint could be worked into quantum theory, it would altogether avoid the measurement problem, which is an artifact of our current inconsistent (albeit pragmatically successful) strategy of retaining a classical view of the macroscopic world while applying quantum theory to the microscopic world. Some implications of the relational property viewpoint to neurobiological issues underlying cognition are touched upon.

id: 0708.1597
title: New lower bounds on the non-zero capacity of Pauli Channels
authors: Jesse Fern, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, RevTeX4, accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062335 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1597
abstract: We study encodings that give the best known thresholds for the non-zero capacity of quantum channels, i.e., the upper bound for correctable noise, using an entropic approach to calculation of the threshold values. Our results show that Pauli noise is correctable up to the hashing bound. For a depolarizing channel, this approach allows one to achieve a non-zero capacity for a fidelity (probability of no error) of f=0.80870.

id: 0708.1615
title: Classical limit of the Casimir entropy for scalar massless field
authors: S. Rubin, J. Feinberg, A. Mann, M. Revzen
comments: 14 pages
journal: PhysicaA384:335-345,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1615
abstract: We study the Casimir effect at finite temperature for a massless scalar field in the parallel plates geometry in N spatial dimensions, under various combinations of Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions on the plates. We show that in all these cases the entropy, in the limit where energy equipartitioning applies, is a geometrical factor whose sign determines the sign of the Casimir force.

id: 0708.1692
title: High fidelity all-optical control of quantum dot spins: detailed study of the adiabatic approach
authors: Erik M. Gauger, Simon C. Benjamin, Ahsan Nazir, Brendon W. Lovett
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77 119902 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1692
abstract: Confined electron spins are preferred candidates for embodying quantum information in the solid state. A popular idea is the use of optical excitation to achieve the ``best of both worlds'', i.e. marrying the long spin decoherence times with rapid gating. Here we study an all-optical adiabatic approach to generating single qubit phase gates. We find that such a gate can be extremely robust against the combined effect of all principal sources of decoherence, with an achievable fidelity of 0.999 even at finite temperature. Crucially this performance can be obtained with only a small time cost: the adiabatic gate duration is within about an order of magnitude of a simple dynamic implementation. An experimental verification of these predictions is immediately feasible with only modest resources.

id: 0708.1734
title: Event-by-event Simulation of Quantum Cryptography Protocols
authors: Shuang Zhao, Hans De Raedt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1734
abstract: We present a new approach to simulate quantum cryptography protocols using event-based processes. The method is validated by simulating the BB84 protocol and the Ekert protocol, both without and with the presence of an eavesdropper.

id: 0708.1755
title: Biperiodic superlattices and the transparent state
authors: D. W. L. Sprung, L. W. A. Vanderspek, W. Van Dijk, J. Martorell, C. Pacher
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures Version 2: improved figures using colour, and some small improvements in the text, in response to referee comments Version 3: incorporates changes which arose in proofs stage
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1755
abstract: Coquelin et al. studied biperiodic semiconductor superlattices, which consist of alternating cell types, one with wide wells and the other narrow wells, separated by equal strength barriers. If the wells were identical, it would be a simply periodic system of $N = 2n$ half-cells. When asymmetry is introduced, an allowed band splits at the Bragg point into two disjoint allowed bands. The Bragg resonance turns into a transparent state located close to the band edge of the lower(upper) band when the first(second) well is the wider. Analysis of this system gives insight into how band splitting occurs. Further we consider semi-periodic systems having $N= 2n+1$ half-cells. Surprisingly these have very different transmission properties, with an envelope of maximum transmission probability that crosses the envelope of minima at the transparent point.

id: 0708.1868
title: The alternative model of the spherical oscillator
authors: Levon Mardoyan
comments: 5 pages, Contribution to the Proceedings of XVI-th International Colloquim Interable Systems and Quantum Symmetries, June 14-16, 2007, Prague, Czech Republic
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1868
abstract: The quasiradial wave functions and energy spectra of the alternative model of spherical oscillator on the $D$-dimensional sphere and two-sheeted hyperboloid are found.

id: 0708.1869
title: Broadcasting of continuous variable entanglement
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari, A. S. Majumdar, N. Nayak
comments: 4 pages, 2 eps figures, RevTex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1869
abstract: We present a scheme for broadcasting of continuous variable entanglement. We show how an initial two-mode squeezed state of the electromagnetic field shared by two distant parties can be broadcasted into two nonlocal bipartite entangled states. Our protocol uses a local linear amplifier and a beam splitter at each end. We compute the fidelity of the output entangled states and show that the broadcasting can be implemented for a variety of input squeezed states and amplifier phases.

id: 0708.1878
title: Room temperature triggered single-photon source in the near infrared
authors: E. Wu, James Rabeau, G¨¦rard Roger, Fran?ois Treussart, Heping Zeng, Philippe Grangier, Steven Prawer, Jean-Fran?ois Roch
comments: 10 pages
journal: New Journal of Physics 9 (2007) 434
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1878
abstract: We report the realization of a solid-state triggered single-photon source with narrow emission in the near infrared at room temperature. It is based on the photoluminescence of a single nickel-nitrogen NE8 colour centre in a chemical vapour deposited diamond nanocrystal. Stable single-photon emission has been observed in the photoluminescence under both continuous-wave and pulsed excitations. The realization of this source represents a step forward in the application of diamond-based single-photon sources to Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) under practical operating conditions.

id: 0708.1879
title: Quantum random access memory
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Accepted for publication on Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: V. Giovannetti, S. Lloyd, L. Maccone, Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 160501 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1879
abstract: A random access memory (RAM) uses n bits to randomly address N=2^n distinct memory cells. A quantum random access memory (qRAM) uses n qubits to address any quantum superposition of N memory cells. We present an architecture that exponentially reduces the requirements for a memory call: O(log N) switches need be thrown instead of the N used in conventional (classical or quantum) RAM designs. This yields a more robust qRAM algorithm, as it in general requires entanglement among exponentially less gates, and leads to an exponential decrease in the power needed for addressing. A quantum optical implementation is presented.

id: 0708.1882
title: The role of symmetries in adiabatic quantum algorithms
authors: Gernot Schaller, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 18 pages, 16 figures, 4 tables; some reviewer suggestions included, comments welcome
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 10, 0109-0140 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1882
abstract: Exploiting the similarity between adiabatic quantum algorithms and quantum phase transitions, we argue that second-order transitions -- typically associated with broken or restored symmetries -- should be advantageous in comparison to first-order transitions. Guided by simple examples we construct an alternative adiabatic algorithm for the NP-complete problem {\em Exact Cover 3}. We show numerically that its average performance (for the considered cases up to ${\cal O}\{20\}$ qubits) is better than that of the conventional scheme. The run-time of adiabatic algorithms is not just determined by the minimum value of the fundamental energy gap (between the ground state and the exited states), but also by its curvature at the critical point. The proposed symmetry-restoring adiabatic quantum algorithm only contains contributions linear and quadratic in the Pauli matrices and can be generalized to other problem Hamiltonians which are decomposed of terms involving one and two qubits. We show how the factoring problem can be cast into such a quadratic form. These findings suggest that adiabatic quantum algorithms can solve a large class of NP problems much faster than the Grover search routine (which corresponds to a first-order transition and yields a quadratic enhancement only).

id: 0708.1902
title: Some Open Problems in Quantum Information Theory
authors: Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1902
abstract: Some open questions in quantum information theory (QIT) are described. Most of them were presented in Banff during the BIRS workshop on Operator Structures in QIT 11-16 February 2007. New material has been added in view of the recent counter-examples to p-norm multiplicativity.

id: 0708.1918
title: Quantum state tomography using a single apparatus
authors: B. Mehmani, A. E. Allahverdyan, Th. M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: 7 pages, 8 figure, Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1918
abstract: The density matrix of a two-level system (spin, atom) is usually determined by measuring the three non-commuting components of the Pauli vector. This density matrix can also be obtained via the measurement data of two commuting variables, using a single apparatus. This is done by coupling the two-level system to a mode of radiation field, where the atom-field interaction is described with the Jaynes--Cummings model. The mode starts its evolution from a known coherent state. The unknown initial state of the atom is found by measuring two commuting observables: the population difference of the atom and the photon number of the field. We discuss the advantages of this setup and its possible applications.

id: 0708.1932
title: Derivation of the quantum probability law from minimal non-demolition measurement
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Phys. A, 40 (2007) 10549
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1932
abstract: One more derivation of the quantum probability rule is presented in order to shed more light on the versatile aspects of this fundamental law. It is shown that the change of state in minimal quantum non-demolition measurement, also known as ideal measurement, implies the probability law in a simple way. Namely, the very requirement of minimal change of state, put in proper mathematical form, gives the well known Lueders formula, which contains the probability rule.

id: 0708.1936
title: Gas phase sorting of nanoparticles
authors: Hendrik Ulbricht, Martin Berninger, Sarayut Deachapunya, Andre Stefanov, Markus Arndt
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nanotechnology 19, 045502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1936
abstract: We discuss Stark deflectometry of micro-modulated molecular beams for the enrichment of biomolecular isomers as well as single-wall carbon nanotubes and we demonstrate the working principle of this idea with fullerenes. The sorting is based on the species-dependent polarizability-to-mass ratio $\alpha/m$. The device is compatible with a high molecular throughput, and the spatial micro-modulation of the beam permits to obtain a fine spatial resolution and a high sorting sensitivity.

id: 0708.1953
title: Linear Quantum Error Correction
authors: A. Shabani, D. A. Lidar
comments: This paper has been withdrawn as it has been superseded by arXiv:0902.2478
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1953
abstract: We develop a generalized theory of quantum error correction (QEC) that applies to any linear map, in particular maps that are not completely positive (CP). This theory describes entanglement-assisted QEC for invertible noise maps, which we use to provides an example of the physical implementation of non-CP recovery maps. We argue that a consistent map-based theory of fault-tolerant QEC (whether Markovian or not) requires linear, non-CP maps, and that this impacts the value of the fault-tolerance threshold.

id: 0708.1956
title: Transforming squeezed light into a large amplitude coherent state superposition
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 043840 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1956
abstract: A quantum superposition of two coherent states of light with small amplitude can be obtained by subtracting a photon from a squeezed vacuum state. In experiments this preparation can be made conditioned on the detection of a photon in the field from a squeezed light source. We propose and analyze an extended measurement strategy which allows generation of high fidelity coherent state superpositions with larger amplitude.

id: 0708.1973
title: Strong violations of Bell-type inequalities for Werner-like states
authors: Christoph F. Wildfeuer, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: Revised manuscript, accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032113 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1973
abstract: We investigate the violation of Bell-type inequalities for two-qubit Werner-like states parametrized by the positive parameter 0<p<1. We use an unbalanced homodyne detection scheme to obtain the quantum mechanical probabilities. A violation of the Bell-Wigner and Janssens inequalities is obtained for a large range of the parameter p. The range given by these inequalities is greater than the one given by the Clauser-Horne inequality. The range in which a violation is attained actually coincides with the range where the Werner-like states are known to be nonseparabel, i.e., for p>1/3. However, the improvement over the Clauser-Horne inequality is achieved at the price of restricting the class of possible local hidden variable theories.

id: 0708.1986
title: Duality and Recycling Computing in Quantum Computers
authors: Gui Lu Long, Yang Liu
comments: 4 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1986
abstract: Quantum computer possesses quantum parallelism and offers great computing power over classical computer \cite{er1,er2}. As is well-know, a moving quantum object passing through a double-slit exhibits particle wave duality. A quantum computer is static and lacks this duality property. The recently proposed duality computer has exploited this particle wave duality property, and it may offer additional computing power \cite{r1}. Simply put it, a duality computer is a moving quantum computer passing through a double-slit. A duality computer offers the capability to perform separate operations on the sub-waves coming out of the different slits, in the so-called duality parallelism. Here we show that an $n$-dubit duality computer can be modeled by an $(n+1)$-qubit quantum computer. In a duality mode, computing operations are not necessarily unitary. A $n$-qubit quantum computer can be used as an $n$-bit reversible classical computer and is energy efficient. Our result further enables a $(n+1)$-qubit quantum computer to run classical algorithms in a $O(2^n)$-bit classical computer. The duality mode provides a natural link between classical computing and quantum computing. Here we also propose a recycling computing mode in which a quantum computer will continue to compute until the result is obtained. These two modes provide new tool for algorithm design. A search algorithm for the unsorted database search problem is designed.

id: 0708.1997
title: Time and nonlocal realism: Consequences of the before-before experiment
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1997
abstract: It is argued that recent experiments refuting nonlocal realism, can also be considered as experiments refuting time-ordered nonlocality and, hence, confirming the result of the before-before experiment. However, the before-before experiment provides a broader refutation because it also falsifies the testable relativistic version of Bohm's nonlocal model. All this stresses the interest of a new before-before experiment demonstrating together the failure of time-ordered nonlocality and the violation of the Leggett's inequality.

id: 0708.2019
title: Giant optical Faraday rotation induced by a single electron spin in a quantum dot: Applications to entangling remote spins via a single photon
authors: C. Y. Hu, A. Young, J. L. O'Brien, J. G. Rarity
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 085307 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2019
abstract: We propose a quantum non-demolition method - giant Faraday rotation - to detect a single electron spin in a quantum dot inside a microcavity where negatively-charged exciton strongly couples to the cavity mode. Left- and right-circularly polarized light reflected from the cavity feels different phase shifts due to cavity quantum electrodynamics and the optical spin selection rule. This yields giant and tunable Faraday rotation which can be easily detected experimentally. Based on this spin-detection technique, a scalable scheme to create an arbitrary amount of entanglement between two or more remote spins via a single photon is proposed.

id: 0708.2073
title: Controlled exchange interaction between pairs of neutral atoms in an optical lattice
authors: M. Anderlini, P. J. Lee, B. L. Brown, J. Sebby-Strabley, W. D. Phillips, J. V. Porto
comments: 
journal: Nature 448, 452-456 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2073
abstract: Ultra-cold atoms trapped by light, with their robust quantum coherence and controllability, provide an attractive system for quantum information processing and for simulation of complex problems in condensed matter physics. Many quantum information processing schemes require that individual qubits be manipulated and deterministically entangled with one another, a process that would typically be accomplished by controlled, state-dependent, coherent interactions among qubits. Recent experiments have made progress toward this goal by demonstrating entanglement among an ensemble of atoms confined in an optical lattice. Until now, however, there has been no demonstration of a key operation: controlled entanglement between atoms in isolated pairs. We have used an optical lattice of double-well potentials to isolate and manipulate arrays of paired atoms, inducing controlled entangling interactions within each pair. Our experiment is the first realization of proposals to use controlled exchange coupling in a system of neutral atoms. Although 87Rb atoms have nearly state-independent interactions, when we force two atoms into the same physical location, the wavefunction exchange symmetry of these identical bosons leads to state-dependent dynamics. We observe repeated interchange of spin between atoms occupying different vibrational levels, with a coherence time of more than ten milliseconds. This observation represents the first demonstration of the essential component of a quantum SWAP gate in neutral atoms. The "half implementation" of SWAP, the sqrt(SWAP) gate, is entangling, and together with single qubit rotations form a set of universal gates for quantum computation.

id: 0708.2096
title: Non-uniform mixing of quantum walk on cycles
authors: William Adamczak, Kevin Andrew, Leon Bergen, Dillon Ethier, Peter Hernberg, Jennifer Lin, Christino Tamon
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 5(6):781-793, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2096
abstract: A classical lazy random walk on cycles is known to mix to the uniform distribution. In contrast, we show that a continuous-time quantum walk on cycles exhibit strong non-uniform mixing properties. Our results include the following: - The instantaneous distribution of a quantum walk on most even-length cycles is never uniform. - The average distribution of a quantum walk on any Abelian circulant graph is never uniform. As a corollary, the average distribution of a quantum walk on any standard circulant graph, such as the cycles, complete graphs, and even hypercubes, is never uniform.

id: 0708.2113
title: Detecting separable states via semidefinite programs
authors: Federico M. Spedalieri
comments: 8 pages, accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 76, 032318 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2113
abstract: We introduce a new technique to detect separable states using semidefinite programs. This approach provides a sufficient condition for separability of a state that is based on the existence of a certain local linear map applied to a known separable state. When a state is shown to be separable, a proof of this fact is provided in the form of an explicit convex decomposition of the state in terms of product states. All states in the interior of the set of separable states can be detected in this way, except maybe for a set of measure zero. Even though this technique is more suited for a numerical approach, a new analytical criterion for separability can also be derived.

id: 0708.2118
title: Optimal Control Theory for Continuous Variable Quantum Gates
authors: Rebing Wu, Raj Chakrabarti, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 39 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2118
abstract: We apply the methodology of optimal control theory to the problem of implementing quantum gates in continuous variable systems with quadratic Hamiltonians. We demonstrate that it is possible to define a fidelity measure for continuous variable (CV) gate optimization that is devoid of traps, such that the search for optimal control fields using local algorithms will not be hindered. The optimal control of several quantum computing gates, as well as that of algorithms composed of these primitives, is investigated using several typical physical models and compared for discrete and continuous quantum systems. Numerical simulations indicate that the optimization of generic CV quantum gates is inherently more expensive than that of generic discrete variable quantum gates, and that the exact-time controllability of CV systems plays an important role in determining the maximum achievable gate fidelity. The resulting optimal control fields typically display more complicated Fourier spectra that suggest a richer variety of possible control mechanisms. Moreover, the ability to control interactions between qunits is important for delimiting the total control fluence. The comparative ability of current experimental protocols to implement such time-dependent controls may help determine which physical incarnations of CV quantum information processing will be the easiest to implement with optimal fidelity.

id: 0708.2119
title: Control Landscapes for Observable Preparation with Open Quantum Systems
authors: Rebing Wu, Alexander Pechen, Herschel Rabitz, Michael Hsieh, Benjamin Tsou
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 022108 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2119
abstract: A quantum control landscape is defined as the observable as a function(al) of the system control variables. Such landscapes were introduced to provide a basis to understand the increasing number of successful experiments controlling quantum dynamics phenomena. This paper extends the concept to encompass the broader context of the environment having an influence. For the case that the open system dynamics are fully controllable, it is shown that the control landscape for open systems can be lifted to the analysis of an equivalent auxiliary landscape of a closed composite system that contains the environmental interactions. This inherent connection can be analyzed to provide relevant information about the topology of the original open system landscape. Application to the optimization of an observable expectation value reveals the same landscape simplicity observed in former studies on closed systems. In particular, no false sub-optimal traps exist in the system control landscape when seeking to optimize an observable, even in the presence of complex environments. Moreover, a quantitative study of the control landscape of a system interacting with a thermal environment shows that the enhanced controllability attainable with open dynamics significantly broadens the range of the achievable observable values over the control landscape.

id: 0708.2129
title: Unitarily manipulating in time and space a Gaussian wave-packet motional state of a single atom in a quadratic potential field
authors: Xijia Miao
comments: 47 pages, no figure, a modified version with an important correction in subsection 2.3 and section 3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2129
abstract: The paper first discusses theoretically the off-resonance selective excitation method that is dependent on the atomic internal states and used to generate approximately a standard coherent state of harmonic oscillator. The coherent average method then is proposed to construct the state-selective trigger pulse. A state-selective trigger pulse can keep Gaussian shape unchanged but change in an internal-state-dependent form the center-of-mass position and/or momentum of an atomic Gaussian wave-packet motional state. A Gaussian wave-packet state is one of the simplest wave-packet states that can be easily manipulated and controlled in time and space. The paper also investigates how to manipulate in time and space an atomic Gaussian wave-packet motional state by a generalized quadratic potential field. A general quadratic Hamiltonian can affect not only the center-of-mass position and momentum but also the complex linewidth of a Gaussian wave-packet motional state while keep Gaussian shape of the motional state unchanged. It is shown that generally quadratic terms of a quadratic Hamiltonian can control directly the complex linewidth, while linear terms of a quadratic Hamiltonian can affect only the center-of-mass position and momentum of a Gaussian wave-packet motional state.

id: 0708.2142
title: General entanglement-assisted quantum error-correcting codes
authors: Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Igor Devetak, Todd Brun
comments: 7 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 062313 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2142
abstract: Entanglement-assisted quantum error-correcting codes (EAQECCs) make use of pre-existing entanglement between the sender and receiver to boost the rate of transmission. It is possible to construct an EAQECC from any classical linear code, unlike standard QECCs which can only be constructed from dual-containing codes. Operator quantum error-correcting codes (OQECCs) allow certain errors to be corrected (or prevented) passively, reducing the complexity of the correction procedure. We combine these two extensions of standard quantum error correction into a unified entanglement-assisted quantum error correction formalism. This new scheme, which we call entanglement-assisted operator quantum error correction (EAOQEC), is the most general and powerful quantum error-correcting technique known, retaining the advantages of both entanglement-assistance and passive correction. We present the formalism, show the considerable freedom in constructing EAOQECCs from classical codes, and demonstrate the construction with examples.

id: 0708.2189
title: Reconsidering Relativistic Causality
authors: Jeremy Butterfield
comments: 49 pages latex, no figures. Forthcoming in International Studies in the Philosophy of Science, volume 21, issue 3, October 2007
journal: Int.Stud.Phil.Sci.21:295-328,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2189
abstract: I discuss the idea of relativistic causality, i.e. the requirement that causal processes or signals can propagate only within the light-cone. After briefly locating this requirement in the philosophy of causation, my main aim is to draw philosophers' attention to the fact that it is subtle, indeed problematic, in relativistic quantum physics: there are scenarios in which it seems to fail. I consign to an Appendix two such scenarios, which are familiar to philosophers of physics: the pilot-wave approach, and the Newton-Wigner representation. I instead stress two unfamiliar scenarios: the Drummond-Hathrell and Scharnhorst effects. These effects also illustrate a general moral in the philosophy of geometry: that the mathematical structures, especially the metric tensor, that represent geometry get their geometric significance by dint of detailed physical arguments.

id: 0708.2192
title: Stochastic Einstein Locality Revisited
authors: Jeremy Butterfield
comments: 59 pages latex, 3 figures. Forthcoming in The British Journal for the Philosophy of Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2192
abstract: I discuss various formulations of stochastic Einstein locality (SEL), which is a version of the idea of relativistic causality, i.e. the idea that influences propagate at most as fast as light. SEL is similar to Reichenbach's Principle of the Common Cause (PCC), and Bell's Local Causality. My main aim is to discuss formulations of SEL for a fixed background spacetime. I previously argued that SEL is violated by the outcome dependence shown by Bell correlations, both in quantum mechanics and in quantum field theory. Here I re-assess those verdicts in the light of some recent literature which argues that outcome dependence does not violate the PCC. I argue that the verdicts about SEL still stand. Finally, I briefly discuss how to formulate relativistic causality if there is no fixed background spacetime.

id: 0708.2201
title: A Modified Borel Summation Technique
authors: David Leonard, Paul Mansfield
comments: 23 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2201
abstract: We compare and contrast three different perturbative expansions for the quartic anharmonic oscillator wavefunction and apply a modified Borel summation technique to determine the energy eigenvalues. In the first two expansions this provides the energy eigenvalues directly however in the third method we tune the wavefunctions to achieve the correct large x behaviour. This tuning technique allows us to determine the energy eigenvalues up to an arbitrary level of accuracy with remarkable efficiency. We give numerical evidence to explain this behaviour. We also refine the modified Borel summation technique to improve its accuracy. The main sources of error are investigated with reasonable error corrections calculated.

id: 0708.2216
title: Experimental joint signal-idler quasi-distributions and photon-number statistics for mesoscopic twin beams
authors: Jan Perina, Jaromir Krepelka, Jan Perina Jr, Maria Bondani, Alessia Allevi, Alessandra Andreoni
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76 (2007) 043806
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2216
abstract: Joint signal-idler photoelectron distributions of twin beams containing several tens of photons per mode have been measured recently. Exploiting a microscopic quantum theory for joint quasi-distributions in parametric down-conversion developed earlier we characterize properties of twin beams in terms of quasi-distributions using experimental data. Negative values as well as oscillating behaviour in quantum region are characteristic for the subsequently determined joint signal-idler quasi-distributions of integrated intensities. Also the conditional and difference photon-number distributions are shown to be sub-Poissonian and sub-shot-noise, respectively.

id: 0708.2224
title: Squeezed-light generation in a nonlinear planar waveguide with a periodic corrugation
authors: Jan Perina Jr, Ondrej Haderka, Concita Sibilia, Mario Bertolotti, Michael Scalora
comments: 14 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76 (2007) 033813
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2224
abstract: Two-mode nonlinear interaction (second-harmonic and second-subharmonic generation) in a planar waveguide with a small periodic corrugation at the surface is studied. Scattering of the interacting fields on the corrugation leads to constructive interference that enhances the nonlinear process provided that all the interactions are phase matched. Conditions for the overall phase matching are found. Compared with a perfectly quasi-phase-matched waveguide, better values of squeezing as well as higher intensities are reached under these conditions. Procedure for finding optimum values of parameters for squeezed-light generation is described.

id: 0708.2236
title: Large-order shifted 1/N expansions through the asymptotic iteration method
authors: T. Barakat
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2236
abstract: The perturbation technique within the framework of the asymptotic iteration method is used to obtain large-order shifted 1/N expansions, where N is the number of spatial dimensions. This method is contrary to the usual Rayleigh-Schr\"{o}dinger perturbation theory, no matrix elements need to be calculated. The method is applied to the Schr\"{o}dinger equation and the non-polynomial potential $V(r)=r^2+\frac{b r^2}{(1+cr^2)}$ in three dimensions is discussed as an illustrative example.

id: 0708.2240
title: Casimir-Polder interatomic potential between two atoms at finite temperature and in the presence of boundary conditions
authors: R. Passante, S. Spagnolo
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2240
abstract: We evaluate the Casimir-Polder potential between two atoms in the presence of an infinite perfectly conducting plate and at nonzero temperature. In order to calculate the potential, we use a method based on equal-time spatial correlations of the electric field, already used to evaluate the effect of boundary conditions on interatomic potentials. This method gives also a transparent physical picture of the role of a finite temperature and boundary conditions on the Casimir-Polder potential. We obtain an analytical expression of the potential both in the near and far zones, and consider several limiting cases of interest, according to the values of the parameters involved, such as atom-atom distance, atoms-wall distance and temperature.

id: 0708.2241
title: Simple direct measurement of nonclassical joint signal-idler photon-number statistics and correlation area of twin photon beams
authors: Ondrej Haderka, Jan Perina Jr, Martin Hamar
comments: 8 pages, 5 PostScript figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 7, S572 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2241
abstract: The measurement of joint signal-idler photon-number distribution of a field obtained from spontaneous parametric downconversion using an intensified CCD camera is presented. It is shown that a classicality criterion is violated directly by the measured data. Characteristic dimensions of the area of correlation are determined in the same experimental setup.

id: 0708.2242
title: Antisymmetric entangled two-photon states generated in nonlinear GaN/AlN photonic-band-gap structures
authors: Jan Perina Jr, Marco Centini, Concita Sibilia, Mario Bertolotti, Michael Scalora
comments: 5 pages, 7 PostScript figures
journal: Physical Review A 75, 013805 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2242
abstract: The properties of an entangled two-photon state antisymmetric in frequencies are studied. At a beam-splitter, two entangled photons are perfectly anti-correlated. In addition, they cannot be detected at the same time instant despite the fact that their detection times are confined to a narrow time window, i.e. they are temporally anti-bunched. Using nonlinear photonic-band-gap structures made of GaN/AlN, two schemes for generating such states are described.

id: 0708.2257
title: Dynamics of Atom-Field Entanglement from Exact Solutions: Towards Strong Coupling and Non-Markovian Regimes
authors: Nick Cummings, B. L. Hu
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures; minor changes in grammar, wording, and formatting. One unnecessary figure removed. Figure number revised (no longer counts subfigures separately)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 053823 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2257
abstract: We examine the dynamics of bipartite entanglement between a two-level atom and the electromagnetic field. We treat the Jaynes-Cummings model with a single field mode and examine in detail the exact time evolution of entanglement, including cases where the atomic state is initially mixed and the atomic transition is detuned from resonance. We then explore the effects of other nearby modes by calculating the exact time evolution of entanglement in more complex systems with two, three, and five field modes. For these cases we can obtain exact solutions which include the strong coupling regimes. Finally, we consider the entanglement of a two-level atom with the infinite collection of modes present in the intracavity field of a Fabre-Perot cavity. In contrast to the usual treatment of atom-field interactions with a continuum of modes using the Born-Markov approximation, our treatment in all cases describes the full non-Markovian dynamics of the atomic subsystem. Only when an analytic expression for the infinite mode case is desired do we need to make a weak coupling assumption which at long times approximates Markovian dynamics.

id: 0708.2275
title: Completeness of the classical 2D Ising model and universal quantum computation
authors: M. Van den Nest, W. D¨¹r, H. J. Briegel
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. Minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 110501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2275
abstract: We prove that the 2D Ising model is complete in the sense that the partition function of any classical q-state spin model (on an arbitrary graph) can be expressed as a special instance of the partition function of a 2D Ising model with complex inhomogeneous couplings and external fields. In the case where the original model is an Ising or Potts-type model, we find that the corresponding 2D square lattice requires only polynomially more spins w.r.t the original one, and we give a constructive method to map such models to the 2D Ising model. For more general models the overhead in system size may be exponential. The results are established by connecting classical spin models with measurement-based quantum computation and invoking the universality of the 2D cluster states.

id: 0708.2302
title: Nondestructive interaction-free atom-photon controlled-NOT gate
authors: Mladen Pavicic
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures, Web page: this http URL
journal: Physical Review A, 75, 032342 (2007); Virtual Journal of Quantum Information, Volume 7, Issue 4
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2302
abstract: We present a probabilistic (ideally 50%) nondestructive interaction-free atom-photon controlled-NOT gate, where nondestructive means that all four outgoing target photon modes of the gate are available and feed-forwardable. Individual atoms are controlled by a stimulated Raman adiabatic passage transition and photons by a ring resonator with two outgoing ports. Realistic estimates we obtain for ions confined in a Paul trap around which the resonator is mounted show that a strong atom-photon coupling can be achieved. It is also shown how the resonator can be used for controlling superposition of atom states.

id: 0708.2323
title: Optimal Unambiguous Discrimination of Quantum States
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, M. Rezaei, N. Karimi, A. R. Amiri
comments: 33 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2323
abstract: Unambiguously distinguishing between nonorthogonal but linearly independent quantum states is a challenging problem in quantum information processing. In this work, an exact analytic solution to an optimum measurement problem involving an arbitrary number of pure linearly independent quantum states is presented. To this end, the relevant semi-definite programming task is reduced to a linear programming one with a feasible region of polygon type which can be solved via simplex method. The strength of the method is illustrated through some explicit examples. Also using the close connection between the Lewenstein-Sanpera decomposition(LSD) and semi-definite programming approach, the optimal positive operator valued measure for some of the well-known examples is obtain via Lewenstein-Sanpera decomposition method. {\bf Keywords:} Optimal Unambiguous State Discrimination, Linear Programming, Lewenstein-Sanpera decomposition. {\bf PACs Index: 03.67.Hk, 03.65.Ta, 42.50.-p

id: 0708.2332
title: Metastable state involved resonant tunneling through single InAs/GaAs quantum dot
authors: TianXin Li, PingPing Chen, DaYuan Xiong, ZhaoLin Liu, XuMing Zhang, ChangSheng Xia, ZhiFeng Li, XiaoShuang Chen, Wei Lu
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2332
abstract: A scheme of resonant tunneling through the metastable state of semiconductor quantum dot is presented and implemented in the transport study of freestanding InAs quantum dots grown on GaAs(001) under illumination using conductive atomic force microscopy. The metastable state is achieved by capturing one photoexcited Fermi hole in the valence energy level of InAs quantum dot. Resonant tunneling through single quantum dot can be observed at room temperature due to the existence of metastable state. The amplitude of tunneling current depends on the barrier arrangement and the concentration of photoexcited holes around the quantum dot, but is found steady when the height of dot varies from 1.8 to 9.9 nm, which are in good agreement with the proposed model. The experiment demonstrates a solution of room temperature operated single electron device to amplify the photocurrent by the singularity of resonant tunneling in epitaxial quantum dot.

id: 0708.2343
title: The quantum Chernoff bound as a measure of distinguishability between density matrices: application to qubit and Gaussian states
authors: J. Calsamiglia, R. Munoz-Tapia, Ll. Masanes, A. Acin, E. Bagan
comments: 16 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032311 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2343
abstract: Hypothesis testing is a fundamental issue in statistical inference and has been a crucial element in the development of information sciences. The Chernoff bound gives the minimal Bayesian error probability when discriminating two hypotheses given a large number of observations. Recently the combined work of Audenaert et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 160501] and Nussbaum and Szkola [quant-ph/0607216] has proved the quantum analog of this bound, which applies when the hypotheses correspond to two quantum states. Based on the quantum Chernoff bound, we define a physically meaningful distinguishability measure and its corresponding metric in the space of states; the latter is shown to coincide with the Wigner-Yanase metric. Along the same lines, we define a second, more easily implementable, distinguishability measure based on the error probability of discrimination when the same local measurement is performed on every copy. We study some general properties of these measures, including the probability distribution of density matrices, defined via the volume element induced by the metric, and illustrate their use in the paradigmatic cases of qubits and Gaussian infinite-dimensional states.

id: 0708.2354
title: Local effective dynamics of quantum systems: A generalized approach to work and heat
authors: Hendrik Weimer, Markus J. Henrich, Florian Rempp, Heiko Schr?der, G¨¹nter Mahler
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Europhys. Lett. 83, 30008 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2354
abstract: By computing the local energy expectation values with respect to some local measurement basis we show that for any quantum system there are two fundamentally different contributions: changes in energy that do not alter the local von Neumann entropy and changes that do. We identify the former as work and the latter as heat. Since our derivation makes no assumptions on the system Hamiltonian or its state, the result is valid even for states arbitrarily far from equilibrium. Examples are discussed ranging from the classical limit to purely quantum mechanical scenarios, i.e. where the Hamiltonian and the density operator do not commute.

id: 0708.2388
title: Two electron entanglement enhancement by an inelastic scattering process
authors: A. Lopez, V. M. Villalba, E. Medina
comments: 8 pages, to appear in Phys. Rev B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2388
abstract: In order to assess inelastic effects on two fermion entanglement production, we address an exactly solvable two-particle scattering problem where the target is an excitable scatterer. Useful entanglement, as measured by the two particle concurrence, is obtained from post-selection of oppositely scattered particle states. The $S$ matrix formalism is generalized in order to address non-unitary evolution in the propagating channels. We find the striking result that inelasticity can actually increase concurrence as compared to the elastic case by increasing the uncertainty of the single particle subspace. Concurrence zeros are controlled by either single particle resonance energies or total reflection conditions that ascertain precisely one of the electron states. Concurrence minima also occur and are controlled by entangled resonance situations were the electron becomes entangled with the scatterer, and thus does not give up full information of its state. In this model, exciting the scatterer can never fully destroy phase coherence due to an intrinsic limit to the probability of inelastic events.

id: 0708.2396
title: Understanding entanglement as resource: locally distinguishing unextendible product bases
authors: Scott M. Cohen
comments: Final, published version. Many revisions following very useful suggestions of the referee have been added. In particular, Appendix A has been completely rewritten
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 77, 012304 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2396
abstract: It is known that the states in an unextendible product basis (UPB) cannot be distinguished perfectly when the parties are restricted to local operations and classical communication (LOCC). Previous discussions of such bases have left open the following question: What entanglement resources are necessary and/or sufficient for this task to be possible with LOCC? In this paper, I present protocols which use entanglement more efficiently than teleportation to distinguish certain classes of UPB's. The ideas underlying my approach to this problem offer rather general insight into why entanglement is useful for such tasks.

id: 0708.2403
title: Metrics and isospectral partners for the most generic cubic PT-symmetric non-Hermitian Hamiltonian
authors: Paulo E. G. Assis, Andreas Fring
comments: 21 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 244001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2403
abstract: We investigate properties of the most general PT-symmetric non-Hermitian Hamiltonian of cubic order in the annihilation and creation operators as a ten parameter family. For various choices of the parameters we systematically construct an exact expression for a metric operator and an isospectral Hermitian counterpart in the same similarity class by exploiting the isomorphism between operator and Moyal products. We elaborate on the subtleties of this approach. For special choices of the ten parameters the Hamiltonian reduces to various models previously studied, such as to the complex cubic potential, the so-called Swanson Hamiltonian or the transformed version of the from below unbounded quartic -x^4-potential. In addition, it also reduces to various models not considered in the present context, namely the single site lattice Reggeon model and a transformed version of the massive sextic x^6-potential, which plays an important role as a toy modelto identify theories with vanishing cosmological constant.

id: 0708.2405
title: PT-symmetry and Integrability
authors: Andreas Fring
comments: Proceeding of the Micro conference Analytic and algebraic methods II, Doppler Institute, Prague, April 2007
journal: Acta Polytechnica 47 (2007) 44-49
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2405
abstract: We briefly explain some simple arguments based on pseudo Hermiticity, supersymmetry and PT-symmetry which explain the reality of the spectrum of some non-Hermitian Hamiltonians. Subsequently we employ PT-symmetry as a guiding principle to construct deformations of some integrable systems, the Calogero-Moser-Sutherland model and the Korteweg deVries equation. Some properties of these models are discussed.

id: 0708.2428
title: A macroscopic test of the Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: Adam Caprez, Brett Barwick, Herman Batelaan
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2428
abstract: The Aharonov-Bohm (AB) effect is a purely quantum mechanical effect. The original (classified as Type-I) AB-phase shift exists in experimental conditions where the electromagnetic fields and forces are zero. It is the absence of forces that makes the AB-effect entirely quantum mechanical. Although the AB-phase shift has been demonstrated unambiguously, the absence of forces in Type-I AB-effects has never been shown. Here, we report the observation of the absence of time delays associated with forces of the magnitude needed to explain the AB-phase shift for a macroscopic system.

id: 0708.2480
title: Quantum heat engines and information
authors: Ye Yeo, Chang Chi Kwong
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, we welcome comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2480
abstract: Recently, Zhang {\em et al.} [PRA, {\bf 75}, 062102 (2007)] extended Kieu's interesting work on the quantum Otto engine [PRL, {\bf 93}, 140403 (2004)] by considering as working substance a bipartite quantum system $AB$ composed of subsystems $A$ and $B$. In this paper, we express the net work done $W_{AB}$ by such an engine explicitly in terms of the macroscopic bath temperatures and information theoretic quantities associated with the microscopic quantum states of the working substance. This allows us to gain insights into the dependence of positive $W_{AB}$ on the quantum properties of the states. We illustrate with a two-qubit XY chain as the working substance. Inspired by the expression, we propose a plausible formula for the work derivable from the subsystems. We show that there is a critical entanglement beyond which it is impossible to draw positive work locally from the individual subsystems while $W_{AB}$ is positive. This could be another interesting manifestation of quantum nonlocality.

id: 0708.2487
title: Thermal correction to the Casimir force, radiative heat transfer, and an experiment
authors: V. B. Bezerra, G. Bimonte, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, C. Romero
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures. svjour.cls is used, to appear in Eur. Phys. J. C
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C52:701-720,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2487
abstract: The low-temperature asymptotic expressions for the Casimir interaction between two real metals described by Leontovich surface impedance are obtained in the framework of thermal quantum field theory. It is shown that the Casimir entropy computed using the impedance of infrared optics vanishes in the limit of zero temperature. By contrast, the Casimir entropy computed using the impedance of the Drude model attains at zero temperature a positive value which depends on the parameters of a system, i.e., the Nernst heat theorem is violated. Thus, the impedance of infrared optics withstands the thermodynamic test, whereas the impedance of the Drude model does not. We also perform a phenomenological analysis of the thermal Casimir force and of the radiative heat transfer through a vacuum gap between real metal plates. The characterization of a metal by means of the Leontovich impedance of the Drude model is shown to be inconsistent with experiment at separations of a few hundred nanometers. A modification of the impedance of infrared optics is suggested taking into account relaxation processes. The power of radiative heat transfer predicted from this impedance is several times less than previous predictions due to different contributions from the transverse electric evanescent waves. The physical meaning of low frequencies in the Lifshitz formula is discussed. It is concluded that new measurements of radiative heat transfer are required to find out the adequate description of a metal in the theory of electromagnetic fluctuations.

id: 0708.2515
title: Verschraenkung versus Stosszahlansatz: Disappearance of the Thermodynamic Arrow in a High-Correlation Environment
authors: M. Hossein Partovi
comments: 4 pages, REVTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 021110 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2515
abstract: The crucial role of ambient correlations in determining thermodynamic behavior is established. A class of entangled states of two macroscopic systems is constructed such that each component is in a state of thermal equilibrium at a given temperature, and when the two are allowed to interact heat can flow from the colder to the hotter system. A dilute gas model exhibiting this behavior is presented. This reversal of the thermodynamic arrow is a consequence of the entanglement between the two systems, a condition that is opposite to molecular chaos and shown to be unlikely in a low-entropy environment. By contrast, the second law is established by proving Clausius' inequality in a low-entropy environment. These general results strongly support the expectation, first expressed by Boltzmann and subsequently elaborated by others, that the second law is an emergent phenomenon that requires a low-entropy cosmological environment, one that can effectively function as an ideal information sink.

id: 0708.2517
title: Implementing controlled-NOT gate based on free spin qubits with semiconductor quantum-dot array
authors: Yin-Zhong Wu, Wei-Min Zhang
comments: 4 pages
journal: EuroPhys. Lett.71(4),524-529(2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2517
abstract: Based on electron spins in semiconductor quantum dots as qubits, a new quantum controlled-NOT(CNOT) gate is constructed in solid nanostructure without resorting to spin-spin interactions. Single electron tunneling technology and coherent quantum-dot cellular automata architecture are used to generate an ancillary charge entangled state. Using the ancillary charge entangled state as an intermediate state, we obtain a spin entangled state and design a CNOT gate by using only single spin rotations.

id: 0708.2532
title: Relationship between the atomic inversion and Wigner function for multiphoton multimode Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Faisal Aly Aly El-Orany
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 6157-6171
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2532
abstract: In this paper we consider multimode multiphoton Jaynes-Cummings model, which consists of a two-level atom, initially prepared in an excited atomic state, interacting with $N$ modes of electromagnetic field prepared in general pure quantum states. For this system we show that under certain conditions the evolution of the Wigner function at the phase space origin provides direct information on the corresponding atomic inversion. This relation is also valid even if the system includes Kerr-like nonlinearity, Stark shift effect, different types of the initial atomic state as well as moving atom. Furthermore, based on this fact we discuss for the single-mode case the possibility of detecting the atomic inversion by means of techniques similar to those used for Wigner function.

id: 0708.2536
title: Classical communication and entanglement cost in preparing a class of multi-qubit states
authors: Zhan-jun Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2536
abstract: Recently, several similar protocols[J. Opt. B 4 (2002) 380; Phys. Lett. A 316 (2003) 159; Phys. Lett. A 355 (2006) 285; Phys. Lett. A 336 (2005) 317] for remotely preparing a class of multi-qubit states (i.e, $\alpha|0 ... 0>+\beta|1... 1>$) are proposed, respectively. In this paper, by applying the controlled-not (CNOT) gate, a new simple protocol is proposed for remotely preparing such class of states. Compared to the previous protocols, both classical communication cost and required quantum entanglement in our protocol are remarkably reduced. Moreover, the difficulty of identifying some quantum states in our protocol is also degraded. Hence our protocol is more economical and feasible.

id: 0708.2541
title: GRANIT project: a trap for gravitational quantum states of UCN
authors: G. Pignol, K. V. Protasov, D. Rebreyend, F. Vezzu, V. V. Nesvizhevsky, A. K. Petukhov, H. G. B?rner, T. Soldner, P. Schmidt-Wellenburg, M. Kreuz, D. Forest, P. Ganau, J. M. Mackowski, C. Michel, J. L. Montorio, N. Morgado, L. Pinard, A. Remillieux, A. M. Gagarski, G. A. Petrov, A. M. Kusmina, A. V. Strelkov, H. Abele, S. Bae?ler, A. Yu. Voronin
comments: presented in ISINN 15 seminar, Dubna
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2541
abstract: Previous studies of gravitationally bound states of ultracold neutrons showed the quantization of energy levels, and confirmed quantum mechanical predictions for the average size of the two lowest energy states wave functions. Improvements in position-like measurements can increase the accuracy by an order of magnitude only. We therefore develop another approach, consisting in accurate measurements of the energy levels. The GRANIT experiment is devoted to the study of resonant transitions between quantum states induced by an oscillating perturbation. According to Heisenberg's uncertainty relations, the accuracy of measurement of the energy levels is limited by the time available to perform the transitions. Thus, trapping quantum states will be necessary, and each source of losses has to be controlled in order to maximize the lifetime of the states. We discuss the general principles of transitions between quantum states, and consider the main systematical losses of neutrons in a trap.

id: 0708.2552
title: Quantum Hamilton-Jacobi Approach to Two Dimensional Singular Oscillator
authors: Ozlem Yesiltas, Bengu Demircioglu
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2552
abstract: We have obtained the solutions of two dimensional singular oscillator which is known as the quantum Calogero-Sutherland model both in cartesian and parabolic coordinates within the framework of quantum Hamilton Jacobi formalism. Solvability conditions and eigenfunctions are obtained by using the singularity structures of quantum momentum functions under some conditions. New potentials are generated by using the first two states of singular oscillator for parabolic coordinates.

id: 0708.2557
title: Secure Identification and QKD in the Bounded-Quantum-Storage Model
authors: Ivan Damgaard, Serge Fehr, Louis Salvail, Christian Schaffner
comments: 22 pages, v2: included one missing reference, v3: substantial update: using more natural version of min-entropy with according changes in min-entropy splitting and security claims
journal: full version of CRYPTO 2007, LNCS 4622, pages 342-359
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2557
abstract: We consider the problem of secure identification: user U proves to server S that he knows an agreed (possibly low-entropy) password w, while giving away as little information on w as possible, namely the adversary can exclude at most one possible password for each execution of the scheme. We propose a solution in the bounded-quantum-storage model, where U and S may exchange qubits, and a dishonest party is assumed to have limited quantum memory. No other restriction is posed upon the adversary. An improved version of the proposed identification scheme is also secure against a man-in-the-middle attack, but requires U and S to additionally share a high-entropy key k. However, security is still guaranteed if one party loses k to the attacker but notices the loss. In both versions of the scheme, the honest participants need no quantum memory, and noise and imperfect quantum sources can be tolerated. The schemes compose sequentially, and w and k can securely be re-used. A small modification to the identification scheme results in a quantum-key-distribution (QKD) scheme, secure in the bounded-quantum-storage model, with the same re-usability properties of the keys, and without assuming authenticated channels. This is in sharp contrast to known QKD schemes (with unbounded adversary) without authenticated channels, where authentication keys must be updated, and unsuccessful executions can cause the parties to run out of keys.

id: 0708.2560
title: Application of quantum algorithms to the study of permutations and group automorphisms
authors: Marianna Bonanome, Mark Hillery, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 76, 012324 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2560
abstract: We discuss three applications of efficient quantum algorithms to determining properties of permutations and group automorphisms. The first uses the Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm to determine an unknown homomorphism from $Z_{p-1}^{m}$ to $Aut(Z_{p})$ where $p$ is prime. The remaining two make use of modifications of the Grover search algorithm. The first finds the fixed point of a permutation or an automorphism (assuming it has only one besides the identity). It can be generalized to find cycles of a specified size for permutations or orbits of a specified size for automorphisms. The second finds which of a set of permutations or automorphisms maps one particular element of a set or group onto another. This has relevance to the conjugacy problem for groups. We show how two of these algorithms can be implemented via programmable quantum processors. This approach opens new perspectives in quantum information processing, wherein both the data and the programs are represented by states of quantum registers. In particular, quantum programs that specify control over data can be treated using methods of quantum information theory.

id: 0708.2567
title: Is there quantum chaos in the prime numbers?
authors: Todd Timberlake, Jeffery Tucker
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, 1 table, submitted to Physica A (We have extended the paper to include more statistical results and discussion.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2567
abstract: A statistical analysis of the prime numbers indicates possible traces of quantum chaos. We have computed the nearest neighbor spacing distribution, number variance, skewness, and excess for sequences of the first N primes for various values of N. All four statistical measures clearly show a transition from random matrix statistics at small N toward Poisson statistics at large N. In addition, the number variance saturates at large lengths as is common for eigenvalue sequences. This data can be given a physical interpretation if the primes are thought of as eigenvalues of a quantum system whose classical dynamics is chaotic at low energy but regular at high energy. We discuss some difficulties with this interpretation in an attempt to clarify what kind of physical system might have the primes as its quantum eigenvalues.

id: 0708.2584
title: Claw Finding Algorithms Using Quantum Walk
authors: Seiichiro Tani
comments: 12 pages. Introduction revised. A reference added. Weak lower bound deleted
journal: Theoretical Computer Science, 410(50): 5285-5297 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2584
abstract: The claw finding problem has been studied in terms of query complexity as one of the problems closely connected to cryptography. For given two functions, f and g, as an oracle which have domains of size N and M (N<=M), respectively, and the same range, the goal of the problem is to find x and y such that f(x)=g(y). This paper describes an optimal algorithm using quantum walk that solves this problem. Our algorithm can be generalized to find a claw of k functions for any constant integer k>1, where the domains of the functions may have different size.

id: 0708.2657
title: Mediated Homogenization
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 062307 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2657
abstract: Homogenization protocols model the quantum mechanical evolution of a system to a fixed state independently from its initial configuration by repeatedly coupling it with a collection of identical ancillas. Here we analyze these protocols within the formalism of "relaxing" channels providing an easy to check sufficient condition for homogenization. In this context we describe mediated homogenization schemes where a network of connected qudits relaxes to a fixed state by only partially interacting with a bath. We also study configurations which allow us to introduce entanglement among the elements of the network. Finally we analyze the effect of having competitive configurations with two different baths and we prove the convergence to dynamical equilibrium for Heisenberg chains.

id: 0708.2670
title: Environment-induced two-mode entanglement in quantum Brownian motion
authors: C. Hoerhammer, H. Buettner
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2670
abstract: The time evolution of quantum correlations of entangled two-mode continuous variable states is examined in single-reservoir as well as two-reservoir models, representing noisy correlated or uncorrelated non-Markovian quantum channels. For this purpose the model of quantum Brownian motion is extended. Various separability criteria for Gaussian continuous variable systems are applied. In both types of reservoir models moderate non-Markovian effects prolong the separability time scales. However, in these models the properties of the stationary state may differ. In the two-reservoir model the initial entanglement is completely lost and both modes are finally uncorrelated. In a common reservoir both modes interact indirectly via the coupling to the same bath variables. Below a critical bath temperature entanglement between the two modes is preserved even in the steady state. A separability criterion is derived, which depends on the bath temperature and the response function of the open quantum system. Thus, the extended quantum Brownian motion model of a two-mode continuous variable system in a common reservoir provides an example of environment-induced entanglement.

id: 0708.2723
title: Characterizing Temporal Distinguishability of an N-Photon State by Generalized Photon Bunching Effect with Multi-Photon Interference
authors: Z. Y. Ou
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2723
abstract: The complementary principle of quantum mechanics relates qualitatively the visibility of quantum interference with path indistinguishability. Here we propose a scheme of constructive quantum interference involving superposition between an $N$-photon state and a single-photon state to characterize quantitatively the degree of temporal distinguishability of the $N$-photon state. This scheme is based on a generalized photon bunching effect. Such a scheme can be extended to other more general cases.

id: 0708.2730
title: Magnetic Field Estimation at and beyond 1/N Scaling via an Effective Nonlinearity
authors: Bradley A. Chase, Heather L. Partner, Brigette D. Black, Benjamin Q. Baragiola, Robert L. Cook, JM Geremia
comments: Please visit this http URL to download additional resources, including all source code and data files used to produce this manuscript
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2730
abstract: We provide evidence, based on direct simulation of the quantum Fisher information, that 1/N scaling of the sensitivity with the number of atoms N in an atomic magnetometer can be surpassed by double-passing a far-detuned laser through the atomic system during Larmor precession. Furthermore, we predict that for N>>1, the proposed double-pass atomic magnetometer can essentially achieve 1/N scaling without requiring any appreciable amount of entanglement.

id: 0708.2753
title: Dynamical quantum phase transitions in the dissipative Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model and proposed realization in optical cavity QED
authors: S. Morrison, A. S. Parkins
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, typos corrected and other minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 040403 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2753
abstract: We present an optical cavity QED configuration that is described by a dissipative version of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model of an infinitely coordinated spin system. This open quantum system exhibits both first- and second-order non-equilibrium quantum phase transitions as a single, effective field parameter is varied. Light emitted from the cavity offers measurable signatures of the critical behavior, including that of the spin-spin entanglement.

id: 0708.2794
title: Freezing distributed entanglement in spin chains
authors: Irene D'Amico, Brendon W. Lovett, Timothy P. Spiller
comments: 5 pages, to appear in Phys. Rev. A (Rapid Communication)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76 030302(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2794
abstract: We show how to freeze distributed entanglement that has been created from the natural dynamics of spin chain systems. The technique that we propose simply requires single-qubit operations and isolates the entanglement in specific qubits at the ends of branches. Such frozen entanglement provides a useful resource, for example for teleportation or distributed quantum processing. The scheme can be applied to a wide range of systems -- including actual spin systems and alternative qubit embodiments in strings of quantum dots, molecules or atoms.

id: 0708.2809
title: Quantum enhancement of N-photon phase sensitivity by interferometric addition of down-converted photon pairs to weak coherent light
authors: Takafumi Ono, Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 21 pages, including 6 figures. Extended version gives more details on down-conversion efficiencies and clarifies the relation between phase sensitivity and squeezing. The title has been changed in order to avoid misunderstandings regarding these concepts
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41, 095502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2809
abstract: It is shown that the addition of down-converted photon pairs to coherent laser light enhances the N-photon phase sensitivity due to the quantum interference between components of the same total photon number. Since most of the photons originate from the coherent laser light, this method of obtaining non-classical N-photon states is much more efficient than methods based entirely on parametrically down-converted photons. Specifically, it is possible to achieve an optimal phase sensitivity of about delta phi^2=1/N^(3/2), equal to the geometric mean of the standard quantum limit and the Heisenberg limit, when the average number of down-converted photons contributing to the N-photon state approaches (N/2)^(1/2).

id: 0708.2811
title: Engineering of arbitrary U(N) transformations by quantum Householder reflections
authors: P. A. Ivanov, E. S. Kyoseva, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 022323 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2811
abstract: We propose a simple physical implementation of the quantum Householder reflection (QHR) M(v)=I-2|v><v| in a quantum system of N degenerate states (forming a qunit) coupled simultaneously to an ancillary (excited) state by N resonant or nearly resonant pulsed external fields. We also introduce the generalized QHR M(v;k)=I+(exp{ik}-1)|v><v|, which can be produced in the same N-pod system when the fields are appropriately detuned from resonance with the excited state. We use these two operators as building blocks in constructing arbitrary preselected unitary transformations. We show that the most general U(N) transformation can be factorized (and thereby produced) by either N-1 standard QHRs and an N-dimensional phase gate, or N-1 generalized QHRs and a one-dimensional phase gate. Viewed mathematically, these QHR factorizations provide parametrizations of the U(N) group. As an example, we propose a recipe for constructing the quantum Fourier transform (QFT) by at most N interaction steps. For example, QFT requires a single QHR for N=2, and only two QHRs for N=3 and 4.

id: 0708.2815
title: Driven degenerate three-level cascade laser
authors: Sintayehu Tesfa
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2815
abstract: We analyze a degenerate three-level cascade laser coupled to an external coherent light via one of the coupler mirrors and vacuum reservoir in the other, employing the stochastic differential equation associated with the normal ordering. We study the squeezing properties and also calculate the mean photon number of the cavity radiation. It turns out that the generated light exhibits up to 98.3% squeezing under certain conditions pertaining to the initial preparation of the superposition and the amplitude of the driving radiation. Moreover, the mean photon number is found to be large where there is a better squeezing. Hence it is believed that the system under consideration can generate an intense squeezed light.

id: 0708.2843
title: The Impossibility Of Secure Two-Party Classical Computation
authors: Roger Colbeck
comments: 10 pages
journal: Physical Review A 76, 062308 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2843
abstract: We present attacks that show that unconditionally secure two-party classical computation is impossible for many classes of function. Our analysis applies to both quantum and relativistic protocols. We illustrate our results by showing the impossibility of oblivious transfer.

id: 0708.2880
title: Entanglement of superconducting charge qubits by homodyne measurement
authors: D. A. Rodrigues, C. E. A. Jarvis, B. L. Gy?rffy, T. P. Spiller, J. F. Annett
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter, 20, (2008), 075211
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2880
abstract: We present a scheme by which projective homodyne measurement of a microwave resonator can be used to generate entanglement between two superconducting charge qubits coupled to this resonator. The non-interacting qubits are initialised in a product of their ground states, the resonator is initialised in a coherent field state, and the state of the system is allowed to evolve under a rotating wave Hamiltonian. Making a homodyne measurement on the resonator at a given time projects the qubits into an state of the form (|gg> + exp(-i phi)|ee>)/sqrt(2). This protocol can produce states with a fidelity as high as required, with a probability approaching 0.5. Although the system described is one that can be used to display revival in the qubit oscillations, we show that the entanglement procedure works at much shorter timescales.

id: 0708.2888
title: Another look at the problem of gauge invariance in QFT
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: Typos corrected, some new matereal on redefined vacuum state
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2888
abstract: It is generally assumed that quantum field theory (QFT) is gauge invariant. However it is well known that non-gauge invariant terms appear in various calculations. This problem was examined in Refs. [3] and [4] and it was shown that at the formal level QFT in the Schroedinger picture is not, in fact, gauge invariant. It was determined that this problem was due to a mathematical inconsistency related to the way the vacuum state is defined. In order to shed further light on this problem we consider a simple field theory in 1-1D space-time consisting of a quantized fermion field with zero mass in the presence of a classical electromagnetic potential. It can easily be shown that for this situation the equations of motion can be solved exactly in both the Heisenberg and Schroedinger pictures. This allows us to easily identify the source of the mathematical inconsistency that appears in QFT.

id: 0708.2935
title: Loss of entanglement in quantum mechanics due to the use of realistic measuring rods
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Rafael A. Porto, Jorge Pullin
comments: 6 pages, RevTex, no figures, small changes, published version
journal: Phys.Lett.A372:1213-1218,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2935
abstract: We show that the use of real measuring rods in quantum mechanics places a fundamental gravitational limit to the level of entanglement that one can ultimately achieve in quantum systems. The result can be seen as a direct consequence of the fundamental gravitational limitations in the measurements of length and time in realistic physical systems. The effect may have implications for long distance teleportation and the measurement problem in quantum mechanics.

id: 0708.2963
title: Tripartite entanglement and threshold properties of coupled intracavity downconversion and sum-frequency generation
authors: C. Pennarun, A.S. Bradley, M.K. Olsen
comments: 24 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2963
abstract: The process of cascaded downconversion and sum-frequency generation inside an optical cavity has been predicted to be a potential source of three-mode continuous-variable entanglement. When the cavity is pumped by two fields, the threshold properties have been analysed, showing that these are more complicated than in well-known processes such as optical parametric oscillation. When there is only a single pumping field, the entanglement properties have been calculated using a linearised fluctuation analysis, but without any consideration of the threshold properties or critical operating points of the system. In this work we extend this analysis to demonstrate that the singly pumped system demonstrates a rich range of threshold behaviour when quantisation of the pump field is taken into account and that asymmetric polychromatic entanglement is available over a wide range of operational parameters.

id: 0708.2964
title: General multipartite entangled states and complex projective variety
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 5 pages
journal: Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing, Edited by O. Hirota, J. H. Shapiro, and M. Sasaki, (NICT Press, Japan, 2007), pp.307-310
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2964
abstract: We discuss and investigate the geometrical structure of general multipartite states. In particular, we show that a geometrical measure of entanglement for general multipartite states can be constructed by the complex projective varieties defined by quadratic polynomials.

id: 0708.2986
title: On the Security of the Ping-Pong Protocol
authors: Kim Bostroem, Timo Felbinger
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A, 372(22):3953-3956, May 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2986
abstract: We briefly review the security of the ping-pong protocol in light of several attack scenarios suggested by various authors since the proposal of the protocol. We refute one recent attack on an ideal quantum channel, and show that a recent claim of falseness of our original security proof is erroneous.

id: 0708.2992
title: Quantum private queries
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 230502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2992
abstract: We propose a cheat sensitive quantum protocol to perform a private search on a classical database which is efficient in terms of communication complexity. It allows a user to retrieve an item from the server in possession of the database without revealing which item she retrieved: if the server tries to obtain information on the query, the person querying the database can find it out. Furthermore our protocol ensures perfect data privacy of the database, i.e. the information that the user can retrieve in a single queries is bounded and does not depend on the size of the database. With respect to the known (quantum and classical) strategies for private information retrieval, our protocol displays an exponential reduction both in communication complexity and in running-time computational complexity.

id: 0708.3026
title: Controlling the Ratchet Effect for Cold Atoms
authors: Anatole Kenfack, Jiangbin Gong, Arjendu K. Pattanayak
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3026
abstract: Low-order quantum resonances manifested by directed currents have been realized with cold atoms. Here we show that by increasing the strength of an experimentally achievable delta-kicking ratchet potential, quantum resonances of a very high order may naturally emerge and can induce larger ratchet currents than low-order resonances, with the underlying classical limit being fully chaotic. The results offer a means of controlling quantum transport of cold atoms.

id: 0708.3062
title: Quantum communication. Non-classical correlations and their applications
authors: Tomasz Paterek
comments: PhD thesis. University of Gdansk. 97 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3062
abstract: In the first part of this thesis Bell's theorem is revisited. It points at a difference between the quantum and the classical world. This difference is often behind the advantages of solutions using quantum mechanics. New and more general versions of Bell inequalities are presented. These inequalities involve multiple settings per observer. Compared with the two-setting inequalities, the new ones reveal the non-classical character of a broader class of states. Some of them are also proven to be optimal (tight). Next, we go beyond Bell's theorem. It is shown, both in theory and in experiment, that incompatibility between quantum mechanics and realistic theories can be extended into an important class of nonlocal models. We also show that the violation of Bell inequalities disqualifies local realistic models with a limited lack of the experimenter's freedom. This, at first glance quite philosophical result, has its down-to-earth implications for quantum communication. In the second part of the thesis well-known examples of quantum communication are reviewed. Next, new results concerning quantum cryptography and quantum communication complexity are given.

id: 0708.3064
title: Synthesis and Analysis of Entangled Photonic Qubits in Spatial-Parity Space
authors: Timothy Yarnall, Ayman F. Abouraddy, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 250502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3064
abstract: We present the novel embodiment of a photonic qubit that makes use of one continuous spatial degree of freedom of a single photon and relies on the the parity of the photon's transverse spatial distribution. Using optical spontaneous parametric downconversion to produce photon pairs, we demonstrate the controlled generation of entangled-photon states in this new space. Specifically, two Bell states, and a continuum of their superpositions, are generated by simple manipulation of a classical parameter, the optical-pump spatial parity, and not by manipulation of the entangled photons themselves. An interferometric device, isomorphic in action to a polarizing beam splitter, projects the spatial-parity states onto an even--odd basis. This new physical realization of photonic qubits could be used as a foundation for future experiments in quantum information processing.

id: 0708.3071
title: The double-slit and the EPR experiments: A paradox-free kinematic description
authors: Alexey A. Kryukov
comments: 8 pages, see this http URL for related publications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3071
abstract: The paradoxes of the double-slit and the EPR experiments with particles are shown to originate in the implicit assumption that the particles are always located in the classical space. It is demonstrated that there exists a natural substitute for this assumption that provides a method of resolving the paradoxes.

id: 0708.3079
title: Feynman's Integral is About Mutually Unbiased Bases
authors: George Svetlichny
comments: v3: fixed typos v2: two reference added, fixed some typos and one obvious error, 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3079
abstract: The Feynman integral can be seen as an attempt to relate, under certain circumstances, the quantum-information-theoretic separateness of mutually unbiased bases to causal proximity of the measuring processes.

id: 0708.3082
title: Path Integral Approach for for Quantum Motion on Spaces of Non-constant Curvature According to Koenigs: Three Dimensions
authors: Christian Grosche
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3082
abstract: In this contribution a path integral approach for the quantum motion on three-dimensional spaces according to Koenigs, for short``Koenigs-Spaces'', is discussed. Their construction is simple: One takes a Hamiltonian from three-dimensional flat space and divides it by a three-dimensional superintegrable potential. Such superintegrable potentials will be the isotropic singular oscillator, the Holt-potential, the Coulomb potential, or two centrifugal potentials, respectively. In all cases a non-trivial space of non-constant curvature is generated. In order to obtain a proper quantum theory a curvature term has to be incorporated into the quantum Hamiltonian. For possible bound-state solutions we find equations up to twelfth order in the energy E.

id: 0708.3113
title: The $J$-matrix inverse scattering approach for coupled channels with different thresholds
authors: S. A. Zaytsev
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3113
abstract: The inverse scattering method within the $J$-matrix approach to the two coupled-channel problem is discussed. We propose a generalization of the procedure to the case with different thresholds.

id: 0708.3119
title: Detection of fidelity and multiparticle entanglement for arbitrary graph states
authors: Y.-J. Han, L.-M. Duan
comments: withdrawn by the authors because of an error
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3119
abstract: withdrawn by the authors because of an error.

id: 0708.3129
title: Entanglement cost and distillable entanglement of symmetric states
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3129
abstract: We compute entanglement cost and distillable entanglement of states supported on symmetric subspace. Not only giving general formula, we apply them to the output states of optimal cloning machines. Surprisingly, under some settings, the optimal n to m clone and true m copies are the same in entanglement measures. However, they differ in the error exponent of entanglement dilution. We also presented a general theory of entanglement dilution which is applicable to any non-i.i.d sequence of states.

id: 0708.3154
title: Two-way classical communication remarkably improves local distinguishability
authors: Masaki Owari, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 26 pages, 6 figures. accepted version
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 013006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3154
abstract: We analyze the difference in the local distinguishability among the following three restrictions; (i) Local operations and only one-way classical communications (one-way LOCC) are permitted. (ii) Local operations and two-way classical communications (two-way LOCC) are permitted. (iii) All separable operations are permitted. We obtain two main results concerning the discrimination between a given bipartite pure state and the completely mixed state with the condition that the given state should be detected perfectly. As the first result, we derive the optimal discrimination protocol for a bipartite pure state in the cases (i) and (iii). As the second result, by constructing a concrete two-way local discrimination protocol, it is proven that the case (ii) is much better than the case (i), i.e., two-way classical communication remarkably improves the local distinguishability in comparison with one-way classical communication at least for a low-dimensional bipartite pure state.

id: 0708.3159
title: Four-dimensional double singular oscillator
authors: Mara Petrosyan
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys.Atom.Nucl.71:1094-1101,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3159
abstract: The Schr\"odinger equation for the four-dimensional double singular oscillator is separable in Eulerian, doble polar and spheroidal coordinates in ${\rm I R}^4$. It is shown that the coefficients for the expansion of double polar basis in terms of the Eulerian basis can be expressed through the Clebsch-Gordan coefficients of the group SU(2) analytically continued to real values of their arguments. The coefficients for the expansions of the spheroidal basis in terms of the Eulerian and double polar bases are proved to satisfy three-term recursion relations.

id: 0708.3204
title: Main effects of the Earth's rotation on the stationary states of ultra-cold neutrons
authors: Mayeul Arminjon
comments: 12 pages in standard LaTeX. v3: Former sect. 2 (derivation of the non-relativistic Hamiltonian) suppressed, new refs., interpretation of the energy shift added, and new redactional improvements, to meet the editorial demands. To appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008) 2196-2200
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3204
abstract: The relativistic corrections in the Hamiltonian for a particle in a uniformly rotating frame are discussed. They are shown to be negligible in the case of ultra-cold neutrons (UCN) in the Earth's gravity. The effect, on the energy levels of UCN, of the main term due to the Earth's rotation, i.e. the angular-momentum term, is calculated. The energy shift is found proportional to the energy level itself.

id: 0708.3208
title: Mermin inequalities for perfect correlations
authors: Adan Cabello, Otfried G¨¹hne, David Rodriguez
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77 (2008) 062106
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3208
abstract: Any n-qubit state with n independent perfect correlations is equivalent to a graph state. We present the optimal Bell inequalities for perfect correlations and maximal violation for all classes of graph states with n < 7 qubits. Twelve of them were previously unknown and four give the same violation as the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state, although the corresponding states are more resistant to decoherence.

id: 0708.3216
title: Robust creation of arbitrary-sized Dicke states using a single laser pulse
authors: I. E. Linington, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Minor changes. Journal Ref Added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 010302(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3216
abstract: We propose a novel technique for the creation of maximally entangled symmetric Dicke states in an ion trap using adiabatic passage, which requires only a pair of chirped pulses from a single laser and is applicable to any number of ions and excitations. By utilising a particular factorisation of the Hilbert space for multi-level ladders we show that the problem can be reduced to `bow-tie' configuration energy-level crossings. This technique is naturally robust against fluctuations in the laser intensity and the chirp rate. Even when realistic heating rates are considered, we estimate that the overall fidelity should remain high (e.g. 98% for a ten-ion Dicke state), which represents a significant improvement over traditional approaches.

id: 0708.3274
title: Analytic Constructions of General n-Qubit Controlled Gates
authors: Yang Liu, Gui Lu Long, Yang Sun
comments: 4 pages 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3274
abstract: In this Letter, we present two analytic expressions that most generally simulate $n$-qubit controlled-$U$ gates with standard one-qubit gates and CNOT gates using exponential and polynomial complexity respectively. Explicit circuits and general expressions of decomposition are derived. The exact numbers of basic operations in these two schemes are given using gate counting technique.

id: 0708.3278
title: A Review of Procedure to Evolve Quantum Procedures
authors: Adrian Gepp, Phil Stocks
comments: 28 pages and 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3278
abstract: There exist quantum algorithms that are more efficient than their classical counterparts; such algorithms were invented by Shor in 1994 and then Grover in 1996. A lack of invention since Grover's algorithm has been commonly attributed to the non-intuitive nature of quantum algorithms to the classically trained person. Thus, the idea of using computers to automatically generate quantum algorithms based on an evolutionary model emerged. A limitation of this approach is that quantum computers do not yet exist and quantum simulation on a classical machine has an exponential order overhead. Nevertheless, early research into evolving quantum algorithms has shown promise. This paper provides an introduction into quantum and evolutionary algorithms for the computer scientist not familiar with these fields. The exciting field of using evolutionary algorithms to evolve quantum algorithms is then reviewed.

id: 0708.3295
title: Recent progress on the manipulation of single atoms in optical tweezers for quantum computing
authors: A. Browaeys, J. Beugnon, C. Tuchendler, H. Marion, A. Ga?tan, Y. Miroshnychenko, B. Darqui¨¦, J. Dingjan, Y. R. P. Sortais, A. M. Lance, M. P. A. Jones, G. Messin, P. Grangier
comments: Proceedings of the ICOLS07 conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3295
abstract: This paper summarizes our recent progress towards using single rubidium atoms trapped in an optical tweezer to encode quantum information. We demonstrate single qubit rotations on this system and measure the coherence of the qubit. We move the quantum bit over distances of tens of microns and show that the coherence is reserved. We also transfer a qubit atom between two tweezers and show no loss of coherence. Finally, we describe our progress towards conditional entanglement of two atoms by photon emission and two-photon interferences.

id: 0708.3304
title: Protected Rabi oscillation induced by natural interactions among physical qubits
authors: Naoaki Kokubun, Akira Shimizu
comments: In this revised manuscript, new sections V, VI, VII and new appendices A, B, C have been added to give detailed discussions. 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012302 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3304
abstract: For a system composed of nine qubits, we show that natural interactions among the qubits induce the time evolution that can be regarded, at discrete times, as the Rabi oscillation of a logical qubit. Neither fine tuning of the parameters nor switching of the interactions is necessary. Although straightforward application of quantum error correction fails, we propose a protocol by which the logical Rabi oscillation is protected against all single-qubit errors. The present method thus opens a simple and realistic way of protecting the unitary time evolution against noise.

id: 0708.3320
title: Optical polarizabilities of large molecules measured in near-field interferometry
authors: Lucia Hackermueller, Klaus Hornberger, Stefan Gerlich, Michael Gring, Hendrik Ulbricht, Markus Arndt
comments: 5 pages, 3 Figures
journal: Appl. Phys. B 89, 469-473 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3320
abstract: We discuss a novel application of matter wave interferometry to characterize the scalar optical polarizability of molecules at 532 nm. The interferometer presented here consists of two material absorptive gratings and one central optical phase grating. The interaction of the molecules with the standing light wave is determined by the optical dipole force and is therefore directly dependent on the molecular polarizability at the wavelength of the diffracting laser light. By comparing the observed matter-wave interference contrast with a theoretical model for several intensities of the standing light wave and molecular velocities we can infer the polarizability in this first proof-of-principle experiment for the fullerenes C60 and C70 and we find a good agreement with literature values.

id: 0708.3368
title: On the critical dipole moment in one-dimension
authors: Benjam¨ªn Jaramillo, H. N. N¨²?ez-Y¨¦pez, A. L. Salas-Brito
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3368
abstract: We calculate the minimum magnitude an electric dipole must have for a 1D system, interacting through the dipole, to support bound states.

id: 0708.3375
title: Estimating the expectation values of spin 1/2 observables with finite resources
authors: Thomas Brougham, Erika Andersson
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3375
abstract: We examine the problem of estimating the expectation values of two observables when we have a finite number of copies of an unknown qubit state. Specifically we examine whether it is better to measure each of the observables separately on different copies or to perform a joint measurement of the observables on each copy. We find that joint measurements can sometimes provide an advantage over separate measurements, but only if we make estimates of an observable based solely on the results of measurements of that observable. If we instead use both sets of results to estimate each observable then we find that individual measurements will be better. Finally we consider estimating the expectation values of three complementary observables for an unknown qubit.

id: 0708.3384
title: Orthogonal measurement-assisted quantum control
authors: Raj Chakrabarti, Rebing Wu, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 16 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3384
abstract: Existing algorithms for the optimal control of quantum observables are based on locally optimal steps in the space of control fields, or as in the case of genetic algorithms, operate on the basis of heuristics that do not explicitly take into account details pertaining to the geometry of the search space. We present globally efficient algorithms for quantum observable control that follow direct or close-to-direct paths in the domain of unitary dynamical propagators, based on partial reconstruction of these propagators at successive points along the search trajectory through orthogonal observable measurements. These algorithms can be implemented experimentally and offer an alternative to the adaptive learning control approach to optimal control experiments (OCE). Their performance is compared to that of local gradient-based control optimization.

id: 0708.3391
title: Scaling and universality of multipartite entanglement at criticality
authors: Alonso Botero, Benni Reznik
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. V2: expanded references, corrected minor typos. V3: corrected typos in title and reference list
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3391
abstract: Using the geometric entanglement measure, we study the scaling of multipartite entanglement in several 1D models at criticality, specifically the linear harmonic chain and the XY spin chain encompassing both the Ising and XX critical models. Our results provide convincing evidence that 1D models at criticality exhibit a universal logarithmic scaling behavior ~(c/12)log l in the multipartite entanglement per region for a partition of the system into regions of size l, where c is the central charge of the corresponding universality class in conformal field theory.

id: 0708.3396
title: Optimal quantum adversary lower bounds for ordered search
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Troy Lee
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Proc. 35th International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming (ICALP 2008), Lecture Notes in Computer Science 5125, pp. 869-880
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3396
abstract: The goal of the ordered search problem is to find a particular item in an ordered list of n items. Using the adversary method, Hoyer, Neerbek, and Shi proved a quantum lower bound for this problem of (1/pi) ln n + Theta(1). Here, we find the exact value of the best possible quantum adversary lower bound for a symmetrized version of ordered search (whose query complexity differs from that of the original problem by at most 1). Thus we show that the best lower bound for ordered search that can be proved by the adversary method is (1/pi) ln n + O(1). Furthermore, we show that this remains true for the generalized adversary method allowing negative weights.

id: 0708.3403
title: Quantum Sensor Miniaturization
authors: G. Gilbert, M. Hamrick, Y. S. Weinstein, S. P. Pappas, A. Donadio
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure. Accepted for publication in Photonics Technology Letters
journal: IEEE Photonics Technology Letters, vol. 19, no. 22, 1798 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3403
abstract: The classical bound on image resolution defined by the Rayleigh limit can be beaten by exploiting the properties of quantum mechanical entanglement. If entangled photons are used as signal states, the best possible resolution is instead given by the Heisenberg limit, an improvement proportional to the number of entangled photons in the signal. In this paper we present a novel application of entanglement by showing that the resolution obtained by an imaging system utilizing separable photons can be achieved by an imaging system making use of entangled photons, but with the advantage of a smaller aperture, thus resulting in a smaller and lighter system. This can be especially valuable in satellite imaging where weight and size play a vital role.

id: 0708.3474
title: Nonlinear control of chaotic walking of atoms in an optical lattice
authors: Argonov V. Yu, S. V. Prants
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Argonov V. Yu, Prants S. V. Nonlinear control of chaotic walking of atoms in an optical lattice. Europhysics Letters. 2008. Vol. 81. Art. no. 24003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3474
abstract: Centre-of-mass atomic motion in an optical lattice near the resonance is shown to be a chaotic walking due to the interplay between coherent internal atomic dynamics and spontaneous emission. Statistical properties of chaotic atomic motion can be controlled by the single parameter, the detuning between the atomic transition frequency and the laser frequency. We derive a Fokker-Planck equation in the energetic space to describe the atomic transport near the resonance and demonstrate numerically how to manipulate the atomic motion varying the detuning.

id: 0708.3481
title: Formation of Multipartite Entanglement Using Random Quantum Gates
authors: Yonatan Most, Yishai Shimoni, Ofer Biham
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 76, 022328 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3481
abstract: The formation of multipartite quantum entanglement by repeated operation of one and two qubit gates is examined. The resulting entanglement is evaluated using two measures: the average bipartite entanglement and the Groverian measure. A comparison is made between two geometries of the quantum register: a one dimensional chain in which two-qubit gates apply only locally between nearest neighbors and a non-local geometry in which such gates may apply between any pair of qubits. More specifically, we use a combination of random single qubit rotations and a fixed two-qubit gate such as the controlled-phase gate. It is found that in the non-local geometry the entanglement is generated at a higher rate. In both geometries, the Groverian measure converges to its asymptotic value more slowly than the average bipartite entanglement. These results are expected to have implications on different proposed geometries of future quantum computers with local and non-local interactions between the qubits.

id: 0708.3482
title: Designing a Spin Channel for Perfect Quantum Communication
authors: Xiao-Qiang Xi, T. Zhang, R. H. Yue, X. C. Xie, W. M. Liu
comments: Comments are welcome (xxq@xiyou.edu.cn)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3482
abstract: We propose a scheme for using a spin chain with fixed symmetry interaction as a channel for perfect quantum communication. The perfect quantum communication is determined by the eigenvalues that form a special arithmetical progression, the concrete interaction parameter $J_i$ is obtained as a function of integer and perfect transmission time $t_p$. There are infinite choices of $J_i$ for perfect transmission and one can design the channel according to the requirement of $t_p$. This scheme will provide more choices of spin chain for future experiment in quantum communication.

id: 0708.3483
title: An Ideal Channel of Long Distance Entanglement in Spin Systems
authors: Xiao-Qiang Xi, T. Zhang, R. H. Yue, X. C. Xie, W. M. Liu
comments: Comments are welcome (xxq@xiyou.edu.cn)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3483
abstract: We propose a scheme for using spin chain to realize an ideal channel of long distance entanglement. The results show that there has different entanglement in different Hilbert subspace, the anisotropic parameter $\Delta$ will frustrate the entanglement and the magnetic field affect the entanglement through changing the ground state, the boundary entanglement $C_{1N}$ has the simplest expression in the simplest subspace and it only depend on the first item of the ground state, that item can be increased when a local magnetic field is introduced. Our propose can be handled easily because it only needs a uniform XX open chain initialized in the simplest Hilbert subspace and a bulk magnetic field that absent for the boundary qubits.

id: 0708.3494
title: Fidelity Between Partial States as Signature of Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: N. Paunkovic, P. D. Sacramento, P. Nogueira, V. R. Vieira, V. K. Dugaev
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3494
abstract: We introduce a partial state fidelity approach to quantum phase transitions. We consider a superconducting lattice with a magnetic impurity inserted at its centre, and look at the fidelity between partial (either one-site or two-site) quantum states. In the vicinity of the point of the quantum phase transition, we observe a sudden drop of the fidelity between two one-site partial states corresponding to the impurity location and its close vicinity. In the case of two-site states, the fidelity reveals the transition point as long as one of the two electron sites is located at the impurity, while the other lies elsewhere in the lattice. We also determine the Uhlmann mixed state geometric phase, recently introduced in the study of the structural change of the system state eigenvectors in the vicinity of the lines of thermal phase transitions, and find it to be trivial, both for one- and two-site partial states, except when an electron site is at the impurity. This means that the system partial state eigenvectors do not contribute significantly to the enhanced state distinguishability around the point of this quantum phase transition. Finally, we use the fidelity to analyze the total amount of correlations contained within a composite system, showing that, even for the smallest two-site states, it features an abrupt quantitative change in the vicinity of the point of the quantum phase transition.

id: 0708.3507
title: Relativistic Tunneling Through Two Successive Barriers
authors: Jos¨¦ T. Lunardi, Luiz A. Manzoni
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. Revised version, with a new appendix added. Slightly changes in the styles and captions of Figures 1 and 2. To appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042111 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3507
abstract: We study the relativistic quantum mechanical problem of a Dirac particle tunneling through two successive electrostatic barriers. Our aim is to study the emergence of the so-called \emph{Generalized Hartman Effect}, an effect observed in the context of nonrelativistic tunneling as well as in its electromagnetic counterparts, and which is often associated with the possibility of superluminal velocities in the tunneling process. We discuss the behavior of both the phase (or group) tunneling time and the dwell time, and show that in the limit of opaque barriers the relativistic theory also allows the emergence of the Generalized Hartman Effect. We compare our results with the nonrelativistic ones and discuss their interpretation.

id: 0708.3513
title: Computational complexity of quantum optimal control landscapes
authors: Raj Chakrabarti, Rebing Wu, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 8 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3513
abstract: We study the Hamiltonian-independent contribution to the complexity of quantum optimal control problems. The optimization of controls that steer quantum systems to desired objectives can itself be considered a classical dynamical system that executes an analog computation. The system-independent component of the equations of motion of this dynamical system can be integrated analytically for various classes of discrete quantum control problems. For the maximization of observable expectation values from an initial pure state and the maximization of the fidelity of quantum gates, the time complexity of the corresponding computation belongs to the class continuous log (CLOG), the lowest analog complexity class, equivalent to the discrete complexity class NC. The simple scaling of the Hamiltonian-independent contribution to these problems with quantum system dimension indicates that with appropriately designed search algorithms, quantum optimal control can be rendered efficient even for large systems.

id: 0708.3519
title: Photons inside a waveguide as massive particles
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong
comments: 14 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3519
abstract: In the paper, we show that there exists a close analogy between the behavior of de Broglie matter waves and that of electromagnetic waves inside a hollow waveguide, such that the guided photons can be treated as free massive particles subject to a relativistic quantum-mechanical equation. Inspired by the effective rest mass of guided photons and the zitterbewegung phenomenon of the Dirac electron, at variance with the well-known Higgs mechanism we present some different heuristic ideas on the origin of mass.

id: 0708.3535
title: Probability, unitarity, and realism in generally covariant quantum information
authors: S. Jay Olson, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 16 pages, content and discussion added, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3535
abstract: The formalism of covariant quantum theory, introduced by Reisenberger and Rovelli, casts the description of quantum states and evolution into a framework compatable with the principles of general relativity. The leap to this covariant formalism, however, outstripped the standard interpretation used to connect quantum theory to experimental predictions, leaving the predictions of the RR theory ambiguous. Here we discuss in detail some implications of our recently proposed description of covariant quantum information (CQI), which addresses these problems. We show explicit agreement with standard quantum mechanics in the appropriate limit. In addition to compatability with general covariance, we show that our framework has other attractive and satisfying features -- it is fully unitary, realist, and self-contained. The full unitarity of the formalism in the presence of measurements allows us to invoke time-reversal symmetry to obtain new predictions closely related to the quantum Zeno effect.

id: 0708.3546
title: Field Experimental "Star Type" Metropolitan Quantum Key Distribution Network
authors: Wei Chen, Zheng-F Han, Tao Zhang, Hao Wen, Zhen-Q Yin, Fang-X Xu, Qing-L Wu, Yun-Liu, Yang Zhang, Xiao-F Mo, You-Z Gui, Guo Wei, Guang-C Guo
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables
journal: IEEE Photonics Technology Letters, 21, 575 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3546
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) network has recently attracted growing attentions. Due to the special characteristics of quantum information, to build a full-connectivity QKD network without trusted relays is a stimulating challenge. In this letter, we report on the first realization of QKD network without trusted relays which covers metropolis in the commercial backbone optical fiber networks. The star topology four-user QKD network automatically addresses the quantum signal with a quantum router (QR) and every user in the network can receive and distribute quantum keys to any others simultaneously. The longest and the shortest length of fibers between two geographically separated nodes are 42.6km and 32km respectively, and the maximum average quantum bit error rate (QBER) is below 8%. This result opens a new possibility for the use of QKD into existing network.

id: 0708.3559
title: Locally Indistinguishable Subspaces Spanned by Three-Qubit Unextendible Product Bases
authors: Runyao Duan, Yu Xin, Mingsheng Ying
comments: Version 2, 10 pages (Revtex 4). Add a new author together with new results: indistinguishable subspaces with dimensions 3 and 5. Presented at AQIS08 as a long talk
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3559
abstract: We study the local distinguishability of general multi-qubit states and show that local projective measurements and classical communication are as powerful as the most general local measurements and classical communication. Remarkably, this indicates that the local distinguishability of multi-qubit states can be decided efficiently. Another useful consequence is that a set of orthogonal $n$-qubit states is locally distinguishable only if the summation of their orthogonal Schmidt numbers is less than the total dimension $2^n$. When $n=2$ such a condition is also sufficient. Employing these results, we show that any orthonormal basis of a subspace spanned by arbitrary three-qubit orthogonal unextendible product bases (UPB) cannot be exactly distinguishable by local operations and classical communication. This not only reveals another intrinsic property of three-qubit orthogonal UPB, but also provides a class of locally indistinguishable subspaces with dimension 4. We also explicitly construct locally indistinguishable subspaces with dimensions 3 and 5, respectively. In particular, 3 is the minimal possible dimension of locally indistinguishable subspaces. Combining with the previous results, we conclude that any positive integer between 3 and 7 is the possible dimension of some three-qubit locally indistinguishable subspace.

id: 0708.3624
title: Collapse models with non-white noises
authors: Stephen L. Adler, Angelo Bassi
comments: Latex, 20 pages;references added and minor revisions; published as J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. {\bf 40} (2007) 15083-15098
journal: J. Phys. A:Math. Theor.{\bf 40} (2007) 15083-15098
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3624
abstract: We set up a general formalism for models of spontaneous wave function collapse with dynamics represented by a stochastic differential equation driven by general Gaussian noises, not necessarily white in time. In particular, we show that the non-Schrodinger terms of the equation induce the collapse of the wave function to one of the common eigenstates of the collapsing operators, and that the collapse occurs with the correct quantum probabilities. We also develop a perturbation expansion of the solution of the equation with respect to the parameter which sets the strength of the collapse process; such an approximation allows one to compute the leading order terms for the deviations of the predictions of collapse models with respect to those of standard quantum mechanics. This analysis shows that to leading order, the ``imaginary'' noise trick can be used for non-white Gaussian noise.

id: 0708.3630
title: Floating Entanglement Witness Measure and Genetic Algorithm
authors: A. Baghbanpourasl, G. Najarbashi, M. Seyedkazemi
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3630
abstract: In this paper based on the notion of entanglement witness, a new measure of entanglement called floating entanglement witness measure is introduced which satisfies some of the usual properties of a good entanglement measure. By exploiting genetic algorithm, we introduce a classical algorithm that computes floating entanglement witness measure. This algorithm also provides a method for finding entanglement witness for a given entangled state.

id: 0708.3637
title: Geometry of Two-Qubit State and Intertwining Quaternionic Conformal Mapping Under Local Unitary Transformations
authors: G. Najarbashi, S. Ahadpour, M. A. Fasihi, Y. Tavakoli
comments: 16 pages
journal: J.Phy.A 40 6481-6489 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3637
abstract: In this paper the geometry of two-qubit systems under local unitary group $SO(2)\otimes SU(2)$ is discussed. It is shown that the quaternionic conformal map intertwines between this local unitary subgroup of $Sp(2)$ and the quaternionic M\"{o}bius transformation which is rather a generalization of the results of Lee et al (2002 Quantum Inf. Process. 1 129).

id: 0708.3658
title: Structured Near-Optimal Channel-Adapted Quantum Error Correction
authors: Andrew S. Fletcher, Peter W. Shor, Moe Z. Win
comments: 18 pages, 13 figures Update: typos corrected in Appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3658
abstract: We present a class of numerical algorithms which adapt a quantum error correction scheme to a channel model. Given an encoding and a channel model, it was previously shown that the quantum operation that maximizes the average entanglement fidelity may be calculated by a semidefinite program (SDP), which is a convex optimization. While optimal, this recovery operation is computationally difficult for long codes. Furthermore, the optimal recovery operation has no structure beyond the completely positive trace preserving (CPTP) constraint. We derive methods to generate structured channel-adapted error recovery operations. Specifically, each recovery operation begins with a projective error syndrome measurement. The algorithms to compute the structured recovery operations are more scalable than the SDP and yield recovery operations with an intuitive physical form. Using Lagrange duality, we derive performance bounds to certify near-optimality.

id: 0708.3683
title: Formal equivalence between Tsallis and extended Boltzmann-Gibbs statistics
authors: N. G. de Almeida
comments: 3 pages. Comments are wellcome to norton@pesquisador.cnpq.br
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3683
abstract: A formal correspondence between the q-distribution obtained from the Tsallis entropy and non-maxwellian distributions obtained from the Boltzmann-Gibbs entropy is afforded.

id: 0708.3686
title: Accuracy of a teleported trapped field state inside a single bimodal cavity
authors: Iara P. de Queiros, Simone Souza, W. B. Cardoso, N.G. de Almeida
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, in appreciation for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 034101 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3686
abstract: We propose a simplified scheme to teleport a superposition of coherent states from one mode to another of the same bimodal lossy cavity. Based on current experimental capabilities, we present a calculation of the fidelity that can be achieved, demonstrating accurate teleportation if the mean photon number of each mode is at most 1.5. Our scheme applies as well for teleportation of coherent states from one mode of a cavity to another mode of a second cavity, both cavities embedded in a common reservoir.

id: 0708.3699
title: Convolutional Entanglement Distillation
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Hari Krovi, Todd A. Brun
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures, 1 table - minor corrections to text and figures
journal: Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, pp. 2657-2661, Austin, Texas, USA
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3699
abstract: We develop a theory of entanglement distillation that exploits a convolutional coding structure. We provide a method for converting an arbitrary classical binary or quaternary convolutional code into a convolutional entanglement distillation protocol. The imported classical convolutional code does not have to be dual-containing or self-orthogonal. The yield and error-correcting properties of such a protocol depend respectively on the rate and error-correcting properties of the imported classical convolutional code. A convolutional entanglement distillation protocol has several other benefits. Two parties sharing noisy ebits can distill noiseless ebits ``online'' as they acquire more noisy ebits. Distillation yield is high and decoding complexity is simple for a convolutional entanglement distillation protocol. Our theory of convolutional entanglement distillation reduces the problem of finding a good convolutional entanglement distillation protocol to the well-established problem of finding a good classical convolutional code.

id: 0708.3710
title: Real World Interpretations of Quantum Theory
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: Minor revisions. To appear in Foundations of Physics
journal: Foundations of Physics: Volume 42, Issue 3 (2012), Page 421-435
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3710
abstract: I propose a new class of interpretations, {\it real world interpretations}, of the quantum theory of closed systems. These interpretations postulate a preferred factorization of Hilbert space and preferred projective measurements on one factor. They give a mathematical characterisation of the different possible worlds arising in an evolving closed quantum system, in which each possible world corresponds to a (generally mixed) evolving quantum state. In a realistic model, the states corresponding to different worlds should be expected to tend towards orthogonality as different possible quasiclassical structures emerge or as measurement-like interactions produce different classical outcomes. However, as the worlds have a precise mathematical definition, real world interpretations need no definition of quasiclassicality, measurement, or other concepts whose imprecision is problematic in other interpretational approaches. It is natural to postulate that precisely one world is chosen randomly, using the natural probability distribution, as the world realised in Nature, and that this world's mathematical characterisation is a complete description of reality.

id: 0708.3726
title: Nonadiabatic factor accompanying magnetic translation of a charged particle
authors: J. Chee
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3726
abstract: The quantum adiabatic theorem incorporating the Berry phase phenomenon can be characterized as a factorization of the time evolution operator into a path-dependent geometric factor, a usual dynamical factor and a non-adiabatic factor that approaches the identity in the adiabatic limit. We study a case where all these three factors can be constructed explicitly and where the instantaneous Hamiltonian has infinitely degenerate energy eigenstates associated with magnetic translation symmetry. Significance of the non-adiabatic factor in terms of transition probabilities is discussed.

id: 0708.3744
title: The Aharonov-Casher effect
authors: D. Rohrlich
comments: 3 pages + 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3744
abstract: The Aharonov-Casher effect, entry in the Compendium of Quantum Physics: Concepts, Experiments, History and Philosophy, ed. F. Weinert, K. Hentschel, D. Greenberger and B. Falkenburg (Springer), to appear

id: 0708.3749
title: Berry's phase
authors: D. Rohrlich
comments: 5 pages + 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3749
abstract: Berry's phase, entry in the Compendium of Quantum Physics: Concepts, Experiments, History and Philosophy, ed. F. Weinert, K. Hentschel, D. Greenberger and B. Falkenburg (Springer), to appear

id: 0708.3751
title: Errors and paradoxes in quantum mechanics
authors: D. Rohrlich
comments: 8 pages + 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3751
abstract: Errors and paradoxes in quantum mechanics, entry in the Compendium of Quantum Physics: Concepts, Experiments, History and Philosophy, ed. F. Weinert, K. Hentschel, D. Greenberger and B. Falkenburg (Springer), to appear

id: 0708.3775
title: Decoherence of encoded quantum registers
authors: Stefan Borghoff, Rochus Klesse
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012306 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3775
abstract: In order to eliminate disturbing effects of decoherence, encoding of quantum information in decoherence-free subspaces has been suggested. We analyze the benefits of this concept for a quantum register that is realized in a spin chain in contact with a common bosonic bath. Within a dissipation-less model we provide explicit analytical results for the average fidelity of plain and encoded quantum registers. For the investigation of dissipative spin-boson couplings we employ a master equation of Bloch-Redfield type.

id: 0708.3785
title: Perfect Teleportation, Quantum state sharing and Superdense Coding through a Genuinely Entangled Five-qubit State
authors: Sreraman Muralidharan, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 8 Pages, added sections on state sharing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3785
abstract: We investigate the usefulness of a recently introduced five qubit state by Brown $\it et al. \normalfont$ \cite{Brown} for quantum teleportation, quantum state sharing and superdense coding. It is shown that this five-qubit state can be utilized for perfect teleportation of arbitrary single and two qubit systems. We devise various schemes for quantum state sharing of an arbitrary single and two particle state via cooperative teleportation. We later show that this state can be used for superdense coding as well. It is found that five classical bits can be sent by sending only three quantum bits.

id: 0708.3789
title: Efficient qubit detection using alkali earth metal ions and a double STIRAP process
authors: Ditte M?ller, Jens L. S?rensen, Jakob B. Thomsen, Michael Drewsen
comments: 14 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3789
abstract: We present a scheme for robust and efficient projection measurement of a qubit consisting of the two magnetic sublevels in the electronic ground state of alkali earth metal ions. The scheme is based on two stimulated Raman adiabatic passages (STIRAP) involving four partially coherent laser fields. We show how the efficiency depends on experimentally relevant parameters: Rabi frequencies, pulse widths, laser linewidths, one- and two-photon detunings, residual laser power, laser polarization and ion motion.

id: 0708.3794
title: Time-optimal control of a two-level dissipative quantum system
authors: D. Sugny, C. Kontz, H. R. Jauslin
comments: 25 pages, 10 figures
journal: Physical review A 76, 023419 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3794
abstract: We propose an analysis of the time-optimal control of a dissipative two-level quantum system whose dynamics is governed by the Lindblad equation. This simple system allows one to use tools of geometric control theory and to construct its optimal synthesis, i.e. to determine the set of all the optimal trajectories starting from a given initial point. We study different processes such as conversion of a pure state into a mixed state and purification of a mixed state. In particular cases, we show that dissipation is not undesirable and can help accelerating the control.

id: 0708.3826
title: Trapping radioactive ^{82}Rb in an optical dipole trap and evidence of spontaneous spin polarization
authors: D. Feldbaum, H. Wang, J. Weinstein, D. Vieira, X. Zhao
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3826
abstract: Optical trapping of selected species of radioactive atoms has great potential in precision measurements for testing fundamental physics such as EDM, PNC and parity violating beta-decay asymmetry correlation coefficients. We report trapping of 10^4 radioactive ^{82}Rb atoms (t_{1/2}=75 s) with a trap lifetime of ~55 seconds in an optical dipole trap. Transfer efficiency from the magneto-optical trap was ~14%. We further report the evidence of spontaneous spin polarization of the atoms in optical dipole trap loading. This advancement is an important step towards a new generation of precision J-beta correlations measurements with polarized ^{82}Rb atoms.

id: 0708.3889
title: Do single photons tunnel faster than light?
authors: Herbert G. Winful
comments: Invited Paper presented at the SPIE Conference "The Nature of Light: What are Photons?", San Diego, CA, August 26, 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3889
abstract: Experiments done in the early 1990's produced a surprising result: that single photons pass through a photonic tunnel barrier with a group velocity faster than the vacuum speed of light. Subsequent experiments with classical pulses have also revealed apparent superluminal group velocities as well as tunneling times that saturate with barrier length, a phenomenon known as the Hartman effect. In this paper we show that the measured delays are in fact cavity lifetimes as opposed to transit times. This interpretation resolves the Hartman paradox and shows that tunneling is not superluminal as widely believed.

id: 0708.3891
title: The brachistochrone problem in open quantum systems
authors: Ingrid Rotter
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3891
abstract: Recently, the quantum brachistochrone problem is discussed in the literature by using non-Hermitian Hamilton operators of different type. Here, it is demonstrated that the passage time is tunable in realistic open quantum systems due to the biorthogonality of the eigenfunctions of the non-Hermitian Hamilton operator. As an example, the numerical results obtained by Bulgakov et al. for the transmission through microwave cavities of different shape are analyzed from the point of view of the brachistochrone problem. The passage time is shortened in the crossover from the weak-coupling to the strong-coupling regime where the resonance states overlap and many branch points (exceptional points) in the complex plane exist. The effect can {\it not} be described in the framework of standard quantum mechanics with Hermitian Hamilton operator and consideration of $S$ matrix poles.

id: 0708.3909
title: No-Signalling Bound on Quantum State Discrimination
authors: Sarah Croke, Erika Andersson, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3909
abstract: Quantum correlations do not allow signalling, and any operation which may be performed on one system of an entangled pair cannot be detected by measurement of the other system alone. This no-signalling condition limits allowed operations and, in the context of quantum communication, may be used to put bounds on quantum state discrimination. We find that the natural figure of merit to consider is the confidence in identifying a state, which is optimised by the maximum confidence strategy. We show that this strategy may be derived from the no-signalling condition, and demonstrate the relationship between maximum confidence measurements and entanglement concentration.

id: 0708.3958
title: Cruising through molecular bound state manifolds with radio frequency
authors: F. Lang, P.v.d. Straten, B. Brandst?tter, G. Thalhammer, K. Winkler, P.S. Julienne, R. Grimm, J. Hecker Denschlag
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3958
abstract: The emerging field of ultracold molecules with their rich internal structure is currently attracting a lot of interest. Various methods have been developed to produce ultracold molecules in pre-set quantum states. For future experiments it will be important to efficiently transfer these molecules from their initial quantum state to other quantum states of interest. Optical Raman schemes are excellent tools for transfer, but can be involved in terms of equipment, laser stabilization and finding the right transitions. Here we demonstrate a very general and simple way for transfer of molecules from one quantum state to a neighboring quantum state with better than 99% efficiency. The scheme is based on Zeeman tuning the molecular state to avoided level crossings where radio-frequency transitions can then be carried out. By repeating this process at different crossings, molecules can be successively transported through a large manifold of quantum states. As an important spin-off of our experiments, we demonstrate a high-precision spectroscopy method for investigating level crossings.

id: 0708.3960
title: Quantum indirect estimation theory and joint estimate of all moments of two incompatible observables
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti, Massimiliano Federico Sacchi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052108 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3960
abstract: We introduce the quantum indirect estimation theory, which provides a general framework to address the problem of which ensemble averages can be estimated by means of an available set of measuring apparatuses, e. g. estimate the ensemble average of an observable by measuring other observable. A main ingredient in this approach is that of informationally complete (infocomplete in short) measurements, which allow to estimate the ensemble average of any arbitrary system operator, as for quantum tomography. This naturally leads to the more stringent concept of AB-informationally complete measurements, by which one can estimate jointly all the moments of two incompatible observables A and B. After analyzing all general properties of such measurements, we address the problem of their optimality, and we completely solve the case of qubits, showing that a sigma_x sigma_y-infocomplete measurement is less noisy than any infocomplete one. We will also discuss the relation between the concept of AB-infocompleteness and the notion of joint measurement of observables A and B.

id: 0708.3969
title: Asymmetric quantum error correction via code conversion
authors: A. M. Stephens, Z. W. E. Evans, S. J. Devitt, L. C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures, presentation revised, figures and references added
journal: PRA 77, 062335 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3969
abstract: In many physical systems it is expected that environmental decoherence will exhibit an asymmetry between dephasing and relaxation that may result in qubits experiencing discrete phase errors more frequently than discrete bit errors. In the presence of such an error asymmetry, an appropriately asymmetric quantum code - that is, a code that can correct more phase errors than bit errors - will be more efficient than a traditional, symmetric quantum code. Here we construct fault tolerant circuits to convert between an asymmetric subsystem code and a symmetric subsystem code. We show that, for a moderate error asymmetry, the failure rate of a logical circuit can be reduced by using a combined symmetric asymmetric system and that doing so does not preclude universality.

id: 0708.3978
title: Path-Integral Formulation of Pseudo-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics and the Role of the Metric Operator
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: Published version, 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. D 76, 067701 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3978
abstract: We provide a careful analysis of the generating functional in the path integral formulation of pseudo-Hermitian and in particular PT-symmetric quantum mechanics and show how the metric operator enters the expression for the generating functional.

id: 0708.3980
title: On a characterization of PPT states
authors: W. A. Majewski
comments: a report based on previous results
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3980
abstract: We present two different descriptions of positive partially transposed (PPT) states. One is based on the theory of positive maps while the second description provides a characterization of PPT states in terms of Hilbert space vectors. Our note is based on our previous results.

id: 0708.3988
title: Semiclassical Evolution of Dissipative Markovian Systems
authors: A. M. Ozorio de Almeida, P. de M. Rios, O. Brodier
comments: 33 pages - accepted to J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A, 42 (2009) 065306 (29pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3988
abstract: A semiclassical approximation for an evolving density operator, driven by a "closed" hamiltonian operator and "open" markovian Lindblad operators, is obtained. The theory is based on the chord function, i.e. the Fourier transform of the Wigner function. It reduces to an exact solution of the Lindblad master equation if the hamiltonian operator is a quadratic function and the Lindblad operators are linear functions of positions and momenta. Initially, the semiclassical formulae for the case of hermitian Lindblad operators are reinterpreted in terms of a (real) double phase space, generated by an appropriate classical double Hamiltonian. An extra "open" term is added to the double Hamiltonian by the non-hermitian part of the Lindblad operators in the general case of dissipative markovian evolution. The particular case of generic hamiltonian operators, but linear dissipative Lindblad operators, is studied in more detail. A Liouville-type equivariance still holds for the corresponding classical evolution in double phase, but the centre subspace, which supports the Wigner function, is compressed, along with expansion of its conjugate subspace, which supports the chord function. Decoherence narrows the relevant region of double phase space to the neighborhood of a caustic for both the Wigner function and the chord function. This difficulty is avoided by a propagator in a mixed representation, so that a further "small-chord" approximation leads to a simple generalization of the quadratic theory for evolving Wigner functions.

id: 0708.3993
title: Propagators in the continuum limit: from molecules to scalar fields
authors: Emerson Sadurni
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3993
abstract: The propagator of linear molecules whose constituents interact through oscillator potentials can be obtained in a closed form for $N$ atoms as long as $N \leq 4$. We compute the propagator for arbitrary $N$ in the approximation $N \gg 1$. Taking advantage of this result it is possible to analyze the limit in which the molecule has an infinite number of constituents with infinitesimal length of sepparation, corresponding to the quantization of a string, elastic rod or the second quantization of a Klein Gordon particle. The evolution of some specific initial conditions is also studied, namely the time development of states with minimal dispersion and the effect of sudden perturbations on the vacuum of the scalar field theory.

id: 0708.4018
title: Concealed Quantum Information
authors: Luis Roa
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure included in the manuscript
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4018
abstract: We study the teleportation scheme performed by means of a partially entangled pure state. We found that the information belonging to the quantum channel can be distributed into both the system of the transmitter and the system of the receiver. Thus, in order to complete the teleportation process it is required to perform an "unambiguous non-orthogonal quantum states discrimination" and an "extraction of the quantum information" processes. This general scheme allows one to design a strategy for concealing the unknown information of the teleported state. Besides, we showed that the teleportation and the "concealing the quantum information" process, can be probabilistically performed even though the bipartite quantum channel is maximally entangled.

id: 0708.4032
title: Coherent ultrafast core-hole correlation spectroscopy: x-ray analogues of multidimensional NMR
authors: Igor V. Schweigert, Shaul Mukamel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4032
abstract: We propose two dimensional x-ray coherent correlation spectroscopy (2DXCS) for the study of interactions between core-electron and valence transitions. This technique might find experimental applications in the future when very high intensity x-ray sources become available. Spectra obtained by varying two delay periods between pulses show off-diagonal cross-peaks induced by coupling of core transitions of two different types. Calculations of the N1s and O1s signals of aminophenol isomers illustrate how novel information about many-body effects in electronic structure and excitations of molecules can be extracted from these spectra.

id: 0708.4047
title: An Approximate Solution of the Master Equation with the Dissipator being a Set of Projectors
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex ; 7 pages ; no figure
journal: Yokohama Math. J. 54(2008) 207-212
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4047
abstract: In this paper we consider a quantum open system and treat the master equation with some restricted dissipator which consists of a set of projection operators (projectors). The exact solution is given under the commutable approximation (in our terminology). This is the first step for constructing a general solution.

id: 0708.4060
title: Invariant information and complementarity in high-dimensional states
authors: Wei Song, Zeng-Bing Chen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 014307 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4060
abstract: Using a generalization of the invariant information introduced by Brukner and Zeilinger [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{83}, 3354 (1999)] to high-dimensional systems, we introduce a complementarity relation between the local and nonlocal information for $d\times d$ systems under the isolated environment, where $d$ is prime or the power of prime. We also analyze the dynamics of the local information in the decoherence process.

id: 0708.4078
title: Optomechanical trapping and cooling of partially transparent mirrors
authors: M. Bhattacharya, H. Uys, P. Meystre
comments: Submitted to Phys.Rev.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4078
abstract: We consider the radiative trapping and cooling of a partially transmitting mirror suspended inside an optical cavity, generalizing the case of a perfectly reflecting mirror previously considered [M. Bhattacharya and P. Meystre, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{99}, 073601 (2007)]. This configuration was recently used in an experiment to cool a nanometers-thick membrane [Thompson \textit{et al.}, arXiv:0707.1724v2, 2007]. The self-consistent cavity field modes of this system depend strongly on the position of the middle mirror, leading to important qualitative differences in the radiation pressure effects: in one case, the situation is similar that of a perfectly reflecting middle mirror, with only minor quantitative modifications. In addition, we also identify a range of mirror positions for which the radiation-mirror coupling becomes purely dispersive and the back-action effects that usually lead to cooling are absent, although the mirror can still be optically trapped. The existence of these two regimes leads us to propose a bichromatic scheme that optimizes the cooling and trapping of partially transmissive mirrors.

id: 0708.4090
title: NMR method for amplification of single spin state
authors: Gregory B. Furman, Victor M. Meerovich, Vladimir L. Sokolovsky
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures. accepted for publication in Solid State Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4090
abstract: Amplification of a single spin state using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) techniques in a rotating frame is considered. The main aim is to investigate the efficient of various schemes for quantum detection. Results of numerical simulation of the time dependence of individual and total nuclear polarizations for one-, two-, and three-dimensional configurations of the spin systems are presented.

id: 0708.4094
title: A note on the measurement of phase space observables with an eight-port homodyne detector
authors: J. Kiukas, P. Lahti
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4094
abstract: It is well known that the Husimi Q-function of the signal field can actually be measured by the eight-port homodyne detection technique, provided that the reference beam (used for homodyne detection) is a very strong coherent field so that it can be treated classically. Using recent rigorous results on the quantum theory of homodyne detection observables, we show that any phase space observable, and not only the Q-function, can be obtained as a high amplitude limit of the signal observable actually measured by an eight-port homodyne detector. The proof of this fact does not involve any classicality assumption.

id: 0708.4101
title: General quantum phase estimation and calibration of a timepiece in a quantum dot system
authors: Ping Dong, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 4 pages and 2 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 19 (2007) 376216
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4101
abstract: We present a physical scheme for implementing quantum phase estimation via weakly coupled double quantum-dot molecules embedded in a microcavity. During the same process of implementation, we can also realize the calibration of a timepiece based on the estimated phase. We use the electron-hole pair states in coupled double quantum-dot molecules to encode quantum information, where the requirement that two quantum dots are exactly identical is not necessary. Our idea can also be generalized to other systems, such as atomic, trapped ion and linear optics system.

id: 0708.4114
title: Group theoretical construction of mutually unbiased bases in Hilbert spaces of prime dimensions
authors: P. Sulc, J. Tolar
comments: 13 pages; accepted in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007), 15099-15111
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4114
abstract: Mutually unbiased bases in Hilbert spaces of finite dimensions are closely related to the quantal notion of complementarity. An alternative proof of existence of a maximal collection of N+1 mutually unbiased bases in Hilbert spaces of prime dimension N is given by exploiting the finite Heisenberg group (also called the Pauli group) and the action of SL(2,Z_N) on finite phase space Z_N x Z_N implemented by unitary operators in the Hilbert space. Crucial for the proof is that, for prime N, Z_N is also a finite field.

id: 0708.4160
title: Overcritical PT-symmetric square well potential in the Dirac equation
authors: Francesco Cannata, Alberto Ventura
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008) 941-946
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4160
abstract: We study scattering properties of a PT-symmetric square well potential with real depth larger than the threshold of particle-antiparticle pair production as the time component of a vector potential in the (1+1)-dimensional Dirac equation.

id: 0708.4184
title: Entanglement transformation with no classical communication
authors: Bing He, J¨¢nos A. Bergou
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062328 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4184
abstract: We present an optimal scheme to realize the transformations between single copies of two bipartite entangled states without classical communication between the sharing parties. The scheme achieves the upper bound for the success probabilities [PRA 63, 022301 (2001), PRL 83, 1455 (1999)] of generating maximally entangled states if applied to entanglement concentration. Such strategy also dispenses with the interaction with an ancilla system in the implementation. We also show that classical communications are indispensable in realizing the deterministic transformations of a single bipartite entangled state. With a finite number of identical pairs of two entangled bosons, on the other hand, we can realize the deterministic transformation to any target entangled state of equal or less Schmidt rank through an extension of the scheme.

id: 0708.4267
title: Soft-pulse dynamical decoupling in a cavity
authors: Leonid P. Pryadko, Gregory Quiroz
comments: 9pages, 5eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4267
abstract: Dynamical decoupling is a coherent control technique where the intrinsic and extrinsic couplings of a quantum system are effectively averaged out by application of specially designed driving fields (refocusing pulse sequences). This entails pumping energy into the system, which can be especially dangerous when it has sharp spectral features like a cavity mode close to resonance. In this work we show that such an effect can be avoided with properly constructed refocusing sequences. To this end we construct the average Hamiltonian expansion for the system evolution operator associated with a single ``soft'' pi-pulse. To second order in the pulse duration, we characterize a symmetric pulse shape by three parameters, two of which can be turned to zero by shaping. We express the effective Hamiltonians for several pulse sequences in terms of these parameters, and use the results to analyze the structure of error operators for controlled Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian. When errors are cancelled to second order, numerical simulations show excellent qubit fidelity with strongly-suppressed oscillator heating.

id: 0708.4282
title: Asymptotic Error Rates in Quantum Hypothesis Testing
authors: K.M.R. Audenaert, M. Nussbaum, A. Szkola, F. Verstraete
comments: 33 pages, 2 figures
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 279, 251-283 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4282
abstract: We consider the problem of discriminating between two different states of a finite quantum system in the setting of large numbers of copies, and find a closed form expression for the asymptotic exponential rate at which the specified error probability tends to zero. This leads to the identification of the quantum generalisation of the classical Chernoff distance. The proof relies on two new techniques that have been introduced in [quant-ph/0610027] and [quant-ph/0607216], respectively, and that are also well suited to prove the quantum generalisation of the Hoeffding bound, which is a modification of the Chernoff distance and specifies the optimal achievable asymptotic error rate in the context of asymmetric hypothesis testing. This has been done subsequently by Hayashi [quant-ph/0611013] and Nagaoka [quant-ph/0611289] for the special case where both hypotheses have full support. Moreover, quantum Stein's Lemma and quantum Sanov's theorem may be derived directly from the quantum Hoeffding bound combining it with a result obtained recently in [math/0703772]. The goal of this paper is to present the proofs of the above mentioned results in a unified way and in full generality (allowing hypothetic states with different supports). Additionally, we give an in-depth treatment of the properties of the quantum Chernoff distance. We argue that, although it is not a metric, it is a natural distance measure on the set of density operators, due to its clear operational meaning.

id: 0708.4312
title: Qubit Entanglement Driven by Remote Optical Fields
authors: Muhammed Yonac, Joseph H. Eberly
comments: v3, major changes, published in Optics Letters
journal: Opt. Lett. 33, 270-272 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4312
abstract: We examine the entanglement between two qubits, supposed to be remotely located and driven by independent quantized optical fields. No interaction is allowed between the qubits, but their degree of entanglement changes as a function of time. We report a collapse and revival of entanglement that is similar to the collapse and revival of single-atom properties in cavity QED.

id: 0708.4333
title: Projective Ring Line of a Specific Qudit
authors: Hans Havlicek, Metod Saniga
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics A Mathematical and Theoretical 40 (2007) F943-F952
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4333
abstract: A very particular connection between the commutation relations of the elements of the generalized Pauli group of a $d$-dimensional qudit, $d$ being a product of distinct primes, and the structure of the projective line over the (modular) ring $\bZ_{d}$ is established, where the integer exponents of the generating shift ($X$) and clock ($Z$) operators are associated with submodules of $\bZ^{2}_{d}$. Under this correspondence, the set of operators commuting with a given one -- a perp-set -- represents a $\bZ_{d}$-submodule of $\bZ^{2}_{d}$. A crucial novel feature here is that the operators are also represented by {\it non}-admissible pairs of $\bZ^{2}_{d}$. This additional degree of freedom makes it possible to view any perp-set as a {\it set-theoretic} union of the corresponding points of the associated projective line.

id: 0708.0052
title: An Introduction to Relativistic Quantum Mechanics. I. From Relativity to Dirac Equation
authors: M. De Sanctis
comments: 53 pages. Didactical work. Revised conceptual argument about speed of light in section 2.1. Results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0052
abstract: By using the general concepts of special relativity and the requirements of quantum mechanics, Dirac equation is derived and studied. Only elementary knowledge of spin and rotations in quantum mechanics and standard handlings of linear algebra are employed for the development of the present work.

id: 0708.0161
title: Entanglement entropy in quantum spin chains with finite range interaction
authors: A. R. Its, F. Mezzadri, M. Y. Mo
comments: 75 pages, 10 figures. Revised version with minor corrections
journal: Commun. Math. Phys., Vol. 284 (2008), 117-185
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0161
abstract: We study the entropy of entanglement of the ground state in a wide family of one-dimensional quantum spin chains whose interaction is of finite range and translation invariant. Such systems can be thought of as generalizations of the XY model. The chain is divided in two parts: one containing the first consecutive L spins; the second the remaining ones. In this setting the entropy of entanglement is the von Neumann entropy of either part. At the core of our computation is the explicit evaluation of the leading order term as L tends to infinity of the determinant of a block-Toeplitz matrix whose symbol belongs to a general class of 2 x 2 matrix functions. The asymptotics of such determinant is computed in terms of multi-dimensional theta-functions associated to a hyperelliptic curve of genus g >= 1, which enter into the solution of a Riemann-Hilbert problem. Phase transitions for thes systems are characterized by the branch points of the hyperelliptic curve approaching the unit circle. In these circumstances the entropy diverges logarithmically. We also recover, as particular cases, the formulae for the entropy discovered by Jin and Korepin (2004) for the XX model and Its, Jin and Korepin (2005,2006) for the XY model.

id: 0708.0384
title: Decoherence in adiabatic quantum computation
authors: M. H. S. Amin, Dmitri V. Averin, James A. Nesteroff
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022107 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0384
abstract: We have studied the decoherence properties of adiabatic quantum computation (AQC) in the presence of in general non-Markovian, e.g., low-frequency, noise. The developed description of the incoherent Landau-Zener transitions shows that the global AQC maintains its properties even for decoherence larger than the minimum gap at the anticrossing of the two lowest energy levels. The more efficient local AQC, however, does not improve scaling of the computation time with the number of qubits $n$ as in the decoherence-free case. The scaling improvement requires phase coherence throughout the computation, limiting the computation time and the problem size n.

id: 0708.0392
title: Cancellation of nonrenormalizable hypersurface divergences and the d-dimensional Casimir piston
authors: Ariel Edery, Ilana MacDonald
comments: 29 pages; 3 figures; references added; to appear in JHEP
journal: JHEP 0709:005,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0392
abstract: Using a multidimensional cut-off technique, we obtain expressions for the cut-off dependent part of the vacuum energy for parallelepiped geometries in any spatial dimension d. The cut-off part yields nonrenormalizable hypersurface divergences and we show explicitly that they cancel in the Casimir piston scenario in all dimensions. We obtain two different expressions for the d-dimensional Casimir force on the piston where one expression is more convenient to use when the plate separation a is large and the other when a is small (a useful $a \to 1/a$ duality). The Casimir force on the piston is found to be attractive (negative) for any dimension d. We apply the d-dimensional formulas (both expressions) to the two and three-dimensional Casimir piston with Neumann boundary conditions. The 3D Neumann results are in numerical agreement with those recently derived in arXiv:0705.0139 using an optical path technique providing an independent confirmation of our multidimensional approach. We limit our study to massless scalar fields.

id: 0708.0521
title: Measuring a Kaluza-Klein radius smaller than the Planck length
authors: Frank Reifler, Randall Morris
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.D67:064006,2003
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0521
abstract: Hestenes has shown that a bispinor field on a Minkowski space-time is equivalent to an orthonormal tetrad of one-forms together with a complex scalar field. More recently, the Dirac and Einstein equations were unified in a tetrad formulation of a Kaluza-Klein model which gives precisely the usual Dirac-Einstein Lagrangian. In this model, Dirac's bispinor equation is obtained in the limit for which the radius of higher compact dimensions of the Kaluza-Klein manifold becomes vanishingly small compared with the Planck length. For a small but finite radius, the Kaluza-Klein model predicts velocity splitting of single fermion wave packets. That is, the model predicts a single fermion wave packet will split into two wave packets with slightly different group velocities. Observation of such wave packet splits would determine the size of the Kaluza-Klein radius. If wave packet splits were not observed in experiments with currently achievable accuracies, the Kaluza-Klein radius would be at least twenty five orders of magnitude smaller than the Planck length.

id: 0708.0644
title: The Spin Density Matrix I: General Theory and Exact Master Equations
authors: Sharif D. Kunikeev, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 045319 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0644
abstract: We consider a scenario where interacting electrons confined in quantum dots (QDs) are either too close to be resolved, or we do not wish to apply measurements that resolve them. Then the physical observable is an electron spin only (one cannot unambiguously ascribe a spin to a QD) and the system state is fully described by the spin-density matrix. Accounting for the spatial degrees of freedom, we examine to what extent a Hamiltonian description of the spin-only degrees of freedom is valid. We show that as long as there is no coupling between singlet and triplet states this is indeed the case, but when there is such a coupling there are open systems effects, i.e., the dynamics is non-unitary even without interaction with a true bath. Our primary focus is an investigation of non-unitary effects, based on exact master equations we derive for the spin-density matrix in the Lindblad and time-convolutionless (TCL) forms, and the implications for quantum computation. In particular, we demonstrate that the Heisenberg interaction does not affect the unitary part (apart from a Lamb shift) but does affect the non-unitary contributions to time evolution of the spin-density matrix. In a sequel paper we present a detailed analysis of an example system of two quantum dots, including spin-orbit effects.

id: 0708.0676
title: Mosaic spin models with topological order
authors: S. Yang, D. L. Zhou, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Final version to appear in Phys. Rev. B as a Rapid Communication
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 180404(R) (2007)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0676
abstract: We study a class of two-dimensional spin models with the Kitaev-type couplings in mosaic structure lattices to implement topological orders. We show that they are exactly solvable by reducing them to some free Majorana fermion models with gauge symmetries. The typical case with a 4-8-8 close packing is investigated in detail to display the quantum phases with Abelian and non-Abelian anyons. Its topological properties characterized by Chern numbers are revealed through the edge modes of its spectrum.

id: 0708.0677
title: Observables IV: The presheaf perspective
authors: Hans F. de Groote
comments: 35 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0677
abstract: In this fourth of our series of papers on observables we show that one can associate to each von Neumann algebra R a pair of isomorphic presheaves, the upper presheaf O^{+}_{R} and the lower presheaf O^{-}_{R}, on the category of abelian von Neumann subalgebras of R. Each $A \in R_{sa}$ induces a global section of O^{+}_{R} and of O^{-}_{R} respectively. We call them \emph {contextual observables}. But we show that, in general, not every global section of these presheaves arises in this way. Moreover, we discuss states of a von Neumann algebra in the presheaf context.

id: 0708.0702
title: Quasi Exactly Solvable Difference Equations
authors: Ryu Sasaki
comments: LaTeX with amsfonts, no figure, 17 pages, a few typos corrected, a reference renewed, 3/2 pages comments on hermiticity added
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0702
abstract: Several explicit examples of quasi exactly solvable `discrete' quantum mechanical Hamiltonians are derived by deforming the well-known exactly solvable Hamiltonians of one degree of freedom. These are difference analogues of the well-known quasi exactly solvable systems, the harmonic oscillator (with/without the centrifugal potential) deformed by a sextic potential and the 1/sin^2x potential deformed by a cos2x potential. They have a finite number of exactly calculable eigenvalues and eigenfunctions.

id: 0708.0706
title: Noise Suppression for Micromechanical Resonator via Intrinsic Dynamic Feedback
authors: H. Ian, Z. R. Gong, C. P. Sun
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Front. Phys. China 3, 294 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0706
abstract: We study a dynamic mechanism to passively suppress the thermal noise of a micromechanical resonator through an intrinsic self-feedback that is genuinely non-Markovian. We use two coupled resonators, one as the target resonator and the other as an ancillary resonator, to illustrate the mechanism and its noise reduction effect. The intrinsic feedback is realized through the dynamics of coupling between the two resonators: the motions of the target resonator and the ancillary resonator mutually influence each other in a cyclic fashion. Specifically, the states that the target resonator has attained earlier will affect the state it attains later due to the presence of the ancillary resonator. We show that the feedback mechanism will bring forth the effect of noise suppression in the spectrum of displacement, but not in the spectrum of momentum.

id: 0708.0707
title: Hidden scale in quantum mechanics
authors: Pulak Ranjan Giri
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A24:2203-2211,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0707
abstract: We show that the intriguing localization of a free particle wave-packet is possible due to a hidden scale present in the system. Self-adjoint extensions (SAE) is responsible for introducing this scale in quantum mechanical models through the nontrivial boundary conditions. We discuss a couple of classically scale invariant free particle systems to illustrate the issue. In this context it has been shown that a free quantum particle moving on a full line may have localized wave-packet around the origin. As a generalization, it has also been shown that particles moving on a portion of a plane or on a portion of a three dimensional space can have unusual localized wave-packet.

id: 0708.0716
title: Multi-Particle Quasi Exactly Solvable Difference Equations
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: LaTeX with amsfonts, amssymb, amsmath, no figure, 12 pages
journal: J.Math.Phys.48:122105,2007
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0716
abstract: Several explicit examples of multi-particle quasi exactly solvable `discrete' quantum mechanical Hamiltonians are derived by deforming the well-known exactly solvable multi-particle Hamiltonians, the Ruijsenaars-Schneider-van Diejen systems. These are difference analogues of the quasi exactly solvable multi-particle systems, the quantum Inozemtsev systems obtained by deforming the well-known exactly solvable Calogero-Sutherland systems. They have a finite number of exactly calculable eigenvalues and eigenfunctions. This paper is a multi-particle extension of the recent paper by one of the authors on deriving quasi exactly solvable difference equations of single degree of freedom.

id: 0708.0720
title: Quantum mechanics as a spontaneously broken gauge theory on a U(1) gerbe
authors: J.M. Isidro
comments: 
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys.05:233-252,2008
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0720
abstract: Any quantum-mechanical system possesses a U(1) gerbe naturally defined on configuration space. Acting on Feynman's kernel exp(iS/h), this U(1) symmetry allows one to arbitrarily pick the origin for the classical action S, on a point-by-point basis on configuration space. This is equivalent to the statement that quantum mechanics is a U(1) gauge theory. Unlike Yang-Mills theories, however, the geometry of this gauge symmetry is not given by a fibre bundle, but rather by a gerbe. Since this gauge symmetry is spontaneously broken, an analogue of the Higgs mechanism must be present. We prove that a Heisenberg-like noncommutativity for the space coordinates is responsible for the breaking. This allows to interpret the noncommutativity of space coordinates as a Higgs mechanism on the quantum-mechanical U(1) gerbe.

id: 0708.0895
title: Generation and detection of non-Abelian matrix Berry phases through manipulation of electric confinement potential of a semiconductor quantum dot
authors: S.-R. Eric Yang, N.Y. Hwang
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0895
abstract: A matrix Berry phase can be generated and detected by {\it all electric means} in II-VI or III-V n-type semiconductor quantum dots by changing the shape of the confinement potential. This follows from general symmetry considerations in the presence of spin-orbit coupling terms. The resulting 2 x 2 matrix Berry phase can be characterized by two numbers of geometric origin. We investigate how these parameters depend on the shape and area of closed adiabatic paths. We suggest how the matrix Berry phase may be detected in transport measurements.

id: 0708.0901
title: The Statistical Mechanics of Microscopic Long-Range Bulk-Boundary Dependence in Black-Hole Physics and Holography
authors: M. Requardt
comments: 41 pages, Latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0901
abstract: We argue in the following that the entropy-area law of black-hole physics and the various holographic bounds are the consequences of the microscopic dynamics of elementary degrees of freedom living on or near the Planck scale. We locate them both in the interior and on the boundary of, for example, the black hole with the strange area-behavior of various quantities being the result of a long-range bulk-boundary dependence among these degrees of freedom. In contrast to other approaches we regard the vacuum fluctuations on microscopic scales as the relevant elementary building blocks. In so far certain relations to to old ideas of Sakharov, Zeldovich et al are acknowledged (induced gravity). Most importantly, we prove that the existence of a large energy gap between a few low-lying excitation patterns and the majority of the other (in principle) possible excitation patterns in a subvolume with given boundary excitation is crucial for this area-dependence. We also remark that this is an indication that some particular entangled space-time geometry of a somewhat non-local character prevails in the microscopic (Planck) regime. Our findings are corroborated by the explanation of a number of open questions in the field (see the table of contents at the end of the introduction).

id: 0708.1062
title: Controlled-NOT for multiparticle qubits and topological quantum computation based on parity measurements
authors: Oded Zilberberg, Bernd Braunecker, Daniel Loss
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012327 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1062
abstract: We discuss a measurement-based implementation of a controlled-NOT (CNOT) quantum gate. Such a gate has recently been discussed for free electron qubits. Here we extend this scheme for qubits encoded in product states of two (or more) spins-1/2 or in equivalent systems. The key to such an extension is to find a feasible qubit-parity meter. We present a general scheme for reducing this qubit-parity meter to a local spin-parity measurement performed on two spins, one from each qubit. Two possible realizations of a multiparticle CNOT gate are further discussed: electron spins in double quantum dots in the singlet-triplet encoding, and nu=5/2 Ising non-Abelian anyons using topological quantum computation braiding operations and nontopological charge measurements.

id: 0708.1187
title: The generalized Abel-Plana formula with applications to Bessel functions and Casimir effect
authors: A. A. Saharian
comments: 120 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Mathematics (math.GM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1187
abstract: One of the most efficient methods for the evaluation of the vacuum expectation values for physical observables in the Casimir effect is based on using the Abel-Plana summation formula. This enables to derive the renormalized quantities in a manifestly cutoff independent way and to present them in the form of strongly convergent integrals. However, applications of the Abel-Plana formula, in its usual form, are restricted by simple geometries when the eigenmodes have a simple dependence on quantum numbers. The author generalized the Abel-Plana formula which essentially enlarges its application range. Based on this generalization, formulae have been obtained for various types of series over the zeros of combinations of Bessel functions and for integrals involving these functions. It has been shown that these results generalize the special cases existing in literature. Further, the derived summation formulae have been used to summarize series arising in the direct mode summation approach to the Casimir effect for spherically and cylindrically symmetric boundaries, for boundaries moving with uniform proper acceleration, and in various braneworld scenarios. This allows to extract from the vacuum expectation values of local physical observables the parts corresponding to the geometry without boundaries and to present the boundary-induced parts in terms of integrals strongly convergent for the points away from the boundaries. As a result, the renormalization procedure for these observables is reduced to the corresponding procedure for bulks without boundaries. The present paper reviews these results. We also aim to collect the results on vacuum expectation values for local physical observables such as the field square and the energy-momentum tensor in manifolds with boundaries for various bulk and boundary geometries.

id: 0708.1207
title: Entanglement Entropy in the Calogero-Sutherland Model
authors: Hosho Katsura, Yasuyuki Hatsuda
comments: 14 pages, 3figures, references added
journal: J.Phys.A40:13931,2007
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1207
abstract: We investigate the entanglement entropy between two subsets of particles in the ground state of the Calogero-Sutherland model. By using the duality relations of the Jack symmetric polynomials, we obtain exact expressions for both the reduced density matrix and the entanglement entropy in the limit of an infinite number of particles traced out. From these results, we obtain an upper bound value of the entanglement entropy. This upper bound has a clear interpretation in terms of fractional exclusion statistics.

id: 0708.1548
title: Comment on ``Precision measurement of the Casimir-Lifshitz force in a fluid''
authors: B. Geyer, G. L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, submitted to Physical Review A; corrections are made in accordance to referee's suggestions
journal: Phys. Rev. A, v.77, N3, p.036102-(1-3) (2008).
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1548
abstract: Recently J.N. Munday and F. Capasso [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 75}, 060102(R) (2007); arXiv:0705.3793] claimed that they have performed a precision measurement of the Casimir force between a sphere and a plate coated with Au, both immersed in ethanol. The measurement results were claimed to be consistent with the Lifshitz theory. We demonstrate that the calculation of the Casimir force between the smooth bodies following the authors prescription has a discrepancy up to 25% with respect to authors result. We show also that the attractive electrostatic force only due to the surface potential differences was underestimated by a factor of 590 and the charge double layer interaction was not taken into account. All this leads to the conclusion that the results of this experiment are in fact uncertain.

id: 0708.1623
title: Unbalanced Renormalization of Tunneling in MOSFET-type Structures in Strong High-Frequency Electric Fields
authors: Dmitry Solenov
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 115309 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1623
abstract: Two-dimensional electron gas coupled to adjacent impurity sites in high-frequency out-of-plane ac control electric field is investigated. Modification of tunneling rates as a function of the field amplitude is calculated. Nonlinear dependence on the ac field strength is reported for the conductivity of two-dimensional electron gas. It develops a periodic peak structure.

id: 0708.1665
title: Entangling a nanomechanical resonator and a superconducting microwave cavity
authors: D. Vitali, P. Tombesi, M. J. Woolley, A. C. Doherty, G. J. Milburn
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042336 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1665
abstract: We propose a scheme able to entangle at the steady state a nanomechanical resonator with a microwave cavity mode of a driven superconducting coplanar waveguide. The nanomechanical resonator is capacitively coupled with the central conductor of the waveguide and stationary entanglement is achievable up to temperatures of tens of milliKelvin.

id: 0708.1898
title: On the dynamics of point vortices in a quantum gas confined in an annular region
authors: Markus Lakaniemi
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures. A new version of the original paper
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1898
abstract: The dynamics of one and two pointlike vortices in a planar quantum gas of spin-0 particles confined in an annular region is considered. New analytical and numerical solutions are found. The concept of stationarity radius, related to the doubly connected nature of the annulus, is defined. It is seen that the existence of these radii has great impact on the behaviour of the vortices. It is shown that, because of the existence of the stationarity radii, vortices exhibit similar behaviour regardless of the sign of their winding number. The energetically stable vortex solutions are studied qualitatively.

id: 0708.1948
title: Chaoticity Parameter Lambda in Hanbury-Brown Twiss Interferometry
authors: Cheuk-Yin Wong, Wei-Ning Zhang
comments: 23 pages in Latex, 13 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.C76:034905,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1948
abstract: In Hanbury-Brown-Twiss interferometry measurements using identical bosons, the chaoticity parameter lambda has been introduced phenomenologically to represent the momentum correlation function at zero relative momentum. It is useful to study an exactly solvable problem in which the lambda parameter and its dependence on the coherence properties of the boson system can be worked out in great detail. We are therefore motivated to study the state of a gas of noninteracting identical bosons at various temperatures held together in a harmonic oscillator potential that arises either externally or from bosons' own mean fields. We determine the degree of Bose-Einstein condensation and its momentum correlation function as a function of the attributes of the boson environment. The parameter lambda can then be evaluated from the momentum correlation function. We find that the lambda(p,T) parameter is a sensitive function of both the average pair momentum p and the temperature T, and the occurrence of lambda=1 is not a consistent measure of the absence of a coherent condensate fraction. In particular, for large values of p, the lambda parameter attains the value of unity even for significantly coherent systems with large condensate fractions. We find that if a pion system maintains a static equilibrium within its mean field, and if it contains a root-mean-squared radius, a pion number, and a temperature typical of those in high-energy heavy-ion collisions, then it will contain a large fraction of the Bose-Einstein pion condensate.

id: 0708.2329
title: Feshbach Molecules in a One-dimensional Optical Lattice
authors: N. Nygaard, R. Piil, K. Molmer
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 021601(R) (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2329
abstract: We present the theory of a pair of atoms in a one-dimensional optical lattice interacting via a narrow Feshbach resonance. Using a two-channel description of the resonance, we derive analytic results for the scattering states inside the continuum band and the discrete bound states outside the band. We identify a Fano resonance profile, and the survival probability of a molecule when swept through the Bloch band of scattering states by varying an applied magnetic field. We discuss how these results may be used to investigate the importance of the structured nature of the continuum in experiments.

id: 0708.2641
title: Quantum Treatment of Continuum Electrons in the Fields of Moving Charges
authors: Teck-Ghee Lee, S. Yu. Ovchinnikov, J. Sternberg, V. Chupryna, D. R. Schultz, J. H. Macek
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2641
abstract: An ab initio, three-dimensional quantum mechanical calculation has been performed for the time-evolution of continuum electrons in the fields of moving charges. Here the essential singularity associated with the diverging phase factor in the continuum wave function is identified and removed analytically. As a result, the continuum components of the regularized wave function are slowly varying with time. Therefore, one can propagate continuum electrons to asymptotically large times and obtain numerically stable, well-converged ejected electron momentum spectra with very low numerical noise. As a consequence, our approach resolves outstanding controversies concerning structures in electron momentum distributions. The main conclusions are general and are illustrated here for ionization of atomic hydrogen by proton impact. Our results show that in order to obtain correct long-time free-particle propagation, the essential singularity identified here should be removed from the continuum components of solutions to the time-dependent Schrodinger equation.

id: 0708.2649
title: Quantization of neutron in Earth's gravity
authors: Pulak Ranjan Giri
comments: 2 pages, revtex, references added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2649
abstract: Gravity is the weakest of all four known forces in the universe. Quantum states of an elementary particle due to such a weak field is certainly very shallow and would therefore be an experimental challenge to detect. Recently an experimental attempt was made by V. V. Nesvizhevsky et al., Nature 415, 297 (2002), to measure the quantum states of a neutron, which shows that ground state and few excited states are \sim 10^{-12}eV. We show that the energy of the ground state of a neutron confined above Earth's surface should be \sim 10^{-37}eV. The experimentally observed energy levels are 10^{25} times deeper than the actual energy levels it should be and thus certainly not due to gravitational effect of Earth. Therefore the correct interpretation for the painstaking experimental results of Ref. \cite{nes1} is due to the confinement potential of a one dimensional box of length L \sim 50\mu m, generated from the experimental setup as commented before \cite{hansoon}. Our results thus creates a new challenge to the experimentalist to resolve the shallow energy levels of the neutron in Earth's gravitational field in future.

id: 0708.2667
title: Migration of bosonic particles across a Mott insulator to superfluid phase interface
authors: Michael J. Hartmann, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 070602 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2667
abstract: We consider a boundary between a Mott insulator and a superfluid region of a Bose-Hubbard model at unit filling. Initially both regions are decoupled and cooled to their respective ground states. We show that, after switching on a small tunneling rate between both regions, all particles of the Mott region migrate to the superfluid area. This migration takes place whenever the difference between the chemical potentials of both regions is less than the maximal energy of any eigenmode of the superfluid. We verify our results numerically with DMRG simulations and explain them analytically with a master equation approximation, finding good agreement between both approaches. Finally we carry out a feasibility study for the observation of the effect in coupled arrays of micro-cavities and optical lattices.

id: 0708.2779
title: A Survey on the Classical Limit of Quantum Dynamical Entropies
authors: Valerio Cappellini
comments: LaTeX, 21 pages, Presented at the 3rd Workshop on Quantum Chaos and Localization Phenomena, Warsaw, Poland, May 25-27, 2007
journal: Acta Phys. Polon. A 112(4), 589-605 (2007)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2779
abstract: We analyze the behavior of quantum dynamical entropies production from sequences of quantum approximants approaching their (chaotic) classical limit. The model of the quantized hyperbolic automorphisms of the 2-torus is examined in detail and a semi-classical analysis is performed on it using coherent states, fulfilling an appropriate dynamical localization property. Correspondence between quantum dynamical entropies and the Kolmogorov-Sinai invariant is found only over time scales that are logarithmic in the quantization parameter.

id: 0708.2781
title: Comment on "Entropy production and the arrow of time"
authors: V.A. Kuz'menko
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2781
abstract: J.M.R. Parrondo at al. in arXiv:0904.1573 continue numerous efforts to unify the concepts of the arrow of time and entropy production with the concept of time invariance in physics. This is a wrong way.

id: 0708.2799
title: A three-qubit interpretation of BPS and non-BPS STU black holes
authors: P¨¦ter L¨¦vay
comments: 35 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.D76:106011,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2799
abstract: Following the recent trend we develop further the black hole analogy between quantum information theory and the theory of extremal stringy black hole solutions. We show that the three-qubit interpretation of supersymmetric black hole solutions in the STU model can be extended also to include non-supersymmetric ones. First we show that the black hole potential can be expressed as one half the norm of a suitably chosen three-qubit entangled state containing the quantized charges and the moduli. The extremization of the black hole potential in terms of this entangled state amounts to either supressing bit flip errors (BPS-case) or allowing very special types of flips transforming the states between different classes of non-BPS solutions. We are illustrating our results for the example of the D2-D6 system. In this case the bit flip errors are corresponding to sign flip errors of the charges originating from the number of D2 branes. After moduli stabilization the states depending entirely on the charges are maximally entangled graph states (of the triangle graph) well-known from quantum information theory. An N=8 interpretation of the STU-model in terms of a mixed state with fermionic purifications is also given.

id: 0708.2837
title: The Physics of Information
authors: F. Alexander Bais, J. Doyne Farmer
comments: The paper has 65 pages and 9 figures. It is a contribution to "The handbook on the philosophy of information", edited by J. van Benthem and P. Adriaans, to be published by Elsevier. In this revised version, we added references, corrected typos and made some improvements in the text
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2837
abstract: We review of the interface between (theoretical) physics and information for non-experts. The origin of information as related to the notion of entropy is described, first in the context of thermodynamics then in the context of statistical mechanics. A close examination of the foundations of statistical mechanics and the need to reconcile the probabilistic and deterministic views of the world leads us to a discussion of chaotic dynamics, where information plays a crucial role in quantifying predictability. We then discuss a variety of fundamental issues that emerge in defining information and how one must exercise care in discussing concepts such as order, disorder, and incomplete knowledge. We also discuss an alternative form of entropy and its possible relevance for nonequilibrium thermodynamics. In the final part of the paper we discuss how quantum mechanics gives rise to the very different concept of quantum information. Entirely new possibilities for information storage and computation are possible due to the massive parallel processing inherent in quantum mechanics. We also point out how entropy can be extended to apply to quantum mechanics to provide a useful measurement for quantum entanglement. Finally we make a small excursion to the interface betweeen quantum theory and general relativity, where one is confronted with an "ultimate information paradox" posed by the physics of Black Holes. In this review we have limited ourselves; not all relevant topics that touch on physics and information could be covered.

id: 0708.2970
title: Wightman function and scalar Casimir densities for a wedge with two cylindrical boundaries
authors: A. A. Saharian, A. S. Tarloyan
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: Annals Phys.323:1588-1603,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2970
abstract: Wightman function, the vacuum expectation values of the field square and the energy-momentum tensor are investigated for a massive scalar field with general curvature coupling parameter inside a wedge with two coaxial cylindrical boundaries. It is assumed that the field obeys Dirichlet boundary condition on bounding surfaces. The application of a variant of the generalized Abel-Plana formula enables to extract from the expectation values the contribution corresponding to the geometry of a wedge with a single shell and to present the interference part in terms of exponentially convergent integrals. The local properties of the vacuum are investigated in various asymptotic regions of the parameters. The vacuum forces acting on the boundaries are presented as the sum of self-action and interaction terms. It is shown that the interaction forces between the separate parts of the boundary are always attractive. The generalization to the case of a scalar field with Neumann boundary condition is discussed.

id: 0708.2978
title: Entanglement Entropy in Extended Quantum Systems
authors: John Cardy
comments: 6 pages. Plenary talk delivered at Statphys 23, Genoa, July 2007
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2978
abstract: After a brief introduction to the concept of entanglement in quantum systems, I apply these ideas to many-body systems and show that the von Neumann entropy is an effective way of characterising the entanglement between the degrees of freedom in different regions of space. Close to a quantum phase transition it has universal features which serve as a diagnostic of such phenomena. In the second part I consider the unitary time evolution of such systems following a `quantum quench' in which a parameter in the hamiltonian is suddenly changed, and argue that finite regions should effectively thermalise at late times, after interesting transient effects.

id: 0708.3131
title: Scattering of spin-polarized electron in an Aharonov--Bohm potential
authors: V. R. Khalilov, Choon-Lin Ho
comments: 11 pages, no figures. Minor typos corrected
journal: AnnalsPhys.323:1280-1293,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3131
abstract: The scattering of spin-polarized electrons in an Aharonov--Bohm vector potential is considered. We solve the Pauli equation in 3+1 dimensions taking into account explicitly the interaction between the three-dimensional spin magnetic moment of electron and magnetic field. Expressions for the scattering amplitude and the cross section are obtained for spin-polarized electron scattered off a flux tube of small radius. It is also shown that bound electron states cannot occur in this quantum system. The scattering problem for the model of a flux tube of zero radius in the Born approximation is briefly discussed.

id: 0708.3411
title: On causally asymmetric versions of Occam's Razor and their relation to thermodynamics
authors: Dominik Janzing
comments: restructured, 6 figure
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3411
abstract: In real-life statistical data, it seems that conditional probabilities for the effect given their causes tend to be less complex and smoother than conditionals for causes, given their effects. We have recently proposed and tested methods for causal inference in machine learning using a formalization of this principle. Here we try to provide some theoretical justification for causal inference methods based upon such a ``causally asymmetric'' interpretation of Occam's Razor. To this end, we discuss toy models of cause-effect relations from classical and quantum physics as well as computer science in the context of various aspects of complexity. We argue that this asymmetry of the statistical dependences between cause and effect has a thermodynamic origin. The essential link is the tendency of the environment to provide independent background noise realized by physical systems that are initially uncorrelated with the system under consideration rather than being finally uncorrelated. This link extends ideas from the literature relating Reichenbach's principle of the common cause to the second law.

id: 0708.3674
title: Power-law expansion cosmology in Schr?dinger-type formulation
authors: Burin Gumjudpai
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, Revtex 4, accepted by Astroparticle Physics, more Ref. added
journal: Astropart.Phys.30:186-191,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3674
abstract: We investigate non-linear Schr\"{o}dinger-type formulation of cosmology of which our cosmological system is a general relativistic FRLW universe containing canonical scalar field under arbitrary potential and a barotropic fluid with arbitrary spatial curvatures. We extend the formulation to include phantom field case and we have found that Schr\"{o}dinger wave function in this formulation is generally non-normalizable. Assuming power-law expansion, $a \sim t^q$, we obtain scalar field potential as function of time. The corresponding quantities in Schr\"{o}dinger-type formulation such as Schr\"{o}dinger total energy, Schr\"{o}dinger potential and wave function are also presented.

id: 0708.3682
title: Entanglement in Disordered Systems at Criticality
authors: Imre Varga, Jose Antonio Mendez-Bermudez
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, TIDS12 proceedings
journal: phys. stat. sol. (c) 5, No.3, 867-870 (2008)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3682
abstract: Entanglement is a physical resource of a quantum system just like mass, charge or energy. Moreover it is an essential tool for many purposes of nowadays quantum information processing, e.g. quantum teleportation, quantum cryptography or quantum computation. In this work we investigate an extended system of N qubits. In our system a qubit is the absence or presence of an electron at a site of a tight-binding system. Several measures of entanglement between a given qubit and the rest of the system and also the entanglement between two qubits and the rest of the system is calculated in a one-electron picture in the presence of disorder. We invoke the power law band random matrix model which even in one dimension is able to produce multifractal states that fluctuate at all length scales. The concurrence, the tangle and the entanglement entropy all show interesting scaling properties.

id: 0708.3750
title: Entanglement and correlation functions following a local quench: a conformal field theory approach
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, John Cardy
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures, v2 typos corrected and refs added
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2007) P10004
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3750
abstract: We show that the dynamics resulting from preparing a one-dimensional quantum system in the ground state of two decoupled parts, then joined together and left to evolve unitarily with a translational invariant Hamiltonian (a local quench), can be described by means of quantum field theory. In the case when the corresponding theory is conformal, we study the evolution of the entanglement entropy for different bi-partitions of the line. We also consider the behavior of one- and two-point correlation functions. All our findings may be explained in terms of a picture, that we believe to be valid more generally, whereby quasiparticles emitted from the joining point at the initial time propagate semiclassically through the system.

id: 0708.3904
title: Exact wave functions of electron in a quantum dot with account of the Rashba spin-orbit interaction
authors: V. V. Kudryashov
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, 1 table, some revisions in text, corrected misprints
journal: Nonlinear Phenomena in Complex Systems, vol. 12, no. 2 (2009), pp. 199-203.
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3904
abstract: We present the exact wave functions and energy levels of electron in a two-dimensional circular quantum dot in the presence of the Rashba spin-orbit interaction. The confinement is described by the realistic potential well of finite depth.

id: 0708.3946
title: Integrable Hierarchies and Information Measures
authors: Rajesh R. Parwani, Oktay K. Pashaev
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3946
abstract: In this paper we investigate integrable models from the perspective of information theory, exhibiting various connections. We begin by showing that compressible hydrodynamics for a one-dimesional isentropic fluid, with an appropriately motivated information theoretic extension, is described by a general nonlinear Schrodinger (NLS) equation. Depending on the choice of the enthalpy function, one obtains the cubic NLS or other modified NLS equations that have applications in various fields. Next, by considering the integrable hierarchy associated with the NLS model, we propose higher order information measures which include the Fisher measure as their first member. The lowest members of the hiearchy are shown to be included in the expansion of a regularized Kullback-Leibler measure while, on the other hand, a suitable combination of the NLS hierarchy leads to a Wootters type measure related to a NLS equation with a relativistic dispersion relation. Finally, through our approach, we are led to construct an integrable semi-relativistic NLS equation.

id: 0708.4025
title: Black holes as mirrors: quantum information in random subsystems
authors: Patrick Hayden, John Preskill
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures. (v2): discussion of decoding complexity clarified
journal: JHEP 0709:120,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4025
abstract: We study information retrieval from evaporating black holes, assuming that the internal dynamics of a black hole is unitary and rapidly mixing, and assuming that the retriever has unlimited control over the emitted Hawking radiation. If the evaporation of the black hole has already proceeded past the "half-way" point, where half of the initial entropy has been radiated away, then additional quantum information deposited in the black hole is revealed in the Hawking radiation very rapidly. Information deposited prior to the half-way point remains concealed until the half-way point, and then emerges quickly. These conclusions hold because typical local quantum circuits are efficient encoders for quantum error-correcting codes that nearly achieve the capacity of the quantum erasure channel. Our estimate of a black hole's information retention time, based on speculative dynamical assumptions, is just barely compatible with the black hole complementarity hypothesis.

id: 0708.4056
title: Renormalization group analysis of resonantly interacting anyons
authors: Yusuke Nishida
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures; added a discussion on the many-body physics
journal: Phys.Rev.D77:061703,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4056
abstract: We formulate a field theory for resonantly interacting anyons, that enables us to perform a perturbative calculation near the fermionic limit. We derive renormalization group equations for three-body and four-body couplings at one-loop order. In addition to two fixed points, we find a limit cycle behavior in the four-body coupling, which implies an infinite set of bound states in the four-anyon system.

id: 0708.4208
title: Dyson-Index-Like Behavior of Bures Separability Functions
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4208
abstract: We conduct a study based on the Bures (minimal monotone) metric, analogous to that recently reported for the Hilbert-Schmidt (flat or Euclidean) metric (arXiv:0704.3723v2). Among the interesting results obtained there had been proportionalities--in exact correspondence to the Dyson indices \beta = 1, 2, 4 of random matrix theory--between the fourth, second and first powers of the separability functions S_{type}(\mu) for real, complex and quaternionic qubit-qubit scenarios, Here \mu=\sqrt{\frac{\rho_{11} \rho_{44}}{\rho_{22} \rho_{33}}}, with \rho being a 4 x 4 density matrix. Separability functions have proved useful--in the framework of the Bloore (correlation coefficient/off-diagonal scaling) parameterization of density matrices--for the calculation of separability probabilities. We find--for certain, basic simple scenarios (in which the diagonal entries of \rho are unrestricted, and one or two off-diagonal [real, complex or quaternionic] pairs of entries are nonzero) --that these proportionalities no longer strictly hold in the Bures case, but do come remarkably close to holding.

id: 0708.4281
title: Multi-channel architecture for electronic quantum-Hall interferometry
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Fabio Taddei, Diego Frustaglia, Rosario Fazio
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 155320 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4281
abstract: We propose a new architecture for implementing electronic interferometry in quantum Hall bars. It exploits scattering among parallel edge channels. In contrast to previous developments, this one employs a simply-connected mesa admitting serial concatenation of building elements closer to optical analogues. Implementations of Mach-Zehnder and Hambury-Brown-Twiss interferometers are discussed together with new structures yet unexplored in quantum electronics.

id: 0708.4304
title: Control of atomic currents using a quantum stirring device
authors: Moritz Hiller, Tsampikos Kottos, Doron Cohen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, uses epl2.cls, revised version
journal: Europhysics Letters 82, 40006 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4304
abstract: We propose a BEC stirring device which can be regarded as the incorporation of a quantum pump into a closed circuit: it produces a DC circulating current in response to a cyclic adiabatic change of two control parameters of an optical trap. We demonstrate the feasibility of this concept and point out that such device can be utilized in order to probe the interatomic interactions.

id: 0708.1910
title: Correlated behavior of conductance and phase rigidity in the transition from the weak-coupling to the strong-coupling regime
authors: E. N. Bulgakov, I. Rotter, A. F. Sadreev
comments: Resonance trapping mechanism explained in the captions of Figs. 7 to 11. Recent papers added in the list of references
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1910
abstract: We study the transmission through different small systems as a function of the coupling strength $v$ to the two attached leads. The leads are identical with only one propagating mode $\xi^E_C$ in each of them. Besides the conductance $G$, we calculate the phase rigidity $\rho$ of the scattering wave function $\Psi^E_C$ in the interior of the system. Most interesting results are obtained in the regime of strongly overlapping resonance states where the crossover from staying to traveling modes takes place. The crossover is characterized by collective effects. Here, the conductance is plateau-like enhanced in some energy regions of finite length while corridors with zero transmission (total reflection) appear in other energy regions. This transmission picture depends only weakly on the spectrum of the closed system. It is caused by the alignment of some resonance states of the system with the propagating modes $\xi^E_C$ in the leads. The alignment of resonance states takes place stepwise by resonance trapping, i.e. it is accompanied by the decoupling of other resonance states from the continuum of propagating modes. This process is quantitatively described by the phase rigidity $\rho$ of the scattering wave function. Averaged over energy in the considered energy window, $<G>$ is correlated with $1-<\rho>$. In the regime of strong coupling, only two short-lived resonance states survive each aligned with one of the channel wave functions $\xi^E_C$. They may be identified with traveling modes through the system. The remaining $M-2$ trapped narrow resonance states are well separated from one another.

id: 0708.4237
title: Restricted quantum-classical correspondence and counting statistics for a coherent transition
authors: Maya Chuchem, Doron Cohen
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012109 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.4237
abstract: The conventional probabilistic point of view implies that if a particle has a probability $p$ to make a transition from one site to another site, then the average transport should be $<Q>=p}$ with a variance $Var(Q)=(1-p)p$. In the quantum mechanical context this observation becomes a non-trivial manifestation of restricted quantum-classical correspondence. We demonstrate this observation by considering the full counting statistics which is associated with a two level coherent transition in the context of a continuous quantum measurement process. In particular we test the possibility of getting a valid result for $Var(Q)$ within the framework of the adiabatic picture, analyzing the simplest non-trivial example of a Landau-Zener crossing.

id: 0708.1504
title: Theoretical study of a localized quantum spin reversal by the sequential injection of spins in a spin quantum dot
authors: Satoshi Kokado, Kazumasa Ueda, Kikuo Harigaya, Akimasa Sakuma
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. B, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76 (2007), 054451-1 - 054451-11
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1504
abstract: This is a theoretical study of the reversal of a localized quantum spin induced by sequential injection of spins for a spin quantum dot that has a quantum spin. The system consists of ``electrode/quantum well(QW)/dot/QW/electrode" junctions, in which the left QW has an energy level of conduction electrons with only up-spin. We consider a situation in which up-spin electrons are sequentially injected from the left electrode into the dot through the QW and an exchange interaction acts between the electrons and the localized spin. To describe the sequentially injected electrons, we propose a simple method based on approximate solutions from the time-dependent Schr$\ddot{\rm o}$dinger equation. Using this method, it is shown that the spin reversal occurs when the right QW has energy levels of conduction electrons with only down-spin. In particular, the expression of the reversal time of a localized spin is derived and the upper and lower limits of the time are clearly expressed. This expression is expected to be useful for a rough estimation of the minimum relaxation time of the localized spin to achieve the reversal. We also obtain analytic expressions for the expectation value of the localized spin and the electrical current as a function of time. In addition, we found that a system with the non-magnetic right QW exhibits spin reversal or non-reversal depending on the exchange interaction.

id: 0708.0278
title: Quenching Dynamics of a quantum XY spin-1/2 chain in presence of a transverse field
authors: Victor Mukherjee, Uma Divakaran, Amit Dutta, Diptiman Sen
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 76, 174303 (2007)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0278
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a one-dimensional spin-1/2 anisotropic XY model in a transverse field when the transverse field or the anisotropic interaction is quenched at a slow but uniform rate. The two quenching schemes are called transverse and anisotropic quenching respectively. Our emphasis in this paper is on the anisotropic quenching scheme and we compare the results with those of the other scheme. In the process of anisotropic quenching, the system crosses all the quantum critical lines of the phase diagram where the relaxation time diverges. The evolution is non-adiabatic in the time interval when the parameters are close to their critical values, and is adiabatic otherwise. The density of defects produced due to non-adiabatic transitions is calculated by mapping the many-particle system to an equivalent Landau-Zener problem and is generally found to vary as $1/\sqrt{\tau}$, where $\tau$ is the characteristic time scale of quenching, a scenario that supports the Kibble-Zurek mechanism. Interestingly, in the case of anisotropic quenching, there exists an additional non-adiabatic transition, in comparison to the transverse quenching case, with the corresponding probability peaking at an incommensurate value of the wave vector. In the special case in which the system passes through a multi-critical point, the defect density is found to vary as $1/\tau^{1/6}$. The von Neumann entropy of the final state is shown to maximize at a quenching rate around which the ordering of the final state changes from antiferromagnetic to ferromagnetic.

id: 0708.0734
title: The Schr\" odinger picture of the Dirac quantum mechanics on spatially flat Robertson-Walker backgrounds
authors: Ion I. Cotaescu
comments: 6 pages 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0734
abstract: The Schr\" odinger picture of the Dirac quantum mechanics is defined in charts with spatially flat Robertson-Walker metrics and Cartesian coordinates. The main observables of this picture are identified, including the interacting part of the Hamiltonian operator produced by the minimal coupling with the gravitational field. It is shown that in this approach new Dirac quantum modes on de Sitter spacetimes may be found analytically solving the Dirac equation.

