id: 0708.0145
title: Programmable Quantum State Transfer
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: 4+ pages, 2 columns, revtex4; v2 some clarification, couple new examples and references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0145
abstract: A programmable quantum networks model is used in this paper for development of methods of control of a quantum state transport. These methods may be applied for a wide variety of patterns of controlled state transmission and spreading in quantum systems. The programmable perfect state transfer and quantum walk, mobile quantum (ro)bots and lattice gas automata may be described by unified way with such approach.

id: 0708.0184
title: Non-stationary quantum walks on the cycle
authors: Domenico D'Alessandro, Gianfranco Parlangeli, Francesca Albertini
comments: Revised version with minor changes
journal: J. Phys. A Math. Theor. (2007) 40 14447-14455
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0184
abstract: We consider quantum walks on the cycle in the non-stationary case where the `coin' operation is allowed to change at each time step. We characterize, in algebraic terms, the set of possible state transfers and prove that, as opposed to the stationary case, it is possible to asymnptotically reach a uniform distribution among the nodes of the associated graph.

id: 0708.1137
title: Quantum Walks on a Random Environment
authors: Yue Yin, D.E. Katsanos, S.N. Evangelou
comments: 7 pages 8 figures (for high resolution figures send an email to dkatsan@uoi.gr)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1137
abstract: Quantum walks are considered in a one-dimensional random medium characterized by static or dynamic disorder. Quantum interference for static disorder can lead to Anderson localization which completely hinders the quantum walk and it is contrasted with the decoherence effect of dynamic disorder having strength W, where a quantum to classical crossover at time $t_{c}\propto W^{-2}$ transforms the quantum walk into an ordinary random walk with diffusive spreading. We demonstrate these localization and decoherence phenomena in quantum carpets of the observed time evolution and examine in detail a dimer lattice which corresponds to a single qubit subject to randomness.

id: 0708.1297
title: Decoherent quantum walks driven by a generic coin operation
authors: G. Abal, R. Donangelo, F. Severo, R. Siri
comments: 
journal: Physica A, Vol 387/1 pp 335-345 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1297
abstract: We consider the effect of different unitary noise mechanisms on the evolution of a quantum walk (QW) on a linear chain with a generic coin operation: (i) bit-flip channel noise, restricted to the coin subspace of the QW, and (ii) topological noise caused by randomly broken links in the linear chain. Similarities and differences in the respective decoherent dynamics of the walker as a function of the probability per unit time of a decoherent event taking place are discussed.

id: 0708.1484
title: A quantum dot implementation of the quantum NAND algorithm
authors: J. M. Taylor
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.1484
abstract: We propose a physical implementation of the quantum NAND tree evaluation algorithm. Our approach, based on continuous time quantum walks, uses the wave interference of a single electron in a heirarchical set of tunnel coupled quantum dots. We find that the query complexity of the NAND tree evaluation does not suffer strongly from disorder and dephasing, nor is it directly limited by temperature or restricted dimensionality for 2-d structures. Finally, we suggest a potential application of this algorithm to the efficient determination of high-order correlation functions of complex quantum systems.

id: 0708.2096
title: Non-uniform mixing of quantum walk on cycles
authors: William Adamczak, Kevin Andrew, Leon Bergen, Dillon Ethier, Peter Hernberg, Jennifer Lin, Christino Tamon
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 5(6):781-793, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2096
abstract: A classical lazy random walk on cycles is known to mix to the uniform distribution. In contrast, we show that a continuous-time quantum walk on cycles exhibit strong non-uniform mixing properties. Our results include the following: - The instantaneous distribution of a quantum walk on most even-length cycles is never uniform. - The average distribution of a quantum walk on any Abelian circulant graph is never uniform. As a corollary, the average distribution of a quantum walk on any standard circulant graph, such as the cycles, complete graphs, and even hypercubes, is never uniform.

id: 0708.2584
title: Claw Finding Algorithms Using Quantum Walk
authors: Seiichiro Tani
comments: 12 pages. Introduction revised. A reference added. Weak lower bound deleted
journal: Theoretical Computer Science, 410(50): 5285-5297 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.2584
abstract: The claw finding problem has been studied in terms of query complexity as one of the problems closely connected to cryptography. For given two functions, f and g, as an oracle which have domains of size N and M (N<=M), respectively, and the same range, the goal of the problem is to find x and y such that f(x)=g(y). This paper describes an optimal algorithm using quantum walk that solves this problem. Our algorithm can be generalized to find a claw of k functions for any constant integer k>1, where the domains of the functions may have different size.

id: 0708.3396
title: Optimal quantum adversary lower bounds for ordered search
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Troy Lee
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Proc. 35th International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming (ICALP 2008), Lecture Notes in Computer Science 5125, pp. 869-880
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.3396
abstract: The goal of the ordered search problem is to find a particular item in an ordered list of n items. Using the adversary method, Hoyer, Neerbek, and Shi proved a quantum lower bound for this problem of (1/pi) ln n + Theta(1). Here, we find the exact value of the best possible quantum adversary lower bound for a symmetrized version of ordered search (whose query complexity differs from that of the original problem by at most 1). Thus we show that the best lower bound for ordered search that can be proved by the adversary method is (1/pi) ln n + O(1). Furthermore, we show that this remains true for the generalized adversary method allowing negative weights.

