id: 0709.0006
title: Local Unitary Quantum Cellular Automata
authors: Carlos A. Perez-Delgado, Donny Cheung
comments: To appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 032320, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0006
abstract: In this paper we present a quantization of Cellular Automata. Our formalism is based on a lattice of qudits, and an update rule consisting of local unitary operators that commute with their own lattice translations. One purpose of this model is to act as a theoretical model of quantum computation, similar to the quantum circuit model. It is also shown to be an appropriate abstraction for space-homogeneous quantum phenomena, such as quantum lattice gases, spin chains and others. Some results that show the benefits of basing the model on local unitary operators are shown: universality, strong connections to the circuit model, simple implementation on quantum hardware, and a wealth of applications.

id: 0709.0010
title: Generation of four-qubit cluster of entangled coherent states in bimodal QED cavities
authors: E. M. Becerra-Castro, W. B. Cardoso, A. T. Avelar, B. Baseia
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41 (2008) 085505
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0010
abstract: A recent work [1] proposed a type of cluster entangled coherent states and its generation. Here we present an alternative experimental arrangement for its generation in bimodal QED cavities. The scheme employs a single two-level atom that interacts dispersively with cavity modes initially prepared in coherent states. The fidelity and success probability of the state preparation are obtained considering the influence of atomic velocity spread and atomic efficiency detection.

id: 0709.0021
title: Methods for Producing Decoherence-Free States and Noiseless Subsystems Using Photonic Qutrits
authors: C. Allen Bishop, Mark S. Byrd
comments: 12 pages, 9 (color) figures, misc minor changes from referee suggestions and an added reference
journal: Physical Review A 77, 012314 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0021
abstract: We outline a proposal for a method of preparing an encoded two-state system (logical qubit) that is immune to collective noise acting on the Hilbert space of the states supporting it. The logical qubit is comprised of three photonic three-state systems (qutrits) and is generated by the process of spontaneous parametric down conversion. The states are constructed using linear optical elements along with three down-conversion sources, and are deemed successful by the simultaneous detection of six events. We also show how to select a maximally entangled state of two qutrits by similar methods. For this maximally entangled state we describe conditions for the state to be decoherence-free which do not correspond to collective errors.

id: 0709.0027
title: Robustness of entangled states that are positive under partial transposition
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Sibasish Ghosh, Vwani Roychowdhury
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032318 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0027
abstract: We study robustness of bipartite entangled states that are positive under partial transposition (PPT). It is shown that almost all PPT entangled states are unconditionally robust, in the sense, both inseparability and positivity are preserved under sufficiently small perturbations in its immediate neighborhood. Such unconditionally robust PPT entangled states lie inside an open PPT entangled ball. We construct examples of such balls whose radii are shown to be finite and can be explicitly calculated. This provides a lower bound on the volume of all PPT entangled states. Multipartite generalization of our constructions are also outlined.

id: 0709.0063
title: Hypergraph-theoretic charaterizations for LOCC incomparable ensembles of multipartite CAT states
authors: Arijit Ghosh, Sudebkumar Prasant Pal, Anupam Prakash, Virendra Singh Shekhawat
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, presented in AQIS 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0063
abstract: Using graphs and hypergraphs to systematically model collections of arbitrary subsets of parties representing {\it ensembles (or collections)} of shared multipartite CAT states, we study transformations between such {\it ensembles} under {\it local operations and classical communication (LOCC)}. We show using partial entropic criteria, that any two such distinct ensembles represented by {\it $r$-uniform hypergraphs} with the same number of hyperedges (CAT states), are LOCC incomparable for even integers $r\geq 2$, generalizing results in \cite{mscthesis,sin:pal:kum:sri}. We show that the cardinality of the largest set of mutually LOCC incomparable ensembles represented by $r$-uniform hypergraphs for even $r\geq 2$, is exponential in the number of parties. We also demonstrate LOCC incomparability between two ensembles represented by 3-uniform hypergraphs where partial entropic criteria do not help in establishing incomparability. Further we characterize LOCC comparability of EPR graphs in a model where LOCC is restricted to teleportation and edge destruction. We show that this model is equivalent to one in which LOCC transformations are carried out through a sequence of operations where each operation adds at most one new EPR pair.

id: 0709.0128
title: A Universal Operator Theoretic Framework for Quantum Fault Tolerance
authors: Gerald Gilbert, Michael Hamrick, Yaakov S. Weinstein, Vaneet Aggarwal, A. Robert Calderbank
comments: v3: 8 pages, 3 figures, explicit numerical example comparing OQFT to QFT added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0128
abstract: In this paper we introduce a universal operator theoretic framework for quantum fault tolerance. This incorporates a top-down approach that implements a system-level criterion based on specification of the full system dynamics, applied at every level of error correction concatenation. This leads to more accurate determinations of error thresholds than could previously be obtained. This is demonstrated both formally and with an explicit numerical example. The basis for our approach is the Quantum Computer Condition (QCC), an inequality governing the evolution of a quantum computer. We show that all known coding schemes are actually special cases of the QCC. We demonstrate this by introducing a new, operator theoretic form of entanglement assisted quantum error correction, which incorporates as special cases all known error correcting protocols, and is itself a special case of the QCC.

id: 0709.0142
title: Quantum Reference Frames and the Classification of Rotationally-Invariant Maps
authors: J.-C. Boileau, L. Sheridan, M. Laforest, S. D. Bartlett
comments: 18 pages. Accepted in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 032105 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0142
abstract: We give a convenient representation for any map that is covariant with respect to an irreducible representation of SU(2), and use this representation to analyze the evolution of a quantum directional reference frame when it is exploited as a resource for performing quantum operations. We introduce the moments of a quantum reference frame, which serve as a complete description of its properties as a frame, and investigate how many times a quantum directional reference frame represented by a spin-j system can be used to perform a certain quantum operation with a given probability of success. We provide a considerable generalization of previous results on the degradation of a reference frame, from which follows a classification of the dynamics of spin-j system under the repeated action of any covariant map with respect to SU(2).

id: 0709.0148
title: Entanglement of Accelerating Particles
authors: W. L. Ku, M.-C. Chu
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0148
abstract: We study how the entanglement of a maximally entangled pair of particles is affected when one or both of the pair are uniformly accelerated, while the detector remains in an inertial frame. We find that the entanglement is unchanged if all degrees of freedom are considered. However, particle pairs are produced, and the entanglements of different bipartite systems may change with the acceleration. In particular, the entanglement between accelerating fermions is transferred preferentially to the produced antiparticles when the acceleration is large, and the entanglement transfer is complete when the acceleration approaches infinity. However, for scalar particles, no entanglement transfer to the antiparticles is observed.

id: 0709.0149
title: Blackbody radiation shift in a 43Ca+ ion optical frequency standard
authors: Bindiya Arora, M. S. Safronova, Charles W. Clark
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0149
abstract: Motivated by the prospect of an optical frequency standard based on 43Ca+, we calculate the blackbody radiation (BBR) shift of the 4s_1/2-3d_5/2 clock transition, which is a major component of the uncertainty budget. The calculations are based on the relativistic all-order single-double method where all single and double excitations of the Dirac-Fock wave function are included to all orders of perturbation theory. Additional calculations are conducted for the dominant contributions in order to evaluate some omitted high-order corrections and estimate the uncertainties of the final results. The BBR shift obtained for this transition is 0.38(1) Hz. The tensor polarizability of the 3d_5/2 level is also calculated and its uncertainty is evaluated as well. Our results are compared with other calculations.

id: 0709.0212
title: Non-critically squeezed light via spontaneous rotational symmetry breaking
authors: Carlos Navarrete-Benlloch, Eugenio Roldan, German J. de Valcarcel
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, replaced with resubmitted version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0212
abstract: We theoretically address squeezed light generation through the spontaneous breaking of the rotational invariance occuring in a type I degenerate optical parametric oscillator (DOPO) pumped above threshold. We show that a DOPO with spherical mirrors, in which the signal and idler fields correspond to first order Laguerre-Gauss modes, produces a perfectly squeezed vacuum with the shape of a Hermite-Gauss mode, within the linearized theory. This occurs at any pumping level above threshold, hence the phenomenon is non-critical. Imperfections of the rotational symmetry, due e.g. to cavity anisotropy, are shown to have a small impact, hence the result is not singular.

id: 0709.0251
title: Femtosecond Photoionization of Atoms under Noise
authors: Kamal P. Singh, Jan M.Rost
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0251
abstract: We investigate the effect of incoherent perturbations on atomic photoionization due to a femtosecond mid-infrared laser pulse by solving the time-dependent stochastic Schr\"odinger equation. For a weak laser pulse which causes almost no ionization, an addition of a Gaussian white noise to the pulse leads to a significantly enhanced ionization probability. Tuning the noise level, a stochastic resonance-like curve is observed showing the existence of an optimum noise for a given laser pulse. Besides studying the sensitivity of the obtained enhancement curve on the pulse parameters, such as the pulse duration and peak amplitude, we suggest that experimentally realizable broadband chaotic light can also be used instead of the white noise to observe similar features. The underlying enhancement mechanism is analyzed in the frequency-domain by computing a frequency-resolved atomic gain profile, as well as in the time-domain by controlling the relative delay between the action of the laser pulse and noise.

id: 0709.0289
title: Cryptography in the Bounded-Quantum-Storage Model
authors: Christian Schaffner
comments: PhD Thesis, BRICS, University of Aarhus, Denmark, 128 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0289
abstract: This thesis initiates the study of cryptographic protocols in the bounded-quantum-storage model. On the practical side, simple protocols for Rabin Oblivious Transfer, 1-2 Oblivious Transfer and Bit Commitment are presented. No quantum memory is required for honest players, whereas the protocols can only be broken by an adversary controlling a large amount of quantum memory. The protocols are efficient, non-interactive and can be implemented with today's technology. On the theoretical side, new entropic uncertainty relations involving min-entropy are established and used to prove the security of protocols according to new strong security definitions. For instance, in the realistic setting of Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) against quantum-memory-bounded eavesdroppers, the uncertainty relation allows to prove the security of QKD protocols while tolerating considerably higher error rates compared to the standard model with unbounded adversaries.

id: 0709.0301
title: Geometrically induced singular behavior of entanglement
authors: D. Cavalcanti, P. L. Saldanha, O. Cosme, F. G. S. L. Brandao, C. H. Monken, S. Padua, M. Franca Santos, M. O. Terra Cunha
comments: v2: 4 pags, 4 figs. A discussion before the proof of Proposition 1 and tomographic results were included, Propostion 2 was removed and the references were fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012318 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0301
abstract: We show that the geometry of the set of quantum states plays a crucial role in the behavior of entanglement in different physical systems. More specifically it is shown that singular points at the border of the set of unentangled states appear as singularities in the dynamics of entanglement of smoothly varying quantum states. We illustrate this result by implementing a photonic parametric down conversion experiment. Moreover, this effect is connected to recently discovered singularities in condensed matter models.

id: 0709.0340
title: Counterfactuals in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: An entry in the Compendium of Quantum Physics: Concepts, Experiments, History and Philosophy, ed. F. Weinert, K. Hentschel, D. Greenberger and B. Falkenburg
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0340
abstract: A review of the term "counterfactuals" in various contexts of quantum mechanics.

id: 0709.0343
title: Exactly-solvable coupled-channel potential models of atom-atom magnetic Feshbach resonances from supersymmetric quantum mechanics
authors: Andrey M. Pupasov, Boris F. Samsonov, Jean-Marc Sparenberg
comments: 19 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012724 (2008) (reduced version)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0343
abstract: Starting from a system of $N$ radial Schr\"odinger equations with a vanishing potential and finite threshold differences between the channels, a coupled $N \times N$ exactly-solvable potential model is obtained with the help of a single non-conservative supersymmetric transformation. The obtained potential matrix, which subsumes a result obtained in the literature, has a compact analytical form, as well as its Jost matrix. It depends on $N (N+1)/2$ unconstrained parameters and on one upper-bounded parameter, the factorization energy. A detailed study of the model is done for the $2\times 2$ case: a geometrical analysis of the zeros of the Jost-matrix determinant shows that the model has 0, 1 or 2 bound states, and 0 or 1 resonance; the potential parameters are explicitly expressed in terms of its bound-state energies, of its resonance energy and width, or of the open-channel scattering length, which solves schematic inverse problems. As a first physical application, exactly-solvable $2\times 2$ atom-atom interaction potentials are constructed, for cases where a magnetic Feshbach resonance interplays with a bound or virtual state close to threshold, which results in a large background scattering length.

id: 0709.0352
title: Macroscopic Entanglement of a Bose Einstein Condensate on a Superconducting Atom Chip
authors: Mandip Singh
comments: 4 Pages, Two figures
journal: Optics Express, 17, 2600-10 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0352
abstract: We propose and analyse a practically implementable scheme to generate macroscopic entanglement of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a micro-magnetic trap magnetically coupled to a superconducting loop. We treat the superconducting loop in a quantum superposition of two different flux states coupled with the magnetic trap to generate macroscopic entanglement. Our scheme also provides a platform to realise interferometry of entangled atoms through the Bose-Einstein condensate and to explore physics at the quantum-classical interface.

id: 0709.0390
title: Entanglement, EPR-correlations, Bell-nonlocality, and Steering
authors: S. J. Jones, H. M. Wiseman, A. C. Doherty
comments: REVtex, 19 pages, 2 figures. v2 minor changes and corrections, published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052116 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0390
abstract: In a recent work [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 98}, 140402 (2007)] we defined ``steering'', a type of quantum nonlocality that is logically distinct from both nonseparability and Bell-nonlocality. In the bipartite setting, it hinges on the question of whether Alice can affect Bob's state at a distance through her choice of measurement. More precisely and operationally, it hinges on the question of whether Alice, with classical communication, can convince Bob that they share an entangled state, under the circumstances that Bob trusts nothing that Alice says. We argue that if she can, then this demonstrates the nonlocal effect first identified in the famous EPR paper [Phys. Rev. {\bf 47}, 777 (1935)] as a universal effect for pure entangled states. This ability of Alice to remotely prepare Bob's state was subsequently called steering by Schr\"odinger, whose terminology we adopt. The phenomenon of steering has been largely overlooked, and prior to our work had not even been given a rigorous definition that is applicable to mixed states as well as pure states. Armed with our rigorous definition, we proved that steerable states are a strict subset of the entangled states, and a strict superset of the states that can exhibit Bell-nonlocality. In this work we expand on these results and provide further examples of steerable states. We also elaborate on the connection with the original EPR paradox.

id: 0709.0429
title: Experimental investigation to influence of pump phase fluctuation on phase-correlation of output optical fields from a non-degenerate parametric oscillator
authors: Dong Wang, Yana Shang, Zhihui Yan, Wenzhe Wang, Xiaojun Jia, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0429
abstract: The influence of the phase fluctuation of the pump laser on the phase-correlation between the signal and idler modes of the output fields from as non-degenerate optical parametric oscillator operating above oscillation threshold was experimentally investigated. The noise spectra of the intensity-difference and the phase-sum of the entangled optical beams were measured with a pair of unbalanced fiber Match-Zehnder interferometers specifically designed. The experimental results proved the previously theoretical prediction and are in reasonable agreement with the calculation based on semiclassical theory involving the phase fluctuation of pump laser.

id: 0709.0466
title: Comment on "Relativistic Aharonov-Bohm effect in the presence of planar Coulomb potentials"
authors: C. R. Hagen
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0466
abstract: It is shown that the principal results of a recent work by Khalilov are incorrect. These errors are attributable to the author's insistence that wave functions must be regular at the origin even when the relevant potential is singular at that point.

id: 0709.0469
title: Decoherence bypass of macroscopic superpositions in quantum measurement
authors: D. Spehner, F. Haake
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, to be published in J. Phys. A, a few changes in content, corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0469
abstract: We study a class of quantum measurement models. A microscopic object is entangled with a macroscopic pointer such that a distinct pointer position is tied to each eigenvalue of the measured object observable. Those different pointer positions mutually decohere under the influence of an environment. Overcoming limitations of previous approaches we (i) cope with initial correlations between pointer and environment by considering them initially in a metastable local thermal equilibrium, (ii) allow for object-pointer entanglement and environment-induced decoherence of distinct pointer readouts to proceed simultaneously, such that mixtures of macroscopically distinct object-pointer product states arise without intervening macroscopic superpositions, and (iii) go beyond the Markovian treatment of decoherence.

id: 0709.0483
title: The PT-symmetric brachistochrone problem, Lorentz boosts and non-unitary operator equivalence classes
authors: Uwe Guenther, Boris F. Samsonov
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, strongly extended version
journal: Phys. Rev. A78, (2008), 042115
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0483
abstract: The PT-symmetric (PTS) quantum brachistochrone problem is reanalyzed as quantum system consisting of a non-Hermitian PTS component and a purely Hermitian component simultaneously. Interpreting this specific setup as subsystem of a larger Hermitian system, we find non-unitary operator equivalence classes (conjugacy classes) as natural ingredient which contain at least one Dirac-Hermitian representative. With the help of a geometric analysis the compatibility of the vanishing passage time solution of a PTS brachistochrone with the Anandan-Aharonov lower bound for passage times of Hermitian brachistochrones is demonstrated.

id: 0709.0492
title: Composable Security in the Bounded-Quantum-Storage Model
authors: Stephanie Wehner, J¨¹rg Wullschleger
comments: 21 pages
journal: Proceedings of ICALP 2008, pages 604--615
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0492
abstract: We present a simplified framework for proving sequential composability in the quantum setting. In particular, we give a new, simulation-based, definition for security in the bounded-quantum-storage model, and show that this definition allows for sequential composition of protocols. Damgard et al. (FOCS '05, CRYPTO '07) showed how to securely implement bit commitment and oblivious transfer in the bounded-quantum-storage model, where the adversary is only allowed to store a limited number of qubits. However, their security definitions did only apply to the standalone setting, and it was not clear if their protocols could be composed. Indeed, we first give a simple attack that shows that these protocols are not composable without a small refinement of the model. Finally, we prove the security of their randomized oblivious transfer protocol in our refined model. Secure implementations of oblivious transfer and bit commitment then follow easily by a (classical) reduction to randomized oblivious transfer.

id: 0709.0528
title: Effect of Local Minima on Adiabatic Quantum Optimization
authors: M. H. S. Amin
comments: 4 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 130503 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0528
abstract: We present a perturbative method to estimate the spectral gap for adiabatic quantum optimization, based on the structure of the energy levels in the problem Hamiltonian. We show that for problems that have exponentially large number of local minima close to the global minimum, the gap becomes exponentially small making the computation time exponentially long. The quantum advantage of adiabatic quantum computation may then be accessed only via the local adiabatic evolution, which requires phase coherence throughout the evolution and knowledge of the spectrum. Such problems, therefore, are not suitable for adiabatic quantum computation.

id: 0709.0544
title: The Many Computations Interpretation (MCI) of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Jacques Mallah
comments: 55 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0544
abstract: Computationalism provides a framework for understanding how a mathematically describable physical world could give rise to conscious observations without the need for dualism. A criterion is proposed for the implementation of computations by physical systems, which has been a problem for computationalism. Together with an independence criterion for implementations this would allow, in principle, prediction of probabilities for various observations based on counting implementations. Applied to quantum mechanics, this results in a Many Computations Interpretation (MCI), which is an explicit form of the Everett style Many Worlds Interpretation (MWI). Derivation of the Born Rule emerges as the central problem for most realist interpretations of quantum mechanics. If the Born Rule is derived based on computationalism and the wavefunction it would provide strong support for the MWI; but if the Born Rule is shown not to follow from these to an experimentally falsified extent, it would indicate the necessity for either new physics or (more radically) new philosophy of mind.

id: 0709.0548
title: Quantum discord and the power of one qubit
authors: Animesh Datta, Anil Shaji, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 4 Pages, 1 Figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 050502 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0548
abstract: We use quantum discord to characterize the correlations present in the quantum computational model DQC1, introduced by Knill and Laflamme [Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 5672 (1998)]. The model involves a collection of qubits in the completely mixed state coupled to a single control qubit that has nonzero purity. The initial state, operations, and measurements in the model all point to a natural bipartite split between the control qubit and the mixed ones. Although there is no entanglement between these two parts, we show that the quantum discord across this split is nonzero for typical instances of the DQC1 ciruit. Nonzero values of discord indicate the presence of nonclassical correlations. We propose quantum discord as figure of merit for characterizing the resources present in this computational model.

id: 0709.0562
title: Quantum Coherence Conservation by Growth in Environmental Dissipation Rate
authors: Akira SaiToh, Robabeh Rahimi, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, elsart, original title: Quantum Wipe Effect for Coherence Conservation, v2: correction in the solution of (2), figures added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0562
abstract: Quantum coherence conservation is shown to be achieved by a very high rate of dissipation of an environmental system coupled with a principal system. This effect is not in the list of previously-known strategies of noise suppression, such as Zeno effect, dynamical decoupling, quantum error correction code, and decoherence free subspace. An analytical solution is found for a simplified model of a single qubit coupled with an environmental single qubit dissipating rapidly. We also show examples of coherence conservation in a spin-boson linear coupling model with a numerical evaluation.

id: 0709.0563
title: Deterministic dense coding and entanglement entropy
authors: P. S. Bourdon, E. Gerjuoy, J. P. McDonald, H. T. Williams
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022305 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0563
abstract: We present an analytical study of the standard two-party deterministic dense-coding protocol, under which communication of perfectly distinguishable messages takes place via a qudit from a pair of non-maximally entangled qudits in pure state |S>. Our results include the following: (i) We prove that it is possible for a state |S> with lower entanglement entropy to support the sending of a greater number of perfectly distinguishable messages than one with higher entanglement entropy, confirming a result suggested via numerical analysis in Mozes et al. [Phys. Rev. A 71 012311 (2005)]. (ii) By explicit construction of families of local unitary operators, we verify, for dimensions d = 3 and d=4, a conjecture of Mozes et al. about the minimum entanglement entropy that supports the sending of d + j messages, j = 2, ..., d-1; moreover, we show that the j=2 and j= d-1 cases of the conjecture are valid in all dimensions. (iii) Given that |S> allows the sending of K messages and has the square roof of c as its largest Schmidt coefficient, we show that the inequality c <= d/K, established by Wu et al. [ Phys. Rev. A 73, 042311 (2006)], must actually take the form c < d/K if K = d+1, while our constructions of local unitaries show that equality can be realized if K = d+2 or K = 2d-1.

id: 0709.0588
title: Optimization of Short Coherent Control Pulses
authors: S. Pasini, T. Fischer, P. Karbach, G. S. Uhrig
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures; published version
journal: Physical Review A 77, 032315 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0588
abstract: The coherent control of small quantum system is considered. For a two-level system coupled to an arbitrary bath we consider a pulse of finite duration. We derive the leading and the next-leading order corrections to the evolution operator due to the non-commutation of the pulse and the bath Hamiltonian. The conditions are computed that make the leading corrections vanish. The pulse shapes optimized in this way are given for $\pi$ and $\frac{\pi}{2}$ pulses.

id: 0709.0602
title: Arbitrary precision composite pulses for NMR quantum computing
authors: William G. Alway, Jonathan A. Jones
comments: 16 pages elsart, no figures. In press at Journal of Magnetic resonance
journal: J. Magn. Reson 189, 114 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0602
abstract: We discuss the implementation of arbitrary precision composite pulses developed using the methods of Brown et al. [Phys. Rev. A 70 (2004) 052318]. We give explicit results for pulse sequences designed to tackle both the simple case of pulse length errors and for the more complex case of off-resonance errors. The results are developed in the context of NMR quantum computation, but could be applied more widely.

id: 0709.0613
title: Complementarity and uncertainty relations for matter wave interferometry
authors: K.-P. Marzlin, B. C. Sanders, P. L. Knight
comments: nine pages, five figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062107 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0613
abstract: We establish a rigorous quantitative connection between (i) the interferometric duality relation for which-way information and fringe visibility and (ii) Heisenberg's uncertainty relation for position and modular momentum. We apply our theory to atom interferometry, wherein spontaneously emitted photons provide which way information, and unambiguously resolve the challenge posed by the metamaterial `perfect lens' to complementarity and to the Heisenberg-Bohr interpretation of the Heisenberg microscope thought experiment.

id: 0709.0653
title: Creating and preserving multi-partite entanglement with spin chains
authors: Irene D'Amico, Brendon W. Lovett, Timothy P. Spiller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0653
abstract: We show how multi-partite entanglement, such as of W-state form, can be created in branched spin chain systems. We also discuss the preservation of such entanglement, once created. The technique could be applied to actual spin chain systems, or to other physical systems such as strings of coupled quantum dots, molecules or atoms.

id: 0709.0699
title: Optical-approximation analysis of sidewall-spacing effects on the force between two squares with parallel sidewalls
authors: Saad Zaheer, Alejandro W. Rodriguez, Steven G. Johnson, Robert L. Jaffe
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, Vol. 76, No. 6, 063816 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0699
abstract: Using the ray-optics approximation, we analyze the Casimir force in a two dimensional domain formed by two metallic blocks adjacent to parallel metallic sidewalls, which are separated from the blocks by a finite distance h. For h > 0, the ray-optics approach is not exact because diffraction effects are neglected. Nevertheless, we show that ray optics is able to qualitatively reproduce a surprising effect recently identified in an exact numerical calculation: the force between the blocks varies non-monotonically with h. In this sense, the ray-optics approach captures an essential part of the physics of multi-body interactions in this system, unlike simpler pairwise-interaction approximations such as PFA. Furthermore, by comparison to the exact numerical results, we are able to quantify the impact of diffraction on Casimir forces in this geometry.

id: 0709.0716
title: Maximum Entanglement in Squeezed Boson and Fermion States
authors: F.C. Khanna, J.M.C. Malbouisson, A.E. Santana, E.S. Santos
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev A {\bf 76}, 022109 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0716
abstract: A class of squeezed boson and fermion states is studied with particular emphasis on the nature of entanglement. We first investigate the case of bosons, considering two-mode squeezed states. Then we construct the fermion version to show that such states are maximum entangled, for both bosons and fermions. To achieve these results, we demonstrate some relations involving squeezed boson states. The generalization to the case of fermions is made by using Grassmann variables.

id: 0709.0738
title: A quantum characterization of NP
authors: Hugue Blier, Alain Tapp
comments: The class QMA_Log(2) have been replace by PQMA_log(2) where the power of the verifier is slightly weaker
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0738
abstract: In this article we introduce a new complexity class called PQMA_log(2). Informally, this is the class of languages for which membership has a logarithmic-size quantum proof with perfect completeness and soundness which is polynomially close to 1 in a context where the veri?er is provided a proof with two unentangled parts. We then show that PQMA_log(2) = NP. For this to be possible, it is important, when defining the class, not to give too much power to the veri?er. This result, when compared to the fact that QMA_log = BQP, gives us new insight on the power of quantum information and the impact of entanglement.

id: 0709.0755
title: Perfect state transfer over distance-regular spin networks
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, R. Sufiani
comments: 37 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0755
abstract: By considering distance-regular graphs as spin networks, first we introduce some particular spin Hamiltonians which are extended version of those of Refs.\cite{8,9''}. Then, by using spectral analysis techniques and algebraic combinatoric structure of distance-regular graphs such as stratification introduced in \cite{obata, js} and Bose-Mesner algebra, we give a method for finding a set of coupling constants in the Hamiltonians so that a particular state initially encoded on one site of a network will evolve freely to the opposite site without any dynamical controls, i.e., we show that how to derive the parameters of the system so that perfect state transfer (PST) can be achieved. As examples, the cycle networks with even number of vertices and $d$-dimensional hypercube networks are considered in details and the method is applied for some important distance-regular networks in appendix.

id: 0709.0760
title: Quantum electron transport in toroidal carbon nanotubes with metallic leads
authors: Mark A. Jack, Mario R. Encinosa
comments: 15 pages, 11 .eps figures, 1 black and white figure, 10 color figures, uses revtex4; manuscript presented at conference NSTI07 Nanotech 2007, May 20-24, 2007, Santa Clara, CA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0760
abstract: A recursive Green's function method is employed to calculate the density-of-states, transmission function, and current through a 150 layer (3,3) armchair nanotorus (1800 atoms) with laterally attached metallic leads as functions of relative lead angle and magnetic flux. Plateaus in the transmissivity through the torus occur over wide ranges of lead placement, accompanied by enhancements in the transmissivity through the torus as magnetic flux normal to the toroidal plane is varied.

id: 0709.0802
title: Robust Preparation of GHZ and W States of Three Distant Atoms
authors: Chang-shui Yu, X. X. Yi, He-shan Song, D. Mei
comments: 5 pages, 1 fiure. Phys. Rev. A 75, 044301 (2007)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0802
abstract: Schemes to generate Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger(GHZ) and W states of three distant atoms are proposed in this paper. The schemes use the effects of quantum statistics of indistinguishable photons emitted by the atoms inside optical cavities. The advantages of the schemes are their robustness against detection inefficiency and asynchronous emission of the photons. Moreover, in Lamb-Dicke limit, the schemes do not require simultaneous click of the detectors, this makes the schemes more realizable in experiments.

id: 0709.0804
title: Measurable entanglement for tripartite quantum pure states of qubits
authors: Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. Phys. Rev. A 76, 022324 (2007)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0804
abstract: We show that for tripartite quantum pure states of qubits, all the kinds of entanglement in terms of SLOCC classification are experimentally measurable by simple projective measurements, provided that four copies of the composite quantum system are available. In particular, the entanglement of reduced density matrices, even though they are mixed states, can be exactly determined in experiment. Concurrence of assistance is also shown to be measurable by introducing an interesting equations with explicit physical meanings.

id: 0709.0809
title: Group velocity control in the ultraviolet domain via interacting dark-state resonances
authors: M. Mahmoudi, M. Sahrai, J. Evers
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41, 025504 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0809
abstract: The propagation of a weak probe field in a laser-driven four-level atomic system is investigated. We choose mercury as our model system, where the probe transition is in the ultraviolet region. A high-resolution peak appears in the optical spectra due to the presence of interacting dark resonances. We show that this narrow peak leads to superluminal light propagation with strong absorption, and thus by itself is only of limited interest. But if in addition a weak incoherent pump field is applied to the probe transition, then the peak structure can be changed such that both sub- and superluminal light propagation or a negative group velocity can be achieved without absorption, controlled by the incoherent pumping strength.

id: 0709.0824
title: On Random Unitary Channels
authors: Koenraad M.R. Audenaert, Stefan Scheel
comments: 11 pages, typeset using RevTeX4
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 023011 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0824
abstract: In this article we provide necessary and sufficient conditions for a completely positive trace-preserving (CPT) map to be decomposable into a convex combination of unitary maps. Additionally, we set out to define a proper distance measure between a given CPT map and the set of random unitary maps, and methods for calculating it. In this way one could determine whether non-classical error mechanisms such as spontaneous decay or photon loss dominate over classical uncertainties, for example in a phase parameter. The present paper is a step towards achieving this goal.

id: 0709.0843
title: Induced Fractional Zero-Point Canonical Angular Momentum on Charged Particles of Aharonov - Bohm Vector Potential and "Spectator" Magnetic Field
authors: Jian-Zu Zhang
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0843
abstract: The induced fractional zero-point canonical angular momentum on charged particles by the Aharonov - Bohm (AB) vector potential is realized via modified combined traps. It explores new features for this type of quantum effects: In a limit of vanishing mechanical kinetic energy the AB vector potential alone cannot induce a fractional zero-point canonical angular momentum on charged particles at the quantum mechanical level in the AB magnetic field-free region; But for the case of the AB vector potential with another one of a "spectator" magnetic field the AB vector potential induces a fractional zero-point canonical angular momentum in the same limit. The "spectator" one does not contribute to such a fractional zero-point quantity, but plays essential role in guaranteeing non-trivial dynamics survived in this limit at the quantum mechanical level. These results are significance in investigations of the AB effects and related fields for both theories and experiments.

id: 0709.0847
title: Experimental position-time entanglement with degenerate single photons
authors: A. J. Bennett, D. G. Gevaux, Z. L. Yuan, A. J. Shields, P. Atkinson, D. A. Ritchie
comments: Updated to published version, new fig. 4., corrected typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 023803 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0847
abstract: We report an experiment in which two-photon interference occurs between degenerate single photons that never meet. The two photons travel in opposite directions through our fibre-optic interferometer and interference occurs when the photons reach two different, spatially separated, 2-by-2 couplers at the same time. We show that this experiment is analogous to the conventional Franson-type entanglement experiment where the photons are entangled in position and time. We measure wavefunction overlaps for the two photons as high as 94 $\pm$ 3%.

id: 0709.0855
title: Notes on multiplicativity of maximal output purity for completely positive qubit maps
authors: Koenraad M.R. Audenaert
comments: Manuscript for a talk presented at the SSPCM07 conference in Myczkowce, Poland, 10/09/2007. 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0855
abstract: A problem in quantum information theory that has received considerable attention in recent years is the question of multiplicativity of the so-called maximal output purity (MOP) of a quantum channel. This quantity is defined as the maximum value of the purity one can get at the output of a channel by varying over all physical input states, when purity is measured by the Schatten $q$-norm, and is denoted by $\nu_q$. The multiplicativity problem is the question whether two channels used in parallel have a combined $\nu_q$ that is the product of the $\nu_q$ of the two channels. A positive answer would imply a number of other additivity results in QIT. Very recently, P. Hayden has found counterexamples for every value of $q>1$. Nevertheless, these counterexamples require that the dimension of these channels increases with $1-q$ and therefore do not rule out multiplicativity for $q$ in intervals $[1,q_0)$ with $q_0$ depending on the channel dimension. I argue that this would be enough to prove additivity of entanglement of formation and of the classical capacity of quantum channels. More importantly, no counterexamples have as yet been found in the important special case where one of the channels is a qubit-channel, i.e. its input states are 2-dimensional. In this paper I focus attention to this qubit case and I rephrase the multiplicativity conjecture in the language of block matrices and prove the conjecture in a number of special cases.

id: 0709.0911
title: An Explicit Construction of Quantum Expanders
authors: Avraham Ben-Aroya, Oded Schwartz, Amnon Ta-Shma
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0911
abstract: Quantum expanders are a natural generalization of classical expanders. These objects were introduced and studied by Ben-Aroya and Ta-Shma and by Hastings. In this note we show how to construct explicit, constant-degree quantum expanders. The construction is essentially the classical Zig-Zag expander construction, applied to quantum expanders.

id: 0709.0921
title: Universal tunneling time for all fields
authors: G. Nimtz, A. A. Stahlhofen
comments: 7 pages latex, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0921
abstract: Tunneling is an important physical process. The observation that particles surmount a high mountain in spite of the fact that they don't have the necessary energy cannot be explained by classical physics. However, this so called tunneling became allowed by quantum mechanics. Experimental tunneling studies with different photonic barriers from microwave frequencies up to ultraviolet frequencies pointed towards a universal tunneling time (Haibel,Esposito). Experiments and calculations have shown that the tunneling time of opaque photonic barriers (optical mirrors, e.g.) equals approximately the reciprocal frequency of the corresponding electromagnetic wave. The tunneling process is described by virtual photons. Virtual particles like photons or electrons are not observable. However, from the theoretical point of view, they represent necessary intermediate states between observable real states. In the case of tunneling there is a virtual particle between the incident and the transmitted particle. Tunneling modes have a purely imaginary wave number. They represent solutions of the Schroedinger equation and of the classical Helmholtz equation. Recent experimental and theoretical data of electron and sound tunneling confirmed the conjecture that the tunneling process is characterized by a universal tunneling time independent of the kind of field. Tunneling proceeds at a time of the order of the reciprocal frequency of the wave.

id: 0709.0931
title: Quantum brachistochrone problem for spin-1 in a magnetic field
authors: A.M. Frydryszak, V.M. Tkachuk
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0931
abstract: We study quantum brachistochrone problem for the spin-1 system in a magnetic field of a constant absolute value. Such system gives us a possibility to examine in detail the statement of papers [A. Carlini {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 96}, 060503 (2006), D. C. Brody, D. W. Hook, J. Phys. A {\bf 39}, L167, (2006)] that {\it the state vectors realizing the evolution with the minimal time of passage evolve along the subspace spanned by the initial and final state vectors.} Using explicit example we show the existence of quantum brachistochrone with minimal possible time, but the state vector of which, during the evolution {\em leaves} the subspace spanned by the initial and final state vectors. This is the result of the choice of more constrained Hamiltonian then assumed in the general quantum brachistochrone problem, but what is worth noting, despite that such evolution is more complicated it is still time optimal. This might be important for experiment, where general Hamiltonian with the all allowed parameters is difficult to implement, but constrained one depending on magnetic field can be realized. However for pre-constrained Hamiltonian not all final states are accessible. Present result does not contradict general statement of the quantum brachistochrone problem, but gives new insight how time optimal passage can be realized.

id: 0709.0948
title: QUBIT4MATLAB V3.0: A program package for quantum information science and quantum optics for MATLAB
authors: Geza Toth
comments: 22 pages, no figures; small changes, published version
journal: Comput. Phys. Comm. 179, 430 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0948
abstract: A program package for MATLAB is introduced that helps calculations in quantum information science and quantum optics. It has commands for the following operations: (i) Reordering the qudits of a quantum register, computing the reduced state of a quantum register. (ii) Defining important quantum states easily. (iii) Formatted input and output for quantum states and operators. (iv) Constructing operators acting on given qudits of a quantum register and constructing spin chain Hamiltonians. (v) Partial transposition, matrix realignment and other operations related to the detection of quantum entanglement. (vi) Generating random state vectors, random density matrices and random unitaries.

id: 0709.1023
title: Constraint optimization and landscapes
authors: Florent Krzakala, Jorge Kurchan
comments: Contribution to STATPHYS23
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 64, 563-565 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1023
abstract: We describe an effective landscape introduced in [1] for the analysis of Constraint Satisfaction problems, such as Sphere Packing, K-SAT and Graph Coloring. This geometric construction reexpresses these problems in the more familiar terms of optimization in rugged energy landscapes. In particular, it allows one to understand the puzzling fact that unsophisticated programs are successful well beyond what was considered to be the `hard' transition, and suggests an algorithm defining a new, higher, easy-hard frontier.

id: 0709.1048
title: Generalized squeezing operators, bipartite Wigner functions and entanglement via Wehrl's entropy functionals
authors: Marcelo A. Marchiolli, Diogenes Galetti
comments: 16 pages
journal: Physica Scripta 78 (2008) 045007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1048
abstract: We introduce a new class of unitary transformations based on the su(1,1) Lie algebra that generalizes, for certain particular representations of its generators, well-known squeezing transformations in quantum optics. To illustrate our results, we focus on the two-mode bosonic representation and show how the parametric amplifier model can be modified in order to generate such a generalized squeezing operator. Furthermore, we obtain a general expression for the bipartite Wigner function which allows us to identify two distinct sources of entanglement, here labelled by dynamical and kinematical entanglement. We also establish a quantitative estimate of entanglement for bipartite systems through some basic definitions of entropy functionals in continuous phase-space representations.

id: 0709.1061
title: Fermionic Quasi-free States and Maps in Information Theory
authors: B. Dierckx, M. Fannes, M. Pogorzelska
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 032109 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1061
abstract: This paper and the results therein are geared towards building a basic toolbox for calculations in quantum information theory of quasi-free fermionic systems. Various entropy and relative entropy measures are discussed and the calculation of these reduced to evaluating functions on the one-particle component of quasi-free states. The set of quasi-free affine maps on the state space is determined and fully characterized in terms of operations on one-particle subspaces. For a subclass of trace preserving completely positive maps and for their duals, Choi matrices and Jamiolkowski states are discussed.

id: 0709.1096
title: Remarks on Our Understanding of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Elias P. Gyftopoulos
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1096
abstract: Interpretations of key concepts, such as uncertainty relations, kinetic energy, value of an observable, probability distributions, the projection or collapse of a wave function postulate, and discrete versus continuous values, that appear in several excellent textbooks on quantum mechanics are reviewed and found not to be consistent with our current understanding of quantum theory. Possible alternatives are suggested.

id: 0709.1101
title: Surprises in the suddenly-expanded infinite well
authors: Claude Aslangul
comments: 24 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1101
abstract: I study the time-evolution of a particle prepared in the ground state of an infinite well after the latter is suddenly expanded. It turns out that the probability density $|\Psi(x, t)|^{2}$ shows up quite a surprising behaviour: for definite times, {\it plateaux} appear for which $|\Psi(x, t)|^{2}$ is constant on finite intervals for $x$. Elements of theoretical explanation are given by analyzing the singular component of the second derivative $\partial_{xx}\Psi(x, t)$. Analytical closed expressions are obtained for some specific times, which easily allow to show that, at these times, the density organizes itself into regular patterns provided the size of the box in large enough; more, above some critical time-dependent size, the density patterns are independent of the expansion parameter. It is seen how the density at these times simply results from a construction game with definite rules acting on the pieces of the initial density.

id: 0709.1105
title: Classification of nonproduct states with maximum stabilizer dimension
authors: David W. Lyons, Scott N. Walck, Stephanie A. Blanda
comments: 6 pages, version 3 has a typographical correction in the displayed equation just after numbered equation (2), and other minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022309 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1105
abstract: Nonproduct n-qubit pure states with maximum dimensional stabilizer subgroups of the group of local unitary transformations are precisely the generalized n-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states and their local unitary equivalents, for n greater than or equal to 3 but not equal to 4. We characterize the Lie algebra of the stabilizer subgroup for these states. For n=4, there is an additional maximal stabilizer subalgebra, not local unitary equivalent to the former. We give a canonical form for states with this stabilizer as well.

id: 0709.1142
title: Quantum expanders from any classical Cayley graph expander
authors: Aram W. Harrow
comments: 5 pages, constant gap. v2. Removed mistaken claim about QSZK. Added references including arXiv:0710.0651
journal: Q. Inf. Comp., vol. 8, no. 8/9, pp. 715-721, 2008.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1142
abstract: We give a simple recipe for translating walks on Cayley graphs of a group G into a quantum operation on any irrep of G. Most properties of the classical walk carry over to the quantum operation: degree becomes the number of Kraus operators, the spectral gap becomes the gap of the quantum operation (viewed as a linear map on density matrices), and the quantum operation is efficient whenever the classical walk and the quantum Fourier transform on G are efficient. This means that using classical constant-degree constant-gap families of Cayley expander graphs on e.g. the symmetric group, we can construct efficient families of quantum expanders.

id: 0709.1149
title: Representing probabilistic data via ontological models
authors: Nicholas Harrigan, Terry Rudolph, Scott Aaronson
comments: Replaces previous paper of the same name with substantial new content. New author added and almost all previous open problems answered
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1149
abstract: Ontological models are attempts to quantitatively describe the results of a probabilistic theory, such as Quantum Mechanics, in a framework exhibiting an explicit realism-based underpinning. Unlike either the well known quasi-probability representations, or the "r-p" vector formalism, these models are contextual and by definition only involve positive probability distributions (and indicator functions). In this article we study how the ontological model formalism can be used to describe arbitrary statistics of a system subjected to a finite set of preparations and measurements. We present three models which can describe any such empirical data and then discuss how to turn an indeterministic model into a deterministic one. This raises the issue of how such models manifest contextuality, and we provide an explicit example to demonstrate this. In the second half of the paper we consider the issue of finding ontological models with as few ontic states as possible.

id: 0709.1210
title: Hermitian conjugate measurement
authors: Hiroaki Terashima, Masahito Ueda
comments: 26 pages, 4 figures; a paragraph is added in the introduction
journal: Phys.Rev. A81 (2010) 012110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1210
abstract: We propose a new class of probabilistic reversing operations on the state of a system that was disturbed by a weak measurement. It can approximately recover the original state from the disturbed state especially with an additional information gain using the Hermitian conjugate of the measurement operator. We illustrate the general scheme by considering a quantum measurement consisting of spin systems with an experimentally feasible interaction and show that the reversing operation simultaneously increases both the fidelity to the original state and the information gain with such a high probability of success that their average values increase simultaneously.

id: 0709.1212
title: Distinctive features in the quantum sub-dynamics of bipartite systems
authors: A. K. Rajagopal, A. R. Usha Devi, R. W. Rendell, Michael Steiner
comments: 4 pages, 1 ps figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1212
abstract: Distinctive features in the sub-dynamics of an interacting bipartite system are explored. The sub-dynamic Heisenberg operators are introduced in a novel way leading to the quasi-particle-like concept in the respective subsystems. This formulation is illustrated using the known exact solutions of the generic (Jaynes - Cummings) model of interacting bipartite system of a spin 1/2 particle and a single mode electromagnetic field (more generally, boson field). The striking effects of interaction and entanglement are reflected in the dressing of the non-interacting number and spin representations, displaying quasi-particle-like properties. This development may be at the heart of the physics of back - action discussed in the recent literature.

id: 0709.1242
title: Noise from metallic surfaces -- effects of charge diffusion
authors: Carsten Henkel, Baruch Horovitz
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures. Revised version focusing on charge diffusing and anomalous heating
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1242
abstract: Non-local electrodynamic models are developed for describing metallic surfaces for a diffusive metal. The electric field noise at a distance z_0 from the surface is evaluated and compared with data from ion chips that show anomalous heating with a noise power decaying as z_0^{-4}. We find that high surface diffusion can account for the latter result.

id: 0709.1266
title: The LU-LC conjecture is false
authors: Zhengfeng Ji, Jianxin Chen, Zhaohui Wei, Mingsheng Ying
comments: Added a new part explaining how the counterexamples are found
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput., Vol. 10, No. 1&2, 97-108, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1266
abstract: The LU-LC conjecture is an important open problem concerning the structure of entanglement of states described in the stabilizer formalism. It states that two local unitary equivalent stabilizer states are also local Clifford equivalent. If this conjecture were true, the local equivalence of stabilizer states would be extremely easy to characterize. Unfortunately, however, based on the recent progress made by Gross and Van den Nest, we find that the conjecture is false.

id: 0709.1268
title: Tensor-product vs. geometric-product coding
authors: Diederik Aerts, Marek Czachor
comments: 6 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012316 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1268
abstract: Quantum computation is based on tensor products and entangled states. We discuss an alternative to the quantum framework where tensor products are replaced by geometric products and entangled states by multivectors. The resulting theory is analogous to quantum computation but does not involve quantum mechanics. We discuss in detail similarities and differences between the two approaches and illustrate the formulas by explicit geometric objects where multivector versions of the Bell-basis, GHZ, and Hadamard states are visualized by means of colored oriented polylines.

id: 0709.1287
title: Finite size corrections to the blackbody radiation laws
authors: Antonio Miguel Garcia-Garcia
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78 023806 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1287
abstract: We investigate the radiation of a blackbody in a cavity of finite size. For a given geometry, we use semiclassical techniques to obtain explicit expressions of the modified Planck's and Stefan-Boltzmann's blackbody radiation laws as a function of the size and shape of the cavity. We determine the range of parameters (temperature, size and shape of the cavity) for which these effects are accessible to experimental verification. Finally we discuss potential applications of our findings in the physics of the cosmic microwave background and sonoluminescence.

id: 0709.1306
title: Necessary and sufficient condition for Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger diagonal states to be full $N$-partite entangled
authors: Koji Nagata
comments: Journal of the Korean Physical Society, (2008), (accepted for publication)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1306
abstract: Recently, [{arXiv:0810.3134}] is accepted and published. We show that any $N$-qubit state which is diagonal in the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger basis is full $N$-qubit entangled state if and only if no partial transpose of the multiqubit state is positive with respect to any partition.

id: 0709.1313
title: Entanglement of Uniformly Accelerating Schrodinger, Dirac, and Scalar Particles
authors: W. L. Ku, M.-C. Chu
comments: 23 pages and 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1313
abstract: We study how the entanglement of an entangled pair of particles is affected when one or both of the pair is uniformly accelerated, while the detector remains in an inertial frame. We find that the entanglement is unchanged if all degrees of freedom are considered. However, particle pairs are produced when a relativistic particle is accelerated, and more bipartite systems emerge, the entanglements of some of which may change as the acceleration. In particular, the entanglement of a pair of accelerating fermions is transferred preferentially to the produced antiparticles when the acceleration is large, and the entanglement transfer is complete when the acceleration approaches infinity. However, no such entanglement transfer to the antiparticles is observed for scalar particles.

id: 0709.1321
title: WKB approximation in deformed space with minimal length and minimal momentum
authors: T.V. Fityo, I.O. Vakarchuk, V.M. Tkachuk
comments: 9 pages, the derivation of the main result is extended, typos are corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 045305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1321
abstract: A Bohr-Sommerfeld quantization rule is generalized for the case of the deformed commutation relation leading to minimal uncertainties in both coordinate and momentum operators. The correctness of the rule is verified by comparing obtained results with exact expressions for corresponding spectra.

id: 0709.1335
title: Interference of Spontaneous Emission of Light from two Solid-State Atomic Ensembles
authors: M. Afzelius, M. U. Staudt, H. de. Riedmatten, C. Simon, S. R. Hastings-Simon, R. Ricken, H. Suche, W. Sohler, N. Gisin
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 9 (2007) 413
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1335
abstract: We report an interference experiment of spontaneous emission of light from two distant solid-state ensembles of atoms that are coherently excited by a short laser pulse. The ensembles are Erbium ions doped into two LiNbO3 crystals with channel waveguides, which are placed in the two arms of a Mach-Zehnder interferometer. The light that is spontaneously emitted after the excitation pulse shows first-order interference. By a strong collective enhancement of the emission, the atoms behave as ideal two-level quantum systems and no which-path information is left in the atomic ensembles after emission of a photon. This results in a high fringe visibility of 95%, which implies that the observed spontaneous emission is highly coherent.

id: 0709.1339
title: Control of Quantum Systems Despite Feedback Delay
authors: Kenji Kashima, Naoki Yamamoto
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: IEEE Trans. Automat. Contr. 54-4, 876/881 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1339
abstract: Feedback control (based on the quantum continuous measurement) of quantum systems inevitably suffers from estimation delays. In this paper we give a delay-dependent stability criterion for a wide class of nonlinear stochastic systems including quantum spin systems. We utilize a semi-algebraic problem approach to incorporate the structure of density matrices. To show the effectiveness of the result, we derive a globally stabilizing control law for a quantum spin-1/2 systems in the face of feedback delays.

id: 0709.1342
title: Electro-optic control of atom-light interactions using Rydberg dark-state polaritons
authors: M. G. Bason, A. K. Mohapatra, K. J. Weatherill, C. S. Adams
comments: 4 pages. 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 77, 032305 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1342
abstract: We demonstrate a multiphoton Rydberg dark resonance where a Lambda-system is coupled to a Rydberg state. This N-type level scheme combines the ability to slow and store light pulses associated with long lived ground state superpositions, with the strongly interacting character of Rydberg states. For the nd_{5/2} Rydberg state in 87Rb (with n=26 or 44) and a beam size of 1 mm we observe a resonance linewidth of less than 100 kHz in a room temperature atomic ensemble limited by transit-time broadening. The resonance is switchable with an electric field of order 1 V/cm. We show that, even when photons with different wavevectors are involved, the resonance can be Doppler-free. Applications in electro-optic switching and photonic phase gates are discussed.

id: 0709.1352
title: Quantum Phase Transitions of Light in the Dicke-Bose-Hubbard model
authors: Soi-Chan Lei, Ray-Kuang Lee
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1352
abstract: We extend the idea of quantum phase transitions of light in atom-photon system with Dicke-Bose-Hubbard model for arbitrary number of two-level atoms. The formulations of eigenenergies, effective Rabi frequencies, and critical chemical potentials for two atoms are derived. With a self-consistent method, we obtain a complete phase diagram for two two-level atoms on resonance, which indicates the transition from Mott insulator to superfluidity and with a mean excitations diagram for confirmation. We illustrate the generality of the method by constructing the dressed-state basis for arbitrary number of two-level atoms. In addition, we show that the Mott insulator lobes in the phase diagrams will smash out with the increase of atom numbers. The results of this work provide a step for studying the effects with combinations of Dicke-like and Hubbard-like models to simulate strongly correlated electron systems using photons.

id: 0709.1376
title: Time-reversal properties in the coupling of quantum angular momenta
authors: Gavriel Segre
comments: Version 3: corrected a trivial typing mistake in the footnote 3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1376
abstract: After a synoptic panorama about some still unsolved foundational problems involving time-reversal, we show that the \emph{double time-reversal superselection rule} of Nonrelativistic Quantum Mechanics is redundant. We then analyze which, among the symmetries of the Clebsch-Gordan coefficients, may be inferred through time-reversal considerations. Finally, we show how Coupling Theory allows to improve our comprehension of the fact that, in presence of hidden symmetries, Wigner's Theorem concerning Kramers degeneration cannot be applied, by analyzing a set of Z uncoupled massive particles, both in the case in which they are bosons of spin zero and in the case in which they are fermions of spin 1/2, subjected to a Keplerian force's field and considering the coupling of the 2Z quantum angular momenta resulting by the hidden SO(4) symmetry owed to the fact that, apart from the rotational SO(3) symmetry responsible of the conservation of the angular momentum, the Laplace-Runge-Lenz vector is also conserved.

id: 0709.1424
title: Gauss sum factorization with cold atoms
authors: M. Gilowski, T. Wendrich, T. M¨¹ller, Ch. Jentsch, W. Ertmer, E. M. Rasel, W. P. Schleich
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1424
abstract: We report the first implementation of a Gauss sum factorization algorithm by an internal state Ramsey interferometer using cold atoms. A sequence of appropriately designed light pulses interacts with an ensemble of cold rubidium atoms. The final population in the involved atomic levels determines a Gauss sum. With this technique we factor the number N=263193.

id: 0709.1438
title: Improved bounds in entropic uncertainty relations
authors: Julio I. de Vicente, Jorge S¨¢nchez-Ruiz
comments: 11 pages, 1 Postscript figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042110 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1438
abstract: Entropic uncertainty relations place nontrivial lower bounds to the sum of Shannon information entropies for noncommuting observables. Here we obtain a novel lower bound on the entropy sum for general pairs of observables in finite-dimensional Hilbert space, which improves on the best bound known to date [Maassen and Uffink, Phys. Rev. Lett. 60, 1103 (1988)] for a wide class of observables. This result follows from another formulation of the uncertainty principle, the Landau-Pollak inequality, whose relationship to the Maassen-Uffink entropic uncertainty relation is discussed.

id: 0709.1449
title: Supervised secure entanglement sharing for faithful quantum teleportation via tripartite W states
authors: Yue Li, Yu Liu
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, revised the detection mode and security analysis, added one successful eavesdropping rate plot in Fig. 3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1449
abstract: We present a supervised secure entanglement sharing protocol via tripartite W states for faithful quantum teleportation. By guaranteeing a secure entanglement distribution in the charge of a third believed supervisor, quantum information of an unknown state of a 2-level particle can be faithfully teleported from the sender to the remote receiver via the Bell states distilled from the tripartite W states. We emphasize that reliable teleportation after our protocol between two communication parties depends on the agreement of the supervisor to cooperate via taking the W states as both the quantum channel and eavesdropping detector. The security against typical individual eavesdropping attacks is proved and its experimental feasibility is briefly illustrated.

id: 0709.1478
title: Efficient one- and two-qubit pulsed gates for an oscillator stabilized Josephson qubit
authors: Frederico Brito, David P. DiVincenzo, Roger H. Koch, Matthias Steffen
comments: Published version. Added references. Corrected minor typos. Added discussion on how the influence of 1/f noise is modeled. 36 pages, 11 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 033027
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1478
abstract: We present theoretical schemes for performing high-fidelity one- and two-qubit pulsed gates for a superconducting flux qubit. The "IBM qubit" consists of three Josephson junctions, three loops, and a superconducting transmission line. Assuming a fixed inductive qubit-qubit coupling, we show that the effective qubit-qubit interaction is tunable by changing the applied fluxes, and can be made negligible, allowing one to perform high fidelity single qubit gates. Our schemes are tailored to alleviate errors due to 1/f noise; we find gates with only 1% loss of fidelity due to this source, for pulse times in the range of 20-30ns for one-qubit gates (Z rotations, Hadamard), and 60ns for a two-qubit gate (controlled-Z). Our relaxation and dephasing time estimates indicate a comparable loss of fidelity from this source. The control of leakage plays an important role in the design of our shaped pulses, preventing shorter pulse times. However, we have found that imprecision in the control of the quantum phase plays the major role in the limitation of the fidelity of our gates.

id: 0709.1493
title: Marginal and density atomic Wehrl entropies for the Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, this is the final version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 035303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1493
abstract: In this paper, we develop the notion of the marginal and density atomic Wehrl entropies for two-level atom interacting with the single mode field, i.e. Jaynes-Cummings model. For this system we show that there are relationships between these quantities and both of the information entropies and the von Neumann entropy.

id: 0709.1518
title: Scaling Properties of Fidelity in Spin-one Anisotropic Model
authors: Yu-Chin Tzeng, Min-Fong Yang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012311 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1518
abstract: By means of the density matrix renormalization group technique, the scaling relation of the fidelity susceptibility proposed recently is verified for the spin-one XXZ spin chain with an on-site anisotropic term. Moreover, from the results of both the fidelity susceptibility and the entanglement entropy, the critical points and some of the corresponding critical exponents are determined through a proper finite-size scaling analysis, and these values agree with the findings in the literature. Thus our work provides a numerical support of the use of the fidelity in detecting quantum phase transitions.

id: 0709.1533
title: Bright continuous-variable entanglement from the quantum optical dimer
authors: M.J. Mallon, M.D. Reid, M.K. Olsen
comments: 19 pages, 13 figures, theoretical
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1533
abstract: We show theoretically that two evanescently coupled $\chi^{(2)}$ second harmonic generators inside a Fabry-Perot cavity provide a tunable source of quadrature squeezed light, Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations and quantum entanglement. Unlike systems using coupled downconverters, second harmonic generation has no oscillation threshhold, so that the entangled fields become macroscopically occupied as soon as the pumping fields are turned on. This system also gives two frequencies at which the entangled fields can have macroscopic intensity. We show how the entanglement properties can be controlled by adjusting the pumping, the coupling strengths and the cavity detunings.

id: 0709.1592
title: Combined Electric and Magnetic Aharonov-Bohm Effects
authors: Samuel Marcovitch, Yakir Aharonov, Tirza Kaufferr, Benni Reznik
comments: 6 figures
journal: Am. J. Phy. 75, pp. 1141-1146 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1592
abstract: It is well-known that the electric and magnetic Aharonov-Bohm effects may be formally described on equal footing using the four-vector potential in a relativistic framework. We propose an illustrative manifestation of both effects in a single configuration, in which the specific path of the charged particle determines the weight of the electric and magnetic acquired relative phases. The phases can be distinctively obtained in the Coulomb gauge. The scheme manifests the pedagogical lesson that though each of the relative phases is gauge-dependent their sum is gauge-invariant.

id: 0709.1602
title: Is Communication Complexity Physical?
authors: Samuel Marcovitch, Benni Reznik
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032120 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1602
abstract: Recently, Brassard et. al. conjectured that the fact that the maximal possible correlations between two non-local parties are the quantum-mechanical ones is linked to a reasonable restriction on communication complexity. We provide further support for the conjecture in the multipartite case. We show that any multipartite communication complexity problem could be reduced to triviality, had Nature been more non-local than quantum-mechanics by a quite small gap for any number of parties. Intriguingly, the multipartite nonlocal-box that we use to show the result corresponds to the generalized Bell inequality that manifests maximal violation in respect to a local hidden-variable theory.

id: 0709.1614
title: Cavity losses for the dissipative Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian beyond Rotating Wave Approximation
authors: M. Scala, B. Militello, A. Messina, S. Maniscalco, J. Piilo, K.-A. Suominen
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 14527-14536
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1614
abstract: A microscopic derivation of the master equation for the Jaynes-Cummings model with cavity losses is given, taking into account the terms in the dissipator which vary with frequencies of the order of the vacuum Rabi frequency. Our approach allows to single out physical contexts wherein the usual phenomenological dissipator turns out to be fully justified and constitutes an extension of our previous analysis [Scala M. {\em et al.} 2007 Phys. Rev. A {\bf 75}, 013811], where a microscopic derivation was given in the framework of the Rotating Wave Approximation.

id: 0709.1651
title: Local distinguishability of orthogonal 2\otimes3 pure states
authors: Yu Xin, Runyao Duan
comments: 10 pages (revtex4), no figures. This is only a draft. It will be replaced with a revised version soon. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys.Rev.A 77, 012315 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1651
abstract: We present a complete characterization for the local distinguishability of orthogonal $2\otimes 3$ pure states except for some special cases of three states. Interestingly, we find there is a large class of four or three states that are indistinguishable by local projective measurements and classical communication (LPCC) can be perfectly distinguishable by LOCC. That indicates the ability of LOCC for discriminating $2\otimes 3$ states is strictly more powerful than that of LPCC, which is strikingly different from the case of multi-qubit states. We also show that classical communication plays a crucial role for local distinguishability by constructing a class of $m\otimes n$ states which require at least $2\min\{m,n\}-2$ rounds of classical communication in order to achieve a perfect local discrimination.

id: 0709.1662
title: Teleportation of qubit states through dissipative channels: Conditions for surpassing the no-cloning limit
authors: Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Karol Bartkiewicz, Yu-xi Liu, Adam Miranowicz
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042325 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1662
abstract: We investigate quantum teleportation through dissipative channels and calculate teleportation fidelity as a function of damping rates. It is found that the average fidelity of teleportation and the range of states to be teleported depend on the type and rate of the damping in the channel. Using the fully entangled fraction, we derive two bounds on the damping rates of the channels: one is to beat the classical limit and the second is to guarantee the non-existence of any other copy with better fidelity. Effect of the initially distributed maximally entangled state on the process is presented; and the concurrence and the fully entangled fraction of the shared states are discussed. We intend to show that prior information on the dissipative channel and the range of qubit states to be teleported is helpful for the evaluation of the success of teleportation, where success is defined as surpassing the fidelity limit imposed by the fidelity of 1-to-2 optimal cloning machine for the specific range of qubits.

id: 0709.1675
title: Indirect control of the asymptotic states of a quantum dynamical semigroup
authors: Raffaele Romano
comments: Contribution to the III IEEE International Conference PhysCon2007 - Potsdam (Germany), 3-7 September 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1675
abstract: In the dynamics of open quantum systems, the interaction with the external environment usually leads to a contraction of the set of reachable states for the system as time increases, eventually shrinking to a single stationary point. In this contribution we describe to what extent it is possible to modify this asymptotic state by means of indirect control, that is by using an auxiliary system coupled to the target system in order to affect its dynamics, when there is a purely dissipative coupling between the two systems. We prove that, also in this restrictive case, it is possible to modify the asymptotic state of the relevant system, give necessary conditions for that and provide physical examples. Therefore, in indirect control schemes, the environmental action has not only a negative impact on the dynamics of a system, it is rather possible to make use of it for control purposes.

id: 0709.1682
title: Quantum risk-sensitive estimation and robustness
authors: Naoki Yamamoto, Luc Bouten
comments: 24 pages
journal: IEEE Trans. Automat. Control 54 (2009) 92-107
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1682
abstract: This paper studies a quantum risk-sensitive estimation problem and investigates robustness properties of the filter. This is a direct extension to the quantum case of analogous classical results. All investigations are based on a discrete approximation model of the quantum system under consideration. This allows us to study the problem in a simple mathematical setting. We close the paper with some examples that demonstrate the robustness of the risk-sensitive estimator.

id: 0709.1704
title: Quantum simulation of the single-particle Schrodinger equation
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Giuliano Strini
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, added remarks and references
journal: Am. J. Phys. 76 (2008) 657-663
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1704
abstract: The working of a quantum computer is described in the concrete example of a quantum simulator of the single-particle Schrodinger equation. We show that a register of 6-10 qubits is sufficient to realize a useful quantum simulator capable of solving in an efficient way standard quantum mechanical problems.

id: 0709.1729
title: Phase transition of computational power in the resource states for one-way quantum computation
authors: Daniel E. Browne, Matthew B. Elliott, Steven T. Flammia, Seth T. Merkel, Akimasa Miyake, Anthony J. Short
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures, and a Michelangelo quote. published version: some improvements in presentation following referee comments
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 023010 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1729
abstract: We study how heralded qubit losses during the preparation of a two-dimensional cluster state, a universal resource state for one-way quantum computation, affect its computational power. Above the percolation threshold we present a polynomial-time algorithm that concentrates a universal cluster state, using resources that scale optimally in the size of the original lattice. On the other hand, below the percolation threshold, we show that single qubit measurements on the faulty lattice can be efficiently simulated classically. We observe a phase transition at the threshold when the amount of entanglement in the faulty lattice directly relevant to the computational power changes exponentially.

id: 0709.1756
title: Physical Meaning of Hermiticity and Shortcomings of the Composite (Hermitian + non-Hermitian) Quantum Theory of Gunther and Samsonov
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1756
abstract: In arXiv:0709.0483 Gunther and Samsonov outline a ``generalization'' of quantum mechanics that involves simultaneous consideration of Hermitian and non-Hermitian operators and promises to be ``capable to produce effects beyond those of standard Hermitian quantum mechanics.'' We give a simple physical interpretation of Hermiticity and discuss in detail the shortcomings of the above-mentioned composite quantum theory. In particular, we show that the corresponding ``generalization of measurement theory'' suffers from a dynamical inconsistency and that it is by no means adequate to replace the standard measurement theory.

id: 0709.1780
title: Graphical Quantum Error-Correcting Codes
authors: Sixia Yu, Qing Chen, C.H. Oh
comments: 7 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1780
abstract: We introduce a purely graph-theoretical object, namely the coding clique, to construct quantum errorcorrecting codes. Almost all quantum codes constructed so far are stabilizer (additive) codes and the construction of nonadditive codes, which are potentially more efficient, is not as well understood as that of stabilizer codes. Our graphical approach provides a unified and classical way to construct both stabilizer and nonadditive codes. In particular we have explicitly constructed the optimal ((10,24,3)) code and a family of 1-error detecting nonadditive codes with the highest encoding rate so far. In the case of stabilizer codes a thorough search becomes tangible and we have classified all the extremal stabilizer codes up to 8 qubits.

id: 0709.1785
title: Storage and Retrieval of a Squeezed Vacuum
authors: Kazuhito Honda, Daisuke Akamatsu, Manabu Arikawa, Yoshihiko Yokoi, Keiichirou Akiba, Satoshi Nagatsuka, Takahito Tanimura, Akira Furusawa, Mikio Kozuma
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 093601 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1785
abstract: Storage and retrieval of a squeezed vacuum was successfully demonstrated using electromagnetically induced transparency. 930ns of the squeezed vacuum pulse was incident on the laser cooled 87Rb atoms with an intense control light in a coherent state. When the squeezed vacuum pulse was slowed and spatially compressed in the cold atoms, the control light was switched off. After 3us of storage, the control light was switched on again and the squeezed vacuum was retrieved, as was confirmed using the time-domain homodyne method.

id: 0709.1810
title: Shaping the waveform of entangled photons
authors: Alejandra Valencia, Alessandro Cer¨¨, Xiaojuan Shi, Gabriel Molina-Terriza, Juan P. Torres
comments: 5 Pages, 4 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1810
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally the tunable control of the joint spectrum, i.e. waveform and degree of frequency correlations, of paired photons generated in spontaneous parametric downconversion. This control is mediated by the spatial shape of the pump beam in a type-I noncollinear configuration. We discuss the applicability of this technique to other sources of frequency entangled photons, such as electromagnetically induced Raman transitions.

id: 0709.1882
title: Waves, analytical signals, and some postulates of quantum theory
authors: Miguel A. Muriel, F. Javier Fraile-Pelaez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1882
abstract: In this paper we apply the formalism of the analytical signal theory to the Schrodinger wavefunction. Making use exclusively of the wave-particle duality and the principle of relativistic covariance, we actually derive the form of the quantum energy and momentum operators for a single nonrelativistic particle. Without using any more quantum postulates, and employing the formalism of the characteristic function, we also derive the quantum-mechanical prescription for the measurement probability in such cases.

id: 0709.1956
title: Symmetry breaking effects upon bipartite and multipartite entanglement in the XY model
authors: Thiago R. de Oliveira, Gustavo Rigolin, Marcos C. de Oliveira, E. Miranda
comments: 13 pages, 19 figures, comments welcome. V2: small changes, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032325 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1956
abstract: We analyze the bipartite and multipartite entanglement for the ground state of the one-dimensional XY model in a transverse magnetic field in the thermodynamical limit. We explicitly take into account the spontaneous symmetry breaking in order to explore the relation between entanglement and quantum phase transitions. As a result we show that while both bipartite and multipartite entanglement can be enhanced by spontaneous symmetry breaking deep into the ferromagnetic phase, only the latter is affected by it in the vicinity of the critical point. This result adds to the evidence that multipartite, and not bipartite, entanglement is the fundamental indicator of long range correlations in quantum phase transitions.

id: 0709.1958
title: Bloch-Siegert shift for multiphoton resonances
authors: Peter L. Hagelstein, Irfan U. Chaudhary
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1958
abstract: Recently there has been theoretical and experimental interest in Bloch-Siegert shifts in an intense photon field. A perturbative treatment becomes difficult in this multiphoton regime. We present a unitary transform and rotated model, which allows us to get accurate results away from the level anticrossings. A simple variational energy estimate leads to a new expression for the dressed two-level system energy which is accurate, and useful over a wide range of the dimensionless coupling constant.

id: 0709.1961
title: Level Splitting in Association with the Multiphoton Bloch-Siegert Shift
authors: Peter L. Hagelstein, Irfan U. Chaudhary
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1961
abstract: We present a unitary equivalent spin-boson Hamiltonian in which terms can be identified which contribute to the Bloch-Siegert shift, and to the level splittings at the anticrossings associated with the Bloch-Siegert resonances. First-order degenerate perturbation theory is used to develop approximate results in the case of moderate coupling for the level splitting.

id: 0709.1982
title: Entanglement detection via condition of quantum correlation
authors: Che-Ming Li, Li-Yi Hsu, Yueh-Nan Chen, Der-San Chuu, Tobias Brandes
comments: 
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 76, 032313 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1982
abstract: We develop a novel necessary condition of quantum correlation. It is utilized to construct $d$-level bipartite Bell-type inequality which is strongly resistant to noise and requires only analyses of $O(d)$ measurement outcomes compared to the previous result $O(d^{2})$. Remarkably, a connection between the arbitrary high-dimensional bipartite Bell-type inequality and entanglement witnesses is found. Through the necessary condition of quantum correlation, we propose that the witness operators to detect truly multipartite entanglement for a generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state with two local measurement settings and a four-qubit singlet state with three settings. Moreover, we also propose the first robust entanglement witness to detect four-level tripartite GHZ state with only two local measurement settings.

id: 0709.1986
title: Quantum phase transition using quantum walks in an optical lattice
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022314 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1986
abstract: We present an approach using quantum walks (QWs) to redistribute ultracold atoms in an optical lattice. Different density profiles of atoms can be obtained by exploiting the controllable properties of QWs, such as the variance and the probability distribution in position space using quantum coin parameters and engineered noise. The QW evolves the density profile of atoms in a superposition of position space resulting in a quadratic speedup of the process of quantum phase transition. We also discuss implementation in presently available setups of ultracold atoms in optical lattices.

id: 0709.1997
title: Convergent Iterative Solutions of Schroedinger Equation for a Generalized Double Well Potential
authors: R. Friedberg, T. D. Lee, W. Q. Zhao
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1997
abstract: We present an explicit convergent iterative solution for the lowest energy state of the Schroedinger equation with a generalized double well potential $V=\frac{g^2}{2}(x^2-1)^2(x^2+a)$. The condition for the convergence of the iteration procedure and the dependence of the shape of the groundstate wave function on the parameter $a$ are discussed.

id: 0709.2011
title: Highly non-Gaussian states created via cross-Kerr nonlinearity
authors: Tomas Tyc, Natalia Korolkova
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 023041 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2011
abstract: We propose a feasible scheme for generation of strongly non-Gaussian states using the cross-Kerr nonlinearity. The resultant states are highly non-classical states of electromagnetic field and exhibit negativity of their Wigner function, sub-Poissonian photon statistics, and amplitude squeezing. Furthermore, the Wigner function has a distinctly pronounced ``banana'' or ``crescent'' shape specific for the Kerr-type interactions, which so far was not demonstrated experimentally. We show that creating and detecting such states should be possible with the present technology using electromagnetically induced transparency in a four-level atomic system in N-configuration.

id: 0709.2038
title: Nodal points and the transition from ordered to chaotic Bohmian trajectories
authors: Christos Efthymiopoulos, Constantinos Kalapotharakos, George Contopoulos
comments: 32 pages, 13 figures, Accepted for publication in Journal of Physics A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2038
abstract: We explore the transition from order to chaos for the Bohmian trajectories of a simple quantum system corresponding to the superposition of three stationary states in a 2D harmonic well with incommensurable frequencies. We study in particular the role of nodal points in the transition to chaos. Our main findings are: a) A proof of the existence of bounded domains in configuration space which are devoid of nodal points, b) An analytical construction of formal series representing regular orbits in the central domain as well as a numerical investigation of its limits of applicability. c) A detailed exploration of the phase-space structure near the nodal point. In this exploration we use an adiabatic approximation and we draw the flow chart in a moving frame of reference centered at the nodal point. We demonstrate the existence of a saddle point (called X-point) in the vicinity of the nodal point which plays a key role in the manifestation of exponential sensitivity of the orbits. One of the invariant manifolds of the X-point continues as a spiral terminating at the nodal point. We find cases of Hopf bifurcation at the nodal point and explore the associated phase space structure of the nodal point - X-point complex. We finally demonstrate the mechanism by which this complex generates chaos. Numerical examples of this mechanism are given for particular chaotic orbits, and a comparison is made with previous related works in the literature.

id: 0709.2047
title: Perturbational approach to the quantum capacity of additive Gaussian quantum channel
authors: Xiao-yu Chen
comments: 5 pages
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42 (2009) 075502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2047
abstract: For a quantum channel with additive Gaussian quantum noise, at the large input energy side, we prove that the one shot capacity is achieved by the thermal noise state for all Gaussian state inputs, it is also true for non-Gaussian input in the sense of first order perturbation. For a general case of $n$ copies input, we show that up to first order perturbation, any non-Gaussian perturbation to the product thermal state input has a less quantum information transmission rate when the input energy tend to infinitive.

id: 0709.2090
title: On the Complexity of Computing Zero-Error and Holevo Capacity of Quantum Channels
authors: Salman Beigi, Peter W. Shor
comments: 19 pages, no figure, minor error fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2090
abstract: One of the main problems in quantum complexity theory is that our understanding of the theory of QMA-completeness is not as rich as its classical analogue, the NP- completeness. In this paper we consider the clique problem in graphs, which is NP- complete, and try to find its quantum analogue. We show that, quantum clique problem can be defined as follows; Given a quantum channel, decide whether there are k states that are distinguishable, with no error, after passing through channel. This definition comes from reconsidering the clique problem in terms of the zero-error capacity of graphs, and then redefining it in quantum information theory. We prove that, quantum clique problem is QMA-complete. In the second part of paper, we consider the same problem for the Holevo capacity. We prove that computing the Holevo capacity as well as the minimum entropy of a quantum channel is NP-complete. Also, we show these results hold even if the set of quantum channels is restricted to entanglement breaking ones.

id: 0709.2095
title: Probing quantum vacuum geometrical effects with cold atoms
authors: Diego A. R. Dalvit, Paulo A. Maia Neto, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 040405 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2095
abstract: The lateral Casimir-Polder force between an atom and a corrugated surface should allow one to study experimentally non trivial geometrical effects in quantum vacuum. Here, we derive the theoretical expression of this force in a scattering approach that accounts for the optical properties of the corrugated surface. We show that large corrections to the ``proximity force approximation'' could be measured using present-day technology with a Bose-Einstein condensate used as a vacuum field sensor.

id: 0709.2103
title: Dipole-dipole interaction between orthogonal dipole moments in time-dependent geometries
authors: S. I. Schmid, J. Evers
comments: 11 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 013822 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2103
abstract: In two nearby atoms, the dipole-dipole interaction can couple transitions with orthogonal dipole moments. This orthogonal coupling accounts for a number of interesting effects, but strongly depends on the geometry of the setup. Here, we discuss several setups of interest where the geometry is not fixed, such as particles in a trap or gases, by averaging over different sets of geometries. Two averaging methods are compared. In the first method, it is assumed that the internal electronic evolution is much faster than the change of geometry, whereas in the second, it is vice versa. We find that the orthogonal coupling typically survives even extensive averaging over different geometries, albeit with qualitatively different results for the two averaging methods. Typically, one- and two-dimensional averaging ranges modelling, e.g., low-dimensional gases, turn out to be the most promising model systems.

id: 0709.2114
title: Bell's theorem as a signature of nonlocality: a classical counterexample
authors: A. Matzkin
comments: Extended manuscript. Significant changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77 062110, 2008 (with the title: Relevance of Bell's theorem as a signature of nonlocality: Case of classical angular momentum distributions)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2114
abstract: For a system composed of two particles Bell's theorem asserts that averages of physical quantities determined from local variables must conform to a family of inequalities. In this work we show that a classical model containing a local probabilistic interaction in the measurement process can lead to a violation of the Bell inequalities. We first introduce two-particle phase-space distributions in classical mechanics constructed to be the analogs of quantum mechanical angular momentum eigenstates. These distributions are then employed in four schemes characterized by different types of detectors measuring the angular momenta. When the model includes an interaction between the detector and the measured particle leading to ensemble dependencies, the relevant Bell inequalities are violated if total angular momentum is required to be conserved. The violation is explained by identifying assumptions made in the derivation of Bell's theorem that are not fulfilled by the model. These assumptions will be argued to be too restrictive to see in the violation of the Bell inequalities a faithful signature of nonlocality.

id: 0709.2116
title: Constructing non-equilibrium statistical ensemble formalism based on Subdynamics
authors: Bi Qiao
comments: 17pages, submitted in Physica A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2116
abstract: In this work, we present a general non-equilibrium ensemble formalism based on the subdynamic equation (SKE). The constructing procedure is to use a similarity transformation between Gibbsian ensemble formalism and the non-equilibrium ensemble formalism. The obtained density distribution is a projected one that can represent essence part of (irreversible) evolution of the density distribution, by which a generalized reduced density distribution for the quantum canonical ensembles is studied and applications in Cayley tree and spin network are discussed.

id: 0709.2132
title: Dynamics of vortices in weakly interacting Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Alexander Klein, Dieter Jaksch, Yanzhi Zhang, Weizhu Bao
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, one reference updated, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 043602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2132
abstract: We study the dynamics of vortices in ideal and weakly interacting Bose-Einstein condensates using a Ritz minimization method to solve the two-dimensional Gross-Pitaevskii equation. For different initial vortex configurations we calculate the trajectories of the vortices. We find conditions under which a vortex-antivortex pair annihilates and is created again. For the case of three vortices we show that at certain times two additional vortices may be created, which move through the condensate and annihilate each other again. For a noninteracting condensate this process is periodic, whereas for small interactions the essential features persist, but the periodicity is lost. The results are compared to exact numerical solutions of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation confirming our analytical findings.

id: 0709.2143
title: Optimized Double-well quantum interferometry with Gaussian squeezed-states
authors: Y. P. Huang, M. G. Moore
comments: updated version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2143
abstract: A Mach-Zender interferometer with a gaussian number-difference squeezed input state can exhibit sub-shot-noise phase resolution over a large phase-interval. We obtain the optimal level of squeezing for a given phase-interval $\Delta\theta_0$ and particle number $N$, with the resulting phase-estimation uncertainty smoothly approaching $3.5/N$ as $\Delta\theta_0$ approaches 10/N, achieved with highly squeezed states near the Fock regime. We then analyze an adaptive measurement scheme which allows any phase on $(-\pi/2,\pi/2)$ to be measured with a precision of $3.5/N$ requiring only a few measurements, even for very large $N$. We obtain an asymptotic scaling law of $\Delta\theta\approx (2.1+3.2\ln(\ln(N_{tot}\tan\Delta\theta_0)))/N_{tot}$, resulting in a final precision of $\approx 10/N_{tot}$. This scheme can be readily implemented in a double-well Bose-Einstein condensate system, as the optimal input states can be obtained by adiabatic manipulation of the double-well ground state.

id: 0709.2144
title: On-demand generation of entanglement of atomic qubits via optical interferometry
authors: Y. P. Huang, M. G. Moore
comments: To be published in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2144
abstract: The problem of on-demand generation of entanglement between single-atom qubits via a common photonic channel is examined within the framework of optical interferometry. As expected, for a Mach-Zehnder interferometer with coherent laser beam as input, a high-finesse optical cavity is required to overcome sensitivity to spontaneous emission. We show, however, that with a twin-Fock input, useful entanglement can in principle be created without cavity-enhancement. Both approaches require single-photon resolving detectors, and best results would be obtained by combining both cavity-feedback and twin-Fock inputs. Such an approach may allow a fidelity of $.99$ using a two-photon input and currently available mirror and detector technology. In addition, we study interferometers based on NOON states and show that they perform similarly to the twin-Fock states, yet without the need for high-precision photo-detectors. The present interferometrical approach can serve as a universal, scalable circuit element for quantum information processing, from which fast quantum gates, deterministic teleportation, entanglement swapping $etc.$, can be realized with the aid of single-qubit operations.

id: 0709.2237
title: An efficient source of continuous variable polarisation entanglement
authors: Ruifang Dong, Joel Heersink, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Oliver Gloeckl, Ulrik L. Andersen, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2237
abstract: We have experimentally demonstrated the efficient creation of highly entangled bipartite continuous variable polarisation states. Exploiting an optimised scheme for the production of squeezing using the Kerr non-linearity of a glass fibre we generated polarisation squeezed pulses with a mean classical excitation in S3. Polarisation entanglement was generated by interfering two independent polarisation squeezed fields on a symmetric beam splitter. The resultant beams exhibit strong quantum noise correlations in the dark S1 - S2 polarisation plane. To verify entanglement generation, we characterised the quantum correlations of the system for two different sets of conjugate Stokes parameters. The quantum correlations along the squeezed and the anti-squeezed Stokes parameters were observed to be -4.1 +/- 0.3 dB and -2.6 +/- 0.3 dB below the shot noise level respectively. The degree of correlations was found to depend critically on the beam splitting ratio of the entangling beam splitter. Carrying out measurements on a different set of conjugate Stokes parameters, correlations of -3.6 +/- 0.3 dB and -3.4 +/- 0.3 dB have been observed. This result is more robust against asymmetries in the entangling beam splitter, even in the presence of excess noise.

id: 0709.2258
title: Quantum memory for squeezed light
authors: Juergen Appel, Eden Figueroa, Dmitry Korystov, M. Lobino, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: To appear in PRL. Changes to version 3: we present a larger data set featuring somewhat less squeezing, but also better statistics and a lower margin of error. Some additional revisions are made in response to the referees' comments
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 093602 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2258
abstract: We produce a 600-ns pulse of 1.86-dB squeezed vacuum at 795 nm in an optical parametric amplifier and store it in a rubidium vapor cell for 1 us using electromagnetically induced transparency. The recovered pulse, analyzed using time-domain homodyne tomography, exhibits up to 0.21+-0.04 dB of squeezing. We identify the factors leading to the degradation of squeezing and investigate the phase evolution of the atomic coherence during the storage interval.

id: 0709.2276
title: Exact results of the quantum phase transition for the topological order
authors: Jing Yu, Su-Peng Kou, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2276
abstract: In this paper a duality between the d=2 Wen-plaquette model in a transverse field and the d=1 Ising model in a transverse field is used to learn the nature of the quantum phase transition (QPT) between a spin-polarized phase and a topological ordered state with the string-net condensation. The QPT is not induced by spontaneous symmetry breaking and there are no conventional Landau-type local order parameters. Instead the string-like non-local order parameters are introduced to describe the QPT. In particular, the duality character between the open-string and closed string for the QPT are explored.

id: 0709.2280
title: Raman-induced limits to efficient squeezing in optical fibers
authors: Ruifang Dong, Joel Heersink, Joel F. Corney, Peter D. Drummond, Ulrik L. Andersen, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2280
abstract: We report new experiments on polarization squeezing using ultrashort photonic pulses in a single pass of a birefringent fiber. We measure what is to our knowledge a record squeezing of -6.8 +/- 0.3 dB in optical fibers which when corrected for linear losses is -10.4 +/- 0.8 dB. The measured polarization squeezing as a function of optical pulse energy, which spans a wide range from 3.5-178.8 pJ, shows a very good agreement with the quantum simulations and for the first time we see the experimental proof that Raman effects limit and reduce squeezing at high pulse energy.

id: 0709.2357
title: Two-spin subsystem entanglement in spin 1/2 rings with long range interactions
authors: M. Gaudiano, O. Osenda, G.A. Raggio
comments: 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2357
abstract: We consider the two-spin subsystem entanglement for eigenstates of the Hamiltonian \[ H= \sum_{1\leq j< k \leq N} (\frac{1}{r_{j,k}})^{\alpha} {\mathbf \sigma}_j\cdot {\mathbf \sigma}_k \] for a ring of $N$ spins 1/2 with asssociated spin vector operator $(\hbar /2){\bf \sigma}_j$ for the $j$-th spin. Here $r_{j,k}$ is the chord-distance betwen sites $j$ and $k$. The case $\alpha =2$ corresponds to the solvable Haldane-Shastry model whose spectrum has very high degeneracies not present for $\alpha \neq 2$. Two spin subsystem entanglement shows high sensistivity and distinguishes $\alpha =2$ from $\alpha \neq 2$. There is no entanglement beyond nearest neighbors for all eigenstates when $\alpha =2$. Whereas for $\alpha \neq 2$ one has selective entanglement at any distance for eigenstates of sufficiently high energy in a certain interval of $\alpha$ which depends on the energy. The ground state (which is a singlet only for even $N$) does not have entanglement beyond nearest neighbors, and the nearest neighbor entanglement is virtually independent of the range of the interaction controlled by $\alpha$.

id: 0709.2409
title: Skein Theory and Topological Quantum Registers: Braiding Matrices and Topological Entanglement Entropy of Non-Abelian Quantum Hall States
authors: Kazuhiro Hikami
comments: 42 pages, many eps files
journal: Annals of Physics 323, 1729-1769 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2409
abstract: We study topological properties of quasi-particle states in the non-Abelian quantum Hall states. We apply a skein-theoretic method to the Read--Rezayi state whose effective theory is the SU(2)_K Chern--Simons theory. As a generalization of the Pfaffian (K=2) and the Fibonacci (K=3) anyon states, we compute the braiding matrices of quasi-particle states with arbitrary spins. Furthermore we propose a method to compute the entanglement entropy skein-theoretically. We find that the entanglement entropy has a nontrivial contribution called the topological entanglement entropy which depends on the quantum dimension of non-Abelian quasi-particle intertwining two subsystems.

id: 0709.2425
title: Detection of acceleration radiation in a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: A. Retzker, J. I. Cirac, M. B. Plenio, B. Reznik
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101 (2008) 110402.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2425
abstract: We propose and study methods for detecting the Unruh effect in a Bose-Einstein condensate. The Bogoliubov vacuum of a Bose-Einstein condensate is used here to simulate a scalar field-theory, and accelerated atom dots or optical lattices as means for detecting phonon radiation due to acceleration effects. We study Unruh's effect for linear acceleration and circular acceleration. In particular, we study the dispersive effects of the Bogoliubov spectrum on the ideal case of exact thermalization. Our results suggest that Unruh's acceleration radiation can be tested using current accessible experimental methods.

id: 0709.2494
title: Exact solution of one class of Maryland model
authors: Tao Ma
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2494
abstract: The Hamiltonian H of one-body Maryland model is defined as the sum of a linear unperturbed Hamiltonian H_0 and the interaction V, which is a Toeplitz matrix. Maryland model with a doubly infinite Hilbert space are exactly solved. Special cases of one-body Maryland model include the original Maryland model (Phys. Rev. Lett. 49, 833 (1982) and Physica 10D, 369 (1984)), which describes a quantum kickied linear rotator and single band Bloch oscillations. Maryland model and single band Bloch oscillations are the same Hamiltonian in two different representations. A special case of many-body Maryland model is Luttinger model.

id: 0709.2524
title: Cheon's anholonomies in Floquet operators
authors: Manabu Miyamoto, Atushi Tanaka
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042115 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2524
abstract: Anholonomies in the parametric dependences of the eigenvalues and the eigenvectors of Floquet operators that describe unit time evolutions of periodically driven systems, e.g., kicked rotors, are studied. First, an example of the anholonomies induced by a periodically pulsed rank-1 perturbation is given. As a function of the strength of the perturbation, the perturbed Floquet operator of the quantum map and its spectrum are shown to have a period. However, we show examples where each eigenvalue does not obey the periodicity of the perturbed Floquet operator and exhibits an anholonomy. Furthermore, this induces another anholonomy in the eigenspaces, i.e., the directions of the eigenvectors, of the Floquet operator. These two anholonomies are previously observed in a family of Hamiltonians [T. Cheon, Phys. Lett. A 248, 285 (1998)] and are different from the phase anholonomy known as geometric phases. Second, the stability of Cheon's anholonomies in periodically driven systems is established by a geometrical analysis of the family of Floquet operators. Accordingly, Cheon's anholonomies are expected to be abundant in systems whose time evolutions are described by Floquet operators. As an application, a design principle for quantum state manipulations along adiabatic passages is explained.

id: 0709.2557
title: Non-relativistic limit in the 2+1 Dirac Oscillator: A Ramsey Interferometry Effect
authors: A. Bermudez, M.A. Martin-Delgado, A. Luis
comments: RevTex4 file, color figures, submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 033832 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2557
abstract: We study the non-relativistic limit of a paradigmatic model in Relativistic Quantum Mechanics, the two-dimensional Dirac oscillator. Remarkably, we find a novel kind of Zitterbewegung which persists in this non-relativistic regime, and leads to an observable deformation of the particle orbit. This effect can be interpreted in terms of a Ramsey Interferometric phenomenon, allowing an insightful connection between Relativistic Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Optics. Furthermore, subsequent corrections to the non-relativistic limit, which account for the usual spin-orbit Zitterbewegung, can be neatly understood in terms of a Mach-Zehnder interferometer.

id: 0709.2588
title: Beam Wandering in the Atmosphere: The Effect of Partial Coherence
authors: G.P. Berman, A.A. Chumak, V.N. Gorshkov
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2588
abstract: The effect of a random phase screen on laser beam wander in a turbulent atmosphere is studied theoretically. The method of photon distribution function is used to describe the photon kinetics of both weak and strong turbulence. By bringing together analytical and numerical calculations, we have obtained the variance of beam centroid deflections caused by scattering on turbulent eddies. It is shown that an artificial distortion of the initial coherence of the radiation can be used to decrease the wandering effect. The physical mechanism responsible for this reduction and applicability of our approach are discussed.

id: 0709.2613
title: From Copenhagen to neo-Copenhagen interpretation
authors: Willem M. de Muynck
comments: To be published in the Proceedings of the Conference: Quantum Theory - 4, Reconsideration of Foundations, V\"axj\"o, June 11-16, 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2613
abstract: Positive and negative features of the Copenhagen interpretation are discussed. As positive features can be mentioned its pragmatism and its awareness of the crucial role of measurement. However, the main part of the contribution is devoted to the negative features, to wit, its pragmatism (once again), its confounding of preparation and measurement, its classical account of measurement, its completeness claims, the ambiguity of its notion of correspondence, its confused notion of complementarity. It is demonstrated how confusions and paradoxes stemming from the negative features of the Copenhagen interpretation can be dealt with in an amended interpretation, to be referred to as `neo-Copenhagen interpretation', in which the role of the measuring instrument is taken seriously by recognizing the quantum mechanical character of its interaction with the microscopic object. The ensuing necessity of extending the notion of a quantum mechanical observable from the Hermitian operator of the standard formalism to the positive operator-valued measure of a generalized formalism is demonstrated to yield a sound mathematical basis for a transition from the Copenhagen contextualistic-realist interpretation to the neo-Copenhagen empiricist one. Applications to the uncertainty relations and to the Bell inequalities are briefly discussed.

id: 0709.2622
title: Decoherence induced by a dynamic spin environment (I): The universal regime
authors: Cecilia Cormick, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022317 (2008) (7 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2622
abstract: This article analyzes the decoherence induced on a single qubit by the interaction with a spin chain with nontrivial internal dynamics (XY-type interactions). The aim of the paper is to study the existence and properties of the so-called universal regime, in which the decoherence time scale becomes independent of the strength of the coupling with the environment. It is shown that although such regime does exist, as previously established by Cucchietti \textit{et al} in {\em Phys. Rev. A}, 75:032337 (2007), it is not a clear signature of a quantum phase transition in the environment. In fact, this kind of universality also exists in the absence of quantum phase transitions. A universal regime can be related to the existence of an energy scale separation between the Hamiltonian of the environment and the one characterizing the system-environment interaction. The results presented also indicate that in the strong coupling regime the quantum phase transition does not produce an enhancement of decoherence (as opposed to what happens in the weak coupling regime).

id: 0709.2623
title: Qudits of composite dimension, mutually unbiased bases and projective ring geometry
authors: Michel Planat, Anne-C¨¦line Baboin
comments: 10 pages (Fast Track communication). Journal of Physics A Mathematical and Theoretical (2008) accepted
journal: Journal of Physics A Mathematical and Theoretical 40 (2007) F1-F8
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2623
abstract: The $d^2$ Pauli operators attached to a composite qudit in dimension $d$ may be mapped to the vectors of the symplectic module $\mathcal{Z}_d^{2}$ ($\mathcal{Z}_d$ the modular ring). As a result, perpendicular vectors correspond to commuting operators, a free cyclic submodule to a maximal commuting set, and disjoint such sets to mutually unbiased bases. For dimensions $d=6,~10,~15,~12$, and 18, the fine structure and the incidence between maximal commuting sets is found to reproduce the projective line over the rings $\mathcal{Z}_{6}$, $\mathcal{Z}_{10}$, $\mathcal{Z}_{15}$, $\mathcal{Z}_6 \times \mathbf{F}_4$ and $\mathcal{Z}_6 \times \mathcal{Z}_3$, respectively.

id: 0709.2636
title: Controlled deflection of cold atomic clouds and of Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Naceur Gaaloul, Laurence Pruvost, Mourad Telmini, Eric Charron
comments: 
journal: European Physical Journal D 53, 3 (2009) 343
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2636
abstract: We present a detailed, realistic proposal and analysis of the implementation of a cold atom deflector using time-dependent far off-resonance optical guides. An analytical model and numerical simulations are used to illustrate its characteristics when applied to both non-degenerate atomic ensembles and to Bose-Einstein condensates. Using for all relevant parameters values that are achieved with present technology, we show that it is possible to deflect almost entirely an ensemble of $^{87}$Rb atoms falling in the gravity field. We discuss the limits of this proposal, and illustrate its robustness against non-adiabatic transitions.

id: 0709.2637
title: Comment on "Berry Phase in a Composite System"
authors: Li Han, Yong Guo
comments: 1 page, 1 figure, submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2637
abstract: We show in this comment that the results obtained in a recent work by Yi et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 150406 (2004)] are quantitatively not correct and the proposed subsystem Berry phase is not well-defined.

id: 0709.2643
title: Decoherence induced by a dynamic spin environment (II): Disentanglement by local system-environment interactions
authors: Cecilia Cormick, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2643
abstract: This article studies the decoherence induced on a system of two qubits by local interactions with a spin chain with nontrivial internal dynamics (governed by an XY Hamiltonian). Special attention is payed to the transition between two limits: one in which both qubits interact with the same site of the chain and another one where they interact with distant sites. The two cases exhibit different behaviours in the weak and strong coupling regimes: when the coupling is weak it is found that decoherence tends to decrease with distance, while for strong coupling the result is the opposite. Also, in the weak coupling case, the long distance limit is rapidly reached, while for strong coupling there is clear evidence of an expected effect: environment-induced interactions between the qubits of the system. A consequence of this is the appearance of quasiperiodic events that can be interpreted as ``sudden deaths'' and ``sudden revivals'' of the entanglement between the qubits, with a time scale related to the distance between them.

id: 0709.2664
title: Reference Frame Fields based on Quantum Theory Representations of Real and Complex Numbers
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: Extensively revised and expanded, title changed. Submitted to Conference proceedings, NSF Conference, Tyler TX, Sept. 2007
journal: Advances in Quantum Computation, K. Mahdavi and D. Koslover, Eds., Contemporary Mathematics Vol. 482, pp125-163, (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Mathematics (math.GM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2664
abstract: A quantum theory representations of real (R) and complex (C) numbers is given that is based on states of single, finite strings of qukits for any base k > 1. Both unary representations and the possibility that qukits with k a prime number are elementary and the rest composite are discussed. Cauchy sequences of qukit string states are defined from the arithmetic properties. The representations of R and C, as equivalence classes of these sequences, differ from classical kit string state representations in two ways: the freedom of choice of basis states, and the fact that each quantum theory representation is part of a mathematical structure that is itself based on the real and complex numbers. These aspects enable the description of 3 dimensional frame fields labeled by different k values, different basis or gauge choices, and different iteration stages. The reference frames in the field are based on each R and C representation where each frame contains representations of all physical theories as mathematical structures based on the R and C representation. Approaches to integrating this with physics are described. It is observed that R and C values of physical quantities, matrix elements, etc. which are viewed in a frame as elementary and featureless, are seen in a parent frame as equivalence classes of Cauchy sequences of qukit string states.

id: 0709.2670
title: Finding Optimal Flows Efficiently
authors: Mehdi Mhalla, Simon Perdrix
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Proc. of 35th ICALP (2008), 857-868
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2670
abstract: Among the models of quantum computation, the One-way Quantum Computer is one of the most promising proposals of physical realization, and opens new perspectives for parallelization by taking advantage of quantum entanglement. Since a one-way quantum computation is based on quantum measurement, which is a fundamentally nondeterministic evolution, a sufficient condition of global determinism has been introduced as the existence of a causal flow in a graph that underlies the computation. A O(n^3)-algorithm has been introduced for finding such a causal flow when the numbers of output and input vertices in the graph are equal, otherwise no polynomial time algorithm was known for deciding whether a graph has a causal flow or not. Our main contribution is to introduce a O(n^2)-algorithm for finding a causal flow, if any, whatever the numbers of input and output vertices are. This answers the open question stated by Danos and Kashefi and by de Beaudrap. Moreover, we prove that our algorithm produces an optimal flow (flow of minimal depth.) Whereas the existence of a causal flow is a sufficient condition for determinism, it is not a necessary condition. A weaker version of the causal flow, called gflow (generalized flow) has been introduced and has been proved to be a necessary and sufficient condition for a family of deterministic computations. Moreover the depth of the quantum computation is upper bounded by the depth of the gflow. However, the existence of a polynomial time algorithm that finds a gflow has been stated as an open question. In this paper we answer this positively with a polynomial time algorithm that outputs an optimal gflow of a given graph and thus finds an optimal correction strategy to the nondeterministic evolution due to measurements.

id: 0709.2685
title: Long time deviation from exponential decay: non-integral power laws
authors: J. Martorell, J. G. Muga, D. W. L. Sprung
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2685
abstract: Quantal systems are predicted to show a change-over from exponential decay to power law decay at very long times. Although most theoretical studies predict integer power-law exponents, recent measurements by Rothe et al. of decay luminescence of organic molecules in solution {Phys. Rev. Lett. 96 (2006) 163601} found non-integer exponents in most cases. We propose a physical mechanism, within the realm of scattering from potentials with long tails, which produces a continuous range of power law exponents. In the tractable case of the repulsive inverse square potential, we demonstrate a simple relation between the strength of the long range tail and the power law exponent. This system is amenable to experimental scrutiny.

id: 0709.2703
title: Disentanglement and decoherence in a pair of qutrits under dephasing noise
authors: Gregg Jaeger, Kevin Ann
comments: 9 pages, submitted to J. Mod. Opt. 01/21/07, accepted 08/14/07 Version 2 corrections: 1) E and D operators in second-to-last paragraph of Sec. 2. 2) matrix elements (8,6) and (9,1) in Eq. 6
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2703
abstract: We relate disentanglement and decoherence rates in a pair of three-level atoms subjected to multi-local and collective pure dephasing noise acting in a preferred basis. The bipartite entanglement decay rate, as bounded from above by the negativity, is found to be greater than or equal to the dephasing-decoherence rates characterized by the decay of off-diagonal elements in the corresponding full density matrix describing the system or the reduced density matrix describing either qutrit, extending previous results for qubit pairs subject to such noise.

id: 0709.2736
title: Comment on "Macroscopic violation of special relativity" by Nimtz and Stahlhofen [arXiv:0708.0681v1]
authors: Herbert G. Winful
comments: This is a comment on a paper posted on the arXiv on August 5, 2007 and reported in the New Scientist on August 18, 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2736
abstract: A recent paper by G. Nimtz and A. A. Stahlhofen [arXiv:0708.0681v1] makes the following claims: (1) that the authors have observed a macroscopic violation of special relativity, (2) that they have demonstrated quantum mechanical behavior of evanescent modes on a meter-length scale, and (3) that barriers are crossed in zero time, implying superluminal (faster than light), and indeed, infinite tunneling velocity. Here I suggest that all these claims are erroneous and are based on a misinterpretation of a purely classical measurement accurately described by Maxwell's equations.

id: 0709.2747
title: Spin squeezing and maximal-squeezing time
authors: Guang-Ri Jin, Sang Wook Kim
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, 1 table. Resubmitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A76, 043621(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2747
abstract: Spin squeezing of a nonlinear interaction model with Josephson-like coupling is studied to obtain time scale of maximal squeezing. Based upon two exactly solvable cases for two and three particles, we find that the maximal-squeezing time depends on the level spacing between the ground state and its next neighbor eigenstate.

id: 0709.2749
title: Single Atoms on an Optical Nanofiber
authors: K. P. Nayak, K. Hakuta
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2749
abstract: We show that single-atoms can be trapped on the surface of a subwavelength-diameter silica-fiber, an optical nanofiber, without any external field, and that single photons spontaneously emitted from the atoms can be readily detected through the single guided-mode of the nanofiber. A key point of the work is our finding that atom trapping sites are created on the nanofiber surface by irradiating the atom cloud around the nanofiber with a violet laser radiation.

id: 0709.2761
title: Unbounded-Error Classical and Quantum Communication Complexity
authors: Kazuo Iwama, Harumichi Nishimura, Rudy Raymond, Shigeru Yamashita
comments: 11 pages. To appear at Proc. ISAAC 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2761
abstract: Since the seminal work of Paturi and Simon \cite[FOCS'84 & JCSS'86]{PS86}, the unbounded-error classical communication complexity of a Boolean function has been studied based on the arrangement of points and hyperplanes. Recently, \cite[ICALP'07]{INRY07} found that the unbounded-error {\em quantum} communication complexity in the {\em one-way communication} model can also be investigated using the arrangement, and showed that it is exactly (without a difference of even one qubit) half of the classical one-way communication complexity. In this paper, we extend the arrangement argument to the {\em two-way} and {\em simultaneous message passing} (SMP) models. As a result, we show similarly tight bounds of the unbounded-error two-way/one-way/SMP quantum/classical communication complexities for {\em any} partial/total Boolean function, implying that all of them are equivalent up to a multiplicative constant of four. Moreover, the arrangement argument is also used to show that the gap between {\em weakly} unbounded-error quantum and classical communication complexities is at most a factor of three.

id: 0709.2788
title: Laser control in a bifurcating region
authors: D. Sugny, C. Kontz, M. Ndong, G. Dive, M. Desouter-Lecomte
comments: 41 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 043419 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2788
abstract: We present a complete analysis of the laser control of a model molecular system using both optimal control theory and adiabatic techniques. This molecule has a particular potential energy surface with a bifurcating region connecting three potential wells which allows a variety of processes such as isomerization, tunnelling or implementation of quantum gates on one or two qubits. The parameters of the model have been chosen so as to reproduce the main features of H3CO which is a molecule-benchmark for such dynamics. We show the feasibility of different processes and we investigate their robustness against variations of laser field. We discuss the conditions under which each method of control gives the best results. We also point out the relation between optimal control theory and local control.

id: 0709.2789
title: PT-symmetric Solutions of Schrodinger Equation with position-dependent mass via Point Canonical Transformation
authors: Cevdet Tezcand, Ramazan Sever
comments: 13 pages
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 47, 1471(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2789
abstract: PT-symmetric solutions of Schrodinger equation are obtained for the Scarf and generalized harmonic oscillator potentials with the position-dependent mass. A general point canonical transformation is applied by using a free parameter. Three different forms of mass distributions are used. A set of the energy eigenvalues of the bound states and corresponding wave functions for target potentials are obtained as a function of the free parameter.

id: 0709.2829
title: Theory of biphoton generation in a single-resonant optical parametric oscillator far below threshold
authors: Ulrike Herzog, Matthias Scholz, Oliver Benson
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 023826 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2829
abstract: We present a quantum-theoretical treatment of biphoton generation in single-resonant type-II parametric down-conversion. The nonlinear medium is continuously pumped and is placed inside a cavity which is resonant for the signal field, but nonresonant for the idler deflected by an intra-cavity polarizing beam splitter. The intensity of the classical pump is assumed to be sufficiently low in order to yield a biphoton production rate that is small compared to the cavity loss rate. Explicit expressions are derived for the rate of biphoton generation and for the biphoton wave function. The output spectra of the signal and idler field are determined, as well as the second-order signal-idler cross-correlation function which is shown to be asymmetric with respect to the time delay. Due to frequency entanglement in the signal-idler photon pair, the idler spectrum is found to reveal the longitudinal mode structure of the cavity, even though the idler field is not resonant.

id: 0709.2849
title: Trapped Rydberg Ions: From Spin Chains to Fast Quantum Gates
authors: M. Mueller, L.-M. Liang, I. Lesanovsky, P. Zoller
comments: 26 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 093009 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2849
abstract: We study the dynamics of Rydberg ions trapped in a linear Paul trap, and discuss the properties of ionic Rydberg states in the presence of the static and time-dependent electric fields constituting the trap. The interactions in a system of many ions are investigated and coupled equations of the internal electronic states and the external oscillator modes of a linear ion chain are derived. We show that strong dipole-dipole interactions among the ions can be achieved by microwave dressing fields. Using low-angular momentum states with large quantum defect the internal dynamics can be mapped onto an effective spin model of a pair of dressed Rydberg states that describes the dynamics of Rydberg excitations in the ion crystal. We demonstrate that excitation transfer through the ion chain can be achieved on a nanosecond timescale and discuss the implementation of a fast two-qubit gate in the ion chain.

id: 0709.2866
title: Bose-Einstein condensates with attractive 1/r interaction: The case of self-trapping
authors: I. Papadopoulos, P. Wagner, G. Wunner, J. Main
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76 (2007) 053604
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2866
abstract: Amplifying on a proposal by O'Dell et al. for the realization of Bose-Einstein condensates of neutral atoms with attractive $1/r$ interaction, we point out that the instance of self-trapping of the condensate, without external trap potential, is physically best understood by introducing appropriate "atomic" units. This reveals a remarkable scaling property: the physics of the condensate depends only on the two parameters $N^2 a/a_u$ and $\gamma/N^2$, where $N$ is the particle number, $a$ the scattering length, $a_u$ the "Bohr" radius and $\gamma$ the trap frequency in atomic units. We calculate accurate numerical results for self-trapping wave functions and potentials, for energies, sizes and peak densities, and compare with previous variational results. As a novel feature we point out the existence of a second solution of the extended Gross-Pitaevskii equation for negative scattering lengths, with and without trapping potential, which is born together with the ground state in a tangent bifurcation. This indicates the existence of an unstable collectively excited state of the condensate for negative scattering lengths.

id: 0709.2910
title: Entanglement, weak values, and the precise inference of joint measurement outcomes for non-commuting observable pairs
authors: Alonso Botero
comments: 5 pages, no figures. Revised version: corrected typos, particularly in Eq. 8, and expanded references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2910
abstract: The problem of inferring the outcome of a simultaneous measurement of two non-commuting observables is addressed. We show that for certain pairs with dense spectra, precise inferences of the measurement outcomes are possible in pre-and post-selected ensembles, and if the selections involve entangled states with some other system. We show that the problem is related to the problem of assigning weak values to a continuous family of operators, and give explicit examples where this problem is solvable. Some foundational implications are briefly discussed.

id: 0709.2923
title: Generation of 10-GHz clock sequential time-bin entanglement
authors: Qiang Zhang, Carsten Langrock, Hiroki Takesue, Xiuping Xie, Martin Fejer, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Opt. Express. 16, 3293 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2923
abstract: This letter reports telecom-band sequential time-bin entangled photon-pair generation at a repetition rate of 10 GHz in periodically-poled reverse-proton-exchange lithium niobate waveguides based on mode demultiplexing. With up-conversion single-photon detectors, we observed a two-photon-interference-fringe visibility of 85.32% without subtraction of accidental noise contributions, which can find broad application in quantum information and quantum entanglement research.

id: 0709.2953
title: Quantum Entanglement Capacity with Classical Feedback
authors: Alan W. Leung
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A, vol.77, 012322 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2953
abstract: For any quantum discrete memoryless channel, we define a quantity called quantum entanglement capacity with classical feedback ($E_B$), and we show that this quantity lies between two other well-studied quantities. These two quantities - namely the quantum capacity assisted by two-way classical communication ($Q_2$) and the quantum capacity with classical feedback ($Q_B$) - are widely conjectured to be different: there exists quantum discrete memoryless channel for which $Q_2>Q_B$. We then present a general scheme to convert any quantum error-correcting codes into adaptive protocols for this newly-defined quantity of the quantum depolarizing channel, and illustrate with Cat (repetition) code and Shor code. We contrast the present notion with entanglement purification protocols by showing that whilst the Leung-Shor protocol can be applied directly, recurrence methods need to be supplemented with other techniques but at the same time offer a way to improve the aforementioned Cat code. For the quantum depolarizing channel, we prove a formula that gives lower bounds on the quantum capacity with classical feedback from any $E_B$ protocols. We then apply this formula to the $E_B$ protocols that we discuss to obtain new lower bounds on the quantum capacity with classical feedback of the quantum depolarizing channel.

id: 0709.2969
title: Double prism evanescent mode experiment: superluminal photons?
authors: S. C. Tiwari
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2969
abstract: A critique on the interpretation of the double prism experiment on the evanescent microwave modes (arXiv:0708.0681) is presented. It is argued that these experiments do not give any evidence of superluminal photons. A physical mechanism based on the inhomogeneous waves of classical electromagnetic fields is proposed.

id: 0709.2980
title: H2 Double Ionization with Few-Cycle Laser Pulses
authors: S¨¦bastien Saugout, Eric Charron, Christian Cornaggia
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 77, 2 (2008) 023404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2980
abstract: The temporal dynamics of double ionization of H2 has been investigated both experimentally and theoretically with few-cycle laser pulses. The main observables are the proton spectra associated to the H^+ + H^+ fragmentation channel. The model is based on the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation and treats on the same level the electronic and nuclear coordinates. Therefore it allows to follow the ultrafast nuclear dynamics as a function of the laser pulse duration, carrier-envelope phase offset and peak intensity. We mainly report results in the sequential double ionization regime above 2 10^{14} W/cm^2. The proton spectra are shifted to higher energies as the pulse duration is reduced from 40fs down to 10fs. The good agreement between the model predictions and the experimental data at 10fs permits a theoretical study with pulse durations down to a few femtoseconds. We demonstrate the very fast nuclear dynamics of the H2^+ ion for a pulse duration as short as 1fs between the two ionization events giving respectively H2^+ from H2 and H^+ + H^+ from H2^+. Carrier-envelope phase offset only plays a significant role for pulse durations shorter than 4fs. At 10fs, the laser intensity dependence of the proton spectra is fairly well reproduced by the model.

id: 0709.2996
title: Entanglement-free Heisenberg-limited phase estimation
authors: B. L. Higgins, D. W. Berry, S. D. Bartlett, H. M. Wiseman, G. J. Pryde
comments: Published in Nature. This is the final version
journal: Nature.450:393-396,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2996
abstract: Measurement underpins all quantitative science. A key example is the measurement of optical phase, used in length metrology and many other applications. Advances in precision measurement have consistently led to important scientific discoveries. At the fundamental level, measurement precision is limited by the number N of quantum resources (such as photons) that are used. Standard measurement schemes, using each resource independently, lead to a phase uncertainty that scales as 1/sqrt(N) - known as the standard quantum limit. However, it has long been conjectured that it should be possible to achieve a precision limited only by the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, dramatically improving the scaling to 1/N. It is commonly thought that achieving this improvement requires the use of exotic quantum entangled states, such as the NOON state. These states are extremely difficult to generate. Measurement schemes with counted photons or ions have been performed with N <= 6, but few have surpassed the standard quantum limit and none have shown Heisenberg-limited scaling. Here we demonstrate experimentally a Heisenberg-limited phase estimation procedure. We replace entangled input states with multiple applications of the phase shift on unentangled single-photon states. We generalize Kitaev's phase estimation algorithm using adaptive measurement theory to achieve a standard deviation scaling at the Heisenberg limit. For the largest number of resources used (N = 378), we estimate an unknown phase with a variance more than 10 dB below the standard quantum limit; achieving this variance would require more than 4,000 resources using standard interferometry. Our results represent a drastic reduction in the complexity of achieving quantum-enhanced measurement precision.

id: 0709.2998
title: Cavity-assisted spontaneous emission as a single-photon source: Pulse shape and efficiency of one-photon Fock state preparation
authors: M. Khanbekyan, D.-G. Welsch, C. Di Fidio, W. Vogel
comments: 16 pages, 7 eps figures; improved version as submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2998
abstract: Within the framework of exact quantum electrodynamics in dispersing and absorbing media, we have studied the quantum state of the radiation emitted from an initially in the upper state prepared two-level atom in a high-$Q$ cavity, including the regime where the emitted photon belongs to a wave packet that simultaneously covers the areas inside and outside the cavity. For both continuing atom--field interaction and short-term atom--field interaction, we have determined the spatio-temporal shape of the excited outgoing wave packet and calculated the efficiency of the wave packet to carry a one-photon Fock state. Furthermore, we have made contact with quantum noise theories where the intracavity field and the field outside the cavity are regarded as approximately representing independent degrees of freedom such that two separate Hilbert spaces can be introduced.

id: 0709.3053
title: Avalanche Photo-Detection for High Data Rate Applications
authors: H. B. Coldenstrodt-Ronge, C. Silberhorn
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 40 (2007) 3909-3921.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3053
abstract: Avalanche photo detection is commonly used in applications which require single photon sensitivity. We examine the limits of using avalanche photo diodes (APD) for characterising photon statistics at high data rates. To identify the regime of linear APD operation we employ a ps-pulsed diode laser with variable repetition rates between 0.5MHz and 80MHz. We modify the mean optical power of the coherent pulses by applying different levels of well-calibrated attenuation. The linearity at high repetition rates is limited by the APD dead time and a non-linear response arises at higher photon-numbers due to multiphoton events. Assuming Poissonian input light statistics we ascertain the effective mean photon-number of the incident light with high accuracy. Time multiplexed detectors (TMD) allow to accomplish photon- number resolution by photon chopping. This detection setup extends the linear response function to higher photon-numbers and statistical methods may be used to compensate for non-linearity. We investigated this effect, compare it to the single APD case and show the validity of the convolution treatment in the TMD data analysis.

id: 0709.3081
title: Vibrational energy transfer in ultracold molecule - molecule collisions
authors: Goulven Qu¨¦m¨¦ner, Naduvalath Balakrishnan, Roman V. Krems
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 030704(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3081
abstract: We present a rigorous study of vibrational relaxation in p-H2 + p-H2 collisions at cold and ultracold temperatures and identify an efficient mechanism of ro-vibrational energy transfer. If the colliding molecules are in different rotational and vibrational levels, the internal energy may be transferred between the molecules through an extremely state-selective process involving simultaneous conservation of internal energy and total rotational angular momentum. The same transition in collisions of distinguishable molecules corresponds to the rotational energy transfer from one vibrational state of the colliding molecules to another.

id: 0709.3084
title: Josephson dynamics for coupled polariton modes under the atom-field interaction in the cavity
authors: A. P. Alodjants, S. M. Arakelian, S. N. Bagayev, V. S. Egorov, A. Yu. Leksin
comments: 10 pages, 6 postscript figures, uses svjour.cls
journal: Applied Physics B, v.89, No.1, pp.81-89 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3084
abstract: We consider a new approach to the problem of Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) of polaritons for atom-field interaction under the strong coupling regime in the cavity. We investigate the dynamics of two macroscopically populated polariton modes corresponding to the upper and lower branch energy states coupled via Kerr-like nonlinearity of atomic medium. We found out the dispersion relations for new type of collective excitations in the system under consideration. Various temporal regimes like linear (nonlinear) Josephson transition and/or Rabi oscillations, macroscopic quantum self-trapping (MQST) dynamics for population imbalance of polariton modes are predicted. We also examine the switching properties for time-averaged population imbalance depending on initial conditions, effective nonlinear parameter of atomic medium and kinetic energy of low-branch polaritons.

id: 0709.3129
title: Photon pair-state preparation with tailored spectral properties by spontaneous four-wave mixing in photonic-crystal fiber
authors: K. Garay-Palmett, H. J. McGuinness, Offir Cohen, J. S. Lundeen, R. Rangel-Rojo, A. B. U'Ren, M. G. Raymer, C. J. McKinstrie, S. Radic, I. A. Walmsley
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures, submitted
journal: Opt. Express 15, 14870-14886 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3129
abstract: We study theoretically the generation of photon pairs by spontaneous four-wave mixing (SFWM) in photonic crystal optical fiber. We show that it is possible to engineer two-photon states with specific spectral correlation (``entanglement'') properties suitable for quantum information processing applications. We focus on the case exhibiting no spectral correlations in the two-photon component of the state, which we call factorability, and which allows heralding of single-photon pure-state wave packets without the need for spectral post filtering. We show that spontaneous four wave mixing exhibits a remarkable flexibility, permitting a wider class of two-photon states, including ultra-broadband, highly-anticorrelated states.

id: 0709.3196
title: Quantum nonlocality without entanglement in a pair of qubits
authors: Masato Koashi, Fumitaka Takenaga, Takashi Yamamoto, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3196
abstract: We consider unambiguous discrimination of two separable bipartite states, one being pure and the other being a rank-2 mixed state. There is a gap between the optimal success probability under global measurements and the one achieved by generalized measurements with separable measurement operators. We show that even the latter success probability cannot be achieved via local operations and classical communication, leaving a nonzero gap in between.

id: 0709.3233
title: Local-dephasing-induced entanglement sudden death in two-component finite-dimensional systems
authors: Kevin Ann, Gregg Jaeger
comments: 8 pages, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3233
abstract: Entanglement sudden death (ESD), the complete loss of entanglement in finite time, is demonstrated to occur in a class of bipartite states of qu-d-it pairs of any finite dimension d > 2, when prepared in so-called `isotropic states' and subject to multi-local dephasing noise alone. This extends previous results for qubit pairs [T. Yu, J. H. Eberly, Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 140403 (2006)] to all qu-d-it pairs with d > 2.

id: 0709.3242
title: Bicomplex quantum mechanics: I. The generalized Schr?dinger equation
authors: Dominic Rochon, S¨¦bastien Tremblay
comments: 
journal: Advances in Applied Clifford Algebras, 2004, Volume 14, Issue 2, pp 231-248
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3242
abstract: We introduce the set of bicomplex numbers $\mathbb{T}$ which is a commutative ring with zero divisors defined by $\mathbb{T}=\{w_0+w_1 \bold{i_1}+w_2\bold{i_2}+w_3 \bold{j}| w_0,w_1,w_2,w_3 \in \mathbb{R}\}$ where $\bold{i^{\text 2}_1}=-1, \bold{i^{\text 2}_2}=-1, \bold{j}^2=1,\ \bold{i_1}\bold{i_2}=\bold{j}=\bold{i_2}\bold{i_1}$. We present the conjugates and the moduli associated with the bicomplex numbers. Then we study the bicomplex Schr\"odinger equation and found the continuity equations. The discrete symmetries of the system of equations describing the bicomplex Schr\"odinger equation are obtained. Finally, we study the bicomplex Born formulas under the discrete symetries. We obtain the standard Born's formula for the class of bicomplex wave functions having a null hyperbolic angle.

id: 0709.3250
title: Self-teleportation and its application on LOCC estimation and other tasks
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3250
abstract: A way to characterize quantum nonlocality is to see difference in the figure of merit between LOCC optimal protocol and globally optimal protocol in doing certain task, e.g., state estimation, state discrimination, cloning and broadcasting. Especially, we focus on the case where $n$ tensor of unknown states. Our conclusion is that separable pure states are more non-local than entangled pure states. More specifically, the difference in the figure of the merit is exponentially small if the state is entangled, and the exponent is log of the largest Schmidt coefficient. On the other hand, in many cases, estimation of separable states by LOCC is worse than the global optimal estimate by $O(\frac{1}{n})$. To show that the gap is exponentially small for entangled states, we propose self-teleportation protocol as the key component of construct of LOCC protocols. Objective of the protocol is to transfer Alice's part of quantum information by LOCC, using intrinsic entanglement of $| \phi_{\theta}> ^{\otimes n}$ without using any extra resources. This protocol itself is of interest in its own right.

id: 0709.3273
title: Detection of quantum critical points by a probe qubit
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Xinhua Peng, Nageswaran Rajendran, Dieter Suter
comments: A typo removed. Publication version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 100501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3273
abstract: Quantum phase transitions occur when the ground state of a quantum system undergoes a qualitative change when an external control parameter reaches a critical value. Here, we demonstrate a technique for studying quantum systems undergoing a phase transition by coupling the system to a probe qubit. It uses directly the increased sensibility of the quantum system to perturbations when it is close to a critical point. Using an NMR quantum simulator, we demonstrate this measurement technique for two different types of quantum phase transitions in an Ising spin chain.

id: 0709.3279
title: Asymptotic entanglement in the discrete-time quantum walk
authors: G. Abal, R. Donangelo, H. Fort
comments: 10 pages, pdf
journal: Annals of the 1st Workshop on Quantum Computation and Information, pp. 189-200, UCPel, 9-11 october 2006, Pelotas, RS, Brazil
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3279
abstract: The coin-position entanglement generated by the evolution operator of a discrete--time quantum walk converges, in the long time limit, to a well defined value which depends on the initial state. We also discuss the asymptotic bi-partite entanglement generated by several non-separable coin operations for two coherent quantum walkers, for which the entropy of entanglement increases logarithmically.

id: 0709.3285
title: Effect of frequency mismatched photons in quantum information processing
authors: J. Metz, S. D. Barrett
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures. Comments welcome. v2: Minor changes. v3: Cleaned up 3 formatting errors
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042323 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3285
abstract: Many promising schemes for quantum information processing (QIP) rely on few-photon interference effects. In these proposals, the photons are treated as being indistinguishable particles. However, single photon sources are typically subject to variation from device to device. Thus the photons emitted from different sources will not be perfectly identical, and there will be some variation in their frequencies. Here, we analyse the effect of this frequency mismatch on QIP schemes. As examples, we consider the distributed QIP protocol proposed by Barrett and Kok, and Hong-Ou-Mandel interference which lies at the heart of many linear optical schemes for quantum computing. In the distributed QIP protocol, we find that the fidelity of entangled qubit states depends crucially on the time resolution of single photon detectors. In particular, there is no reduction in the fidelity when an ideal detector model is assumed, while reduced fidelities may be encountered when using realistic detectors with a finite response time. We obtain similar results in the case of Hong-Ou-Mandel interference -- with perfect detectors, a modified version of quantum interference is seen, and the visibility of the interference pattern is reduced as the detector time resolution is reduced. Our findings indicate that problems due to frequency mismatch can be overcome, provided sufficiently fast detectors are available.

id: 0709.3307
title: Unitary equivalence between ordinary intelligent states and generalized intelligent states
authors: Hyunchul Nha
comments: published version, 4 pages
journal: PRA 76, 053834 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3307
abstract: Ordinary intelligent states (OIS) hold equality in the Heisenberg uncertainty relation involving two noncommuting observables {A, B}, whereas generalized intelligent states (GIS) do so in the more generalized uncertainty relation, the Schrodinger-Robertson inequality. In general, OISs form a subset of GISs. However, if there exists a unitary evolution U that transforms the operators {A, B} to a new pair of operators in a rotation form, it is shown that an arbitrary GIS can be generated by applying the rotation operator U to a certain OIS. In this sense, the set of OISs is unitarily equivalent to the set of GISs. It is the case, for example, with the su(2) and the su(1,1) algebra that have been extensively studied particularly in quantum optics. When these algebras are represented by two bosonic operators (nondegenerate case), or by a single bosonic operator (degenerate case), the rotation, or pseudo-rotation, operator U corresponds to phase shift, beam splitting, or parametric amplification, depending on two observables {A, B}.

id: 0709.3310
title: Final Report on ECCS/NSF Workshop on Quantum, Molecular and High Performance Modeling and Simulation for Devices and Systems (QMHP)
authors: Jonathan P. Dowling, Gerhard Klimeck, Paul Werbos
comments: 42 pages, NSF Workshop on Quantum Molecular and High Performance Modeling and Simulations for Devices and Systems (QMHP), 16-17 April 2007, Arlington VA. (Minor corrections.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3310
abstract: The National Science Foundation has identified a new thrust area in Quantum, Molecular and High Performance Modeling and Simulation for Devices and Systems (QMHP) in its core program. The main purpose of this thrust area is to capture scientific opportunities that result from new fundamental cross-cutting research involving three core research communities: (1) experts in modeling and simulation of electronic devices and systems; (2) high performance computing relevant to devices and systems; and (3) the quantum many-body principles relevant to devices and systems. ECCS is especially interested in learning how work in these areas could enable whole new classes of systems or devices, beyond what is already under development in existing mainstream research. The workshop helped identify technical areas that will enable fundamental breakthroughs in the future. Modeling and simulation in the electronics and optoelectronics areas, in general, have already resulted in important fundamental scientific understanding and advances in design and development of devices and systems. With the increasing emphasis on the next generation of devices and systems at the nano, micro, and macro scales and the interdisciplinary nature of the research, it is imperative that we explore new mathematical models and simulation techniques. This workshop report provides a better understanding of unmet emerging new opportunities to improve modeling, simulation and design techniques for hybrid devices and systems. The purpose the QMHP workshop was to define the field and strengthen the focus of the thrust. The ultimate goal of the workshop was to produce a final report (this document) that will be posted on the web so that the NSF can use it to guide reviewers and researchers in this field.

id: 0709.3335
title: The quest for three-color entanglement: experimental investigation of new multipartite quantum correlations
authors: K. N. Cassemiro, A. S. Villar, M. Martinelli, P. Nussenzveig
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Opt. Express
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3335
abstract: We experimentally investigate quadrature correlations between pump, signal, and idler fields in an above-threshold optical parametric oscillator. We observe new quantum correlations among the pump and signal or idler beams, as well as among the pump and a combined quadrature of signal and idler beams. A further investigation of unforeseen classical noise observed in this system is presented, which hinders the observation of the recently predicted tripartite entanglement. In spite of this noise, current results approach the limit required to demonstrate three-color entanglement.

id: 0709.3352
title: Relation between fundamental estimation limit and stability in linear quantum systems with imperfect measurement
authors: Naoki Yamamoto, Shinji Hara
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physical Review A 76, 034102 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3352
abstract: From the noncommutative nature of quantum mechanics, estimation of canonical observables $\hat{q}$ and $\hat{p}$ is essentially restricted in its performance by the Heisenberg uncertainty relation, $\mean{\Delta \hat{q}^2}\mean{\Delta \hat{p}^2}\geq \hbar^2/4$. This fundamental lower-bound may become bigger when taking the structure and quality of a specific measurement apparatus into account. In this paper, we consider a particle subjected to a linear dynamics that is continuously monitored with efficiency $\eta\in(0,1]$. It is then clarified that the above Heisenberg uncertainty relation is replaced by $\mean{\Delta \hat{q}^2}\mean{\Delta \hat{p}^2}\geq \hbar^2/4\eta$ if the monitored system is unstable, while there exists a stable quantum system for which the Heisenberg limit is reached.

id: 0709.3353
title: A trivial observation on time reversal in random matrix theory
authors: L. Kaplan, F. Leyvraz, C. Pineda, T. H. Seligman
comments: 7 pages 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 F1063-F1068 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3353
abstract: It is commonly thought that a state-dependent quantity, after being averaged over a classical ensemble of random Hamiltonians, will always become independent of the state. We point out that this is in general incorrect: if the ensemble of Hamiltonians is time reversal invariant, and the quantity involves the state in higher than bilinear order, then we show that the quantity is only a constant over the orbits of the invariance group on the Hilbert space. Examples include fidelity and decoherence in appropriate models.

id: 0709.3406
title: Equal Superposition Transformations and Quantum Random Walks
authors: Preeti Parashar
comments: 17 pages, Latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3406
abstract: The largest ensemble of qubits which satisfy the general transformation of equal superposition is obtained by different methods, namely, linearity, no-superluminal signalling and non-increase of entanglement under LOCC. We also consider the associated quantum random walk and show that all unitary balanced coins give the same asymmetric spatial probability distribution. It is further illustrated that unbalanced coins, upon appropriate superposition, lead to new unbiased walks which have no classical analogues.

id: 0709.3437
title: Azimuthal distinguishability of entangled photons generated in spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Clara I. Osorio, Gabriel Molina-Terriza, Blanca G. Font, Juan P. Torres
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Opt. Express
journal: C. I. Osorio, G. Molina-Terriza, B. G. Font, and J. P. Torres. Opt. Express 15, 14636-14643 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3437
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate that paired photons generated in different sections of a down-conversion cone, when some of the interacting waves show Poynting vector walk-off, carry different spatial correlations, and therefore a different degree of spatial entanglement. This is shown to be in agreement with theoretical results. We also discuss how this azimuthal distinguishing information of the down-conversion cone is relevant for the implementation of quantum sources aimed at the generation of entanglement in other degrees of freedom, such as polarization.

id: 0709.3463
title: Quantum Ratchets for Quantum Communication with Optical Superlattices
authors: Oriol Romero-Isart, Juan Jose Garcia-Ripoll
comments: Published version, 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 76, 052304 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3463
abstract: We propose to use a quantum ratchet to transport quantum information in a chain of atoms trapped in an optical superlattice. The quantum ratchet is created by a continuous modulation of the optical superlattice which is periodic in time and in space. Though there is zero average force acting on the atoms, we show that indeed the ratchet effect permits atoms on even and odd sites to move along opposite directions. By loading the optical lattice with two-level bosonic atoms, this scheme permits to perfectly transport a qubit or entangled state imprinted in one or more atoms to any desired position in the lattice. From the quantum computation point of view, the transport is achieved by a smooth concatenation of perfect swap gates. We analyze setups with noninteracting and interacting particles and in the latter case we use the tools of optimal control to design optimal modulations. We also discuss the feasibility of this method in current experiments.

id: 0709.3495
title: Anomalous Relativistic Tunneling and Exotic Point Interactions
authors: Pavel Hejcik, Taksu Cheon
comments: 5 pages TeX in EPL format, with 4 PDF figures. Revision with discussion on unitarity for all energies
journal: Europhys.Lett.81:50001,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3495
abstract: We examine one-dimensional quantum scattering of a Dirac particle off relativistic potential barriers. With proper considerations of Dirac sea, existence of anomalous tunneling at zero incident-energy is revealed for a particular type of relativistic potential having same magnitudes and opposite signs for scalar and vector components. It is also shown that this leads to an exotic short range limit of the potentials.

id: 0709.3508
title: Fictitious Cavity Approach to the Casimir Effect
authors: W. Luis Mochan, Carlos Villarreal
comments: 10 pages, three figures, to be published in Rev. Mex. Fis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3508
abstract: We obtain expressions for the Casimir energy and force following an approach which may be applied to cavities made up of arbitrary materials. In the case of planar cavities we obtain the well known Lifshitz formula. The approach is easily generalizable to other geometries.

id: 0709.3517
title: Generation of Fourier transform limited heralded single photons
authors: Alfred B. U'Ren, Yasser Jeronimo-Moreno, Jose H. Garcia-Gracia
comments: 10 pages, 3 figure, PHYSICAL REVIEW A 75, 023810
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 75, 023810 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3517
abstract: In this paper we study the spectral (temporal) properties of heralded single photon wavepackets, triggered by the detection of an idler photon in the process of parametric downconversion. The generated single photons are studied within the framework of the chronocyclic Wigner function, from which the single photon spectral width and temporal duration can be computed. We derive specific conditions on the two-photon joint spectral amplitude which result in both pure and Fourier- transform limited heralded single photons. Likewise, we present specific source geometries which lead to the fulfilment of these conditions and show that one of these geometries leads, for a given pump bandwidth, to the temporally shortest possible heralded single photon wavepackets.

id: 0709.3533
title: Robustness of operator quantum error correction with respect to initialization errors
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032333 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3533
abstract: In the theory of operator quantum error correction (OQEC), the notion of correctability is defined under the assumption that states are perfectly initialized inside a particular subspace, a factor of which (a subsystem) contains the protected information. If the initial state of the system does not belong entirely to the subspace in question, the restriction of the state to the otherwise correctable subsystem may not remain invariant after the application of noise and error correction. It is known that in the case of decoherence-free subspaces and subsystems (DFSs) the condition for perfect unitary evolution inside the code imposes more restrictive conditions on the noise process if one allows imperfect initialization. It was believed that these conditions are necessary if DFSs are to be able to protect imperfectly encoded states from subsequent errors. By a similar argument, general OQEC codes would also require more restrictive error-correction conditions for the case of imperfect initialization. In this study, we examine this requirement by looking at the errors on the encoded state. In order to quantitatively analyze the errors in an OQEC code, we introduce a measure of the fidelity between the encoded information in two states for the case of subsystem encoding. A major part of the paper concerns the definition of the measure and the derivation of its properties. In contrast to what was previously believed, we obtain that more restrictive conditions are not necessary neither for DFSs nor for general OQEC codes. This is because the effective noise that can arise inside the code as a result of imperfect initialization is such that it can only increase the fidelity of an imperfectly encoded state with a perfectly encoded one.

id: 0709.3557
title: Multiphoton Bloch-Siegert shifts and level-splittings in spin-one systems
authors: Peter L. Hagelstein, Irfan U. Chaudhary
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3557
abstract: We consider a spin-boson model in which a spin 1 system is coupled to an oscillator. A unitary transformation is applied which allows a separation of terms responsible for the Bloch-Siegert shift, and terms responsible for the level splittings at anticrossings associated with Bloch-Siegert resonances. When the oscillator is highly excited, the system can maintain resonance for sequential multiphoton transitions. At lower levels of excitation, resonance cannot be maintained because energy exchange with the oscillator changes the level shift. An estimate for the critical excitation level of the oscillator is developed.

id: 0709.3603
title: Fibonacci schemes of fault-tolerant quantum computation
authors: Panos Aliferis
comments: Superseded by arXiv:0809.5063
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3603
abstract: The threshold estimate derived in previous versions of this paper was incorrect; this note explains the flaw. A new proof is discussed in arXiv:0809.5063.

id: 0709.3608
title: Kraus decomposition for chaotic environments
authors: Murat Cetinbas, Joshua Wilkie
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 372, Issue 7, 11 February 2008, Pages 990-996
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3608
abstract: We consider a system interacting with a chaotic thermodynamic bath. We derive an explicit and exact Kraus operator sum representation (OSR) for the open system reduced density. The OSR preserves the Hermiticity, complete positivity and norm. We show that it is useful as a numerical tool by testing it against exact results for a qubit interacting with an isolated flawed quantum computer. We also discuss some interesting qualitative aspects of the OSR.

id: 0709.3611
title: Quantum correlations for arbitrarily high-dimensional Bell inequality
authors: Che-Ming Li, Der-San Chuu, Yueh-Nan Chen
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3611
abstract: We analyze the correlation structure of bipartite arbitrary-dimensional Bell inequalities via novel conditions of correlations in terms of differences of joint probabilities called correlators. The conditions of correlations are shown to be necessary for the multi-level Bell state. In particular, we find that the bipartite arbitrary-dimensional Bell-type inequalities introduced by Collins-Gisin-Linden-Massar-Popescu [Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 040404 (2002)] and Son-Lee-Kim [Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 060406 (2006)] are composed of correlators, and we reveal that the maximal violations by the Bell state just fit the conditions of quantum correlations. Correlators can be considered as essential elements of Bell inequalities.

id: 0709.3627
title: Exact Quantum Search by Parallel Unitary Discrimination Schemes
authors: Xiaodi Wu, Runyao Duan
comments: 8 pages (revtex4), 6 figures. Revised version with some typo error corrections and some clearer statement. Accepted by Phys.Rev.A .Comments are welcome!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3627
abstract: We study the unsorted database search problem with items $N$ from the viewpoint of unitary discrimination. Instead of considering the famous $O(\sqrt{N})$ Grover's the bounded-error algorithm for the original problem, we seek for the results about the exact algorithms, i.e. the ones succeed with certainty. Under the standard oracle model $\sum_j (-1)^{\delta_{\tau j}}|j>< j|$, we demonstrate a tight lower bound ${2/3}N+o(N)$ of the number of queries for any parallel scheme with unentangled input states. With the assistance of entanglement, we obtain a general lower bound ${1/2}(N-\sqrt{N})$. We provide concrete examples to illustrate our results. In particular, we show that the case of N=6 can be solved exactly with only two queries by using a bipartite entangled input state. Our results indicate that in the standard oracle model the complexity of exact quantum search with one unique solution can be strictly less than that of the calculation of OR function.

id: 0709.3638
title: Dynamical Casimir Effect and the Black Body Spectrum
authors: Jaume Haro, Emilio Elizalde
comments: 9 pages, no figures; version to appear in JPA Fast Track Communications
journal: J.Phys.A41:032002,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3638
abstract: Creation of scalar massless particles in two-dimensional Minkowski space-time--as predicted by the dynamical Casimir effect--is studied for the case of a semitransparent mirror initially at rest, then accelerating for some finite time, along a specified trajectory, and finally moving with constant velocity. When the reflection and transmission coefficients are those in the model proposed by Barton, Calogeracos, and Nicolaevici [$r(w)=-i\alpha/(\w+i\alpha)$ and $s(w)=\w/(\w+i\alpha)$, with $\alpha\geq 0$], the Bogoliubov coefficients on the back side of the mirror can be computed exactly. This allows us to prove that, when $\alpha$ is very large (case of an ideal, perfectly reflecting mirror) a thermal emission of scalar massless particles obeying Bose-Einstein statistics is radiated from the mirror (a black body radiation), in accordance with previous results in the literature. However, when $\alpha$ is finite (semitransparent mirror, a physically realistic situation) the striking result is obtained that the thermal emission of scalar massless particles obeys Fermi-Dirac statistics. Possible consequences of this result are envisaged.

id: 0709.3666
title: Experimental study on Gaussian-modulated coherent states quantum key distribution over standard telecom fiber
authors: Bing Qi, Lei-Lei Huang, Li Qian, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review A 76 052323 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3666
abstract: In this paper, we present a fully fiber-based one-way Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) system implementing the Gaussian-Modulated Coherent States (GMCS) protocol. The system employs a double Mach-Zehnder Interferometer (MZI) configuration in which the weak quantum signal and the strong Local Oscillator (LO) go through the same fiber between Alice and Bob, and are separated into two paths inside Bob's terminal. To suppress the LO leakage into the signal path, which is an important contribution to the excess noise, we implemented a novel scheme combining polarization and frequency multiplexing, achieving an extinction ratio of 70dB. To further minimize the system excess noise due to phase drift of the double MZI, we propose that, instead of employing phase feedback control, one simply let Alice remap her data by performing a rotation operation. We further present noise analysis both theoretically and experimentally. Our calculation shows that the combined polarization and frequency multiplexing scheme can achieve better stability in practice than the time-multiplexing scheme, because it allows one to use matched fiber lengths for the signal and the LO paths on both sides of the double MZI, greatly reducing the phase instability caused by unmatched fiber lengths. Our experimental noise analysis quantifies the three main contributions to the excess noise, which will be instructive to future studies of the GMCS QKD systems. Finally, we demonstrate, under the "realistic model" in which Eve cannot control the system within Bob's terminal, a secure key rate of 0.3bit/pulse over a 5km fiber link. This key rate is about two orders of magnitude higher than that of a practical BB84 QKD system.

id: 0709.3680
title: Inequalities that Collectively Completely Characterize the Catalytic Majorization Relation
authors: Matthew Klimesh
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3680
abstract: For probability vectors x and y, the catalytic majorization relation x prec_T y is defined to hold when there exists a probability vector z such that x otimes z is majorized by y otimes z. In this paper, an infinite family of functions is given such that, subject to some trivial restrictions, x prec_T y if and only if f_r(x) < f_r(y) for all functions f_r in the family. An outline of a proof of this result is provided. The catalytic majorization relation is known to provide a determination of which transformations of jointly held pure quantum states are possible using local operations and classical communication when an additional jointly held state may be specified to facilitate the transformation without being consumed.

id: 0709.3698
title: Miscellaneous Applications of Quons
authors: Maurice R. Kibler
comments: This is a contribution to the Proc. of the 3-rd Microconference "Analytic and Algebraic Methods III"(June 19, 2007, Prague, Czech Republic), published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 3 (2007), 092, 14 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3698
abstract: This paper deals with quon algebras or deformed oscillator algebras, for which the deformation parameter is a root of unity. We show the interest of such algebras for fractional supersymmetric quantum mechanics, angular momentum theory and quantum information. More precisely, quon algebras are used for (i) a realization of a generalized Weyl-Heisenberg algebra from which it is possible to associate a fractional supersymmetric dynamical system, (ii) a polar decomposition of SU_2 and (iii) a construction of mutually unbiased bases in Hilbert spaces of prime dimension. We also briefly discuss (symmetric informationally complete) positive operator valued measures in the spirit of (iii).

id: 0709.3701
title: Controlled coupling of counterpropagating whispering-gallery modes by a single Rayleigh scatterer: a classical problem in a quantum optical light
authors: A. Mazzei, S. Gotzinger, L. de S. Menezes, G. Zumofen, O. Benson, V. Sandoghdar
comments: accepted for publication in Pysical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3701
abstract: We present experiments where a single subwavelength scatterer is used to examine and control the back-scattering induced coupling between counterpropagating high-Q modes of a microsphere resonator. Our measurements reveal the standing wave character of the resulting symmetric and antisymmetric eigenmodes, their unbalanced intensity distributions, and the coherent nature of their coupling. We discuss our findings and the underlying classical physics in the framework common to quantum optics and provide a particularly intuitive explanation of the central processes.

id: 0709.3728
title: Coherent states and global entanglement in an N qubit system
authors: Piroska D?m?t?r, Mih¨¢ly G. Benedict
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3728
abstract: We consider an $N$ qubit system and show that in the symmetric subspace, $\mathbb{S}$ a state is not globally entangled, iff it is a coherent state. It is also proven that in the orthogonal complement $\mathbb{S}_{\bot}$ all states are globally entangled.

id: 0709.3766
title: Entanglement detection beyond the cross-norm or realignment criterion
authors: Cheng-Jie Zhang, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Shun Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; Theorem 2 added; a new proposition added; a note added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 060301(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3766
abstract: Separability problem, to decide whether a given state is entangled or not, is a fundamental problem in quantum information theory. We propose a powerful and computationally simple separability criterion, which allows us to detect the entanglement of many bound entangled states. The criterion is strictly stronger than the dV criterion, the computable cross-norm or realignment criterion and its optimal nonlinear entanglement witnesses. Furthermore, this criterion can be generalized to an analogue of permutation separability criteria in the even-partite systems.

id: 0709.3779
title: A general scheme for construction of scalar separability criteria from positive maps
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak, Julia Stasi¨½ska
comments: RevTex, 5 pages, 2 figures, the revised version
journal: Physical Review A 77, 010303(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3779
abstract: We present a general scheme that allows for construction of scalar separability criteria from positive but not completely positive maps. The concept is based on a decomposition of every positive map $\Lambda$ into a difference of two completely positive maps $\Lambda_1$, $\Lambda_2$, i.e., $\Lambda=\Lambda_1-\Lambda_2$. The scheme may be also treated as a generalization of the known entropic inequalities, which are obtained from the reduction map. An analysis performed on few classes of states shows that the new scalar criteria are stronger than the entropic inequalities and furthermore, when derived from indecomposable maps allow for detection of bound entanglement.

id: 0709.3780
title: Order parameter for the dynamical phase transition in Bose-Einstein condensates with topological modes
authors: E. R. F. Ramos, L. Sanz, V.I. Yukalov, V. S. Bagnato
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 033608 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3780
abstract: In a trapped Bose-Einstein condensate, subject to the action of an alternating external field, coherent topological modes can be resonantly excited. Depending on the amplitude of the external field and detuning parameter, there are two principally different regimes of motion, with mode locking and without it. The change of the dynamic regime corresponds to a dynamic phase transition. This transition can be characterized by an effective order parameter defined as the difference between fractional mode populations averaged over the temporal period of oscillations. The behavior of this order parameter, as a function of detuning, pumping amplitude, and atomic interactions is carefully analyzed. A special attention is payed to numerical calculations for the realistic case of a quadrupole exciting field and the system parameters accessible in current experiments.

id: 0709.3795
title: Effects of decoherence on the radiative and squeezing properties in a coherently driven trapped two-level atom
authors: Sintayehu Tesfa
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3795
abstract: Analysis of the effects of decoherence on the radiative and squeezing properties of a coherently driven two-level atom trapped in a resonant cavity applying the corresponding master equation is presented. The atomic dynamics as well as the squeezing and statistical properties of the emitted radiation are investigated. It is found that the atom stays in the lower energy level more often at steady state irrespective of the strength of the coherent radiation and thermal fluctuations entering the cavity. Moreover, a strong external coherent radiation results the splitting of the line of the emission spectrum, whereas the decoherence broadens the width and significantly decreases the height. It is also found that the emitted radiation exhibits photon anti-bunching, super-Poissonian photon statistics and squeezing, despite the presence of the decoherence which is expected to destroy the quantum features.

id: 0709.3804
title: Simple and secure quantum key distribution with biphotons
authors: I. Bregman, D. Aharonov, M. Ben-Or, H.S. Eisenberg
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, calculation error corrected, new Fig. 4, 2 new Refs. and 2 omitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3804
abstract: The best qubit one-way quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol can tolerate up to 14.1% in the error rate. It has been shown how this rate can be increased by using larger quantum systems. The polarization state of a biphoton can encode a three level quantum system - a qutrit. The realization of a QKD system with biphotons encounters several problems in generating, manipulating and detecting such photon states. We define those limitations and find within them a few protocols that perform almost as well as the ideal qutrit protocol. One advantage is that these protocols can be implemented with minor modifications into existing single photon systems. The security of one protocol is proved for the most general coherent attacks and the largest acceptable error rate for this protocol is found to be around 17.7%. This is the first time, to the best of our knowledge, that the security of qutrit QKD protocols is rigorously analyzed against general attacks.

id: 0709.3817
title: Laser cooling in the Penning trap: an analytical model for cooling rates in the presence of an axializing field
authors: R. J. Hendricks, E. S. Phillips, D. M. Segal, R. C. Thompson
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3817
abstract: Ions stored in Penning traps may have useful applications in the field of quantum information processing. There are, however, difficulties associated with the laser cooling of one of the radial motions of ions in these traps, namely the magnetron motion. The application of a small radio-frequency quadrupolar electric potential resonant with the sum of the two radial motional frequencies has been shown to couple these motions and to lead to more efficient laser cooling. We present an analytical model that enables us to determine laser cooling rates in the presence of such an 'axializing' field. It is found that this field leads to an averaging of the laser cooling rates for the two motions and hence improves the overall laser cooling efficiency. The model also predicts shifts in the motional frequencies due to the axializing field that are in qualitative agreement with those measured in recent experiments. It is possible to determine laser cooling rates experimentally by studying the phase response of the cooled ions to a near resonant excitation field. Using the model developed in this paper, we study the expected phase response when an axializing field is present.

id: 0709.3818
title: Spin-induced angular momentum switching
authors: Gabriel F. Calvo, Antonio Pic¨®n
comments: The original paper of the published version in Opt. Lett
journal: Opt. Lett. 32, 838-840 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3818
abstract: When light is transmitted through optically inhomogeneous and anisotropic media the spatial distribution of light can be modified according to its input polarization state. A complete analysis of this process, based on the paraxial approximation, is presented, and we show how it can be exploited to produce a spin-controlled-change in the orbital angular momentum of light beams propagating in patterned space-variant-optical-axis phase plates. We also unveil a new effect. The development of a strong modulation in the angular momentum change upon variation of the optical path through the phase plates.

id: 0709.3835
title: Correlated entanglement distillation and the structure of the set of undistillable states
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Jens Eisert
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, replaced with published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 042102 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3835
abstract: We consider entanglement distillation under the assumption that the input states are allowed to be correlated among each other. We hence replace the usually considered independent and identically-distributed hypothesis by the weaker assumption of merely having identical reductions. We find that whether a state is then distillable or not is only a property of these reductions, and not of the correlations that are present in the input state. This is shown by establishing an appealing relation between the set of copy-correlated undistillable states and the standard set of undistillable states: The former turns out to be the convex hull of the latter. As an example of the usefulness of our approach to the study of entanglement distillation, we prove a new activation result, which generalizes earlier findings: it is shown that for every entangled state and every positive integer k, there exists a copy-correlated k-undistillable state such that their tensor product is single-copy distillable. Finally, the relation of our results to the conjecture about the existence of bound entangled states with a non-positive partial transpose is discussed.

id: 0709.3852
title: Coherent Communication with Linear Optics
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Todd A. Brun, Jonathan P. Dowling, Hwang Lee
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 77, 022321 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3852
abstract: We show how to implement several continuous-variable coherent protocols with linear optics. Noise can accumulate when implementing each coherent protocol with realistic optical devices. Our analysis bounds the level of noise accumulation. We highlight the connection between a coherent channel and a nonlocal quantum nondemolition interaction and give two new protocols that implement a coherent channel. One protocol is superior to a previous method for a nonlocal quantum nondemolition interaction because it requires fewer communication resources. We then show how continuous-variable coherent superdense coding implements two nonlocal quantum nondemolition interactions with a quantum channel and bipartite entanglement. We finally show how to implement continuous-variable coherent teleportation experimentally and provide a way to verify the correctness of its operation.

id: 0709.3867
title: Rapid-purification protocols for optical homodyning
authors: Aravind Chiruvelli, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 6 pages, revtex4, 3 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012102 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3867
abstract: We present a number of rapid-purification feedback protocols for optical homodyne detection of a single optical qubit. We derive first a protocol that speeds up the rate of increase of the average purity of the system, and find that like the equivalent protocol for a non-disspative measurement, this generates a deterministic evolution for the purity in the limit of strong feedback. We also consider two analogues of the Wiseman-Ralph rapid-purification protocol in this setting, and show that like that protocol they speed up the average time taken to reach a fixed level of purity. We also examine how the performance of these algorithms changes with detection efficiency, being an important practical consideration.

id: 0709.3875
title: Error correction optimisation in the presence of X/Z asymmetry
authors: Z. W. E. Evans, A. M. Stephens, J. H. Cole, L. C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3875
abstract: By taking into account the physical nature of quantum errors it is possible to improve the efficiency of quantum error correction. Here we consider an optimisation to conventional quantum error correction which involves exploiting asymmetries in the rates of X and Z errors by reducing the rate of X correction. As an example, we apply this optimisation to the [[7,1,3]] code and make a comparison with conventional quantum error correction. After two levels of concatenated error correction we demonstrate a circuit depth reduction of at least 43% and reduction in failure rate of at least 67%. This improvement requires no additional resources and the required error asymmetry is likely to be present in most physical quantum computer architectures.

id: 0709.3909
title: Bell's inequality: Physics meets Probability
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: Legget's inequality and experiment of S. Gr\"oblacher, T. Paterik, R. Kaltenbaek, C. Brukner, M. Zukowski, A. Aspelmeyer, and A. Zeilinger, see section 14
journal: Information Science 179, N. 5, 492-504 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3909
abstract: We remind the viewpoint that violation of Bell's inequality might be interpreted not only as an evidence of the alternative -- either nonlocality or ``death of reality'' (under the assumption the quantum mechanics is incomplete). Violation of Bell's type inequalities is a well known sufficient condition of incompatibility of random variables -- impossibility to realize them on a single probability space. Thus, in fact, we should take into account an additional interpretation of violation of Bell's inequality -- a few pairs of random variables (two dimensional vector variables) involved in the EPR-Bohm experiment are incompatible. They could not be realized on a single Kolmogorov probability space. Thus one can choose between: a) completeness of quantum mechanics; b) nonlocality; c) `` death of reality''; d) non-Kolmogorovness. In any event, violation of Bell's inequality has a variety of possible interpretations. Hence, it could not be used to derive the unique conclusion on the relation between quantum and classical models.

id: 0709.3951
title: Geometric Measure of Indistinguishability for Groups of Identical Particles
authors: Patrick Cassam-Chena?
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 77, 3 (2008) 032103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3951
abstract: The concept of p-orthogonality (1=< p =< n) between n-particle states is introduced. It generalizes common orthogonality, which is equivalent to n-orthogonality, and strong orthogonality between fermionic states, which is equivalent to 1-orthogonality. Within the class of non p-orthogonal states a finer measure of non p-orthogonality is provided by Araki's angles between p-internal spaces. The p-orthogonality concept is a geometric measure of indistinguishability that is independent of the representation chosen for the quantum states. It induces a new hierarchy of approximations for group function methods. The simplifications that occur in the calculation of matrix elements between p-orthogonal group functions are presented.

id: 0709.4036
title: Resolved Sideband Cooling of a Micromechanical Oscillator
authors: A. Schliesser, R. Rivi¨¨re, G. Anetsberger, O. Arcizet, T. J. Kippenberg
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4036
abstract: Micro- and nanoscale opto-mechanical systems provide radiation pressure coupling of optical and mechanical degree of freedom and are actively pursued for their ability to explore quantum mechanical phenomena of macroscopic objects. Many of these investigations require preparation of the mechanical system in or close to its quantum ground state. Remarkable progress in ground state cooling has been achieved for trapped ions and atoms confined in optical lattices. Imperative to this progress has been the technique of resolved sideband cooling, which allows overcoming the inherent temperature limit of Doppler cooling and necessitates a harmonic trapping frequency which exceeds the atomic species' transition rate. The recent advent of cavity back-action cooling of mechanical oscillators by radiation pressure has followed a similar path with Doppler-type cooling being demonstrated, but lacking inherently the ability to attain ground state cooling as recently predicted. Here we demonstrate for the first time resolved sideband cooling of a mechanical oscillator. By pumping the first lower sideband of an optical microcavity, whose decay rate is more than twenty times smaller than the eigen-frequency of the associated mechanical oscillator, cooling rates above 1.5 MHz are attained. Direct spectroscopy of the motional sidebands reveals 40-fold suppression of motional increasing processes, which could enable reaching phonon occupancies well below unity (<0.03). Elemental demonstration of resolved sideband cooling as reported here should find widespread use in opto-mechanical cooling experiments. Apart from ground state cooling, this regime allows realization of motion measurement with an accuracy exceeding the standard quantum limit.

id: 0709.4059
title: Random multiparty entanglement distillation
authors: Ben Fortescue, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 9 pages, RevTeX. v2: Corrected misstatement of Horodecki et al's entanglement of assistance result, changed proof of Theorem 2 accordingly. Minor rephrasing elsewhere. Results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012348 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4059
abstract: We describe various results related to the random distillation of multiparty entangled states - that is, conversion of such states into entangled states shared between fewer parties, where those parties are not predetermined. In previous work [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 260501 (2007)] we showed that certain output states (namely Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) pairs) could be reliably acquired from a prescribed initial multipartite state (namely the W state) via random distillation that could not be reliably created between predetermined parties. Here we provide a more rigorous definition of what constitutes ``advantageous'' random distillation. We show that random distillation is always advantageous for W-class three-qubit states (but only sometimes for Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ)-class states). We show that the general class of multiparty states known as symmetric Dicke states can be readily converted to many other states in the class via random distillation. Finally we show that random distillation is provably not advantageous in the limit of multiple copies of pure states.

id: 0709.4073
title: Reply to 'comment on Berry phase in a composite system'
authors: X. X. Yi, L. C. Wang, T. Y. Zheng
comments: 1 page, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4073
abstract: In this reply, we show that the adiabatic theorem would break down in the weak coupling limit, and the definition for the subsystem geometric phase is well defined.

id: 0709.4105
title: Instabilities, nonhermiticity and exceptional points in the cranking model
authors: W.D. Heiss, R.G. Nazmitdinov
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math.Theor. vol.40 (2007) 9475-9481
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4105
abstract: A cranking harmonic oscillator model, widely used for the physics of fast rotating nuclei and Bose-Einstein condensates, is re-investigated in the context of PT-symmetry. The instability points of the model are identified as exceptional points. It is argued that - even though the Hamiltonian appears hermitian at first glance - it actually is not hermitian within the region of instability.

id: 0709.4109
title: Enhanced Deflection of Light Ray by Atomic Ensemble on Coherent Population Oscillation
authors: Jing Lu, Lan Zhou, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 7pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4109
abstract: In recent experiments[e.g., Nature Physics 2, 332 (2006)], the enhanced light deflection in an atomic ensemble due to inhomogeneous fields is demonstrated by the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) based mechanism. In this paper, we explore an different mechanism for the similar phenomenon of the enhanced light deflection. This mechanism is based on the coherent population oscillation, which leads to the hole burning in the absorption spectrum. The medium causing the deflection of probe light is an ensemble of two-level atoms manipulated by a strong controlled field on the two photon resonances. In the large detuning condition, the response of the medium to the pump field and signal field is obtained with steady state approximation. And it is found that after the probe field travels across the medium, the signal ray bends due to the spatial-dependent profile of the control beam.

id: 0709.4176
title: Angular momentum quantization from Planck's energy quantization
authors: J.H.O.Sales, A.T. Suzuki, D.S. Bonafe
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4176
abstract: We present in this work a pedagogical way of quantizing the atomic orbit for the hydrogen's atom model proposed by Bohr without using his hypothesis of angular momentum quantization. In contrast to the usual treatment for the orbital quantization, we show that using energy conservation, correspondence principle and Plank's energy quantization Bohr's hypothesis can be deduced from and is a consequence of the Planck's energy quantization.

id: 0709.4191
title: Two Sides of Spin Concept
authors: O.S. Kosmachev
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4191
abstract: The notion of the spin is shown to have two constituents, as exemplified by the spin of the electron. The first one is related to the form of the wave equation and determines the fermion or boson particle type. This implies the spin taking strictly half-integer or integer number. The second side of spin manifestation is related to the physical nature of the spin of the electron (and the corresponding magnetic moment) in the interaction resulting in nonuniform motion. It is shown that in this manifestation spin is no more fixed constant.

id: 0709.4194
title: Microscopic theory of the Casimir force at thermal equilibrium: large-separation asymptotics
authors: P. R. Buenzli, Ph. A. Martin
comments: 34 pages, 0 figures. New version includes restructured intro and minor typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 011114 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4194
abstract: We present an entirely microscopic calculation of the Casimir force $f(d)$ between two metallic plates in the limit of large separation $d$. The models of metals consist of mobile quantum charges in thermal equilibrium with the photon field at positive temperature $T$. Fluctuations of all degrees of freedom, matter and field, are treated according to the principles of quantum electrodynamics and statistical physics without recourse to approximations or intermediate assumptions. Our main result is the correctness of the asymptotic universal formula $ f(d) \sim -\frac{\zeta(3) \kB T}{8\pi d^3}$, $d\to\infty$. This supports the fact that, in the framework of Lifshitz' theory of electromagnetic fluctuations, transverse electric modes do not contribute in this regime. Moreover the microscopic origin of universality is seen to rely on perfect screening sum rules that hold in great generality for conducting media.

id: 0709.4198
title: Quantized Detector Networks: A review of recent developments
authors: George Jaroszkiewicz
comments: 59 pages, 14 figures, to be published in Int. J. Mod. Phys. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4198
abstract: QDN (quantized detector networks) is a description of quantum processes in which the principal focus is on observers and their apparatus, rather than on states of SUOs (systems under observation). It is a realization of Heisenberg's original instrumentalist approach to quantum physics and can deal with time dependent apparatus, multiple observers and inter-frame physics. QDN is most naturally expressed in the mathematical language of quantum computation, a language ideally suited to describe quantum experiments as processes of information exchange between observers and their apparatus. Examples in quantum optics are given, showing how the formalism deals with quantum interference, non-locality and entanglement. Particle decays, relativity and non-linearity in quantum mechanics are discussed.

id: 0709.4217
title: Weak measurement and control of entanglement generation
authors: Charles D. Hill, J. F. Ralph
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4217
abstract: In this paper we show how weak joint measurement and local feedback can be used to control entanglement generation between two qubits. To do this, we make use of a decoherence free subspace (DFS). Weak measurement and feedback can be used to drive the system into this subspace rapidly. Once within the subspace, feedback can generate entanglement rapidly, or turn off entanglement generation dynamically. We also consider, in the context of weak measurement, some of differences between purification and generating entanglement.

id: 0709.4238
title: Generic local distinguishability and completely entangled subspaces
authors: Jonathan Walgate, A. J. Scott
comments: 12 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 41, 375305 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4238
abstract: A subspace of a multipartite Hilbert space is completely entangled if it contains no product states. Such subspaces can be large with a known maximum size, S, approaching the full dimension of the system, D. We show that almost all subspaces with dimension less than or equal to S are completely entangled, and then use this fact to prove that n random pure quantum states are unambiguously locally distinguishable if and only if n does not exceed D-S. This condition holds for almost all sets of states of all multipartite systems, and reveals something surprising. The criterion is identical for separable and for nonseparable states: entanglement makes no difference.

id: 0709.4260
title: Geometric resonance cooling of polarizable particles in an optical waveguide
authors: G. Szirmai, P. Domokos
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 213602 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4260
abstract: In the radiation field of an optical waveguide, the Rayleigh scattering of photons is shown to result in a strongly velocity-dependent force on atoms. The pump field, which is injected in the fundamental branch of the waveguide, is favorably scattered by a moving atom into one of the transversely excited branches of propagating modes. All fields involved are far detuned from any resonances of the atom. For a simple polarizable particle, a linear friction force coefficient comparable to that of cavity cooling can be achieved.

id: 0709.4266
title: Ontological models and the interpretation of contextuality
authors: Nicholas Harrigan, Terry Rudolph
comments: Do not approach this paper with unrealistic expectations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4266
abstract: Studying the extent to which realism is compatible with quantum mechanics teaches us something about the quantum mechanical universe, regardless of the validity of such realistic assumptions. It has also recently been appreciated that these kinds of studies are fruitful for questions relating to quantum information and computation. Motivated by this, we extend the ontological model formalism for realistic theories to describe a set of theories emphasizing the role of measurement and preparation devices by introducing `hidden variables' to describe them. We illustrate both the ontological model formalism and our generalization of it through a series of example models taken from the literature. Our extension of the formalism allows us to quantitatively analyze the meaning contextuality (a constraint on successful realistic theories), finding that - taken at face-value - it can be realized as a natural interaction between the configurations of a system and measurement device. However, we also describe a property that we call deficiency, which follows from contextuality, but does not admit such a natural interpretation. Loosely speaking, deficiency breaks a symmetry between preparations and measurements in quantum mechanics. It is the property that the set of ontic states which a system prepared in quantum state psi may actually be in, is strictly smaller than the set of ontic states which would reveal the measurement outcome psi with certainty.

id: 0709.4268
title: Coherence lifetimes of excitations in an atomic condensate due to the thin spectrum
authors: T. Birol, T. Dereli, ?. E. M¨¹stecapl?o?lu, L. You
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 043616 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4268
abstract: We study the quantum coherence properties of a finite sized atomic condensate using a toy-model and the thin spectrum model formalism. The decoherence time for a condensate in the ground state, nominally taken as a variational symmetry breaking state, is investigated for both zero and finite temperatures. We also consider the lifetimes for Bogoliubov quasi-particle excitations, and contrast them to the observability window determined by the ground state coherence time. The lifetimes are shown to exhibit a general characteristic dependence on the temperature, determined by the thin spectrum accompanying the spontaneous symmetry breaking ground state.

id: 0709.4284
title: A squeezing formalism for finite dimensional quantum systems
authors: M. Ruzzi
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures, subm. to J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4284
abstract: This article presents a squeezing transformation for quantum systems associated to finite vector spaces. The physical idea of squeezing here is taken from the action of the usual squeezing operator over wave functions defined on a real line, that is, a transformation capable to diminish (or enhance) the mean square deviation of a centered distribution. As it is discussed, the definition of such an operator on finite dimensional vector spaces is not a trivial matter, but, on the other hand, has obvious connections with problems such as spin squeezing and (finite) quantum state reproduction.

id: 0709.4292
title: Reduced State Uniquely Defines Groverian Measure of Original Pure State
authors: Eylee Jung, Mi-Ra Hwang, Hungsoo Kim, Min-Soo Kim, DaeKil Park, Jin-Woo Son, Sayatnova Tamaryan
comments: title is changed, proofs are generalized to qudits and simplified, new analytic and numeric results are presented, new references are added, PRA version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062317 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4292
abstract: Groverian and Geometric entanglement measures of the n-party pure state are expressed by the (n-1)-party reduced state density operator directly. This main theorem derives several important consequences. First, if two pure n-qudit states have reduced states of (n-1)-qudits, which are equivalent under local unitary(LU) transformations, then they have equal Groverian and Geometric entanglement measures. Second, both measures have an upper bound for pure states. However, this upper bound is reached only for two qubit systems. Third, it converts effectively the nonlinear eigenvalue problem for three qubit Groverian measure into linear eigenvalue equations. Some typical solutions of these linear equations are written explicitly and the features of the general solution are discussed in detail.

id: 0709.4314
title: Experimental demonstration of quantum leader election in linear optics
authors: Yuta Okubo, Xiang-Bin Wang, Yun-Kun Jiang, Seiichiro Tani, Akihisa Tomita
comments: 7pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4314
abstract: Linear optics is a promising candidate to enable the construction of quantum computers. A number of quantum protocols gates based on linear optics have been demonstrated. However, it is well-known that these gates are non-deterministic and that higher order nonlinearity is necessary for deterministic operations. We found the quantum leader election protocol (QLE) can be operated deterministically only with linear optics, and we have demonstrated the nearly deterministic operation which overcomes classical limit.

id: 0709.4320
title: Experimental observation of the Anderson transition with atomic matter waves
authors: Julien Chab¨¦, Gabriel Lemari¨¦, Beno?t Gr¨¦maud, Dominique Delande, Pascal Szriftgiser, Jean Claude Garreau
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, revtex4
journal: Physical Review Letters 101, 25 (2008) 255702
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4320
abstract: We realize experimentally an atom-optics quantum chaotic system, the quasiperiodic kicked rotor, which is equivalent to a 3D disordered system, that allow us to demonstrate the Anderson metal-insulator transition. Sensitive measurements of the atomic wavefunction dynamics and the use of finite-size scaling techniques make it possible to extract both the critical parameters and the critical exponent of the transition, which is in good agreement with the value obtained in numerical simulations of the 3D Anderson model.

id: 0709.4329
title: Detecting unambiguously non-Abelian geometric phases with trapped ions
authors: Xin-Ding Zhang, Z. D. Wang, Liang-Bin Hu, Zhi-Ming Zhang, Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: 6 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 043031.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4329
abstract: We propose for the first time an experimentally feasible scheme to disclose the noncommutative effects induced by a light-induced non-Abelian gauge structure with trapped ions. Under an appropriate configuration, a true non-Abelian gauge potential naturally arises in connection with the geometric phase associated with two degenerated dark states in a four-state atomic system interacting with three pulsed laser fields. We show that the population in atomic state at the end of a composed path formed by two closed loops $C_1$ and $C_2$ in the parameter space can be significantly different from the composed counter-ordered path. This population difference is directly induced by the noncommutative feature of non-Abelian geometric phases and can be detected unambiguously with current technology.

id: 0709.4349
title: Bose-Einstein condensate in a harmonic trap with an eccentric dimple potential
authors: Haydar Uncu, Devrim Tarhan, Ersan Demiralp, Ozgur E. Mustecaplioglu
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, International Laser Physics Workshop. to be appear in Laser Physics
journal: Laser Physics, 18, 331-334 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4349
abstract: We investigate Bose-Einstein condensation of noninteracting gases in a harmonic trap with an off-center dimple potential. We specifically consider the case of a tight and deep dimple potential which is modelled by a point interaction. This point interaction is represented by a Dirac delta function. The atomic density, chemical potential, critical temperature and condensate fraction, the role of the relative depth and the position of the dimple potential are analyzed by performing numerical calculations.

id: 0709.4353
title: Bayesian Nash Equilibria and Bell Inequalities
authors: Taksu Cheon, Azhar Iqbal
comments: 6 pages, LaTeX JPSJ 2 column format, changes in sections 1, 3 and 4, added references
journal: Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 77 (2008) 024801 (6p)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4353
abstract: Games with incomplete information are formulated in a multi-sector probability matrix formalism that can cope with quantum as well as classical strategies. An analysis of classical and quantum strategy in a multi-sector extension of the game of Battle of Sexes clarifies the two distinct roles of nonlocal strategies, and establish the direct link between the true quantum gain of game's payoff and the breaking of Bell inequalities.

id: 0709.4364
title: A topos for algebraic quantum theory
authors: Chris Heunen, Nicolaas P. Landsman, Bas Spitters
comments: 52 pages, final version, to appear in Communications in Mathematical Physics
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics 291(1):63-110, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4364
abstract: The aim of this paper is to relate algebraic quantum mechanics to topos theory, so as to construct new foundations for quantum logic and quantum spaces. Motivated by Bohr's idea that the empirical content of quantum physics is accessible only through classical physics, we show how a C*-algebra of observables A induces a topos T(A) in which the amalgamation of all of its commutative subalgebras comprises a single commutative C*-algebra. According to the constructive Gelfand duality theorem of Banaschewski and Mulvey, the latter has an internal spectrum S(A) in T(A), which in our approach plays the role of a quantum phase space of the system. Thus we associate a locale (which is the topos-theoretical notion of a space and which intrinsically carries the intuitionistic logical structure of a Heyting algebra) to a C*-algebra (which is the noncommutative notion of a space). In this setting, states on A become probability measures (more precisely, valuations) on S(A), and self-adjoint elements of A define continuous functions (more precisely, locale maps) from S(A) to Scott's interval domain. Noting that open subsets of S(A) correspond to propositions about the system, the pairing map that assigns a (generalized) truth value to a state and a proposition assumes an extremely simple categorical form. Formulated in this way, the quantum theory defined by A is essentially turned into a classical theory, internal to the topos T(A).

id: 0709.4484
title: Time-optimal synthesis of unitary transformations in coupled fast and slow qubit system
authors: Robert Zeier, Haidong Yuan, Navin Khaneja
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4484
abstract: In this paper, we study time-optimal control problems related to system of two coupled qubits where the time scales involved in performing unitary transformations on each qubit are significantly different. In particular, we address the case where unitary transformations produced by evolutions of the coupling take much longer time as compared to the time required to produce unitary transformations on the first qubit but much shorter time as compared to the time to produce unitary transformations on the second qubit. We present a canonical decomposition of SU(4) in terms of the subgroup SU(2)xSU(2)xU(1), which is natural in understanding the time-optimal control problem of such a coupled qubit system with significantly different time scales. A typical setting involves dynamics of a coupled electron-nuclear spin system in pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance experiments at high fields. Using the proposed canonical decomposition, we give time-optimal control algorithms to synthesize various unitary transformations of interest in coherent spectroscopy and quantum information processing.

id: 0709.4502
title: Private Database Queries Using Quantum States with Limited Coherence Times
authors: Tad Hogg, Li Zhang
comments: extended to generalized (POVM) measurements
journal: Intl J. of Quantum Information 7(2):459-474 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4502
abstract: We describe a method for private database queries using exchange of quantum states with bits encoded in mutually incompatible bases. For technology with limited coherence time, the database vendor can announce the encoding after a suitable delay to allow the user to privately learn one of two items in the database without the ability to also definitely infer the second item. This quantum approach also allows the user to choose to learn other functions of the items, such as the exclusive-or of their bits, but not to gain more information than equivalent to learning one item, on average. This method is especially useful for items consisting of a few bits by avoiding the substantial overhead of conventional cryptographic approaches.

id: 0709.4539
title: Distributed Quantum Computation Based-on Small Quantum Registers
authors: Liang Jiang, Jacob M. Taylor, Anders S. S?rensen, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 22 Pages, 23 Figures and 1 Table (updated references)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 062323 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4539
abstract: We describe and analyze an efficient register-based hybrid quantum computation scheme. Our scheme is based on probabilistic, heralded optical connection among local five-qubit quantum registers. We assume high fidelity local unitary operations within each register, but the error probability for initialization, measurement, and entanglement generation can be very high (~5%). We demonstrate that with a reasonable time overhead our scheme can achieve deterministic non-local coupling gates between arbitrary two registers with very high fidelity, limited only by the imperfections from the local unitary operation. We estimate the clock cycle and the effective error probability for implementation of quantum registers with ion-traps or nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers. Our new scheme capitalizes on a new efficient two-level pumping scheme that in principle can create Bell pairs with arbitrarily high fidelity. We introduce a Markov chain model to study the stochastic process of entanglement pumping and map it to a deterministic process. Finally we discuss requirements for achieving fault-tolerant operation with our register-based hybrid scheme, and also present an alternative approach to fault-tolerant preparation of GHZ states.

id: 0709.4563
title: Systematic generation of entanglement measures for pure states
authors: Ayumu Sugita
comments: 13 pages, no figure. Some group theoretical notations are modified
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77 (2008), 052304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4563
abstract: We propose a method to generate entanglement measures systematically by using the irreducible decomposition of some copies of a state under the local unitary (LU) transformations. It is applicable to general multipartite systems. We show that there are entanglement monotones corresponding to singlet representations of the LU group. They can be evaluated efficiently in an algebraic way, and experimentally measurable by local projective measurements of the copies of the state. Non-singlet representations are also shown to be useful to classify entanglement. Our method reproduces many well-known measures in a unified way, and produces also a lot of new ones.

id: 0709.4642
title: Multipartite entanglement in four-qubit cluster-class states
authors: Yan-Kui Bai, Z. D. Wang
comments: 7 pages, 3 figs, version 3, some refs. are added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032313 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4642
abstract: Based on quantitative complementarity relations (QCRs), we analyze the multipartite correlations in four-qubit cluster-class states. It is proven analytically that the average multipartite correlation $E_{ms}$ is entanglement monotone. Moreover, it is also shown that the mixed three-tangle is a correlation measure compatible with the QCRs in this kind of quantum states. More arrestingly, with the aid of the QCRs, a set of hierarchy entanglement measures is obtained rigorously in the present system.

id: 0709.4644
title: Conditional preparation of states containing a definite number of photons
authors: Malcolm N. O'Sullivan, Kam Wai Clifford Chan, Vasudevan Lakshminarayanan, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, reference added, typos corrected, content updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4644
abstract: A technique for conditionally creating single- or multimode photon-number states is analyzed using Bayesian theory. We consider the heralded N-photon states created from the photons produced by an unseeded optical parametric amplifier when the heralding detector is the time-multiplexed photon-number-resolving detector recently demonstrated by Fitch, et al. [Phys. Rev. A 68, 043814 (2003).] and simultaneously by Achilles, et al. [Opt. Lett. 28, 2387 (2003).]. We find that even with significant loss in the heralding detector, fields with sub-Poissonian photon-number distributions can be created. We also show that heralded multimode fields created using this technique are more robust against detector loss than are single-mode fields.

id: 0709.0047
title: Quantum Informational Dark Energy: Dark energy from forgetting
authors: Jae-Weon Lee, Jungjai Lee, Hyeong-Chan Kim
comments: revtex,8 pages, 2 figures more detailed arguments added
journal: Proceedings of the National Institute for Mathematical Science 8, 1 (2007)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0047
abstract: We suggest that dark energy has a quantum informational origin. Landauer's principle associated with the erasure of quantum information at a cosmic horizon implies the non-zero vacuum energy having effective negative pressure. Assuming the holographic principle, the minimum free energy condition, and the Gibbons-Hawking temperature for the cosmic event horizon we obtain the holographic dark energy with the parameter $d\simeq 1$, which is consistent with the current observational data. It is also shown that both the entanglement energy and the horizon energy can be related to Landauer's principle.

id: 0709.0087
title: Research News -- Quantum Mechanical Entanglement and Tests of CPT Theorem with Neutral Mesons at e+ e- Colliders
authors: B. Ananthanarayan, Kshitij Garg
comments: 6 pages, submitted to Current Science
journal: Curr.Sci.93:1055-1057,2007
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0087
abstract: We review the recent confirmation of quantum entanglement in e+ e- collisions at the BELLE experiment at KEK-B in Japan with neutral B- mesons, and at the KLOE experiment at the DAFNE in Italy with neutral K- mesons. Such effects in the latter system seen already in proton-antiproton collisions by the CPLEAR experiment are also reviewed for purposes of comparison. In addition, the KLOE experiment provides new tests of the CPT theorem and are briefly discussed.

id: 0709.0180
title: Harmonic oscillator chains as Wigner Quantum Systems: periodic and fixed wall boundary conditions in gl(1|n) solutions
authors: S. Lievens, N.I. Stoilova, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: J.Math.Phys.49:073502,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0180
abstract: We describe a quantum system consisting of a one-dimensional linear chain of n identical harmonic oscillators coupled by a nearest neighbor interaction. Two boundary conditions are taken into account: periodic boundary conditions (where the nth oscillator is coupled back to the first oscillator) and fixed wall boundary conditions (where the first oscillator and the $n$th oscillator are coupled to a fixed wall). The two systems are characterized by their Hamiltonian. For their quantization, we treat these systems as Wigner Quantum Systems (WQS), allowing more solutions than just the canonical quantization solution. In this WQS approach, one is led to certain algebraic relations for operators (which are linear combinations of position and momentum operators) that should satisfy triple relations involving commutators and anti-commutators. These triple relations have a solution in terms of the Lie superalgebra gl(1|n). We study a particular class of gl(1|n) representations V(p), the so-called ladder representations. For these representations, we determine the spectrum of the Hamiltonian and of the position operators (for both types of boundary conditions). Furthermore, we compute the eigenvectors of the position operators in terms of stationary states. This leads to explicit expressions for position probabilities of the n oscillators in the chain. An analysis of the plots of such position probability distributions gives rise to some interesting observations. In particular, the physical behavior of the system as a WQS is very much in agreement with what one would expect from the classical case, except that all physical quantities (energy, position and momentum of each oscillator) have a finite spectrum.

id: 0709.0527
title: Quantum Non-Demolition Detection of Strongly Correlated Systems
authors: Kai Eckert, Oriol Romero-Isart, Mirta Rodriguez, Maciej Lewenstein, Eugene S. Polzik, Anna Sanpera
comments: Published version
journal: Nature Physics 4, 50-54 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0527
abstract: Preparation, manipulation, and detection of strongly correlated states of quantum many body systems are among the most important goals and challenges of modern physics. Ultracold atoms offer an unprecedented playground for realization of these goals. Here we show how strongly correlated states of ultracold atoms can be detected in a quantum non-demolition scheme, that is, in the fundamentally least destructive way permitted by quantum mechanics. In our method, spatially resolved components of atomic spins couple to quantum polarization degrees of freedom of light. In this way quantum correlations of matter are faithfully mapped on those of light; the latter can then be efficiently measured using homodyne detection. We illustrate the power of such spatially resolved quantum noise limited polarization measurement by applying it to detect various standard and "exotic" types of antiferromagnetic order in lattice systems and by indicating the feasibility of detection of superfluid order in Fermi liquids.

id: 0709.0985
title: Matterwave Transport Without Transit
authors: M. Rab, J. H. Cole, N. G. Parker, A. D. Greentree, L. C. L. Hollenberg, A. M. Martin
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 061602(R) (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.0985
abstract: Classically it is impossible to have transport without transit, i.e., if the points one, two and three lie sequentially along a path then an object moving from one to three must, at some point in time, be located at two. However, for a quantum particle in a three-well system it is possible to transport the particle between wells one and three such that the probability of finding it at any time in the classically accessible state in well two is negligible. We consider theoretically the analogous scenario for a Bose-Einstein condensate confined within a three well system. In particular, we predict the adiabatic transportation of an interacting Bose-Einstein condensate of 2000 Li atoms from well one to well three without transiting the allowed intermediate region. To an observer of this macroscopic quantum effect it would appear that, over a timescale of the order of one second, the condensate had transported, but not transited, a macroscopic distance of 20 microns between wells one and three.

id: 0709.1198
title: Complex Projection of Quasianti-Hermitian Quaternionic Hamiltonian Dynamics
authors: Giuseppe Scolarici
comments: This is a contribution to the Proc. of the 3-rd Microconference "Analytic and Algebraic Methods III"(June 19, 2007, Prague, Czech Republic), published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 3 (2007), 088, 10 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1198
abstract: We characterize the subclass of quasianti-Hermitian quaternionic Hamiltonian dynamics such that their complex projections are one-parameter semigroup dynamics in the space of complex quasi-Hermitian density matrices. As an example, the complex projection of a spin-1/2 system in a constant quasianti-Hermitian quaternionic potential is considered.

id: 0709.1314
title: Quantum metamaterials: Electromagnetic waves in a Josephson qubit line
authors: A.L. Rakhmanov, A.M. Zagoskin, Sergey Savel'ev, Franco Nori
comments: References added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 144507 (2008) (Editors' Suggestion)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1314
abstract: We consider the propagation of a classical electromagnetic wave through a transmission line, formed by identical superconducting charge qubits inside a superconducting resonator. Since the qubits can be in a coherent superposition of quantum states, we show that such a system demonstrates interesting new effects, such as a ``breathing'' photonic crystal with an oscillating bandgap, and a ``quantum Archimedean screw'' that transports, at an arbitrary controlled velocity, Josephson plasma waves through the transmission line. The key ingredient of these effects is that the optical properties of the Josephson transmission line are controlled by the quantum coherent state of the qubits.

id: 0709.1381
title: Towards a dephasing diode: asymmetric and geometric dephasing
authors: Robert S. Whitney, Alexander Shnirman, Yuval Gefen
comments: 4 pages (2 fig) v2: extensive improvements to "readability" & references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 126806 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1381
abstract: We study the effect of a noisy environment on spin and charge transport in ballistic quantum wires with spin-orbit coupling (Rashba coupling). We find that the wire then acts as a ``dephasing diode'', inducing very different dephasing of the spins of right and left movers. We also show how Berry phase (geometric phase) in a curved wire can induce such asymmetric dephasing, in addition to purely geometric dephasing. We propose ways to measure these effects through spin detectors, spin-echo techniques, and Aharanov-Bohm interferometry.

id: 0709.1383
title: Decoherence induced by an interacting spin environment in the transition from integrability to chaos
authors: A. Relano, J. Dukelsky, R.A. Molina
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: Physical Review E 76, 046223 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1383
abstract: We investigate the decoherence properties of a central system composed of two spins 1/2 in contact with a spin bath. The dynamical regime of the bath ranges from a fully integrable integrable limit to complete chaoticity. We show that the dynamical regime of the bath determines the efficiency of the decoherence process. For perturbative regimes, the integrable limit provides stronger decoherence, while in the strong coupling regime the chaotic limit becomes more efficient. We also show that the decoherence time behaves in a similar way. On the contrary, the rate of decay of magnitudes like linear entropy or fidelity does not depend on the dynamical regime of the bath. We interpret the latter results as due to a comparable complexity of the Hamiltonian for both the integrable and the fully chaotic limits.

id: 0709.1412
title: Heat Transport in Quantum Spin Chains: Stochastic Baths vs Quantum Trajectories
authors: Carlos Mejia-Monasterio, Hannu Wichterich
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, submitted to European Physics Journal Special Topics
journal: Eur. Phys. J. ST 151, 113 (2007)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1412
abstract: We discuss the problem of heat conduction in quantum spin chain models. To investigate this problem it is necessary to consider the finite open system connected to heat baths. We describe two different procedures to couple the system with the reservoirs: a model of stochastic heat baths and the quantum trajectories solution of the quantum master equation. The stochastic heat bath procedure operates on the pure wave function of the isolated system, so that it is locally and periodically collapsed to a quantum state consistent with a boundary nonequilibrium state. In contrast, the quantum trajectories procedure evaluates ensemble averages in terms of the reduced density matrix operator of the system. We apply these procedures to different models of quantum spin chains and numerically show their applicability to study the heat flow.

id: 0709.1442
title: Light-matter interaction in Mie nanolasers
authors: C. Conti, A. Fratalocchi, G. Ruocco
comments: Slightly revised version with some typos corrected and figure 3 changed. 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1442
abstract: By deriving a three dimensional vector set of Maxwell-Bloch equations, we report on an ab-initio investigation of a spherical Mie nanolaser. Parallel numerical simulations predict a rich physical scenario, ranging from a nontrivial vectorial energy-matter interplay in the initial stage of evolution to mode competition and dynamical frequency pulling effects. Application of these effects could favor the realization of nonlinearly-controlled largely-tunable nanolaser devices.

id: 0709.1542
title: Coherent single atom shuttle between two Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Uwe R. Fischer, Christian Iniotakis, Anna Posazhennikova
comments: 4 pages of RevTex4, 4 figures; Rapid Communication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 031602(R) (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1542
abstract: We study an atomic quantum dot representing a single hyperfine "impurity" atom which is coherently coupled to two well-separated Bose-Einstein condensates, in the limit when the coupling between the dot and the condensates dominates the inter-condensate tunneling coupling. It is demonstrated that the quantum dot by itself can induce large-amplitude Josephson-like oscillations of the particle imbalance between the condensates, which display a two-frequency behavior. For noninteracting condensates, we provide an approximate solution to the coupled nonlinear equations of motion which allows us to obtain these two frequencies analytically.

id: 0709.1573
title: Quantum simulation of Anderson and Kondo lattices with superconducting qubits
authors: Juan Jose Garcia-Ripoll, Enrique Solano, Miguel Angel Martin-Delgado
comments: Longer version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 024522 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1573
abstract: We introduce a mapping between a variety of superconducting circuits and a family of Hamiltonians describing localized magnetic impurities interacting with conduction bands. This includes the Anderson model, the single impurity one- and two-channel Kondo problem, as well as the 1D Kondo lattice. We compare the requirements for performing quantum simulations using the proposed circuits to those of universal quantum computation with superconducting qubits, singling out the specific challenges that will have to be addressed.

id: 0709.1703
title: Existence, uniqueness and approximation of a stochastic Schr?dinger equation: the diffusive case
authors: Cl¨¦ment Pellegrini
comments: Published in at this http URL the Annals of Probability (this http URL) by the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (this http URL)
journal: Annals of Probability 2008, Vol. 36, No. 6, 2332-2353
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1703
abstract: Recent developments in quantum physics make heavy use of so-called "quantum trajectories." Mathematically, this theory gives rise to "stochastic Schr\"odinger equations", that is, perturbation of Schr\"odinger-type equations under the form of stochastic differential equations. But such equations are in general not of the usual type as considered in the literature. They pose a serious problem in terms of justifying the existence and uniqueness of a solution, justifying the physical pertinence of the equations. In this article we concentrate on a particular case: the diffusive case, for a two-level system. We prove existence and uniqueness of the associated stochastic Schr\"odinger equation. We physically justify the equations by proving that they are a continuous-time limit of a concrete physical procedure for obtaining a quantum trajectory.

id: 0709.1733
title: Isolated Eigenvalues of the Ferromagnetic Spin-J XXZ Chain with Kink Boundary Conditions
authors: Jaideep Mulherkar, Bruno Nachtergaele, Robert Sims, Shannon Starr
comments: 
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2008) P01016
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1733
abstract: We investigate the low-lying excited states of the spin J ferromagnetic XXZ chain with Ising anisotropy Delta and kink boundary conditions. Since the third component of the total magnetization, M, is conserved, it is meaningful to study the spectrum for each fixed value of M. We prove that for J>= 3/2 the lowest excited eigenvalues are separated by a gap from the rest of the spectrum, uniformly in the length of the chain. In the thermodynamic limit, this means that there are a positive number of excitations above the ground state and below the essential spectrum.

id: 0709.1965
title: Natural extension of the Generalised Uncertainty Principle
authors: C. Bambi, F. R. Urban
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, v2 with added references, revised and extended as published in CQG
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.25:095006,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1965
abstract: We discuss a gedanken experiment for the simultaneous measurement of the position and momentum of a particle in de Sitter spacetime. We propose an extension of the so-called generalized uncertainty principle (GUP) which implies the existence of a minimum observable momentum. The new GUP is directly connected to the nonzero cosmological constant, which becomes a necessary ingredient for a more complete picture of the quantum spacetime.

id: 0709.2101
title: Observation of the Purcell effect in high-index-contrast micropillar
authors: A. J. Bennett, D. J. P. Ellis, A. J. Shields, P. Atkinson, I. Farrer, D. A. Ritchie
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 90, 191911 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2101
abstract: We have fabricated pillar microcavity samples with Bragg mirrors consisting of alternate layers of GaAs and Aluminium Oxide. Compared to the more widely studied GaAs/AlAs micropillars these mirrors can achieve higher reflectivities with fewer layer repeats and reduce the mode volume. We have studied a number of samples containing a low density of InGaAs/GaAs self assembled quantum dots in a cavity and here report observation of a three fold enhancement in the radiative lifetime of a quantum dot exciton state due to the Purcell effect.

id: 0709.2105
title: Oxide-apertured microcavity single-photon emitting diode
authors: D. J. P. Ellis, A. J. Bennett, A. J. Shields, P. Atkinson, D. A. Ritchie
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 90, 233514 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2105
abstract: We have developed a microcavity single-photon source based on a single quantum dot within a planar cavity in which wet-oxidation of a high-aluminium content layer provides lateral confinement of both the photonic mode and the injection current. Lateral confinement of the optical mode in optically pumped structures produces a strong enhancement of the radiative decay rate. Using microcavity structures with doped contact layers, we demonstrate a single-photon emitting diode where current may be injected into a single dot.

id: 0709.2135
title: Coupling Superconducting Qubits via a Cavity Bus
authors: J. Majer, J. M. Chow, J. M. Gambetta, Jens Koch, B. R. Johnson, J. A. Schreier, L. Frunzio, D. I. Schuster, A. A. Houck, A. Wallraff, A. Blais, M. H. Devoret, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, to be published in Nature
journal: Nature 449, 443-447 (27 September 2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2135
abstract: Superconducting circuits are promising candidates for constructing quantum bits (qubits) in a quantum computer; single-qubit operations are now routine, and several examples of two qubit interactions and gates having been demonstrated. These experiments show that two nearby qubits can be readily coupled with local interactions. Performing gates between an arbitrary pair of distant qubits is highly desirable for any quantum computer architecture, but has not yet been demonstrated. An efficient way to achieve this goal is to couple the qubits to a quantum bus, which distributes quantum information among the qubits. Here we show the implementation of such a quantum bus, using microwave photons confined in a transmission line cavity, to couple two superconducting qubits on opposite sides of a chip. The interaction is mediated by the exchange of virtual rather than real photons, avoiding cavity induced loss. Using fast control of the qubits to switch the coupling effectively on and off, we demonstrate coherent transfer of quantum states between the qubits. The cavity is also used to perform multiplexed control and measurement of the qubit states. This approach can be expanded to more than two qubits, and is an attractive architecture for quantum information processing on a chip.

id: 0709.2187
title: Manipulating atoms in an optical lattice: Fractional fermion number and its optical quantum measurement
authors: J. Ruostekoski, J. Javanainen, G. V. Dunne
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A77:013603,2008
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2187
abstract: We provide a detailed analysis of our previously proposed scheme [Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 180401, (2002)] to engineer the profile of the hopping amplitudes for atomic gases in a 1D optical lattice so that the particle number becomes fractional. We consider a constructed system of a dilute two-species gas of fermionic atoms where the two components are coupled via a coherent electromagnetic field with a topologically nontrivial phase profile. We show both analytically and numerically how the resulting atomic Hamiltonian in a prepared dimerized optical lattice with a defect in the pattern of alternating hopping amplitudes exhibits a fractional fermion number. In particular, in the low-energy limit we demonstrate the equivalence of the atomic Hamiltonian to a relativistic Dirac Hamiltonian describing fractionalization in quantum field theory. Expanding on our earlier argument [Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 150404 (2003)] we show how the fractional eigenvalues of the particle number operator can be detected via light scattering. In particular, we show how scattering of far-off resonant light can convey information about the counting statistics of the atoms in an optical lattice, including state-selective atom density profiles and atom number fluctuations. Optical detection could provide a truly quantum mechanical measurement of the particle number fractionalization in a dilute atomic gas.

id: 0709.2366
title: Reduction Procedures in Classical and Quantum Mechanics
authors: J. F. Carinena, J. Clemente-Gallardo, G. Marmo
comments: AMS-LaTeX, 35 pages. Expanded version of the Invited review talk delivered by G. Marmo at XXIst International Workshop On Differential Geometric Methods In Theoretical Mechanics, Madrid (Spain), 2006. To appear in Int. J. Geom. Methods in Modern Physics
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys.4:1363-1403,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2366
abstract: We present, in a pedagogical style, many instances of reduction procedures appearing in a variety of physical situations, both classical and quantum. We concentrate on the essential aspects of any reduction procedure, both in the algebraic and geometrical setting, elucidating the analogies and the differences between the classical and the quantum situations.

id: 0709.2392
title: Growth and optical properties of self-assembled InGaAs Quantum Posts
authors: H. J. Krenner, C. Pryor, J. He, J. P. Zhang, Y.Wu, C. M. Morris, M. S. Sherwin, P. M. Petroff
comments: Proccedings paper for MSS-13, 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physica E 40, 1785-1789 (2008)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2392
abstract: We demonstrate a method to grow height controlled, dislocation-free InGaAs quantum posts (QPs) on GaAs by molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) which is confirmed by structural investigations. The optical properties are compared to realistic 8-band k.p calculations of the electronic structure which fully account for strain and the structural properties of the QP. Using QPs embedded in n-i-p junctions we find wide range tunability of the interband spectrum and giant static dipole moments.

id: 0709.2548
title: Controlling Fano Profiles via Conical Intersections
authors: Yoav Berlatzky, Shachar Klaiman
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2548
abstract: An ab initio analytical model for Fano resonances in two-channel systems is presented. We find that the lineshape parameter q factors into a background contribution q_b that depends only on the uncoupled channels and an interaction contribution q_i that is affected by the coupling between the channels, revealing how the overall lineshape parameter q may be controlled. In particular, we show how conical intersections of the background phase shifts have an important role in the interplay between q_b and q_i. Finally, control of Fano transmission profiles through q_b and q_i is demonstrated for quantum billiards.

id: 0709.2717
title: Autocorrelations and Thermal Fragility of Anyonic Loops in Topologically Quantum Ordered Systems
authors: Zohar Nussinov, Gerardo Ortiz
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2717
abstract: Are systems that display Topological Quantum Order (TQO), and have a gap to excitations, hardware fault-tolerant at finite temperatures? We show that in surface code models that display low d-dimensional Gauge-Like Symmetries, such as Kitaev's and its generalizations, the expectation value of topological symmetry operators vanishes at any non-zero temperature, a phenomenon that we coined thermal fragility. The autocorrelation time for the non-local topological quantities in these systems may remain finite even in the thermodynamic limit. We provide explicit expressions for the autocorrelation functions in Kitaev's model. If temperatures far below the gap may be achieved then these autocorrelation times, albeit finite, can be made large. The physical engine behind the loss of correlations at large spatial and/or temporal distance is the proliferation of topological defects at any finite temperature as a result of a dimensional reduction. This raises an important question: How may we best quantify the degree of protection of quantum information in a topologically ordered system at finite temperature?

id: 0709.2727
title: Does the complex deformation of the Riemann equation exhibit shocks?
authors: Carl M. Bender, Joshua Feinberg
comments: latex, 8 pages
journal: J.Phys.A41:244004,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2727
abstract: The Riemann equation $u_t+uu_x=0$, which describes a one-dimensional accelerationless perfect fluid, possesses solutions that typically develop shocks in a finite time. This equation is $\cP\cT$ symmetric. A one-parameter $\cP\cT$-invariant complex deformation of this equation, $u_t-iu(iu_x)^\epsilon= 0$ ($\epsilon$ real), is solved exactly using the method of characteristic strips, and it is shown that for real initial conditions, shocks cannot develop unless $\epsilon$ is an odd integer.

id: 0709.2865
title: Renormalisation in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Michael C. Birse
comments: 9 pages, 4 eps figures; contribution to the Bled 2007 Workshop "Hadron structure and lattice QCD"
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2865
abstract: This lecture provides an introduction to the renormalisation group as applied to scattering of two nonrelativistic particles. As well as forming a framework for constructing effective theories of few-nucleon systems, these ideas also provide a simple example which illustrates general features of the renormalisation group.

id: 0709.2942
title: Conformal Enhancement of Holographic Scaling in Black Hole Thermodynamics: A Near-Horizon Heat-Kernel Framework
authors: Horacio E. Camblong, Carlos R. Ordonez
comments: 13 pages, JHEP style. Added section 3 in the new version and a few typos were corrected
journal: JHEP 0712:099,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2942
abstract: Standard thermodynamic treatments of quantum field theory in the presence of black-hole backgrounds reproduce the black hole entropy by usually specializing to the leading order of the heat-kernel or the high-temperature expansion. By contrast, this work develops a hybrid framework centered on geometric spectral asymptotics whereby these assumptions are shown to be unwarranted insofar as black hole thermodynamics is concerned. The approach--consisting of the concurrent use of near-horizon and heat-kernel asymptotic expansions--leads to a proof of the holographic scaling of the entropy as a universal feature driven by conformal quantum mechanics.

id: 0709.2960
title: Exact Solvability of Two-Dimensional Real Singular Morse Potential
authors: M. V. Ioffe, D. N. Nishnianidze
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A76:052114,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.2960
abstract: The supersymmetric approach in the form of second order intertwining relations is used to prove the exact solvability of two-dimensional Schrodinger equation with generalized two-dimensional Morse potential for $a_0=-1/2$. This two-parametric model is not amenable to conventional separation of variables, but it is completely integrable: the symmetry operator of fourth order in momenta exists. All bound state energies are found explicitly, and all corresponding wave functions are built analytically. By means of shape invariance property, the result is extended to the hierarchy of Morse models with arbitrary integer and half-integer values $a_k=-(k+1)/2.$

id: 0709.3017
title: Emergent Fermions and Anyons in the Kitaev Model
authors: K. P. Schmidt, S. Dusuel, J. Vidal
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 057208 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3017
abstract: We study the gapped phase of the Kitaev model on the honeycomb lattice using perturbative continuous unitary transformations. The effective low-energy Hamiltonian is found to be an extended toric code with interacting anyons. High-energy excitations are emerging free fermions which are composed of hardcore bosons with an attached string of spin operators. The excitation spectrum is mapped onto that of a single particle hopping on a square lattice in a magnetic field. We also illustrate how to compute correlation functions in this framework. The present approach yields analytical perturbative results in the thermodynamical limit without using the Majorana or the Jordan-Wigner fermionization initially proposed to solve this problem.

id: 0709.3131
title: Does a Computer have an Arrow of Time?
authors: O. J. E. Maroney
comments: 31 pages, no figures, publication version
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3131
abstract: In [Sch05a], it is argued that Boltzmann's intuition, that the psychological arrow of time is necessarily aligned with the thermodynamic arrow, is correct. Schulman gives an explicit physical mechanism for this connection, based on the brain being representable as a computer, together with certain thermodynamic properties of computational processes. [Haw94] presents similar, if briefer, arguments. The purpose of this paper is to critically examine the support for the link between thermodynamics and an arrow of time for computers. The principal arguments put forward by Schulman and Hawking will be shown to fail. It will be shown that any computational process that can take place in an entropy increasing universe, can equally take place in an entropy decreasing universe. This conclusion does not automatically imply a psychological arrow can run counter to the thermodynamic arrow. Some alternative possible explana- tions for the alignment of the two arrows will be briefly discussed.

id: 0709.3163
title: Few-boson dynamics in double wells: From single-atom to correlated-pair tunneling
authors: Sascha Z?llner, Hans-Dieter Meyer, Peter Schmelcher
comments: small revision changes; shortened
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 040401 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3163
abstract: We investigate few-boson tunneling in a one-dimensional double well, covering the full crossover from weak interactions to the fermionization limit of strong correlations. Based on exact quantum-dynamical calculations, it is found that the tunneling dynamics of two atoms evolves from Rabi oscillations to correlated pair tunneling as we increase the interaction strength. Near the fermionization limit, fragmented-pair tunneling is observed and analyzed in terms of the population imbalance and two-body correlations. For more atoms, the tunneling dynamics near fermionization is shown to be sensitive to both atom number and initial configuration.

id: 0709.3282
title: Unified Treatment of Mixed Vector-Scalar Screened Coulomb Potentials for Fermions
authors: Luis B. Castro, Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 7 pages
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.E16:2998-3001,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3282
abstract: The problem of a fermion subject to a general mixing of vector and scalar screened Coulomb potentials in a two-dimensional world is analyzed and quantization conditions are found.

id: 0709.3460
title: Superconducting charge qubits from a microscopic many-body perspective
authors: D. A. Rodrigues, T. P. Spiller, J. F. Annett, B. L. Gy?rffy
comments: Accepted for J Phys Condensed Matter
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 19 (2007) 436211.
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3460
abstract: The quantised Josephson junction equation that underpins the behaviour of charge qubits and other tunnel devices is usually derived through cannonical quantisation of the classical macroscopic Josephson relations. However, this approach may neglect effects due to the fact that the charge qubit consists of a superconducting island of finite size connected to a large superconductor. We show that the well known quantised Josephson equation can be derived directly and simply from a microscopic many-body Hamiltonian. By choosing the appropriate strong coupling limit we produce a highly simplified Hamiltonian that nevertheless allows us to go beyond the mean field limit and predict further finite-size terms in addition to the basic equation.

id: 0709.3547
title: Partial transpose of permutation matrices
authors: Qing-Hu Hou, Toufik Mansour, Simone Severini
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3547
abstract: The partial transpose of a block matrix M is the matrix obtained by transposing the blocks of M independently. We approach the notion of partial transpose from a combinatorial point of view. In this perspective, we solve some basic enumeration problems concerning the partial transpose of permutation matrices. More specifically, we count the number of permutations matrices which are equal to their partial transpose and the number of permutation matrices whose partial transpose is still a permutation. We solve these problems also when restricted to symmetric permutation matrices only.

id: 0709.3651
title: A further look into combinatorial orthogonality
authors: Simone Severini, Ferenc Sz?ll?si
comments: 11 pages, some typos are corrected. To appear in The Electronic journal of Linear Algebra
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3651
abstract: Strongly quadrangular matrices have been introduced in the study of the combinatorial properties of unitary matrices. It is known that if a (0, 1)-matrix supports a unitary then it is strongly quadrangular. However, the converse is not necessarily true. In this paper, we fully classify strongly quadrangular matrices up to degree 5. We prove that the smallest strongly quadrangular matrices which do not support unitaries have exactly degree 5. Further, we isolate two submatrices not allowing a (0, 1)-matrix to support unitaries.

id: 0709.3685
title: The Spin Density Matrix II: Application to a system of two quantum dots
authors: Sharif D. Kunikeev, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 16 pages including 12 figures. Sequel to "The Spin Density Matrix I: General Theory and Exact Master Equations", arXiv:0708.0644
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 045320 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3685
abstract: This work is a sequel to our work "The Spin Density Matrix I: General Theory and Exact Master Equations" (eprint arXiv:0708.0644 [cond-mat]). Here we compare pure- and pseudo-spin dynamics using as an example a system of two quantum dots, a pair of localized conduction-band electrons in an n-doped GaAs semiconductor. Pure-spin dynamics is obtained by tracing out the orbital degrees of freedom, whereas pseudo-spin dynamics retains (as is conventional) an implicit coordinate dependence. We show that magnetic field inhomogeneity and spin-orbit interaction result in a non-unitary evolution in pure-spin dynamics, whereas these interactions contribute to the effective pseudo-spin Hamiltonian via terms that are asymmetric in spin permutations, in particular, the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) spin-orbit interaction. We numerically investigate the non-unitary effects in the dynamics of the triplet states population, purity, and Lamb energy shift, as a function of interdot distance and magnetic field difference. The spin-orbit interaction is found to produce effects of roughly four orders of magnitude smaller than those due to magnetic field difference in the pure-spin model. We estimate the spin-orbit interaction magnitude in the DM-interaction term. Our estimate gives a smaller value than that recently obtained by Kavokin [Phys. Rev. B 64, 075305 (2001)], who did not include double occupancy effects. We show that a necessary and sufficient condition for obtaining a universal set of quantum logic gates, involving only two spins, in both pure- and pseudo-spin models is that the magnetic field inhomogeneity and the Heisenberg interaction are both non-vanishing. We also briefly analyze pure-spin dynamics in the electron on liquid helium system recently proposed by Lyon [Phys. Rev. A 74, 052338 (2006)].

id: 0709.3713
title: Existence, uniqueness and approximation for stochastic Schrodinger equation: the Poisson case
authors: Clement Pellegrini
comments: 35 pages
journal: 
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3713
abstract: In quantum physics, recent investigations deal with the so-called "quantum trajectory" theory. Heuristic rules are usually used to give rise to "stochastic Schrodinger equations" which are stochastic differential equations of non-usual type describing the physical models. These equations pose tedious problems in terms of mathematical justification: notion of solution, existence, uniqueness, justification... In this article, we concentrate on a particular case: the Poisson case. Random measure theory is used in order to give rigorous sense to such equations. We prove existence and uniqueness of a solution for the associated stochastic equation. Furthermore, the stochastic model is physically justified by proving that the solution can be obtained as a limit of a concrete discrete time physical model.

id: 0709.3768
title: Thermalisation by a boson bath in a pure state
authors: S. Camalet
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 61 (2008) p. 193
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3768
abstract: We consider a quantum system weakly coupled to a large heat bath of harmonic oscillators. It is well known that such a boson bath initially at thermal equilibrium thermalises the system. We show that assuming a priori an equilibrium state is not necessary to obtain the thermalisation of the system. We determine the complete Schr\"odinger time evolution of the subsystem of interest for an initial pure product state of the composite system consisting of the considered system and the bath. We find that the system relaxes into canonical equilibrium for almost all initial pure bath states of macroscopically well-defined energy. The temperature of the system asymptotic thermal state is determined by the energy of the initial bath state as the corresponding microcanonical temperature. Moreover, the time evolution of the system is identical to the one obtained assuming that the boson bath is initially at thermal equilibrium with this temperature. A significant part of our approach is applicable to other baths and we identify the bath features which are requisite for the thermalisation studied.

id: 0709.3782
title: Aharonov-Bohm interactions of a vector unparticle
authors: Archil Kobakhidze
comments: 4 pp, discussion expanded, journal version
journal: Phys.Rev.D76:097701,2007
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3782
abstract: Recently Georgi argued that hypothetical conformally invariant hidden sector weakly interacting with ordinary particles will have unusual manifestations at low energies in terms of effective degrees of freedom called unparticles. In this note we consider Aharonov-Bohm type of interactions due to the vector unparticle coupled to elementary fermions. We have found that quantum mechanical phase shift is path-dependent.

id: 0709.3840
title: Entanglement Entropy in the Two-Dimensional Random Transverse Field Ising Model
authors: Rong Yu, Hubert Saleur, Stephan Haas
comments: 4.3 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 140402(R) (2008).
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3840
abstract: The scaling behavior of the entanglement entropy in the two-dimensional random transverse field Ising model is studied numerically through the strong disordered renormalization group method. We find that the leading term of the entanglement entropy always scales linearly with the block size. However, besides this \emph{area law} contribution, we find a subleading logarithmic correction at the quantum critical point. This correction is discussed from the point of view of an underlying percolation transition, both at finite and at zero temperature.

id: 0709.3842
title: A nonlinear Ramsey interferometer operating beyond the Heisenberg limit
authors: S. Choi, B. Sundaram
comments: 4 figures. Submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3842
abstract: We show that a dynamically evolving two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate (TBEC) with an adiabatic, time-varying Raman coupling maps exactly onto a nonlinear Ramsey interferometer that includes a nonlinear medium. Assuming a realistic quantum state for the TBEC, namely the SU(2) coherent spin state, we find that the measurement uncertainty of the ``path-difference'' phase shift scales as the standard quantum limit (1/N^{1/2}) where N is the number of atoms, while that for the interatomic scattering strength scales as 1/N^{7/5}, overcoming the Heisenberg limit of 1/N.

id: 0709.3894
title: Electrically injected cavity polaritons
authors: Luca Sapienza, Angela Vasanelli, Raffaele Colombelli, Cristiano Ciuti, Yannick Chassagneux, Christophe Manquest, Ulf Gennser, Carlo Sirtori
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3894
abstract: We have realised a semiconductor quantum structure that produces electroluminescence while operating in the light-matter strong coupling regime. The mid-infrared light emitting device is composed of a quantum cascade structure embedded in a planar microcavity, based on the GaAs/AlGaAs material system. At zero bias, the structure is characterised using reflectivity measurements which show, up to room temperature, a wide polariton anticrossing between an intersubband transition and the resonant cavity photon mode. Under electrical injection the spectral features of the emitted light change drastically, as electrons are resonantly injected in a reduced part of the polariton branches. Our experiment demonstrates that electrons can be selectively injected into polariton states up to room temperature.

id: 0709.3908
title: Spin dynamics with non-abelian Berry gauge fields as a semiclassical constrained hamiltonian system
authors: Omer F. Dayi
comments: References and some clarification added. Published version
journal: J.Phys.A41:315204,2008
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3908
abstract: The dynamics of observables which are matrices depending on \hbar and taking values in classical phase space is defined retaining the terms up to the first order in \hbar of the Moyal bracket. Within this semiclassical approach a first order lagrangian involving gauge fields is studied as a constrained hamiltonian system. This provides a systematic study of spin dynamics in the presence of non-abelian Berry gauge fields. We applied the method to various types of dynamical spin systems and clarified some persisting discussions. In particular employing the Berry gauge field which generates the Thomas precession, we calculated the force exerted on an electron in the external electric and magnetic fields. Moreover, a simple semiclassical formulation of the spin Hall effect is accomplished.

id: 0709.3927
title: Exact relationship between the entanglement entropies of XY and quantum Ising chains
authors: F. Igl¨®i, R. Juh¨¢sz
comments: 6 pages
journal: Europhys. Lett. 81, 57003 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3927
abstract: We consider two prototypical quantum models, the spin-1/2 XY chain and the quantum Ising chain and study their entanglement entropy, S(l,L), of blocks of l spins in homogeneous or inhomogeneous systems of length L. By using two different approaches, free-fermion techniques and perturbational expansion, an exact relationship between the entropies is revealed. Using this relation we translate known results between the two models and obtain, among others, the additive constant of the entropy of the critical homogeneous quantum Ising chain and the effective central charge of the random XY chain.

id: 0709.4082
title: New approximate radial wave functions for power-law potentials
authors: Vladimir Kudryashov
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Nonlinear Phenomena in Complex Systems, Vol. 9, No. 4, pp. 403-409, 2006
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4082
abstract: Radial wave functions for power-law potentials are approximated with the help of power-law substitution and explicit summation of the leading constituent WKB series. Our approach reproduces the correct behavior of the wave functions at the origin, at the turning points and far away from the turning points

id: 0709.4125
title: Work extremum principle: Structure and function of quantum heat engines
authors: Armen E. Allahverdyan, Ramandeep S. Johal, Guenter Mahler
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4125
abstract: We consider a class of quantum heat engines consisting of two subsystems interacting via a unitary transformation and coupled to two separate baths at different temperatures $T_h > T_c$. The purpose of the engine is to extract work due to the temperature difference. Its dynamics is not restricted to the near equilibrium regime. The engine structure is determined by maximizing the extracted work under various constraints. When this maximization is carried out at finite power, the engine dynamics is described by well-defined temperatures and satisfies the local version of the second law. In addition, its efficiency is bounded from below by the Curzon-Ahlborn value $1-\sqrt{T_c/T_h}$ and from above by the Carnot value $1-(T_c/T_h)$. The latter is reached|at finite power|for a macroscopic engine, while the former is achieved in the equilibrium limit $T_h\to T_c$. When the work is maximized at a zero power, even a small (few-level) engine extracts work right at the Carnot efficiency.

id: 0709.4264
title: Quantum trajectory approach to circuit QED: Quantum jumps and the Zeno effect
authors: Jay Gambetta, Alexandre Blais, M. Boissonneault, A. A. Houck, D. I. Schuster, S. M. Girvin
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012112 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4264
abstract: We present a theoretical study of a superconducting charge qubit dispersively coupled to a transmission line resonator. Starting from a master equation description of this coupled system and using a polaron transformation, we obtain an exact effective master equation for the qubit. We then use quantum trajectory theory to investigate the measurement of the qubit by continuous homodyne measurement of the resonator out-field. Using the same porlaron transformation, a stochastic master equation for the conditional state of the qubit is obtained. From this result, various definitions of the measurement time are studied. Furthermore, we find that in the limit of strong homodyne measurement, typical quantum trajectories for the qubit exhibit a crossover from diffusive to jump-like behavior. Finally, in the presence of Rabi drive on the qubit, the qubit dynamics is shown to exhibit quantum Zeno behavior.

id: 0709.4312
title: Universality of quantum symplectic structure
authors: Tulsi Dass
comments: 35 pages
journal: 
subjects: Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4312
abstract: Operating in the framework of `supmech' (a scheme of mechanics which aims at providing a concrete setting for the axiomatization of physics and probability theory as required in Hilbert's sixth problem; integrating noncommutative symplectic geometry and noncommutative probability in an algebraic setting, it associates, with every `experimentally accessible' system, a symplectic algebra and operates essentially as noncommutative Hamiltonian mechanics with some extra sophistication in the treatment of states) it is shown that interaction between systems can be consistently described only if either (i) all system algebras are commutative or (ii) all system algebras are noncommutative and have a quantum symplectic structure characterized by a UNIVERSAL Planck type real-valued constant of the dimension of action.

id: 0709.4325
title: Crypto-Harmonic Oscillator in Higher Dimensions: Classical and Quantum Aspects
authors: Subir Ghosh, Bibhas Ranjan Majhi
comments: 17 pages, Latex, enlarges version, added ref.s., accepted in J.Phys.A, slight alteration in reference section and text, matches journal version
journal: J.Phys.A41:065306,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4325
abstract: We study complexified Harmonic Oscillator models in two and three dimensions. Our work is a generalization of the work of Smilga \cite{sm} who initiated the study of these Crypto-gauge invariant models that can be related to $PT$-symmetric models. We show that rotational symmetry in higher spatial dimensions naturally introduces more constraints, (in contrast to \cite{sm} where one deals with a single constraint), with a much richer constraint structure. Some common as well as distinct features in the study of the same Crypto-oscillator in different dimensions are revealed. We also quantize the two dimensional Crypto-oscillator.

id: 0709.4520
title: Dependence of quantum correlations of twin beams on pump finesse of optical parametric oscillator
authors: Dong Wang, Yana Shang, Xiaojun Jia, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 27 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.4520
abstract: The dependence of quantum correlation of twin beams on the pump finesse of an optical parametric oscillator is studied with a semi-classical analysis. It is found that the phase-sum correlation of the output signal and idler beams from an optical parametric oscillator operating above threshold depends on the finesse of the pump field when the spurious pump phase noise generated inside the optical cavity and the excess noise of the input pump field are involved in the Langevin equations. The theoretical calculations can explain the previously experimental results, quantitatively.

id: 0709.1749
title: General Non-extremal Rotating Charged Godel Black Holes in Minimal Five-Dimensional Gauged Supergravity
authors: Shuang-Qing Wu
comments: 4 pages, revtex4.cls. 4th revised version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.100:121301,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1749
abstract: We present the general exact solutions for non-extremal rotating charged black holes in the Godel universe of five-dimensional minimal supergravity theory. They are uniquely characterized by four non-trivial parameters, namely the mass $m$, the charge $q$, the Kerr equal rotation parameter $a$, and the Godel parameter $j$. We calculate the conserved energy, angular momenta and charge for the solutions and show that they completely satisfy the first law of black hole thermodynamics. We also study the symmetry and separability of the Hamilton-Jacobi and the massive Klein-Gordon equations in these Einstein-Maxwell-Chern-Simons-Godel black hole backgrounds.

id: 0709.3381
title: Generalized ABCD propagation for interacting atomic clouds
authors: F. Impens, Ch. J. Bord¨¦
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 043613 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3381
abstract: We present a treatment of the nonlinear matter wave propagation inspired from optical methods, which includes interaction effects within the atom optics equivalent of the aberrationless approximation. The atom-optical ABCD matrix formalism, considered so far for non-interacting clouds, is extended perturbatively beyond the linear regime of propagation. This approach, applied to discuss the stability of a matter-wave resonator involving a free-falling sample, agrees very well with the predictions of the full nonlinear paraxial wave equation. An alternative optical treatment of interaction effects, based on the aberrationless approximation and suitable for cylindrical paraxial beams of uniform linear density, is also adapted for matter waves.

