id: 0711.0009
title: Interference Between Competing Pathways in the Interaction of Three-Level Ladder Atoms and Radiation
authors: Tony Y. Abi-Salloum
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0009
abstract: In this paper we explore the physical origin of the transparency induced in absorbing three-level cascade atoms by the simultaneous interplay of two coherent beams of light. By utilizing the scattering technique we offer what we believe is a very convincing physical evidence for the existence, or for the absence, of quantum interference effects in the Autler-Townes (AT) and Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) phenomena.

id: 0711.0039
title: Quantum Cloning of Continuous Variable Entangled States
authors: Christian Weedbrook, Nicolai B. Grosse, Thomas Symul, Ping Koy Lam, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052313 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0039
abstract: We consider the quantum cloning of continuous variable entangled states. This is achieved by introducing two symmetric entanglement cloning machines (or e-cloners): a local e-cloner and a global e-cloner; where we look at the preservation of entanglement in the clones under the condition that the fidelity of the clones is maximized. These cloning machines are implemented using simple linear optical elements such as beam splitters and homodyne detection along with squeeze gates. We show that the global e-cloner out-performs the local e-cloner both in terms of the fidelity of the cloned states as well as the strength of the entanglement of the clones. There is a minimum strength of entanglement (3dB for the inseparability criterion and 5.7dB for the EPR paradox criterion) of the input state of the global e-cloner that is required to preserve the entanglement in the clones.

id: 0711.0043
title: The resource theory of quantum reference frames: manipulations and monotones
authors: Gilad Gour, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 37 pages, 4 figures, Published Version
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 033023
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0043
abstract: Every restriction on quantum operations defines a resource theory, determining how quantum states that cannot be prepared under the restriction may be manipulated and used to circumvent the restriction. A superselection rule is a restriction that arises through the lack of a classical reference frame and the states that circumvent it (the resource) are quantum reference frames. We consider the resource theories that arise from three types of superselection rule, associated respectively with lacking: (i) a phase reference, (ii) a frame for chirality, and (iii) a frame for spatial orientation. Focussing on pure unipartite quantum states (and in some cases restricting our attention even further to subsets of these), we explore single-copy and asymptotic manipulations. In particular, we identify the necessary and sufficient conditions for a deterministic transformation between two resource states to be possible and, when these conditions are not met, the maximum probability with which the transformation can be achieved. We also determine when a particular transformation can be achieved reversibly in the limit of arbitrarily many copies and find the maximum rate of conversion. A comparison of the three resource theories demonstrates that the extent to which resources can be interconverted decreases as the strength of the restriction increases. Along the way, we introduce several measures of frameness and prove that these are monotonically nonincreasing under various classes of operations that are permitted by the superselection rule.

id: 0711.0044
title: Entanglement of group-II-like atoms with fast measurement for quantum information processing
authors: R. Stock, N. S. Babcock, M. G. Raizen, B. C. Sanders
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0044
abstract: We construct a scheme for the preparation, pairwise entanglement via exchange interaction, manipulation, and measurement of individual group-II-like neutral atoms (Yb, Sr, etc.). Group-II-like atoms proffer important advantages over alkali metals, including long-lived optical-transition qubits that enable fast manipulation and measurement. Our scheme provides a promising approach for producing weighted graph states, entangled resources for quantum communication, and possible application to fundamental tests of Bell inequalities that close both detection and locality loopholes.

id: 0711.0047
title: Tunable quantum interference: How to make morning, noon, and afternoon states
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Takafumi Ono
comments: 6 pages, including 6 figures, contribution to the proceedings of QIT17, held November 21st to 22nd 2007 in Okayama
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0047
abstract: We show that the N-photon states produced by interference between laser light and downconverted light at the input of a two path interferometer can be characterized by a single tuning parameter that describes a transition from phase squeezing to nearly maximal path entanglement and back. The quantum states are visualized on a sphere using the analogy between N-photon interference and the spin-N/2 algebra.

id: 0711.0049
title: SO(4) symmetry in the relativistic hydrogen atom
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Dong-Ling Deng, Ming-Guang Hu
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 034102 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0049
abstract: We show that the relativistic hydrogen atom possesses an SO(4) symmetry by introducing a kind of pseudo-spin vector operator. The same SO(4) symmetry is still preserved in the relativistic quantum system in presence of an U(1) monopolar vector potential as well as a nonabelian vector potential. Lamb shift and SO(4) symmetry breaking are also discussed.

id: 0711.0055
title: Complex projective scheme approach to the geometrical structures of multipartite quantum systems
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 5 pages
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1327, 356-360 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0055
abstract: In this paper, I will discuss the geometrical structures of multipartite quantum systems based on complex projective schemes. In particular, I will explicitly construct multi-qubit states in terms of these schemes and also discuss separability and entanglement of bipartite and multipartite quantum states. These results give some geometrical insight to the fascinating quantum mechanical phenomena of entanglement which is fundamentally important and has many applications in the field of quantum computing.

id: 0711.0074
title: Staying positive: going beyond Lindblad with perturbative master equations
authors: Robert S. Whitney
comments: 19 pages (4 figs). Extended discussion of earlier works. Appendix reviews derivation of Bloch-Redfield equation
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 175304 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0074
abstract: The perturbative master equation (Bloch-Redfield) is extensively used to study dissipative quantum mechanics - particularly for qubits - despite the 25 year old criticism that it violates positivity (generating negative probabilities). We take an arbitrary system coupled to an environment containing many degrees-of-freedom, and cast its perturbative master equation (derived from a perturbative treatment of Nakajima-Zwanzig or Schoeller-Schon equations) in the form of a Lindblad master equation. We find that the equation's parameters are time-dependent. This time-dependence is rarely accounted for, and invalidates Lindblad's dynamical semigroup analysis. We analyze one such Bloch-Redfield master equation (for a two-level system coupled to an environment with a short but non-vanishing memory time), which apparently violates positivity. We show analytically that, once the time-dependence of the parameters is accounted for, positivity is preserved.

id: 0711.0087
title: Local vertical measurements and violation of Bell inequality
authors: Yang Xiang, Shi-Jie Xiong
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 014104 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0087
abstract: For two qubits belonging to Alice and Bob, we derive an approach to setup the bound of Bell operator in the condition that Alice and Bob continue to perform local vertical measurements. For pure states we find that if the entanglement of the two qubits is less than 0.2644 (measured with von Neumann entropy) the violation of the Bell inequality will never be realized, and only when the entanglement is equal to 1 the maximal violation ($2\sqrt{2}$) can occur. For specific form of mixed states, we prove that the bound of the Bell inequality depends on the concurrence. Only when the concurrence is greater than 0.6 the violation of the Bell inequality can occur, and the maximal violation can never be achieved. We suggest that the bound of the Bell operator in the condition of local vertical measurements may be used as a measure of the entanglement.

id: 0711.0109
title: Genetic simulation of quantum dynamics by the principle of quantum state selection
authors: Yuri Ozhigov
comments: 10 pages LATEX, misprint correction
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0109
abstract: The simple genetic algorithm is proposed for the simulation of quantum many body dynamics. It uses the selection of entangled quantum states and has the inbuilt absolute decoherence that comes from the limitation of classical memory. It utilizes the "pre-quantum field" in the form of interacting between the different "quantum worlds". It is shown how this selection model can be applied to the problem of molecular association in chemical reactions.

id: 0711.0112
title: Photon position eigenvectors lead to complete photon wave mechanics
authors: Margaret Hawton
comments: Comments to margaret.hawton@lakehead.ca will be appreciated
journal: Proceedings of SPIE 6664, 2007, The Nature of Light: What are Photons?, pages 666408-1 to 12
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0112
abstract: We have recently constructed a photon position operator with commuting components. This was long thought to be impossible, but our position eigenvectors have a vortex structure like twisted light. Thus they are not spherically symmetric and the position operator does not transform as a vector, so that previous non-existence arguments do not apply. We find two classes of position eigenvectors and obtain photon wave functions by projection onto the bases of position eigenkets that they define, following the usual rules of quantum mechanics. The hermitian position operator, r0, leads to a Landau-Peierls wave function, while field-like eigenvectors of the nonhermitian position operator and its adjoint lead to a biorthonormal basis. These two bases are equivalent in the sense that they are related by a similarity transformation. The eigenvectors of the nonhermitian position operators lead to a field-potential wave function pair. These field-like positive frequency wave functions satisfy Maxwell's equations, and thus justify the supposition that MEs describe single photon wave mechanics. The expectation value of the number operator is photon density with undetected photons integrated over, consistent with Feynman's conclusion that the density of non-interacting particles can be interpreted as probability density.

id: 0711.0137
title: Comment on ``Time-dependent quasi-Hermitian Hamiltonians and the unitary quantum evolution''
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0137
abstract: In arXiv:0710.5653v1 M. Znojil claims that he has found and corrected an error in my paper: [Phys. Lett. B \textbf{650}, 208 (2007), arXiv:0706.1872v2] and that it is possible to escape its main conclusion, namely that the unitarity of the time-evolution and observability of the Hamiltonian imply time-independence of the metric operator. In this note I give a very short calculation showing that the analysis given by M. Znojil also leads to the same conclusion as of my above-mentioned paper. This is actually a reconfirmation of the validity of the results of the latter paper.

id: 0711.0144
title: Comment on ``Quasienergy anholonomy and its application to adiabatic quantum state manipulation''
authors: Taksu Cheon
comments: 1 page REVTeX text only
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0144
abstract: In their Letter [A. Tanaka and M. Miyamoto, Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 160407 (2007)], Tanaka and Miyamoto introduce a kicked spin model, for which they point out the generic existence of exotic eigenvalue anholonomy. They proceed to show the potential utility of the model for quantum state manipulation and quantum information processing. While we believe their model to be vary useful and their argument to be revealing, In our view, there are three missing elements in the article, without which their discussion seems to be incomplete and the prospect of the application limited. They are on dynamical phase, gauge potential, and on adiabaticity.

id: 0711.0157
title: The Divine Clockwork: Bohr's correspondence principle and Nelson's stochastic mechanics for the atomic elliptic state
authors: Richard Durran, Andrew Neate, Aubrey Truman
comments: 42 pages, 18 figures, with typos corrected, updated abstract and updated section 6.5
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, 49, 032102 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0157
abstract: We consider the Bohr correspondence limit of the Schrodinger wave function for an atomic elliptic state. We analyse this limit in the context of Nelson's stochastic mechanics, exposing an underlying deterministic dynamical system in which trajectories converge to Keplerian motion on an ellipse. This solves the long standing problem of obtaining Kepler's laws of planetary motion in a quantum mechanical setting. In this quantum mechanical setting, local mild instabilities occur in the Kelperian orbit for eccentricities greater than 1/\sqrt{2} which do not occur classically.

id: 0711.0217
title: Classification of quantum channels of information transfer
authors: Constantin V. Usenko
comments: 9 pages, Seventh International Conference Symmetry in Nonlinear Mathematical Physics June 24-30, 2007 Institute of Mathematics, National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Kyiv (Kiev), Ukraine
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0217
abstract: Classification of states of quantum channels of information transfer is built on the basis of unreducible representations of qubit state space group of symmetry and properties of density matrix spectrum. It is shown that pure disentangled states form two-dimensional surface, and the reason of state disentanglement is in degeneration of non-zero density matrix eigenvalues

id: 0711.0233
title: Laserless trapped-ion quantum simulations without spontaneous scattering using microtrap arrays
authors: J. Chiaverini, W. E. Lybarger Jr
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, edited typos, added refs and text for clarification to reflect published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022324 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0233
abstract: We propose an architecture and methodology for large-scale quantum simulations using hyperfine states of trapped-ions in an arbitrary-layout microtrap array with laserless interactions. An ion is trapped at each site, and the electrode structure provides for the application of single and pairwise evolution operators using only locally created microwave and radio-frequency fields. The avoidance of short-lived atomic levels during evolution effectively eliminates errors due to spontaneous scattering; this may allow scaling of quantum simulators based on trapped ions to much larger systems than currently estimated. Such a configuration may also be particularly appropriate for one-way quantum computing with trapped-ion cluster states.

id: 0711.0263
title: Three dimensional theory for light matter interaction
authors: Martin W. S?rensen, Anders S. S?rensen
comments: 32 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0263
abstract: We present a full quantum mechanical three dimensional theory describing an electromagnetic field interacting with an ensemble of identical atoms. The theory is constructed such that it describes recent experiments on light-matter quantum interfaces, where the quantum fluctuations of light are mapped onto the atoms and back onto light. We show that the interaction of the light with the atoms may be separated into a mean effect of the ensemble and a deviation from the mean. The mean effect of the interaction effectively give rise to an index of refraction of the gas. We formally change to a dressed state picture, where the light modes are solutions to the diffraction problem, and develop a perturbative expansion in the fluctuations. The fluctuations are due to quantum fluctuations as well as the random positions of the atoms. In this perturbative expansion we show how the quantum fluctuations are mapped between atoms and light while the random positioning of the atoms give rise to decay due to spontaneous emission. Furthermore we identify limits, where the full three dimensional theory reduce to the one dimensional theory typically used to describe the interaction.

id: 0711.0264
title: Reversible Quantum Interface for Tunable Single-sideband Modulation
authors: J. Cviklinski, J. Ortalo, J. Laurat, A. Bramati, M. Pinard, E. Giacobino
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 133601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0264
abstract: Using Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) in a Cesium vapor, we demonstrate experimentally that the quantum state of a light beam can be mapped into the long lived Zeeman coherences of an atomic ground state. Two non-commuting variables carried by light are simultaneously stored and subsequentely read-out, with no noise added. We compare the case where a tunable single sideband is stored independently of the other one to the case where the two symmetrical sidebands are stored using the same EIT transparency window.

id: 0711.0265
title: Transfer and teleportation of quantum states encoded in decoherence-free subspace
authors: Hua Wei, ZhiJiao Deng, XiaoLong Zhang, Mang Feng
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 2007 Phys. Rev. A 76, 054304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0265
abstract: Quantum state transfer and teleportation, with qubits encoded in internal states of the atoms in cavities, among spatially separated nodes of a quantum network in decoherence-free subspace are proposed, based on a cavity-assisted interaction by single-photon pulses. We show in details the implementation of a logic-qubit Hadamard gate and a two-logic-qubit conditional gate, and discuss the experimental feasibility of our scheme.

id: 0711.0278
title: The thermal Casimir effect for rough metallic plates
authors: G. Bimonte
comments: 4 pages, 2 encapsulated figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0278
abstract: We propose a new theory of thermal Casimir effect, holding for the experimentally important case of metallic surfaces with a roughness having a spatial scale smaller than the skin depth. The theory is based on a simple phenomenological model for a rough conductor, that explicitly takes account of the fact that ohmic conduction in the immediate vicinity of the surface of a conductor is much impeded by surface roughness, if the amplitude of roughness is smaller than the skin depth. As a result of the new model, we find that surface roughness strongly influences the magnitude of the thermal correction to the Casimir force, independently of the plates separation. Our model, while consistent with recent accurate measurements of the Casimir force in the submicron range, leads to a new prediction for the not yet observed thermal correction to the Casimir force at large plates separation. Besides the thermal Casimir problem, our model is relevant for the correct theoretical interpretation of current experiments probing other proximity effects between conductors, like radiative heat transfer and quantum friction.

id: 0711.0293
title: Quantum Brownian representation for the quantum field modes
authors: Daniel Arteaga
comments: 25 pages, 1 figure. Motivations emphasized, new application, overall clarity improved. Version accepted for publication in AHEP
journal: Adv.High Energy Phys.2009:278759,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0293
abstract: When analyzing the particle-like excitations in quantum field theory it is natural to regard the field mode corresponding to the particle momentum as an open quantum system, together with the opposite momentum mode. Provided that the state of the field is stationary, homogeneous and isotropic, this scalar two-mode system can be equivalently represented in terms of a pair of quantum Brownian oscillators under a Gaussian approximation. In other words, the two-mode system behaves as if it were interacting linearly with some effective environment. In this paper we build the details of the effective linear coupling and the effective environment, and argue that this quantum Brownian representation provides a simple, universal and non-perturbative characterization of any single particle-like excitation. As immediate applications of the equivalence, we reanalyse the interpretation of the self-energy in terms of decay rates in a general background state, and present the master equation for the field mode corresponding to the particle momentum.

id: 0711.0303
title: Negative refraction with tunable absorption in an active dense gas of atoms
authors: P. P. Orth, R. Hennig, C. H. Keitel, J. Evers
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 013027 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0303
abstract: Applications of negative index materials (NIM) presently are severely limited by absorption. Next to improvements of metamaterial designs, it has been suggested that dense gases of atoms could form a NIM with negligible losses. In such gases, the low absorption is facilitated by quantum interference. Here, we show that additional gain mechanisms can be used to tune and effectively remove absorption in a dense gas NIM. In our setup, the atoms are coherently prepared by control laser fields, and further driven by a weak incoherent pump field to induce gain. We employ nonlinear optical Bloch equations to analyze the optical response. Metastable Neon is identified as a suitable experimental candidate at infrared frequencies to implement a lossless active negative index material.

id: 0711.0317
title: Hastening, delaying, or averting sudden death of quantum entanglement
authors: A.R.P.Rau, Mazhar Ali, G. Alber
comments: 4 printed pages, 2 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. Lett. 82, 40002 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0317
abstract: The finite time end of entanglement between two decohering qubits can be modified by local, unitary actions performed during the decohering process. Depending on the time when such action is taken, the end can be speeded up or slowed down, or even averted all together. This phenomenon offers practical applications for the stabilization of entangled quantum states. Details concerning hastening or delaying the finite time end of entanglement are presented for two qubits which decay spontaneously into statistically independent reservoirs.

id: 0711.0401
title: Rabi flopping between ground and Rydberg states with dipole-dipole atomic interactions
authors: T. A. Johnson, E. Urban, T. Henage, L. Isenhower, D. D. Yavuz, T. G. Walker, M. Saffman
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 113003 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0401
abstract: We demonstrate Rabi flopping of small numbers of $\rm{^{87}Rb}$ atoms between ground and Rydberg states with $n\le 43$. Coherent population oscillations are observed for single atom flopping, while the presence of two or more atoms decoheres the oscillations. We show that these observations are consistent with van der Waals interactions of Rydberg atoms.

id: 0711.0462
title: Perfect many-to-one teleportation with stabilizer states
authors: Guoming Wang, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 12 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032324 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0462
abstract: We study the possibility of performing perfect teleportation of unknown quantum states from multiple senders to a single receiver with a previously shared stabilizer state. In the model we considered, the utilized stabilizer state is partitioned into several subsystems and then each subsystem is distributed to a distinct party. We present two sufficient conditions for a stabilizer state to achieve a given nonzero teleportation capacity with respect to a given partition plan. The corresponding teleportation protocols are also explicitly given. Interestingly, we find that even mixed stabilizer states are also useful for perfect many-to-one teleportation. Finally, our work provides a new perspective from stabilizer formalism to view the standard teleportation protocol and also suggests a new technique for analyzing teleportation capability of multipartite entangled states.

id: 0711.0468
title: Statistical Mechanical Models and Topological Color Codes
authors: H. Bombin, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: Revtex4, color figures, submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042322 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0468
abstract: We find that the overlapping of a topological quantum color code state, representing a quantum memory, with a factorized state of qubits can be written as the partition function of a 3-body classical Ising model on triangular or Union Jack lattices. This mapping allows us to test that different computational capabilities of color codes correspond to qualitatively different universality classes of their associated classical spin models. By generalizing these statistical mechanical models for arbitrary inhomogeneous and complex couplings, it is possible to study a measurement-based quantum computation with a color code state and we find that their classical simulatability remains an open problem. We complement the meaurement-based computation with the construction of a cluster state that yields the topological color code and this also gives the possibility to represent statistical models with external magnetic fields.

id: 0711.0475
title: Local Indistinguishability and Possibility of Hiding cbits in Activable Bound Entangled States
authors: Indrani Chattopadhyay, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 10 pages, no figure, latex, final version
journal: Physics Letters A, 365 (2007) 273-277
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0475
abstract: In this letter we prove local indistinguishability of four orthogonal activable bound entangled states shared among even number of parties. All reduced density matrices of such states are maximally mixed. We further proceed to establish a multipartite quantum data hiding scheme on those states and explore its power and limitations.

id: 0711.0505
title: Proofs of nonlocality without inequalities revisited
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi, Luca Marinatto
comments: 8 pages, RevTex; to be published on PLA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0505
abstract: We discuss critically the so-called nonlocality without inequalities proofs for bipartite quantum states, we generalize them and we analyze their relation with the Clauser-Horne inequality.

id: 0711.0510
title: On the information completeness of quantum tomograms
authors: Grigori G. Amosov, Stefano Mancini, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008) 2820-2824
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0510
abstract: We address the problem of information completeness of quantum measuremets in connection to quantum state tomography and with particular concern to quantum symplectic tomography. We put forward some non-trivial situations where informationally incomplete set of tomograms allows as well the state reconstruction provided to have some a priori information on the state or its dynamics. We then introduce a measure of information completeness and apply it to symplectic quantum tomograms.

id: 0711.0514
title: Reply to Comment on ``Time-dependent quasi-Hermitian Hamiltonians and the unitary quantum evolution''
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 4 pages, reply to preprint arXiv:0711.0137v1 [quant-ph]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0514
abstract: In his fresh "Comment" (arXiv:0711.0137v1), A. Mostafazadeh reacts on my very recent letter (arXiv:0710.5653v1) where I tried to clarify certain misunderstandings which occurred in A. M., Phys. Lett. B \textbf{650}, 208 (2007) [arXiv:0706.1872v2, "Paper"]. As long as the "Comment" offers a new support of the original assertions made in the "Paper", I feel obliged to re-clarify the matter by extending my argumentation. I insist that it is possible to escape the main conclusion of the "Paper", indeed. In particular, I point out a gap in the new calculations in "Comment", add a few remarks on the notation and reconfirm that the unitarity of the time-evolution DOES NOT require the time-independence of the metric operator.

id: 0711.0535
title: Which operator generates time evolution in Quantum Mechanics?
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 7 pp
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0535
abstract: We attract attention to an interesting family of quantum systems where the generator $H_{(gen)}$ of time-evolution of wave functions is not equal to the Hamiltonian $H$. We describe the origin of the difference $H_{(gen)}-H$ and interpret it as a carrier of a compressed information about the other relevant observables.

id: 0711.0575
title: Intervalley splittings of Si quantum wells
authors: S.-H. Park, Y. Y. Lee, Doyeol Ahn
comments: Major revision including the correction of numerical errors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0575
abstract: Multi-valley effective mass theory for silicon quantum well structure is studied taking into account the external fields and the quantum interfaces. It is found that the phenomenological delta function potential, employed to explain the valley splitting caused by the quantum well interface in the previous work [Ref. 10], can be derived self-consistently from the multi-valley effective mass theory. Finite element method is used to solve the multi-valley effective equations. Theoretical predictions are in a reasonably good agreement with the recent experimental observation of valley splitting in a SiO_{2}/Si/SiO_{2} quantum well, which prove the validity of our approach.

id: 0711.0580
title: Information Loss of Black Hole
authors: Toshifumi Itakura
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0580
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial sign error in equation 1.

id: 0711.0599
title: Regularization of the Singular Inverse Square Potential in Quantum Mechanics with a Minimal length
authors: Djamil Bouaziz, Michel Bawin
comments: 30 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A76:032112,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0599
abstract: We study the problem of the attractive inverse square potential in quantum mechanics with a generalized uncertainty relation. Using the momentum representation, we show that this potential is regular in this framework. We solve analytically the s-wave bound states equation in terms of Heun's functions. We discuss in detail the bound states spectrum for a specific form of the generalized uncertainty relation. The minimal length may be interpreted as characterizing the dimension of the system.

id: 0711.0606
title: Quantum computing with a single molecular ensemble and a Cooper pair box
authors: Karl Tordrup, Klaus Molmer
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures Minor corrections from reviewing process
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 020301(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0606
abstract: We propose to encode quantum information in rotational excitations in a molecular ensemble. Using a stripline cavity field for quantum state transfer between the molecular ensemble and a Cooper pair box two-level system, our proposal offers a linear scaling of the number of qubits in our register with the number of rotationally excited states available in the molecules.

id: 0711.0630
title: Equivalence between quantum simultaneous games and quantum sequential games
authors: Naoki Kobayashi
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0630
abstract: A framework for discussing relationships between different types of games is proposed. Within the framework, quantum simultaneous games, finite quantum simultaneous games, quantum sequential games, and finite quantum sequential games are defined. In addition, a notion of equivalence between two games is defined. Finally, the following three theorems are shown: (1) For any quantum simultaneous game G, there exists a quantum sequential game equivalent to G. (2) For any finite quantum simultaneous game G, there exists a finite quantum sequential game equivalent to G. (3) For any finite quantum sequential game G, there exists a finite quantum simultaneous game equivalent to G.

id: 0711.0638
title: Correspondence between field generalized binomial states and coherent atomic states
authors: Rosario Lo Franco, Giuseppe Compagno, Antonino Messina, Anna Napoli
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Eur.Phys.J.ST 160:247-257,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0638
abstract: We show that the $N$-photon generalized binomial states of electromagnetic field may be put in a bijective mapping with the coherent atomic states of $N$ two-level atoms. We exploit this correspondence to simply obtain both known and new properties of the $N$-photon generalized binomial states. In particular, an over-complete basis of these binomial states and an orthonormal basis are obtained. Finally, the squeezing properties of generalized binomial state are analyzed.

id: 0711.0650
title: The role of Surface Plasmon modes in the Casimir Effect
authors: F. Intravaia, A. Lambrecht
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. TQMFA2005
journal: Open Sys. & information Dyn. 14, 159 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0650
abstract: In this paper we study the role of surface plasmon modes in the Casimir effect. First we write the Casimir energy as a sum over the modes of a real cavity. We may identify two sorts of modes, two evanescent surface plasmon modes and propagative modes. As one of the surface plasmon modes becomes propagative for some choice of parameters we adopt an adiabatic mode definition where we follow this mode into the propagative sector and count it together with the surface plasmon contribution, calling this contribution "plasmonic". The remaining modes are propagative cavity modes, which we call "photonic". The Casimir energy contains two main contributions, one coming from the plasmonic, the other from the photonic modes. Surprisingly we find that the plasmonic contribution to the Casimir energy becomes repulsive for intermediate and large mirror separations. Alternatively, we discuss the common surface plasmon defintion, which includes only evanescent waves, where this effect is not found. We show that, in contrast to an intuitive expectation, for both definitions the Casimir energy is the sum of two very large contributions which nearly cancel each other. The contribution of surface plasmons to the Casimir energy plays a fundamental role not only at short but also at large distances.

id: 0711.0655
title: Casimir interaction between absorbing and meta Materials
authors: F. Intravaia, C. Henkel
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure. 11th Marcel Grossmann Meetings - Submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0655
abstract: We investigate the Casimir energy between two dissipative mirrors in term of a sum over mode formula which can be interpreted by analogy to a quantum dissipative oscillator. We also show that metamaterials engineered at scales between the nanometer and the micron seem a promising way to achieve a repulsive force.

id: 0711.0663
title: Averaging out magnetic forces with fast rf-sweeps in an optical trap for metastable chromium atoms
authors: Q. Beaufils, R. Chicireanu, A. Pouderous, W. de Souza Melo, B. Laburthe-Tolra, E. Mar¨¦chal, L. Vernac, J. C. Keller, O. Gorceix
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0663
abstract: We introduce a novel type of time-averaged trap, in which the internal state of the atoms is rapidly modulated to modify magnetic trapping potentials. In our experiment, fast radiofrequency (rf) linear sweeps flip the spin of atoms at a fast rate, which averages out magnetic forces. We use this procedure to optimize the accumulation of metastable chomium atoms into an optical dipole trap from a magneto-optical trap. The potential experienced by the metastable atoms is identical to the bare optical dipole potential, so that this procedure allows for trapping all magnetic sublevels, hence increasing by up to 80 percent the final number of accumulated atoms.

id: 0711.0664
title: Optimality of minimum-error discrimination by the no-signalling condition
authors: Joonwoo Bae, Jae-Weon Lee, Jaewan Kim, Won-Young Hwang
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022335 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0664
abstract: In this work we relate the well-known no-go theorem that two non-orthogonal (mixed) quantum states cannot be perfectly discriminated, to the general principle in physics, the no-signalling condition. In fact, we derive the minimum error in discrimination between two quantum states, using the no-signalling condition.

id: 0711.0689
title: Efficient feedback controllers for continuous-time quantum error correction
authors: Bradley A. Chase, Andrew J. Landahl, J. M. Geremia
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032304 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0689
abstract: We present an efficient approach to continuous-time quantum error correction that extends the low-dimensional quantum filtering methodology developed by van Handel and Mabuchi [quant-ph/0511221 (2005)] to include error recovery operations in the form of real-time quantum feedback. We expect this paradigm to be useful for systems in which error recovery operations cannot be applied instantaneously. While we could not find an exact low-dimensional filter that combined both continuous syndrome measurement and a feedback Hamiltonian appropriate for error recovery, we developed an approximate reduced-dimensional model to do so. Simulations of the five-qubit code subjected to the symmetric depolarizing channel suggests that error correction based on our approximate filter performs essentially identically to correction based on an exact quantum dynamical model.

id: 0711.0704
title: Klein Paradox for Optical Scattering from Excited Targets
authors: O. Panella, Y.N. Srivastava, A. Widom
comments: RevTex4, 4pages. Preprint version of a paper published by IJMPA
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics A, 21, 3279 - 3288, (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0704
abstract: The well known Klein paradox for the relativistic Dirac wave equation consists in the computation of possible ``negative probabilities'' induced by certain potentials in some regimes of energy. The paradox may be resolved employing the notion of electron-positron pair production in which the number of electrons present in a process can increase. The Klein paradox also exists in Maxwell's equations viewed as the wave equation for photons. In a medium containing ``inverted energy populations'' of excited atoms, e.g. in a LASER medium, one may again compute possible ``negative probabilities''. The resolution of the electromagnetic Klein paradox is that when the atoms decay, the final state may contain more photons then were contained the initial state. The optical theorem total cross section for scattering photons from excited state atoms may then be computed as negative within a frequency band with matter induced amplification.

id: 0711.0721
title: Relations between convergence rates in Schatten p-norms
authors: Paolo Albini, Alessandro Toigo, Veronica Umanit¨¤
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 013504 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0721
abstract: In quantum estimation theory and quantum tomography, the quantum state obtained by sampling converges to the `true' unknown density matrix under topologies that are different from the natural notion of distance in the space of quantum states, i.e. the trace class norm. In this paper, we address such problem, finding relations between the rates of convergence in the Schatten $p$-norms and in the trace class norm.

id: 0711.0724
title: Pattern Formation in Quantum Ensembles
authors: Antonina N. Fedorova, Michael G. Zeitlin
comments: LaTeX2e, 23 pages, 13 figures, ws-ijmpb.cls, published in International Journal of Modern Physics B, Vol. 20, Nos. 11-13 (2006)1570-1592
journal: International J. of Modern Physics B, Vol. 20, Nos. 11-13 (2006) 1570-1592
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0724
abstract: We present a family of methods, analytical and numerical, which can describe behaviour in (non) equilibrium ensembles, both classical and quantum, especially in the complex systems, where the standard approaches cannot be applied. We demonstrate the creation of nontrivial (meta) stable states (patterns), localized, chaotic, entangled or decoherent, from basic localized modes in various collective models arising from the quantum hierarchy of Wigner-von Neumann-Moyal-Lindblad equations, which are the result of ``wignerization'' procedure of classical BBGKY hierarchy. We present the explicit description of internal quantum dynamics by means of exact analytical/numerical computations.

id: 0711.0757
title: Universal quantum mechanics
authors: Steven B. Giddings
comments: 15 pages. v2: minor clarifying comments added
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:084004,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0757
abstract: If gravity respects quantum mechanics, it is important to identify the essential postulates of a quantum framework capable of incorporating gravitational phenomena. Such a construct likely requires elimination or modification of some of the "standard" postulates of quantum mechanics, in particular those involving time and measurement. This paper proposes a framework that appears sufficiently general to incorporate some expected features of quantum gravity. These include the statement that space and time may only emerge approximately and relationally. One perspective on such a framework is as a sort of generalization of the S-matrix approach to dynamics. Within this framework, more dynamical structure is required to fully specify a theory; this structure is expected to lack some of the elements of local quantum field theory. Some aspects of this structure are discussed, both in the context of scattering of perturbations about a flat background, and in the context of cosmology.

id: 0711.0810
title: Variant of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality
authors: Zeqian Chen
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0810
abstract: We construct a Bell inequality from the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality for two qubits that provides a stronger bound on the correlations of entangled states than allowed by the CHSH inequality. The argument involved here can be generalized to $n$ qubits. The inequalities obtained are violated by all the generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states of multiqubits.

id: 0711.0812
title: Charge Oscillations in Superconducting Nanodevices Coupled to External Environments
authors: Robert Alicki, Fabio Benatti, Roberto Floreanini
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phys.Lett.A372:1968-1971,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0812
abstract: Charge oscillations in certain nanodevices, more specifically the so-called Superconducting Cooper Pair Boxes (SCB), are usually interpreted as an effect of macroscopic quantum coherence; an alternative explanation is however possible in terms of the Gross-Pitaewski equation for the classical order parameter. These two explanations are based on different quantum states assigned to the SCB, occupation number states in the first case, coherent-like states in the second one. We show that, when the SCB is weakly coupled to an external source of noise and dissipation, occupation number states are much more unstable than coherent ones.

id: 0711.0820
title: Anyonic statistics with continuous variables
authors: Jing Zhang, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng, Peter van Loock
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0820
abstract: We describe a continuous-variable scheme for simulating the Kitaev lattice model and for detecting statistics of abelian anyons. The corresponding quantum optical implementation is solely based upon Gaussian resource states and Gaussian operations, hence allowing for a highly efficient creation, manipulation, and detection of anyons. This approach extends our understanding of the control and application of anyons and it leads to the possibility for experimental proof-of-principle demonstrations of anyonic statistics using continuous-variable systems.

id: 0711.0841
title: Evanescent character of the repulsive thermal Casimir force
authors: Vitaly B. Svetovoy
comments: to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 062102 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0841
abstract: The physical origin of the negative thermal correction to the Casimir force between metals is clarified. For this purpose the asymptotic behavior of the thermal Casimir force is analyzed at large and small distances in the real frequency representation. Contributions from propagating and evanescent waves are considered separately. At large distances they cancel each other in substantial degree so that only the attractive Lifshitz limit survives. At smaller separations the repulsive evanescent contribution of s-polarization dominates in the case of two metals or a metal and a high-permittivity dielectric. Common origin and order of magnitude of the repulsion in these two cases demonstrate naturalness of the controversial large thermal correction between metals.

id: 0711.0875
title: Complementarity in atomic (finite-level quantum) systems: an information-theoretic approach
authors: R. Srikanth, Subhashish Banerjee
comments: 16 pages
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D. 53, 217 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0875
abstract: We develop an information theoretic interpretation of the number-phase complementarity in atomic systems, where phase is treated as a continuous positive operator valued measure (POVM). The relevant uncertainty principle is obtained as an upper bound on a sum of knowledge of these two observables for the case of two-level systems. A tighter bound characterizing the uncertainty relation is obtained numerically in terms of a weighted knowledge sum involving these variables. We point out that complementarity in these systems departs from mutual unbiasededness in two signalificant ways: first, the maximum knowledge of a POVM variable is less than log(dimension) bits; second, surprisingly, for higher dimensional systems, the unbiasedness may not be mutual but unidirectional in that phase remains unbiased with respect to number states, but not vice versa. Finally, we study the effect of non-dissipative and dissipative noise on these complementary variables for a single-qubit system.

id: 0711.0894
title: The Kochen-Specker Theorem Revisited in Quantum Measure Theory
authors: Fay Dowker, Yousef Ghazi-Tabatabai
comments: 17 pages. Revised after refereeing
journal: J.Phys.A41:105301,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0894
abstract: The Kochen-Specker Theorem is widely interpreted to imply that non-contextual hidden variable theories that agree with the predictions of Copenhagen quantum mechanics are impossible. The import of the theorem for a novel observer independent interpretation of quantum mechanics, due to Sorkin, is investigated.

id: 0711.0933
title: 86-km optical link with a resolution of 2.10-18 for RF frequency transfer
authors: Olivier Lopez, Anne Amy-Klein, Christophe Daussy, Christian Chardonnet, Fran?ois Narbonneau, Michel Lours, Georgio Santarelli
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0933
abstract: RF frequency transfer over an urban 86 km fibre has been demonstrated with a resolution of 2.10-18 at one day measuring time using an optical compensator. This result is obtained with a reference carrier frequency of 1 GHz, and a rapid scrambling of the polarisation state of the input light in order to reduce the sensitivity to the polarisation mode dispersion in the fibre. The limitation due to the fibre chromatic dispersion associated with the laser frequency fluctuations is highlighted and analyzed. A preliminary test of an extended compensated link over 186 km using optical amplifiers gives a resolution below 10-17 at 1 day.

id: 0711.0941
title: Stationary states of spinless particles in square potentials
authors: Tatiana R. Cardoso, Antonio S. de Castro
comments: In Portuguese
journal: Rev.Bras.Ens.Fis.30:2306,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0941
abstract: The one-dimensional Klein-Gordon equation is investigated with the most general Lorentz structure for the external potentials. The analysis and calculation of the reflection and transmission coefficients for the scattering of particles in a square potential, with an arbitrary mixing of vector and scalar couplings, reveal circumstances which conflict with the predictions from nonrelativistic quantum mechanics. It is shown that such anomalous scatterings are mediated by antiparticle bound states, even if the incident particles have low energies. The analysis of bound states also reveals surprising results, remarkable is the inhibition of the Schiff-Snyder-Weinberg effect due to the presence of a scalar coupling.

id: 0711.0942
title: Entanglement in the Bose-Einstein condensate phase transition
authors: Libby Heaney
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0942
abstract: We determine the behaviour of entanglement between regions of space in a Bose gas of fixed particle number around the critical temperature condensation. Long-range correlations develop in the Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) phase transition and the aim here is to find out whether spatial coherence alone implies entanglement. We use a purity measure of entanglement to derive an entanglement witness that detects entanglement between two regions of space in the BEC. It is shown that spatial coherence between the two regions is necessary for entanglement with coherence and entanglement becoming equivalent only when the regions occupy the entire confining volume of the gas. The probabilities for Bosons to occupy the regions is the only other parameter that influences the amount of entanglement. We calculate explicitly the amount of entanglement between two regions for a cigar-shaped harmonic potential and find that it increases with decreasing temperature. A second entanglement witness is derived for entanglement between three regions of space, where again spatial coherence between each pair of regions is precursor to entanglement. It is shown that the state with the maximum amount of entanglement occurs when the probabilities for the Bosons to occupy the three regions are equal.

id: 0711.0943
title: Quantum measurements without macroscopic superpositions
authors: Dominique Spehner, Fritz Haake
comments: 50 pages, 5 figures, changed content
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 77, 052114 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0943
abstract: We study a class of quantum measurement models. A microscopic object is entangled with a macroscopic pointer such that each eigenvalue of the measured object observable is tied up with a specific pointer deflection. Different pointer positions mutually decohere under the influence of a bath. Object-pointer entanglement and decoherence of distinct pointer readouts proceed simultaneously. Mixtures of macroscopically distinct object-pointer states may then arise without intervening macroscopic superpositions. Initially, object and apparatus are statistically independent while the latter has pointer and bath correlated according to a metastable local thermal equilibrium. We obtain explicit results for the object-pointer dynamics with temporal coherence decay in general neither exponential nor Gaussian. The decoherence time does not depend on details of the pointer-bath coupling if it is smaller than the bath correlation time, whereas in the opposite Markov regime the decay depends strongly on whether that coupling is Ohmic or super-Ohmic.

id: 0711.0995
title: The Quadratic Spin Squeezing Operators
authors: P. K. Pathak, R. N. Deb, N. Nayak, B. Dutta-Roy
comments: To appear in J. Phys. A (England)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 145302 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0995
abstract: We discuss generic spin squeezing operators (quadratic in angular momentum operators) capable of squeezing out quantum mechanical noise from a system of two-level atoms (spins) in a coherent state. Such systems have been considered by Kitagawa and Ueda (Refs. 2) in this context and a Hamiltonian of this nature governs the Lipkin model (Ref. 14) which is relevant to nuclear physics.

id: 0711.1011
title: Super- and subradiant emission of two-level systems in the near-Dicke limit
authors: Peter G. Brooke, Karl-Peter Marzlin, James D. Cresser, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 033844 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1011
abstract: We analyze the stability of super- and subradiant states in a system of identical two-level atoms in the near-Dicke limit, i.e., when the atoms are very close to each other compared to the wavelength of resonant light. The dynamics of the system are studied using a renormalized master equation, both with multipolar and minimal-coupling interaction schemes. We show that both models lead to the same result and, in contrast to unrenormalized models, predict that the relative orientation of the (co-aligned) dipoles is unimportant in the Dicke limit. Our master equation is of relevance to any system of dipole-coupled two-level atoms, and gives bounds on the strength of the dipole-dipole interaction for closely spaced atoms. Exact calculations for small atom systems in the near-Dicke limit show the increased emission times resulting from the evolution generated by the strong dipole-dipole interaction. However, for large numbers of atoms in the near-Dicke limit, it is shown that as the number of atoms increases, the effect of the dipole-dipole interaction on collective emission is reduced.

id: 0711.1017
title: Optimizing quantum process tomography with unitary 2-designs
authors: A. J. Scott
comments: 28 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 41, 055308 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1017
abstract: We show that weighted unitary 2-designs define optimal measurements on the system-ancilla output state for ancilla-assisted process tomography of unital quantum channels. Examples include complete sets of mutually unbiased unitary-operator bases. Each of these specifies a minimal series of optimal orthogonal measurements. General quantum channels are also considered.

id: 0711.1046
title: Classical probability waves
authors: M. Grigorescu
comments: 15 pages, added Appendix 2
journal: Physica A 387, 6497 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1046
abstract: Probability waves in the configuration space are associated with coherent solutions of the classical Liouville or Fokker-Planck equations. Distributions localized in the momentum space provide action waves, specified by the probability density and the generating function of the Hamilton-Jacobi theory. It is shown that by introducing a minimum distance in the coordinate space, the action distributions aquire the energy dispersion specific to the quantum objects. At finite temperature, probability density waves propagating with the sound velocity are obtained as nonstationary solutions of the classical Fokker-Planck equation. The results suggest that in a system of quantum Brownian particles, a transition from complex to real probability waves could be observed.

id: 0711.1054
title: Heralded Generation of Ultrafast Single Photons in Pure Quantum States
authors: Peter J. Mosley, Jeff S. Lundeen, Brian J. Smith, Piotr Wasylczyk, Alfred B. U'Ren, Christine Silberhorn, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1054
abstract: We present an experimental demonstration of heralded single photons prepared in pure quantum states from a parametric downconversion source. It is shown that, through controlling the modal structure of the photon pair emission, one can generate pairs in factorable states and thence eliminate the need for spectral filters in multiple-source interference schemes. Indistinguishable heralded photons were generated in two independent spectrally engineered sources, and, by performing a Hong-Ou-Mandel interference between them without spectral filters at a raw visibility of 94.4%, their purity was measured to be over 95%.

id: 0711.1078
title: Comment on "Reply to Comment on Time-dependent Quasi-Hermitian Hamiltonians and the Unitary Quantum Evolution"
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1078
abstract: I point out that if one defines the operator $U_R(t)$ as done by M. Znojil in his reply [arXiv:0711.0514v1] to my comment [arXiv:0711.0137v1] and also accepts the validity of the defining relation of $U_R(t)$ as given in his paper [arXiv:0710.5653v1], one finds that the time-evolution of the associated quantum system is not governed by the Schr\"odinger equation for the Hamiltonian operator $H$ but an operator $H'$ which differs from $H$ if the metric operator is time-dependent. In the latter case this effective Hamiltonian $H'$ is not observable. This is consistent with the conclusions of my paper [Phys. Lett. B 650, 208 (2007), arXiv:0706.1872v2] which allow for unitary time-evolution generated by unobservable Hamiltonians.

id: 0711.1094
title: Search for anisotropic effects of hcp solid helium on optical lines of cesium impurities
authors: Mathieu Melich, Jacques Dupont-Roc, Philippe Jacquier
comments: The original publication will be available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1094
abstract: The anisotropic effect of a hcp 4He solid matrix on cesium atoms has been proposed as a tool to reveal the parity violating anapole moment of its nucleus. It should also result in splitting the D2 optical excitation line in a way depending on the light polarization. An experimental investigation has been set up using oriented hcp helium crystals in which cesium metal grains are embedded. Atoms are created by laser sputtering from this grains. Optical absorption spectra of the D2 line have been recorded in the temperature range of 1.0 to 1.4 K at liquid/solid coexistence pressure by monitoring the fluorescence on the D2 line at 950 nm. No significant effect of the light polarization has been found, suggesting a statistically isotropic disordered solid environment for the cesium atoms.

id: 0711.1156
title: NMR Analog of Bell's Inequalities Violation Test
authors: A.M. Souza, A. Magalhaes, J. Teles, E.R. deAzevedo, T. J. Bonagamba, I.S. Oliveira, R.S. Sarthour
comments: Submited to New Journal of Physics
journal: New Journal of Physics 10 (2008) 033020
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1156
abstract: In this paper we present an analog of the Bell's inequalities violation test for $N$ qubits to be performed in a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum computer. This can be used to simulate or predict results for different Bell's inequalities tests, with distinct configurations and larger number of qubits. To demonstrate our scheme, we implemented a simulation of the violation of Clauser, Horne, Shimony and Holt (CHSH) inequality using a two qubit NMR system and compared the results to those of a photon experiment. The experimental results are well described by Quantum Mechanics theory and a Local Realistic Hidden Variables model which was specially developed for NMR. That is why we refer to this experiment as a {\it simulation} of the Bell's inequality violation. Our result shows explicitly how both theories can be compatible to each other due the detection loophole. In the last part of this work we discuss the possibility of testing fundamental features of quantum mechanics using NMR with highly polarized spins, where a strong discrepancy between quantum mechanics and hidden variables models can be expected.

id: 0711.1210
title: Local Equivalence of Rank-Two Quantum Mixed States
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Shao-Ming Fei, Debashish Goswami
comments: 6 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 40 (2007) 11113-11117
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1210
abstract: We investigate the equivalence of quantum mixed states under local unitary transformations. For a class of rank-two mixed states, a sufficient and necessary condition of local equivalence is obtained by giving a complete set of invariants under local unitary transformations, such that two states in this class are locally equivalent if and only if all these invariants have equal values for them.

id: 0711.1211
title: Differential Geometry of Bipartite Quantum States
authors: Zuhuan Yu, Xianqing Jost-Li, Qingzhong Li, Jintao Lv, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 10 pages
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 60(2007)125-133
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1211
abstract: We investigate the differential geometry of bipartite quantum states. In particular the manifold structures of pure bipartite states are studied in detail. The manifolds with respect to all normalized pure states of arbitrarily given Schmidt ranks or Schmidt coefficients are explicitly presented. The dimensions of the related manifolds are calculated.

id: 0711.1218
title: The two-body random spin ensemble and a new type of quantum phase transition
authors: Iztok Pizorn, Tomaz Prosen, Stefan Mossmann, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: 15 pages, 6 eps figures, submitted to New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 023020
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1218
abstract: We study the properties of a two-body random matrix ensemble for distinguishable spins. We require the ensemble to be invariant under the group of local transformations and analyze a parametrization in terms of the group parameters and the remaining parameters associated with the "entangling" part of the interaction. We then specialize to a spin chain with nearest neighbour interactions and numerically find a new type of quantum phase transition related to the strength of a random external field i.e. the time reversal breaking one body interaction term.

id: 0711.1244
title: Quasistationary quaternionic Hamiltonians and complex stochastic maps
authors: G. Scolarici, L. Solombrino
comments: Submitted to J. Phys. A on October 25 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1244
abstract: We show that the complex projections of time-dependent $\eta $-quasianti-Hermitian quaternionic Hamiltonian dynamics are complex stochastic dynamics in the space of complex quasi-Hermitian density matrices if and only if a quasistationarity condition is fulfilled, i. e., if and only if $\eta $ is an Hermitian positive time-independent complex operator. An example is also discussed.

id: 0711.1288
title: Review on qudits production and their application to Quantum Communication and Studies on Local Realism
authors: Marco Genovese, Paolo Traina
comments: 
journal: Adv. Sci. Lett. 1, 153-160 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1288
abstract: The codification in higher dimensional Hilbert Spaces (whose logical basis states are dubbed qudits in analogy with bidimensional qubits) presents various advantages both for Quantum Information applications and for studies on Foundations of Quantum Mechanics. Purpose of this review is to introduce qudits, to summarize their application to Quantum Communication and researches on Local Realism and, finally, to describe some recent experiment for realizing them. A Little more in details: after a short introduction, we will consider the advantages of testing local realism with qudits, discussing both the 3-4 dimensional case (both for maximally and non-maximally entanglement) and then the extension to an arbitrary dimension. Afterwards, we will discuss the theoretical results on using qudits for quantum communication, epitomizing the outcomes on a larger security in Quantum Key Distribution protocols (again considering separately qutrits, ququats and generalization to arbitrary dimension). Finally, we will present the experiments performed up to now for producing quantum optical qudits and their applications. In particular, we will mention schemes based on interferometric set-ups, orbital angular momentum entanglement and biphoton polarization. Finally, we will summarize what hyperentanglement is and its applications.

id: 0711.1314
title: Monitoring atom-atom entanglement and decoherence in a solvable tripartite open system in cavity QED
authors: Matteo Bina, Federico Casagrande, Alfredo Lulli, Enrique Solano
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 033839 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1314
abstract: We present a fully analytical solution of the dynamics of two strongly-driven atoms resonantly coupled to a dissipative cavity field mode. We show that an initial atom-atom entanglement cannot be increased. In fact, the atomic Hilbert space divides into two subspaces, one of which is decoherence free so that the initial atomic entanglement remains available for applications, even in presence of a low enough atomic decay rate. In the other subspace a measure of entanglement, decoherence, and also purity, are described by a similar functional behavior that can be monitored by joint atomic measurements. Furthermore, we show the possible generation of Schr\"odinger-cat-like states for the whole system in the transient regime, as well as of entanglement for the cavity field and the atom-atom subsystems conditioned by measurements on the complementary subsystem.

id: 0711.1344
title: Entanglement of subspaces in terms of entanglement of superpositions
authors: Gilad Gour, Aidan Roy
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1344
abstract: We investigate upper and lower bounds on the entropy of entanglement of a superposition of bipartite states as a function of the individual states in the superposition. In particular, we extend the results in [G. Gour, arxiv.org:0704.1521 (2007)] to superpositions of several states rather than just two. We then investigate the entanglement in a subspace as a function of its basis states: we find upper bounds for the largest entanglement in a subspace and demonstrate that no such lower bound for the smallest entanglement exists. Finally, we consider entanglement of superpositions using measures of entanglement other than the entropy of entanglement.

id: 0711.1365
title: Anyonic interferometry and protected memories in atomic spin lattices
authors: Liang Jiang, Gavin K. Brennen, Alexey V. Gorshkov, Klemens Hammerer, Mohammad Hafezi, Eugene Demler, Mikhail D. Lukin, Peter Zoller
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nature Physics 4, 482-488, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1365
abstract: Strongly correlated quantum systems can exhibit exotic behavior called topological order which is characterized by non-local correlations that depend on the system topology. Such systems can exhibit remarkable phenomena such as quasi-particles with anyonic statistics and have been proposed as candidates for naturally fault-tolerant quantum computation. Despite these remarkable properties, anyons have never been observed in nature directly. Here we describe how to unambiguously detect and characterize such states in recently proposed spin lattice realizations using ultra-cold atoms or molecules trapped in an optical lattice. We propose an experimentally feasible technique to access non-local degrees of freedom by performing global operations on trapped spins mediated by an optical cavity mode. We show how to reliably read and write topologically protected quantum memory using an atomic or photonic qubit. Furthermore, our technique can be used to probe statistics and dynamics of anyonic excitations.

id: 0711.1368
title: Bohr's complementarity relation and the violation of the CP symmetry in high energy physics
authors: Beatrix C. Hiesmayr, Marcus Huber
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A372:3608-3615,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1368
abstract: We test Bohr's complementary relation, which captures the most counterintuitive difference of a classical and a quantum world, for single and bipartite neutral kaons. They present a system that is naturally interfering, oscillating and decaying. Moreover, kaons break the CP symmetry (C...charge conjugation, P...parity). In detail we discuss the effect of the CP violation on Bohr's relation, i.e. the effect on the "particle-like" information and the "wave-like" information. Further we show that the quantity that complements the single partite information for bipartite kaons is indeed concurrence, a measure of entanglement, strengthening our concept of entanglement. We find that the defined entanglement measure is independent of CP violation while it has been shown that nonlocality is sensitive to CP violation.

id: 0711.1397
title: Quantum Chernoff Bound metric for the XY model at finite temperature
authors: Damian F. Abasto, N. Tobias Jacobson, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 77, 022327 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1397
abstract: We explore the finite temperature phase diagram of the anisotropic XY spin chain using the Quantum Chernoff Bound metric on thermal states. The analysis of the metric elements allows to easily identify, in terms of different scaling with temperature, quasi-classical and quantum-critical regions. These results extend recent ones obtained using the Bures metric and show that different information-theoretic notions of distance can carry the same sophisticated information about the phase diagram of an interacting many-body system featuring quantum-critical points.

id: 0711.1404
title: More Detailed Descriptions of Locality and Realism
authors: Ping-Xing Chen, Shi-Yao Zhu
comments: 5 pages. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1404
abstract: Many experiments have shown that locality-realism theory is at variance with quantum mechanics predictions. Although locality and realism, which are two different conceptions, are given respective definition, the descriptions of the both are a little of abstract when they are applied to real experimental situations. The abstract descriptions result in difficulty for one to judge whether the variance come from locality or realism or both. Here we provide more detailed descriptions of locality and realism, and show that any system being in a pure state or a non-maximally mixed state has property of non-realism. We also present experimental schemes feasible under current technologies to test the non-locality realsim. The connections between non-locality and entanglement and correlation are also discussed.

id: 0711.1406
title: Quantum Stochastic Heating of a Trapped Ion
authors: L. Horvath, R. Fisher, M. J. Collett, H. J. Carmichael
comments: 13 figures, 16 pages
journal: Proceedings of the 9th Rochester Conference on Coherence and Quantum Optics, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY, June 10-15, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1406
abstract: The resonant heating of a harmonically trapped ion by a standing-wave light field is described as a quantum stochastic process combining a coherent Schroedinger evolution with Bohr-Einstein quantum jumps. Quantum and semi-quantum treatments are compared.

id: 0711.1419
title: Index of refraction of gases for matter waves: effect of the motion of the gas particles on the calculation of the index
authors: Caroline Champenois, Marion Jacquey, Steven Lepoutre, Matthias B¨¹chner, G¨¦rard Tr¨¦nec, Jacques Vigu¨¦
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1419
abstract: Two different formulae relating the index of refraction $n$ of gases for atom waves to the scattering amplitude have been published. We show here that these two formulae are not consistent with the definition of the total scattering cross-section while the formula developed by one of us (C.C.) in her thesis is in agreement with this standard knowledge. We discuss this result, in particular in the neutron case for which such an index was first introduced. We finally evaluate the index of refraction as a function of well known quantities and we discuss the order of magnitude of the ratio of $(n-1)/n_t$, where $n_t$ is the gas density.

id: 0711.1425
title: Not gate in a cis-trans photoisomerization model
authors: M. Ndong, L. Bomble, D. Sugny, Y. Justum, M. Desouter-Lecomte
comments: 29 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 043424 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1425
abstract: We numerically study the implementation of a NOT gate by laser pulses in a model molecular system presenting two electronic surfaces coupled by non adiabatic interactions. The two states of the bit are the fundamental states of the cis-trans isomers of the molecule. The gate is classical in the sense that it involves a one-qubit flip so that the encoding of the outputs is based on population analysis which does not take the phases into account. This gate can also be viewed as a double photo-switch process with the property that the same electric field controls the two isomerizations. As an example, we consider one-dimensional cuts in a model of the retinal in rhodopsin already proposed in the literature. The laser pulses are computed by the Multi Target Optimal Control Theory with chirped pulses as trial fields. Very high fidelities are obtained. We also examine the stability of the control when the system is coupled to a bath of oscillators modelled by an Ohmic spectral density. The bath correlation time scale being smaller than the pulse duration the dynamics is carried out in the Markovian approximation.

id: 0711.1431
title: Entangling photons using a charged quantum dot in a microcavity
authors: C.Y. Hu, W.J. Munro, J.G. Rarity
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 125318 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1431
abstract: We present two novel schemes to generate photon polarization entanglement via single electron spins confined in charged quantum dots inside microcavities. One scheme is via entangled remote electron spins followed by negatively-charged exciton emissions, and another scheme is via a single electron spin followed by the spin state measurement. Both schemes are based on giant circular birefringence and giant Faraday rotation induced by a single electron spin in a microcavity. Our schemes are deterministic and can generate an arbitrary amount of multi-photon entanglement. Following similar procedures, a scheme for a photon-spin quantum interface is proposed.

id: 0711.1433
title: Excitons and cavity polaritons for ultracold atoms in an optical lattice
authors: Hashem Zoubi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review A 76, 013817 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1433
abstract: We study the resonant electronic excitation dynamics for ultracold atoms trapped in a deep optical lattice prepared in a Mott insulator state. Excitons in these artificial crystals are similar to Frenkel excitons in Noble atom or molecular crystals. They appear when the atomic excited state line width is smaller than the exciton band width generated by dipole-dipole coupling. When the atoms are placed within a cavity the electronic excitations and the quantized cavity mode get coupled. In the collective strong coupling regime excitations form two branches of cavity polaritons with Rabi splitting larger than the atomic and the cavity line width. To demonstrate their properties we calculate the transmission, reflection, and absorption spectra for an incident weak probe field, which show resonances at the polariton frequencies.

id: 0711.1437
title: Energy Discriminant Analysis, Quantum Logic, and Fuzzy sets
authors: Grigorii Melnichenko
comments: LaTeX, 12 pages, corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1437
abstract: In the paper, we show that quantum logic of linear subspaces can be used for recognition of random signals by a Bayesian energy discriminant classifier. The energy distribution on linear subspaces is described by the correlation matrix of the probability distribution. We show that the correlation matrix corresponds to von Neumann density matrix in quantum theory. We suggest the interpretation of quantum logic as a fuzzy logic of fuzzy sets. The use of quantum logic for recognition is based on the fact that the probability distribution of each class lies approximately in a lower-dimensional subspace of feature space. We offer the interpretation of discriminant functions as membership functions of fuzzy sets. Also we offer the quality functional for optimal choice of discriminant functions for recognition from some class of discriminant functions.

id: 0711.1442
title: Nonlinear theory of quantum Brownian motion
authors: Roumen Tsekov
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 48 (2009) 85-94
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1442
abstract: A nonlinear theory of quantum Brownian motion in classical environment is developed based on a thermodynamically enhanced nonlinear Schrodinger equation. The latter is transformed via the Madelung transformation into a nonlinear quantum Smoluchowski-like equation, which is proven to reproduce key results from quantum and classical physics. The application of the theory to a free quantum Brownian particle results in a nonlinear dependence of the position dispersion on time, being quantum generalization of the Einstein law of Brownian motion. It is shown that the time of decoherence for the transition from quantum to classical diffusion is proportional to the square of the thermal de Broglie wavelength divided by the Einstein diffusion constant.

id: 0711.1473
title: Quantum Scholasticism: On Quantum Contexts, Counterfactuals, and the Absurdities of Quantum Omniscience
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: presented at Quantum Logic and Probability 2007, November 22 - 25, 2007, Slovak University of Technology, Bratislava, Slovak Republic
journal: Information Sciences 179, 535-541 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1473
abstract: Unlike classical information, quantum knowledge is restricted to the outcome of measurements of maximal observables corresponding to single contexts.

id: 0711.1499
title: Emission spectra of atoms with non-Markovian interaction: Fluorescence in a photonic crystal
authors: Ines de Vega, Daniel Alonso
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1499
abstract: We present a formula to evaluate the spontaneous emission spectra of an atom in contact with a radiation field with non-Markovian effects. This formula is written in terms of a two-time correlation of system observables and the environmental correlation function, and depends on the distance between the emitting atom and the detector. As an example, we use it to analyze the fluorescence spectra of a two level atom placed as an impurity in a photonic crystal. The radiation field within those materials has a gap or discontinuity where electromagnetic modes cannot propagate in the stationary limit. In that situation, the atomic emission occurs in the form of evanescent waves which are detected with less efficiency the farther we place the detector. The methodology presented in this paper may be useful to study the non-Markovian dynamics of any quantum open system in linear interaction with a harmonic oscillator reservoir and within the weak coupling approximation.

id: 0711.1503
title: Random matrix models for decoherence and fidelity decay in quantum information systems
authors: Carlos Pineda, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: 29 pages, 11 figures. Conference Proceedings of the Latin American School of Physics ELAF XXXVIII. To be published by the American Institute of Physics (AIP) as a volume of the Conference Proceedings series
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 994, 47 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1503
abstract: This course aims to introduce the student to random matrix models for decoherence and fidelity decay. They present a very powerful alternate approach, that emphasizes the disordered character of many environments and uncontrollable perturbations/couplings. The inherent integrability of such models makes analytic studies possible. We limit our considerations to linear response treatment, as high fidelity and small decoherence are the backbone of quantum information processes. For fidelity decay, where experimental results are available, a comparison with experiments shows excellent agreement with random matrix theory predictions.

id: 0711.1513
title: Interference versus success probability in quantum algorithms with imperfections
authors: Daniel Braun, Bertrand Georgeot
comments: 21 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A v. 77, 022318 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1513
abstract: We study the influence of errors and decoherence on both the performance of Shor's factoring algorithm and Grover's search algorithm, and on the amount of interference in these algorithms using a recently proposed interference measure. We consider systematic unitary errors, random unitary errors, and decoherence processes. We show that unitary errors which destroy the interference destroy the efficiency of the algorithm, too. However, unitary errors may also create useless additional interference. In such a case the total amount of interference can increase, while the efficiency of the quantum computation decreases. For decoherence due to phase flip errors, interference is destroyed for small error probabilities, and converted into destructive interference for error probabilities approaching one, leading to success probabilities which can even drop below the classical value. Our results show that in general interference is necessary in order for a quantum algorithm to outperform classical computation, but large amounts of interference are not sufficient and can even lead to destructive interference with worse than classical success rates.

id: 0711.1541
title: Balanced homodyne detectors and Casimir energy densities
authors: P. Marecki
comments: Contribution to QFEXT07 proceedings
journal: J.Phys.A41:164037,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1541
abstract: We recall and generalize the analysis of the output of the so-called balanced homodyne detectors. The most important feature of these detectors is their ability to quantify the vacuum fluctuations of the electric field, that is expectation values of products of (quantum-) electric-field operators. More precisely, the output of BHDs provides information on the one- and two-point functions of arbitrary states of quantum fields. We generalize the analysis of the response of BHDs to the case of quantum fields under influence of static external conditions such as cavities or polarizable media. By recalling the expressions for two-point functions of quantum fields in Casimir geometries we show, that a rich, position- and frequency-dependent pattern of BHD responses is predicted for ground states. This points to a potentially new characterization of quantum fields in Casimir setups which would not only complement the current global methods (Casimir forces), but also improve understanding of sub-vacuum energy densities present in some regions in these geometries.

id: 0711.1555
title: Decoherence in quantum walks and quantum computers
authors: Andrew P. Hines, P.C.E. Stamp
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures; to appear in Theory Canada 3 special issue if the Canadian Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1555
abstract: Decoherence is the major stumbling block in the realization of a large-scale quantum computer. Ingenious methods have been devised to overcome decoherence, but their success has been proven only for over-simplified models of system-environment interaction. Whether such methods will be reliable in the face of more realistic models is a fundamental open question. In this partly pedagogical article, we study two toy models of quantum information processing, using the language of \emph{quantum walks}. Decoherence is incorporated in 3 ways - by coupling to a noisy `projective measurement' system, and by coupling to oscillator and spin baths.

id: 0711.1556
title: A comparative code study for quantum fault-tolerance
authors: Andrew W. Cross, David P. DiVincenzo, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: v1: 33 pages, 16 figures. v2: 34 pages, several small corrections
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 9, No. 7/8, 0541--0572 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1556
abstract: We study a comprehensive list of quantum codes as candidates of codes to be used at the bottom, physical, level in a fault-tolerant code architecture. Using the Aliferis-Gottesman-Preskill (AGP) ex-Rec method we calculate the pseudo-threshold for these codes against depolarizing noise at various levels of overhead. We estimate the logical noise rate as a function of overhead at a physical error rate of $p_0=1\times 10^{-4}$. The Bacon-Shor codes and the Golay code are the best performers in our study.

id: 0711.1583
title: SU(2) Symmetry and Conservation of Helicity for a Dirac Particle in a Static Magnetic Field at First Order
authors: M.S. Shikakhwa, A. Albaid
comments: 4 figures, 12 pages, content refined
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1583
abstract: We investigate the spin dynamics and the conservation of helicity in the first order $S-$matrix of a Dirac particle in any static magnetic field. We express the dynamical quantities using a coordinate system defined by the three mutually orthogonal vectors; the total momentum $\mathbf{k}=\mathbf{p_f}+\mathbf{p_i}$, the momentum transfer $\mathbf{q}=\mathbf{p_f-p_i}$, and $\mathbf{l}=\mathbf{k\times q}$. We show that this leads to an alternative symmetric description of the conservation of helicity in a static magnetic field at first order. In particular, we show that helicity conservation in the transition can be viewed as the invariance of the component of the spin along $\mathbf{k}$, and the flipping of its component along $\mathbf{q}$, just as what happens to the momentum vector of a ball bouncing off a wall. We also derive a "plug and play" formula for the transition matrix element where the only reference to the specific field configuration, and the incident and outgoing momenta is through the kinematical factors multiplying a general matrix element that is independent of the specific vector potential present.

id: 0711.1630
title: Coherent electron-phonon states in suspended quantum dots: decoherence and dissipation effects
authors: Luis G.C. Rego
comments: 10 pages, two columns
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1630
abstract: The dynamics of coherent electron-phonon (el-ph) states is investigated for a suspended nanostructure. Exact quantum dynamics calculations reveal that electron and phonons (comprising a thermal bath) couple quantum mechanically to perform coherent oscillations with periods in the range of tens of nanoseconds, despite the finite temperature of the phonon bath. Mechanical energy dissipation due to clamping loss is taken into account in the calculations. Although the lifetime of the coupled el-ph states decreases with the temperature, well defined Rabi oscillations are obtained for temperatures up to 100 mK. The dynamics of the coupled electron-phonon state is susceptible to various forms of external control. For instance, a weak external magnetic field can be used to control the dynamics of the system, by decoupling the electron from the phonon bath. The results cast light upon the underlying physics of a yet unexplored system that could be suitable for novel quantum device applications.

id: 0711.1632
title: Reusable Vernam Cipher with Quantum Media
authors: Kai Wen, Fu-Guo Deng, Gui Lu Long
comments: A revised version will be uploaded later
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1632
abstract: A revised version will be uploaded later. In this Letter, it is shown that the one-time-pad key in the Vernam cipher can be repeatedly used with unconditional security using quantum media. The security proof is given with two explicit protocols, and the error rate threshold is analyzed.

id: 0711.1646
title: Nonlocal Nondegenerate Optical Parametric Amplifier Based on Genuine Multipartite Entanglement
authors: Jing Zhang, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 3 pages, 1 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 064301 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1646
abstract: We propose a new scheme for realizing nonlocal nondegenerate optical parametric amplifier by means of genuine four-mode entanglement. The nondegenerate optical parametric amplifier is regarded as a unitary transformation from two input fields to two outputs. Two inputs and two outputs are located at the remote stations respectively. Employing off-line four-mode entanglement, homodyne detection, classical communication and local displacement, the nonlocal nondegenerate optical parametric amplifier can be achieved. This scheme can be implemented with a setup that is experimentally accessible at present.

id: 0711.1651
title: Deterministic generation of polarization-entangled photon pairs in a cavity-QED system
authors: Pengbo li, Ying Gu, Qihuang Gong, Guangcan Guo
comments: 15 pages, 4figures
journal: Physics Letters A 372 (2008) 5959-5963
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1651
abstract: We propose a cavity-QED scheme that can deterministically generate Einstein-Podosky-Rosen polarization-entangled photon pairs. A four-level tripod atom successively couples to two high-Q optical cavities possessing polarization degeneracy, assisted by a classical $\pi$-polarized pump field. The stimulated Raman adiabatic passage process in the atom-cavity system is used to produce the polarization-entangled photon pairs. The proposal is particularly robust against atomic spontaneous decay, which should have potential applications in quantum information processing.

id: 0711.1674
title: Kicked rotor quantum resonances in position space
authors: Maxence Lepers, V¨¦ronique Zehnl¨¦, Jean Claude Garreau
comments: 5 figures, format RevTeX 4
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 77, 4 (2008) 043628
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1674
abstract: We present an approach of the kicked rotor quantum resonances in position-space, based on its analogy with the optical Talbot effect. This approach leads to a very simple picture of the physical mechanism underlying the dynamics and to analytical expressions for relevant physical quantities, such as mean momentum or kinetic energy. The ballistic behavior, which is closely associated to quantum resonances, is analyzed and shown to emerge from a coherent adding of successive kicks applied to the rotor thanks to a periodic reconstruction of the spatial wavepacket.

id: 0711.1686
title: Adiabatic information transport in the presence of decoherence
authors: I. Kamleitner, J. Cresser, J. Twamley
comments: 11pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032331 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1686
abstract: We study adiabatic population transfer between discrete positions. Being closely related to STIRAP in optical systems, this transport is coherent and robust against variations of experimental parameters. Thanks to these properties the scheme is a promising candidate for transport of quantum information in quantum computing. We study the effects of spatially registered noise sources on the quantum transport and in particular model Markovian decoherence via non-local coupling to nearby quantum point contacts which serve as information readouts. We find that the rate of decoherence experienced by a spatial superposition initially grows with spatial separation but surprisingly then plateaus. In addition we include non-Markovian effects due to couplings to nearby two level systems and we find that although the population transport exhibits robustness in the presence of both types of noise sources, the transport of a spatial superposition exhibits severe fragility.

id: 0711.1694
title: Symmetry in quantum walks
authors: Hari Krovi
comments: 136 pages, Ph.D. thesis, University of Southern California, 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1694
abstract: A discrete-time quantum walk on a graph is the repeated application of a unitary evolution operator to a Hilbert space corresponding to the graph. Hitting times for discrete quantum walks on graphs give an average time before the walk reaches an ending condition. We derive an expression for hitting time using superoperators, and numerically evaluate it for the walk on the hypercube for various coins and decoherence models. We show that, by contrast to classical walks, quantum walks can have infinite hitting times for some initial states. We seek criteria to determine if a given walk on a graph will have infinite hitting times, and find a sufficient condition for their existence. The phenomenon of infinite hitting times is in general a consequence of the symmetry of the graph and its automorphism group. Symmetries of a graph, given by its automorphism group, can be inherited by the evolution operator. Using the irreducible representations of the automorphism group, we derive conditions such that quantum walks defined on this graph must have infinite hitting times for some initial states. Symmetry can also cause the walk to be confined to a subspace of the original Hilbert space for certain initial states. We show that a quantum walk confined to the subspace corresponding to this symmetry group can be seen as a different quantum walk on a smaller quotient graph and we give an explicit construction of the quotient graph. We conjecture that the existence of a small quotient graph with finite hitting times is necessary for a walk to exhibit a quantum speed-up. Finally, we use symmetry and the theory of decoherence-free subspaces to determine when the subspace of the quotient graph is a decoherence-free subspace of the dynamics.

id: 0711.1699
title: Remote extraction and destruction of spread qubit information
authors: Yoshiko Ogata, Mio Murao
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062340 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1699
abstract: Necessary and sufficient conditions for deterministic remote extraction and destruction of qubit information encoded in bipartite states using only local operations and classical communications (LOCC) are presented. The conditions indicate that there is a way to asymmetrically spread qubit information between two parties such that it can be remotely extracted with unit probability at one of the parties but not at the other as long as they are using LOCC. Remote destruction can also be asymmetric between the two parties, but the conditions are incompatible with those for remote extraction.

id: 0711.1728
title: On the optimality of individual entangling-probe attacks against BB84 quantum key distribution
authors: I. Herbauts, S. Bettelli, H. H¨¹bel, M. Peev
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D, 46, 395-406 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1728
abstract: It is shown that an existing method to study ideal individual attacks on the BB84 QKD protocol using error discard can be adapted to reconciliation with error correction, and that an optimal attack can be explicitly found. Moreover, this attack fills Luetkenhaus bound, independently of whether error positions are leaked to Eve, proving that it is tight. In addition, we clarify why the existence of such optimal attacks is not in contradiction with the established ``old-style'' theory of BB84 individual attacks, as incorrectly suggested recently in a news feature.

id: 0711.1731
title: Key rate available from mismatched mesurements in the BB84 protocol and the uncertainty principle
authors: Ryutaroh Matsumoto, Shun Watanabe
comments: 5 pages, no figure, ieice.cls. Title was changed from version 1. To appear in IEICE Trans. Fundamentals (this http URL), vol. E91-A, no. 10, Oct. 2008
journal: IEICE Trans. Fundamentals, vol. 91, no. 10, pp. 2870-2873, October 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1731
abstract: We consider the mismatched measurements in the BB84 quantum key distribution protocol, in which measuring bases are different from transmitting bases. We give a lower bound on the amount of a secret key that can be extracted from the mismatched measurements. Our lower bound shows that we can extract a secret key from the mismatched measurements with certain quantum channels, such as the channel over which the Hadamard matrix is applied to each qubit with high probability. Moreover, the entropic uncertainty principle implies that one cannot extract the secret key from both matched measurements and mismatched ones simultaneously, when we use the standard information reconciliation and privacy amplification procedure.

id: 0711.1733
title: Clifford quantum computer and the Mathieu groups
authors: Michel Planat
comments: version for the journal Entropy
journal: Invertis Journal of Science and Technology 3, 2 (2010) 1-4
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1733
abstract: One learned from Gottesman-Knill theorem that the Clifford model of quantum computing \cite{Clark07} may be generated from a few quantum gates, the Hadamard, Phase and Controlled-Z gates, and efficiently simulated on a classical computer. We employ the group theoretical package GAP\cite{GAP} for simulating the two qubit Clifford group $\mathcal{C}_2$. We already found that the symmetric group S(6), aka the automorphism group of the generalized quadrangle W(2), controls the geometry of the two-qubit Pauli graph \cite{Pauligraphs}. Now we find that the {\it inner} group ${Inn}(\mathcal{C}_2)=\mathcal{C}_2/{Center}(\mathcal{C}_2)$ exactly contains two normal subgroups, one isomorphic to $\mathcal{Z}_2^{\times 4}$ (of order 16), and the second isomorphic to the parent $A'(6)$ (of order 5760) of the alternating group A(6). The group $A'(6)$ stabilizes an {\it hexad} in the Steiner system $S(3,6,22)$ attached to the Mathieu group M(22). Both groups A(6) and $A'(6)$ have an {\it outer} automorphism group $\mathcal{Z}_2\times \mathcal{Z}_2$, a feature we associate to two-qubit quantum entanglement.

id: 0711.1756
title: Quantum phase estimation algorithm in presence of static imperfections
authors: Ignacio Garcia-Mata, Dima L. Shepelyansky
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures. Research avilable at this http URL
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 47, 151 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1756
abstract: We study numerically the effects of static imperfections and residual couplings between qubits for the quantum phase estimation algorithm with two qubits. We show that the success probability of the algorithm is affected significantly more by static imperfections than by random noise errors in quantum gates. An improvement of the algorithm accuracy can be reached by application of the Pauli-random-error-correction method (PAREC).

id: 0711.1808
title: Cross-Kerr effective Hamiltonian for a non-resonant four-level atom
authors: Gary F. Sinclair, Natalia Korolkova
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A, Replacement: added Acknowledgments section
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1808
abstract: We derive a cross-Kerr type effective Hamiltonian for the four-level atom interacting with three electromagnetic fields in the N-configuration. When the atom has relaxed into the ground state a cross-Kerr nonlinearity arises between two weak probe fields. As a development on earlier work we show in general that the atom will also display a linear and self-Kerr response. However, if certain resonance conditions are satisfied then the linear and self-Kerr interactions will vanish. The electrical susceptibilities of the probe transitions are also explored and it is shown that a large, pure cross-Kerr nonlinearity can be generated with vanishing absorption of both probe fields.

id: 0711.1818
title: Local Exchange Potentials for Electronic Structure Calculations
authors: Eric Cances, Gabriel Stoltz, Gustavo E. Scuseria, Viktor N. Staroverov, Ernest R. Davidson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1818
abstract: The Hartree-Fock exchange operator is an integral operator arising in the Hartree-Fock method and replaced by a multiplicative operator (a local potential) in Kohn-Sham density functional theory. This article presents a detailed analysis of the mathematical properties of various local approximations to the nonlocal Hartree-Fock exchange operator, including the Slater potential, the optimized effective potential (OEP), the Krieger-Li-Iafrate (KLI) and common energy-denominator approximations (CEDA) to the OEP, and the effective local potential (ELP). In particular, we show that the Slater, KLI, CEDA potentials and the ELP can all be defined as solutions to certain variational problems. We also provide a rigorous derivation of the integral OEP equation and establish the existence of a solution to a system of coupled nonlinear partial differential equations defining the Slater approximation to the Hartree-Fock equations.

id: 0711.1829
title: Atom Fock state preparation by trap reduction
authors: A. del Campo, J. G. Muga
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 023412 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1829
abstract: We study the production of low atom number Fock states by reducing suddenly the potential trap in a 1D strongly interacting (Tonks-Girardeau) gas. The fidelity of the Fock state preparation is characterized by the average and variance of the number of trapped atoms. Two different methods are considered: making the trap shallower (atom culling [A. M. Dudarev {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 98}, 063001 (2007)], also termed ``trap weakening'' here) and making the trap narrower (trap squeezing). When used independently, the efficiency of both procedures is limited as a result of the truncation of the final state in momentum or position space with respect to the ideal atom number state. However, their combination provides a robust and efficient strategy to create ideal Fock states.

id: 0711.1830
title: Steady state entanglement between hybrid light-matter qubits
authors: Dimitris G. Angelakis, Stefano Mancini, Sougato Bose
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 85, 20007 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1830
abstract: We study the case of two polaritonic qubits localized in two separate cavities coupled by a fiber/additional cavity. We show that surprisingly enough, even a coherent classical pump in the intermediate cavity/fiber can lead to the creation of entanglement between the two ends in the steady state. The stationary nature of this entanglement and its survival under dissipation opens possibilities for its production under realistic laboratory conditions. To facilitate the verification of the entanglement in an experiment we also construct the relevant entanglement witness measurable by accessing only a few local variables of each polaritonic qubit.

id: 0711.1831
title: A quantum repeater based on decoherence free subspaces
authors: Uwe Dorner, Alexander Klein, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 22 pages, 18 figures, accepted for publication in Quantum Information & Computation
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 8, 0468 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1831
abstract: We study a quantum repeater which is based on decoherence free quantum gates recently proposed by Klein et al. [Phys. Rev. A 73, 012332 (2006)]. A number of operations on the decoherence free subspace in this scheme makes use of an ancilla qubit, which undergoes dephasing and thus introduces decoherence to the system. We examine how this decoherence affects entanglement swapping and purification as well as the performance of a quantum repeater. We compare the decoherence free quantum repeater with a quantum repeater based on qubits that are subject to decoherence and show that it outperforms the latter when decoherence due to long waiting times of conventional qubits becomes significant. Thus, a quantum repeater based on decoherence free subspaces is a possibility to greatly improve quantum communication over long or even intercontinental distances.

id: 0711.1832
title: The design of Kinetic Functionals for Many-Body Electron Systems : Combining analytical theory with Monte Carlo sampling of electronic configurations
authors: Luca M. Ghiringhelli, Luigi Delle Site
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1832
abstract: In a previous work [L.Delle Site, J.Phys.A 40, 2787 (2007)] the derivation of an analytic expression for the kinetic functional of a many-body electron system has been proposed. Though analytical, the formula is still non local (multidimensional) and thus not ideal for numerical applications. In this work, by treating the test case of a uniform gas of interacting spinless electrons, we propose a computational protocol which combines the previous analytic results with the Monte Carlo (MC) sampling of electronic configurations in space. This, we show, leads to an internally consistent scheme to design well founded local kinetic functionals.

id: 0711.1858
title: A Fundamental Lower Bound of Actuating Energy for Broadband Photon Switching
authors: Masahiro Hotta
comments: To be published in Phys.Lett.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1858
abstract: We derive a universal lower bound of actuating energy $E_{s}$ for broadband photon switching by using an uncertainty relation between time and the negative energy density of quantum fields. We find that broadband photon switching between perfect reflection and perfect transmission over a time $t_s$ should satisfy $E_{s}\geq\frac{\hbar}{6\pi t_s}$.

id: 0711.1882
title: Optimizing the discrete time quantum walk using a SU(2) coin
authors: C.M. Chandrashekar, R. Srikanth, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032326 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1882
abstract: We present a generalized version of the discrete time quantum walk, using the SU(2) operation as the quantum coin. By varying the coin parameters, the quantum walk can be optimized for maximum variance subject to the functional form $\sigma^2 \approx N^2$ and the probability distribution in the position space can be biased. We also discuss the variation in measurement entropy with the variation of the parameters in the SU(2) coin. Exploiting this we show how quantum walk can be optimized for improving mixing time in an $n$-cycle and for quantum walk search.

id: 0711.1917
title: A proposal for a conditional definition of the Swap Gate
authors: P. C. Garcia Quijas, L. M. Arevalo Aguilar
comments: 4 pages, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1917
abstract: In order to realize quantum logical operations, Quantum Computation (QC) requires that its basic tools and concepts obey the laws of physics. One of the fundamental concepts in QC is the conditional quantum dynamics \cite{barenco}, some times called controlled-unitary operation \cite{kumar}, which is established by the conditional "If-Then" sentence. The best know example is the c-not gate, which operates on the computational basis as follows: \textit{If the control qubit is set to $% |1>$, then apply the single qubit quantum NOT gate on the target. Otherwise, if the control qubit is set to $|0>$, then the target qubit is unchanged}. This gate represents the paradigm for the conditional quantum dynamics, where the flipping of the target qubit is conditioned to the state of the control qubit. Other gates have been defined in a similar way of conditional evolution; for instance, the control phase gates \cite{paulo1}. However, to the best of our knowledge, such conditional quantum dynamics has not been yet used to define the SWAP gate. Here we propose a possible conditional definition, in the form of If-Then sentence, to construct a SWAP gate in the case of two qubits. This definition suggests a classification in two classes, which depends upon the number of qubits that have to undergo a conditional quantum dynamics.

id: 0711.1923
title: Non-local dynamics of Bell states in separate cavities
authors: Jun Jing, Zhi-guo L¨¹, Guo-hong Yang
comments: Physics Letters A, accepted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1923
abstract: We present non-local dynamics of Bell states in separate cavities. It is demonstrated that (i) the entanglement damping speed will saturate when the cavity leakage rate $\gamma\geq 0.4$; (ii) the synchronism relationship between the fidelity and the concurrence depends on the initial state; (iii) if the initial state is $1/\sqrt{2}(|01>+|10>)$, the dynamics of entropy is opposite to that of fidelity.

id: 0711.1929
title: Photoionization accompanied by excitation at intermediate photon energies
authors: E. G. Drukarev, E. Z. Liverts, M. Ya. Amusia, R. Krivec, V. B. Mandelzweig
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1929
abstract: We calculate the photoionization with excitation-to photoionization ratios for atomic helium and heliumlike ions at intermediate values of the photon energies. The final state interactions between the electrons are included in the lowest order of their Sommerfeld parameter. This enables us, in contrast to purely numerical calculations to investigate the roles of various mechanisms contributing beyond the high energy limit. The system of the two bound electrons is described by the functions obtained by the Correlation Function Hyperspherical Harmonic Method. For the case of heliumlike ions we present the high energy limits as power expansion in inverse charge of the nucleus. We analyse the role of excitation of states with the nonzero orbital momenta.

id: 0711.1936
title: Spectral properties of entanglement witnesses
authors: Gniewomir Sarbicki
comments: published version, some proofs are more detailed, mistakes removed
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 375303 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1936
abstract: Entanglement witnesses are observables which when measured, detect entanglement in a measured composed system. It is shown what kind of relations between eigenvectors of an observable should be fulfilled, to allow an observable to be an entanglement witness. Some restrictions on the signature of entaglement witnesses, based on an algebraic-geometrical theorem will be given. The set of entanglement witnesses is linearly isomorphic to the set of maps between matrix algebras which are positive, but not completely positive. A translation of the results to the language of positive maps is also given. The properties of entanglement witnesses and positive maps express as special cases of general theorems for $k$-Schmidt witnesses and $k$-positive maps. The results are therefore presented in a general framework.

id: 0711.1994
title: Coherence Induced by Incoherent Pumping Field and Decay Process in Three-level $¦«$ Type Atomic System
authors: Bao-Quan Ou, Lin-Mei Liang, Cheng-Zu Li
comments: 7pages,5figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1994
abstract: Following the method of Victor V. Kozlov et al.[PhysRevA. 74. 063829],we inspect the coherence induced by incoherent pump and spontaneous decay process in $\Lambda$ type three-level atomic system with degenerated lower duplicate levels. The system shows a coherent population trapping state and multi-steady states characteristic in different conditions. Interestingly, two kinds of steady states generated by the system in different sets of pumping and decaying parameters, the "singlet" state and the "triplet" state, exhibit stable or unstable characteristics under the action of pumping field and vacuum reservoir, which promise fruitful applications to atomic coherence and interference in quantum optics.

id: 0711.2011
title: Arrival time in quantum field theory
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong, Bing He
comments: 15 pages, A detailed version with a appendix, to be published in Physics Letters B
journal: Physics Letters B 666 (2008) 382-385
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2011
abstract: Via the proper-time eigenstates (event states) instead of the proper-mass eigenstates (particle states), free-motion time-of-arrival theory for massive spin-1/2 particles is developed at the level of quantum field theory. The approach is based on a position-momentum dual formalism. Within the framework of field quantization, the total time-of-arrival is the sum of the single event-of-arrival contributions, and contains zero-point quantum fluctuations because the clocks under consideration follow the laws of quantum mechanics.

id: 0711.2012
title: A lower bound on the probability of error in quantum state discrimination
authors: Ashley Montanaro
comments: 4 pages; v2 fixes typos and adds remarks; v3 adds a new reference
journal: In Proc. IEEE Information Theory Workshop 2008, pp. 378-380
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2012
abstract: We give a lower bound on the probability of error in quantum state discrimination. The bound is a weighted sum of the pairwise fidelities of the states to be distinguished.

id: 0711.2025
title: Quantum properties of counter-propagating two-photon states generated in a planar waveguide
authors: Jan Perina Jr
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77 (2008) 013803
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2025
abstract: A nonlinear planar waveguide pumped by a beam orthogonal to its surface may serve as a versatile source of photon pairs. Changing pump-pulse duration, pump-beam transverse width, and angular decomposition of pump-beam frequencies characteristics of a photon pair including spectral widths of signal and idler fields, their time durations as well as degree of entanglement of two fields can be changed significantly. Using the measured spectral widths of the down-converted fields and width of a coincidence-count dip in a Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometer entropy of entanglement can be determined.

id: 0711.2049
title: The role of the atom-cavity detuning in bimodal cavity experiments
authors: D. Gonta, S. Fritzsche
comments: IOP file, 6 figures, J. Phys. B accepted
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41 (2008) 095503.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2049
abstract: The coherent evolution of the atom-cavity state in bimodal (cavity) experiments has been analyzed for a realistic time-dependence in detuning the atomic transition frequency. Apart from a `smooth switch' of the atomic resonance from one to the second mode of a bimodal cavity, we considered also an additional (effective) interaction between the field modes of the cavity, known as `communication channel'. Comparison of our model computations has been made especially with the measurements by Rauschenbeutel et al., [2001 Phys. Rev. A 64 050301] who demonstrated for the first time the entanglement of the field modes in a bimodal cavity. It is shown that the agreement between the (theoretically) predicted and experimental phase shifts can be improved by allowing a `communication' between the two field modes during a short but finite switch of the atomic transition frequency from one mode to the other. We therefore suggest that the details of the atom-cavity detuning should be taken into account for the future interpretation of bimodal cavity experiments.

id: 0711.2088
title: Photon-Photon Correlations as a Probe of Vacuum Induced Coherence Effects
authors: Sumanta Das, G.S. Agarwal
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 77, 033850 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2088
abstract: We present new experimental implications of the effects of vacuum induced coherence on the photon -photon correlation in the pi-polarized fluorescence in j = 1/2 to j = 1/2 transition. These effects should be thus observable in measurements of photon statistics in for example Hg and Ba ion traps.

id: 0711.2094
title: Nonlinear optical spectroscopy of single, few, and many molecules; nonequilibrium Green's function QED approach
authors: Christoph A. Marx, Upendra Harbola, Shaul Mukamel
comments: article: 33 pages (preprint format!) ''paper.tex'' figures: 17 figures (.eps) in folder ``figures''
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2094
abstract: Nonlinear optical signals from an assembly of N noninteracting particles consist of an incoherent and a coherent component, whose magnitudes scale \sim N and \sim N(N-1), respectively. A unified microscopic description of both types of signals is developed using a quantum electrodynamical (QED) treatment of the optical fields. Closed nonequilibrium Green's function expressions are derived that incorporate both stimulated and spontaneous processes. General (n+1)-wave mixing experiments are discussed as an example of spontaneously generated signals. When performed on a single particle, such signals cannot be expressed in terms of the nth order polarization, as predicted by the semiclassical theory. Stimulated processes are shown to be purely incoherent in nature. Within the QED framework, heterodyne-detected wave mixing signals are simply viewed as incoherent stimulated emission, whereas homodyne signals are generated by coherent spontaneous emission.

id: 0711.2120
title: Non-Abelian gauge field effects and its relevance to spinning particle dynamics in the technology of spintronics
authors: S. G. Tan, M. B. A. Jalil, X. -J. Liu, T. Fujita
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2120
abstract: We describe formally the precession of spin vector about the k-space effective magnetic field in condensed matter system with spin orbital effects as constituting a local transformation of the electron wavefunction which necessarily invokes the SU(2) transformation rule to ensure covariance. We showed a "no-precession" condition as pre-requisite for the spin gauge field to exert its influence on spin particle motion. The effects of the spin gauge field on spin particle motion were shown to be consistent in both classical and quantum pictures, which hence should underpin theoretical explanations for important effects in anomalous Hall, spin Hall, spin torque, optical Magnus, geometric quantum computation.

id: 0711.2140
title: Holonomy for Quantum Channels
authors: David Kult, Johan ?berg, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Minor changes, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012114 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2140
abstract: A quantum holonomy reflects the curvature of some underlying structure of quantum mechanical systems, such as that associated with quantum states. Here, we extend the notion of holonomy to families of quantum channels, i.e., trace preserving completely positive maps. By the use of the Jamio{\l}kowski isomorphism, we show that the proposed channel holonomy is related to the Uhlmann holonomy. The general theory is illustrated for specific examples. We put forward a physical realization of the channel holonomy in terms of interferometry. This enables us to identify a gauge invariant physical object that directly relates to the channel holonomy. Parallel transport condition and concomitant gauge structure are delineated in the case of smoothly parametrized families of channels. Finally, we point out that interferometer tests that have been carried out in the past to confirm the $4\pi$ rotation symmetry of the neutron spin, can be viewed as early experimental realizations of the channel holonomy.

id: 0711.2200
title: Topos-Theoretic Extension of a Modal Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Kunji Nakayama
comments: LaTeX2e
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.47:2065-2094,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2200
abstract: This paper deals with topos-theoretic truth-value valuations of quantum propositions. Concretely, a mathematical framework of a specific type of modal approach is extended to the topos theory, and further, structures of the obtained truth-value valuations are investigated. What is taken up is the modal approach based on a determinate lattice $\Dcal(e,R)$, which is a sublattice of the lattice $\Lcal$ of all quantum propositions and is determined by a quantum state $e$ and a preferred determinate observable $R$. Topos-theoretic extension is made in the functor category $\Sets^{\CcalR}$ of which base category $\CcalR$ is determined by $R$. Each true atom, which determines truth values, true or false, of all propositions in $\Dcal(e,R)$, generates also a multi-valued valuation function of which domain and range are $\Lcal$ and a Heyting algebra given by the subobject classifier in $\Sets^{\CcalR}$, respectively. All true propositions in $\Dcal(e,R)$ are assigned the top element of the Heyting algebra by the valuation function. False propositions including the null proposition are, however, assigned values larger than the bottom element. This defect can be removed by use of a subobject semi-classifier. Furthermore, in order to treat all possible determinate observables in a unified framework, another valuations are constructed in the functor category $\Sets^{\Ccal}$. Here, the base category $\Ccal$ includes all $\CcalR$'s as subcategories. Although $\Sets^{\Ccal}$ has a structure apparently different from $\Sets^{\CcalR}$, a subobject semi-classifier of $\Sets^{\Ccal}$ gives valuations completely equivalent to those in $\Sets^{\CcalR}$'s.

id: 0711.2203
title: Switching effect upon the quantum Brownian motion near a reflecting boundary
authors: Masafumi Seriu, Chun-Hsien Wu
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures This version is just to correct the author-list
journal: Physical Review A77, 022107 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2203
abstract: The quantum Brownian motion of a charged particle in the electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations is investigated near a perfectly reflecting flat boundary, taking into account the smooth switching process in the measurement. Constructing a smooth switching function by gluing together a plateau and the Lorentzian switching tails, it is shown that the switching tails have a great influence on the measurement of the Brownian motion in the quantum vacuum. Indeed, it turns out that the result with a smooth switching function and the one with a sudden switching function are qualitatively quite different. It is also shown that anti-correlations between the switching tails and the main measuring part plays an essential role in this switching effect. The switching function can also be interpreted as a prototype of an non-equilibrium process in a realistic measurement, so that the switching effect found here is expected to be significant in actual applications in vacuum physics.

id: 0711.2207
title: Nos¨¦-Hoover Dynamics in Quantum Phase Space
authors: Alessandro Sergi, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2207
abstract: Thermal fluctuations in time-dependent quantum processes are treated by a constant-temperature generalization of Wigner's formulation of quantum mechanics in phase space. To this end, quantum Nos\`e-Hoover dynamics is defined by generalizing the Moyal bracket. Computational applications of the formalism, together with further theoretical developments, are discussed.

id: 0711.2217
title: Time propagation of constrained coupled Gaussian wave packets
authors: T. Fabcic, J. Main, G. Wunner
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in J. Chem. Phys
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 128 (2008) 044116
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2217
abstract: The dynamics of quantum systems can be approximated by the time propagation of Gaussian wave packets. Applying a time dependent variational principle, the time evolution of the parameters of the coupled Gaussian wave packets can be calculated from a set of ordinary differential equations. Unfortunately, the set of equations is ill-behaved in most practical applications, depending on the number of propagated Gaussian wave packets, and methods for regularization are needed. We present a general method for regularization based on applying adequate nonholonomic inequality constraints to the evolution of the parameters, keeping the equations of motion well-behaved. The power of the method is demonstrated for a non-integrable system with two degrees of freedom.

id: 0711.2230
title: Joint excitation probability for two harmonic oscillators in dimension one and the Mott problem
authors: Gianfausto Dell'Antonio, Rodolfo Figari, Alessandro Teta
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2230
abstract: We analyze a one dimensional quantum system consisting of a test particle interacting with two harmonic oscillators placed at the positions $a_1$, $a_2$, with $a_1 >0$, $|a_2|>a_1$, in the two possible situations: $a_2>0$ and $a_2 <0$. At time zero the harmonic oscillators are in their ground state and the test particle is in a superposition state of two wave packets centered in the origin with opposite mean momentum. %$\pm M v_0$. Under suitable assumptions on the physical parameters of the model, we consider the time evolution of the wave function and we compute the probability $\mathcal{P}^{-}_{n_1 n_2} (t)$ (resp. $\mathcal{P}^{+}_{n_1 n_2} (t)$) that both oscillators are in the excited states labelled by $n_1$, $n_2 >0$ at time $t > |a_2| v_0^{-1}$ when $a_2 <0$ (resp. $a_2 >0$). We prove that $\mathcal{P}_{n_1 n_2}^- (t)$ is negligible with respect to $\mathcal{P}_{n_1 n_2}^+ (t)$, up to second order in time dependent perturbation theory. The system we consider is a simplified, one dimensional version of the original model of a cloud chamber introduced by Mott in \cite{m}, where the result was argued using euristic arguments in the framework of the time independent perturbation theory for the stationary Schr\"{o}dinger equation. The method of the proof is entirely elementary and it is essentially based on a stationary phase argument. We also remark that all the computations refer to the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for the three-particle system, with no reference to the wave packet collapse postulate.

id: 0711.2245
title: On approximation of quantum channels
authors: M.E.Shirokov, A.S.Holevo
comments: 26 pages
journal: Problems of Information Transmission, Vol. 44, No. 2, (2008), 3-22
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2245
abstract: We develop an approximation approach to infinite dimensional quantum channels based on detailed investigation of the continuity properties of entropic characteristics of quantum channels and operations (trace-nonincreasing completely positive maps) as functions of a pair ``channel, input state''. The obtained results are then applied to the following problems: continuity of the $\chi$-capacity as function of a channel; strong additivity of the $\chi$-capacity for infinite dimensional channels; the analytical expression for the convex closure of the output entropy of arbitrary quantum channel.

id: 0711.2260
title: A Quantum Like Interpretation and Solution of Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen Paradox in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Elio Conte
comments: 9 pages
journal: Proceedings Fundamental problems of Sciences,271-304,S.Petersburg 2002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2260
abstract: We discuss the Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen paradox as it was formulated by Asher Peres in 1992 [4]. On this basis we realize an algebraic quantum like elaboration showing that in this formulation the paradox may be still interpreted and solved.

id: 0711.2263
title: High quality mechanical and optical properties of commercial silicon nitride membranes
authors: B. M. Zwickl, W. E. Shanks, A. M. Jayich, C. Yang, A. C. Bleszynski Jayich, J. D. Thompson, J. G. E. Harris
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2263
abstract: We have measured the optical and mechanical loss of commercial silicon nitride membranes. We find that 50 nm-thick, 1 mm^2 membranes have mechanical Q > 10^6 at 293 K, and Q > 10^7 at 300 mK, well above what has been observed in devices with comparable dimensions. The near-IR optical loss at 293 K is less than 2E-4. This combination of properties make these membranes attractive candidates for studying quantum effects in optomechanical systems.

id: 0711.2268
title: Multipartite entangled states in particle mixing
authors: M. Blasone, F. Dell'Anno, S. De Siena, M. Di Mauro, F. Illuminati
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 77, 096002 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2268
abstract: In the physics of flavor mixing, the flavor states are given by superpositions of mass eigenstates. By using the occupation number to define a multiqubit space, the flavor states can be interpreted as multipartite mode-entangled states. By exploiting a suitable global measure of entanglement, based on the entropies related to all possible bipartitions of the system, we analyze the correlation properties of such states in the instances of three- and four-flavor mixing. Depending on the mixing parameters, and, in particular, on the values taken by the free phases, responsible for the CP-violation, entanglement concentrates in preferred bipartitions. We quantify in detail the amount and the distribution of entanglement in the physically relevant cases of flavor mixing in quark and neutrino systems. By using the wave packet description for localized particles, we use the global measure of entanglement, suitably adapted for the instance of multipartite mixed states, to analyze the decoherence induced by the free evolution dynamics on the quantum correlations of stationary neutrino beams. We define a decoherence length as the distance associated with the vanishing of the coherent interference effects among massive neutrino states. We investigate the role of the CP-violating phase in the decoherence process.

id: 0711.2310
title: Thou Shalt Not Clone One Bit!
authors: John Conway, Simon Kochen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2310
abstract: We prove a no-triplets theorem for spin 1 particles, which implies a strengthened form of the no-cloning theorem.

id: 0711.2315
title: Uncertainty relations for the realisation of macroscopic quantum superpositions and EPR paradoxes
authors: E. G. Cavalcanti, M. D. Reid
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, to appear Journ Mod Optics work presented at PQE 2007 conference
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 54, 2373 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2315
abstract: We present a unified approach, based on the use of quantum uncertainty relations, for arriving at criteria for the demonstration of the EPR paradox and macroscopic superpositions. We suggest to view each criterion as a means to demonstrate an EPR-type paradox, where there is an inconsistency between the assumptions of a form of realism, either macroscopic realism (MR) or local realism (LR), and the completeness of quantum mechanics.

id: 0711.2325
title: Collective spin systems in dispersive optical cavity QED: Quantum phase transitions and entanglement
authors: S. Morrison, A.S. Parkins
comments: 19 pages, 18 figures, shortened version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 043810 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2325
abstract: We propose a cavity QED setup which implements a dissipative Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model -- an interacting collective spin system. By varying the external model parameters the system can be made to undergo both first-and second-order quantum phase transitions, which are signified by dramatic changes in cavity output field properties, such as the probe laser transmission spectrum. The steady-state entanglement between pairs of atoms is shown to peak at the critical points and can be experimentally determined by suitable measurements on the cavity output field. The entanglement dynamics also exhibits pronounced variations in the vicinities of the phase transitions.

id: 0711.2328
title: Entanglement generation using silicon wire waveguide
authors: Hiroki Takesue, Yasuhiro Tokura, Hiroshi Fukuda, Tai Tsuchizawa, Toshifumi Watanabe, Koji Yamada, Sei-ichi Itabashi
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. A part of this content was presented at Eur. Conf. Opt. Commun. ECOC 2007, postdeadline paper 2.3, September 20, 2007, Berlin
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 91, 201108 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2328
abstract: We report the first entanglement generation experiment that utilizes a silicon waveguide. Using spontaneous four-wave mixing in a 1.09-cm-long silicon wire waveguide, we generated 1.5-um, high-purity time-bin entangled photons without temperature control, and observed a two-photon interference fringe with >73% visibility.

id: 0711.2357
title: Quantum Wire as Open System
authors: Marcin Wiesniak
comments: New results, new references added, clearer plots
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2357
abstract: The faithful exchange of quantum information will soon become one of the challenges of the emerging quantum information technology. One of the possible solutions is to transfer a superposition through a chain of properly coupled spins. Such a system is called a quantum wire. We discuss the transfer in a quantum wire \cite{christ,niko1,niko2}, when the process of thermalization of the state takes place together with the free evolution. We investigate which encoding scheme is more faithful in certain thermal conditions.

id: 0711.2358
title: The renormalization of entanglement in the anisotropic Heisenberg (XXZ) model
authors: M. Kargarian, R. Jafari, A. Langari
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032346 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2358
abstract: We have applied our recent approach (Kargarian, et.al Phys. Rev. A 76, 60304 (R) (2007)) to study the quantum information properties of the anisotropic s=1/2 Heisenberg chain. We have investigated the underlying quantum information properties like the evolution of concurrence, entanglement entropy, nonanalytic behaviours and the scaling close to the quantum critical point of the model. Both the concurrence and the entanglement entropy develop two saturated values after enough iterations of the renormalization of coupling constants. This values are associated with the two different phases, i.e Neel and spin liquid phases. The nonanalytic behaviour comes from the divergence of the first derivative of both measures of entanglement as the size of system becomes large. The renormalization scheme demonstrates how the minimum value of the first derivative and its position scales with an exponent of the system size. It is shown that this exponent is directly related to the critical properties of the model, i.e. the exponent governing the divergence of the correlation length close to the quantum critical point. We also use a renormalization method based on the quantum group concept in order to get more insight about the critical properties of the model and the renormalization of entanglement.

id: 0711.2395
title: The Casimir effect as scattering problem
authors: Andreas Wirzba
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, plenary talk at QFEXT07, Leipzig, September 2007, some typos corrected
journal: J.Phys.A41:164003,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2395
abstract: We show that Casimir-force calculations for a finite number of non-overlapping obstacles can be mapped onto quantum-mechanical billiard-type problems which are characterized by the scattering of a fictitious point particle off the very same obstacles. With the help of a modified Krein trace formula the genuine/finite part of the Casimir energy is determined as the energy-weighted integral over the log-determinant of the multi-scattering matrix of the analog billiard problem. The formalism is self-regulating and inherently shows that the Casimir energy is governed by the infrared end of the multi-scattering phase shifts or spectrum of the fluctuating field. The calculation is exact and in principle applicable for any separation(s) between the obstacles. In practice, it is more suited for large- to medium-range separations. We report especially about the Casimir energy of a fluctuating massless scalar field between two spheres or a sphere and a plate under Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions. But the formalism can easily be extended to any number of spheres and/or planes in three or arbitrary dimensions, with a variety of boundary conditions or non-overlapping potentials/non-ideal reflectors.

id: 0711.2418
title: Derivation of the postulates of quantum mechanics from the first principles of scale relativity
authors: Laurent Nottale, Marie-No?lle C¨¦l¨¦rier
comments: 30 pages, no figure
journal: J.Phys.A40:14471-14498,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2418
abstract: Quantum mechanics is based on a series of postulates which lead to a very good description of the microphysical realm but which have, up to now, not been derived from first principles. In the present work, we suggest such a derivation in the framework of the theory of scale relativity. After having analyzed the actual status of the various postulates, rules and principles that underlie the present axiomatic foundation of quantum mechanics (in terms of main postulates, secondary rules and derived `principles'), we attempt to provide the reader with an exhaustive view of the matter, by both gathering here results which are already available in the literature, and deriving new ones which complete the postulate list.

id: 0711.2437
title: Reply to "Comment on 'Precision measurement of the Casimir-Lifshitz force in a fluid'"
authors: J. N. Munday, Federico Capasso
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2437
abstract: We have reviewed the Comment of Geyer et al. [arXiv:0708.1548] concerning our recent work [Phys. Rev. A 75, 060102 (R) (2007)], and while we disagree with their criticisms, we acknowledge them for giving us the opportunity to add interesting addition material and a more detailed description of our experiment. We describe further our calculation and explain why a more sophisticated model is not warranted. We also present detailed experiments on the effects of electrostatic forces in our measurements and show that the contribution due to work function differences is small and that the residual electrostatic force is dominated by trapped charges and external fields. Finally, we estimate the effect of double layer interactions. These additional calculations and measurements support our original conclusion that the experimental results are consistent with the Lifshitz theory.

id: 0711.2446
title: Wave packet methods in cavity QED
authors: Jonas Larson
comments: Proceedings for "Time dependent phenomena in quantum mechanics" (Blaubeuren, 2007). 14 pages, 6 figures, uses jpconf.cls
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2446
abstract: The Jaynes-Cummings model, with and without the rotating wave approximation, is expressed in the conjugate variable representation and solved numerically by wave packet propagation. Both cases are then cast into systems of two coupled harmonic oscillators, reminiscent of coupled bound electronic potential curves of diatomic molecules. Using the knowledge of such models, this approach of the problem gives new insight of the dynamics. The effect of the rotating wave approximation is discussed. The collapse-revival phenomenon is especially analyzed in a non-standard manner. Extensions of the method is briefly mentioned in terms of a three-level atom and the Dicke model.

id: 0711.2474
title: Casimir effect in deformed field
authors: Ivan Vakarchuk
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: J.Phys.A41:185402,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2474
abstract: The Casimir energy is calculated in one-, two-, and three-dimensional spaces for the field with generalized coordinates and momenta satisfying the deformed Poisson brackets leading to the minimal length.

id: 0711.2483
title: Decoherence by a spin thermal bath: Role of the spin-spin interactions
authors: S. Yuan, M. I. Katsnelson, H. De Raedt
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 184301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2483
abstract: We study the decoherence of two coupled spins that interact with a spin-bath environment. It is shown that the connectivity and the coupling strength between the spins in the environment are of crucial importance for the decoherence of the central system. Changing the connectivity or coupling strenghts changes the decoherence of the central system from Gaussian to exponential decay law.

id: 0711.2526
title: Complexity of spectral sequences: semiclassical approach
authors: Yu. Dabaghian
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2526
abstract: It has been long recognized that the task of semiclassical evaluation of quantum spectra for the classically nonintegrable systems is fundamentally more complex than for the classically integrable ones. Below it is argued that the quantum spectra of the chaotic systems can differ among themselves by level of their complexity.

id: 0711.2551
title: Coherent quantum LQG control
authors: H. I. Nurdin, M. R. James, I. R. Petersen
comments: 25 pages, 1 figure, revised and corrected version (mainly to Section 8). To be published in Automatica, Journal of IFAC, 2009
journal: Automatica 45 (2009), pp. 1837-1846
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2551
abstract: Based on a recently developed notion of physical realizability for quantum linear stochastic systems, we formulate a quantum LQG optimal control problem for quantum linear stochastic systems where the controller itself may also be a quantum system and the plant output signal can be fully quantum. Such a control scheme is often referred to in the quantum control literature as "coherent feedback control.'' It distinguishes the present work from previous works on the quantum LQG problem where measurement is performed on the plant and the measurement signals are used as input to a fully classical controller with no quantum degrees of freedom. The difference in our formulation is the presence of additional non-linear and linear constraints on the coefficients of the sought after controller, rendering the problem as a type of constrained controller design problem. Due to the presence of these constraints our problem is inherently computationally hard and this also distinguishes it in an important way from the standard LQG problem. We propose a numerical procedure for solving this problem based on an alternating projections algorithm and, as initial demonstration of the feasibility of this approach, we provide fully quantum controller design examples in which numerical solutions to the problem were successfully obtained. For comparison, we also consider the case of classical linear controllers that use direct or indirect measurements, and show that there exists a fully quantum linear controller which offers an improvement in performance over the classical ones.

id: 0711.2556
title: Universal geometric entanglement close to quantum phase transitions
authors: Roman Orus
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.100:130502,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2556
abstract: Under successive Renormalization Group transformations applied to a quantum state $\ket{\Psi}$ of finite correlation length $\xi$, there is typically a loss of entanglement after each iteration. How good it is then to replace $\ket{\Psi}$ by a product state at every step of the process? In this paper we give a quantitative answer to this question by providing first analytical and general proofs that, for translationally invariant quantum systems in one spatial dimension, the global geometric entanglement per region of size $L \gg \xi$ diverges with the correlation length as $(c/12) \log{(\xi/\epsilon)}$ close to a quantum critical point with central charge $c$, where $\epsilon$ is a cut-off at short distances. Moreover, the situation at criticality is also discussed and an upper bound on the critical global geometric entanglement is provided in terms of a logarithmic function of $L$.

id: 0711.2558
title: Iterated dynamical maps in an ion trap
authors: M.Duncan, J.Links, G.J.Milburn
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2558
abstract: Iterated dynamical maps offer an ideal setting to investigate quantum dynamical bifurcations and are well adapted to few-qubit quantum computer realisations. We show that a single trapped ion, subject to periodic impulsive forces, exhibits a rich structure of dynamical bifurcations derived from the Jahn-Teller Hamiltonian flow model. We show that the entanglement between the oscillator and electronic degrees of freedom reflects the underlying dynamical bifurcation in a Floquet eigenstate.

id: 0711.2583
title: Geometric Phase and Chiral Anomaly in Path Integral Formulation
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2583
abstract: All the geometric phases, adiabatic and non-adiabatic, are formulated in a unified manner in the second quantized path integral formulation. The exact hidden local symmetry inherent in the Schr\"{o}dinger equation defines the holonomy. All the geometric phases are shown to be topologically trivial. The geometric phases are briefly compared to the chiral anomaly which is naturally formulated in the path integral.

id: 0711.2613
title: A few steps more towards NPT bound entanglement
authors: ?ukasz Pankowski, Marco Piani, Micha? Horodecki, Pawe? Horodecki
comments: 15 pages, Final version for IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 56, 4085--4100 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2613
abstract: We consider the problem of existence of bound entangled states with non-positive partial transpose (NPT). As one knows, existence of such states would in particular imply nonadditivity of distillable entanglement. Moreover it would rule out a simple mathematical description of the set of distillable states. Distillability is equivalent to so called n-copy distillability for some n. We consider a particular state, known to be 1-copy nondistillable, which is supposed to be bound entangled. We study the problem of its two-copy distillability, which boils down to show that maximal overlap of some projector Q with Schmidt rank two states does not exceed 1/2. Such property we call the the half-property. We first show that the maximum overlap can be attained on vectors that are not of the simple product form with respect to cut between two copies. We then attack the problem in twofold way: a) prove the half-property for some classes of Schmidt rank two states b) bound the required overlap from above for all Schmidt rank two states. We have succeeded to prove the half-property for wide classes of states, and to bound the overlap from above by c<3/4. Moreover, we translate the problem into the following matrix analysis problem: bound the sum of the squares of the two largest singular values of matrix A \otimes I + I \otimes B with A,B traceless 4x4 matrices, and Tr A^\dagger A + Tr B^\dagger B = 1/4.

id: 0711.2653
title: Non-locality, Contextuality and Transition sets
authors: Hans Westman
comments: 17 pages. 4 figures. Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2653
abstract: We discuss quantum non-locality and contextuality using the notion of transition sets. This approach provides a way to obtain a direct logical contradiction with locality/non-contextuality in the EPRB gedanken experiment as well as a clear graphical illustration of what violations of Bell inequalities quantify. In particular, we show graphically how these violations are related to measures of non-local transition sets. We also introduce a new form of contextuality, {\em measurement ordering contextuality}, i.e. there exists commuting operators $\hat{\mathcal{A}}$ and $\hat{\mathcal{B}}$ such that the outcome for $\hat{\mathcal{A}}$ depends on whether we measured $\hat{\mathcal{B}}$ before or after $\hat{\mathcal{A}}$. It is shown (excluding retro-causal and/or conspiratorial theories) that any hidden variable theory capable of reproducing the quantum statistics has to have this property. This generalizes yet another feature of the hidden variable theory of deBroglie and Bohm.

id: 0711.2658
title: Frame representations of quantum mechanics and the necessity of negativity in quasi-probability representations
authors: Christopher Ferrie, Joseph Emerson
comments: 13 pages, published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 352001 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2658
abstract: Several finite dimensional quasi-probability representations of quantum states have been proposed to study various problems in quantum information theory and quantum foundations. These representations are often defined only on restricted dimensions and their physical significance in contexts such as drawing quantum-classical comparisons is limited by the non-uniqueness of the particular representation. Here we show how the mathematical theory of frames provides a unified formalism which accommodates all known quasi-probability representations of finite dimensional quantum systems. Moreover, we show that any quasi-probability representation satisfying two reasonable properties is equivalent to a frame representation and then prove that any such representation of quantum mechanics must exhibit either negativity or a deformed probability calculus.

id: 0711.2709
title: Testing Quantum Devices: Practical Entanglement Verification in Bipartite Optical Systems
authors: Hauke H?seler, Tobias Moroder, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 12 Pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032303 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2709
abstract: We present a method to test quantum behavior of quantum information processing devices, such as quantum memories, teleportation devices, channels and quantum key distribution protocols. The test of quantum behavior can be phrased as the verification of effective entanglement. Necessary separability criteria are formulated in terms of a matrix of expectation values in conjunction with the partial transposition map. Our method is designed to reduce the resources for entanglement verification. A particular protocol based on coherent states and homodyne detection is used to illustrate the method. A possible test for the quantum nature of memories using two non-orthogonal signal states arises naturally. Furthermore, closer inspection of the measurement process in terms of the Stokes operators reveals a security threat for quantum key distribution involving phase reference beams.

id: 0711.2750
title: Double Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in a Tripod-type Atom System
authors: Xiao Li, Yu Liu, Hong Guo
comments: 5 pages, and 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2750
abstract: The electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) phenomenon in a four level atomic system with tripod configuration is studied. The results show that this configuration is equivalent to the combination of two single three-level $\Lambda$ configurations, which, under certain conditions, results in the so-called double-EIT (DEIT) phenomenon. The properties of the double transparency windows for DEIT are discussed in detail and the possible experimental scheme is proposed.

id: 0711.2751
title: Estimation of the Repeatedly-Projected Reduced Density Matrix under Decoherence
authors: H. Nakazato, K. Yuasa, B. Militello, A. Messina
comments: 14 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77 (2008) 042114
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2751
abstract: Decoherence is believed to deteriorate the ability of a purification scheme that is based on the idea of driving a system to a pure state by repeatedly measuring another system in interaction with the former and hinder for a pure state to be extracted asymptotically. Nevertheless, we find a way out of this difficulty by deriving an analytic expression of the reduced density matrix for a two-qubit system immersed in a bath. It is shown that we can still extract a pure state if the environment brings about only dephasing effects. In addition, for a dissipative environment, there is a possibility of obtaining a dominant pure state when we perform a finite number of measurements.

id: 0711.2765
title: Quantum Tomography of a system of three-level atoms
authors: Andrei B. Klimov, Hubert de Guise
comments: accepted in J.Phys.A: Math.& Theor
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2765
abstract: We analyze the possibility of tomographic reconstruction of a system of three-level atoms in both non-degenerate and degenerate cases. In the non-degenerate case (when both transitions can be accessed independently) a complete reconstruction is possible. In the degenerate case (when both transitions are excited simultaneously) the complete reconstruction is achievable only for a single atom in the Sigma configuration. For multiple Sigma atoms, or even a single atom in the Lambda configuration, only partial reconstruction is possible. Examples of one and two-atom cases are explicitly considered.

id: 0711.2768
title: Reply To "Comment on 'Quantum String Seal Is Insecure' "
authors: H. F. Chau
comments: 2 pages
journal: PRA 76, 056302 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2768
abstract: In Phys. Rev. A. 76, 056301 (2007), He claimed that the proof in my earlier paper [Phys. Rev. A 75, 012327 (2007)] is insufficient to conclude the insecurity of all quantum string seals because my measurement strategy cannot obtain non-trivial information on the sealed string and escape detection at the same time. Here, I clarify that our disagreement comes from our adoption of two different criteria on the minimum amount of information a quantum string seal can reveal to members of the public. I also point out that He did not follow my measurement strategy correctly.

id: 0711.2773
title: Geometric vs. Dynamical Gates in Quantum Computing Implementations Using Zeeman and Heisenberg Hamiltonians
authors: Yu Shi
comments: published version, 5 pages
journal: Europhys. Lett, 83, 50002 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2773
abstract: Quantum computing in terms of geometric phases, i.e. Berry or Aharonov-Anandan phases, is fault-tolerant to a certain degree. We examine its implementation based on Zeeman coupling with a rotating field and isotropic Heisenberg interaction, which describe NMR and can also be realized in quantum dots and cold atoms. Using a novel physical representation of the qubit basis states, we construct $\pi/8$ and Hadamard gates based on Berry and Aharonov-Anandan phases. For two interacting qubits in a rotating field, we find that it is always impossible to construct a two-qubit gate based on Berry phases, or based on Aharonov-Anandan phases when the gyromagnetic ratios of the two qubits are equal. In implementing a universal set of quantum gates, one may combine geometric $\pi/8$ and Hadamard gates and dynamical $\sqrt{\rm SWAP}$ gate.

id: 0711.2776
title: Gamma Standing Wave in the Photonic Crystal of Resonant Rh Nuclei
authors: Yao Cheng, Bing Xia
comments: Subsequent work to 0707.0960v2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2776
abstract: In a previous report, we have shown that the rhodium lattice consisting of resonant nuclei is an ideal photonic crystal in nature. Plenty of extraordinary observations are attributed to the collective down conversion of the multipolar nuclear transition; in particular the spontaneous open up of photonic band gap. Emissions of directionality depending on the macroscopic geometry manifest that the standing wave is global in the polycrystalline sample. In this work, further observations of the directional emissions are summarized. By applying an external magnetic field at room temperature, not only the predicted macroscopic nuclear polarization but also its strong directionality are demonstrated. The standing wave lasts for more than hundred hours at room temperature in the single crystal despite its natural half-life of one hour. The so-called nuclear Raman Effect between two M4 transitions of 193mIr and 195mPt and the E3 transition of 103mRh is discovered, which gives the brand new aspects to detect gravitational waves.

id: 0711.2787
title: Locally accessible information from multipartite ensembles
authors: Wei Song
comments: A draft, minor changes, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2787
abstract: We present a universal Holevo-like upper bound on the locally accessible information for arbitrary multipartite ensembles. This bound allows us to analyze the indistinguishability of a set of orthogonal states under LOCC. We also derive the upper bound for the capacity of distributed dense coding with multipartite senders and multipartite receivers.

id: 0711.2813
title: Partially-Time-Ordered Schwinger-Keldysh Loop Expansion of Coherent Nonlinear Optical Susceptibilities
authors: Shaul Mukamel
comments: article: 19 pages (preprint style!; including figures) ``paper.tex'' figures: 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2813
abstract: A compact correlation-function expansion is developed for nth order optical susceptibilities in the frequency domain using the Keldysh-Schwinger loop. By not keeping track of the relative time ordering of bra and ket interactions at the two branches of the loop, the resulting expressions contain only n+1 basic terms, compared to the 2n terms required for a fully time-ordered density matrix description. Superoperator Green's function expressions for the nth order suscpeptibility derived using both expansions reflect different types of interferences between pathways .These are demonstrated for correlation-induced resonances in four wave mixing signals.

id: 0711.2822
title: Thermodynamic and quantum entropy gain of frame averaging
authors: Lajos Di¨®si
comments: 7 pp, AIP Proc. LaTex; slightly altered title, essentially extended text, new refs. to "twirl" and "frameness"
journal: AIP Conf.Proc. 1469 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2822
abstract: We are discussing a universal non-unitary map M subsequent to a generic unitary map U, whose von Neumann entropy gain coincides with the calculated thermodynamic entropy production. For many-body quantum reservoirs we prove that M can be the averaging over all translations of the spatial frame. Assuming the coincidence of microscopic and macroscopic entropy productions leads to a novel equation between entropy gain of frame averaging and relative entropy. Our map M turns out to coincide with the older one called twirl, used recently in the theory of quantum reference frames. Related results to ours have been obtained and we discuss some of them briefly. Possible relevance of frame averaging (twirling) for real world irreversibility is mentioned.

id: 0711.2827
title: Quantum secure direct communication based on supervised teleportation
authors: Yue Li, Yu Liu
comments: 5 pages, 1 table, oral contribution in the Conference on Quantum Optics and Applications in Computing and Communications, Photonics Asia 2007, Proc. of SPIE
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2827
abstract: We present a quantum secure direct communication(QSDC) scheme as an extension for a proposed supervised secure entanglement sharing protocol. Starting with a quick review on the supervised entanglement sharing protocol -- the "Wuhan" protocol [Y. Li and Y. Liu, arXiv:0709.1449v2], we primarily focus on its further extend using for a QSDC task, in which the communication attendant Alice encodes the secret message directly onto a sequence of 2-level particles which then can be faithfully teleported to Bob using the shared maximal entanglement states obtained by the previous "Wuhan" protocol. We also evaluate the security of the QSDC scheme, where an individual self-attack performed by Alice and Bob -- the out of control attack(OCA) is introduced and the robustness of our scheme on the OCA is documented.

id: 0711.2841
title: Quantum simulation of Fermi-Hubbard models in semiconductor quantum dot arrays
authors: Tim Byrnes, Na Young Kim, Kenichiro Kusudo, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, 1 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 075320 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2841
abstract: We propose a device for studying the Fermi-Hubbard model with long-range Coulomb interactions using an array of quantum dots defined in a semiconductor two-dimensional electron gas system. Bands with energies above the lowest energy band are used to form the Hubbard model, which allows for an experimentally simpler realization of the device. We find that depending on average electron density, the system is well described by a one- or two-band Hubbard model. Our device design enables the control of the ratio of the Coulomb interaction to the kinetic energy of the electrons independently to the filling of the quantum dots, such that a large portion of the Hubbard phase diagram may be probed. Estimates of the Hubbard parameters suggest that a metal-Mott insulator quantum phase transition and a d-wave superconducting phase should be observable using current fabrication technologies.

id: 0711.2860
title: "Partial" quantum cloning and quantum cloning of the mixed states
authors: A. Ya. Kazakov
comments: 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2860
abstract: We discuss the "partial" quantum cloning of the pure two-partite states, when the "part" of initial state related to the one qubit is copied only. The same approach gives the possibility to design the quantum copying machine for the mixed qubit states.

id: 0711.2865
title: Concurrence and a proper monogamy inequality for arbitrary quantum states
authors: Yong-Cheng Ou, Heng Fan, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 4 pages, Theorem 2 was rephrased
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012311 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2865
abstract: We obtain an analytical lower bound of entanglement quantified by concurrence for arbitrary bipartite quantum states. It is shown that our bound is tight for some mixed states and is complementary to the previous known lower bounds. On the other hand, it is known that the entanglement monogamy inequality proposed by Coffman, Kundu, and Wootters is in general not true for higher dimensional quantum states. Inducing from the new lower bound of concurrence, we find a proper form of entanglement monogamy inequality for arbitrary quantum states.

id: 0711.2895
title: Cryptography from Noisy Storage
authors: Stephanie Wehner, Christian Schaffner, Barbara Terhal
comments: 13 pages RevTex, 2 figures. v2: more comments on implementation dependent attacks, v3: published version (minor changes)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 220502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2895
abstract: We show how to implement cryptographic primitives based on the realistic assumption that quantum storage of qubits is noisy. We thereby consider individual-storage attacks, i.e. the dishonest party attempts to store each incoming qubit separately. Our model is similar to the model of bounded-quantum storage, however, we consider an explicit noise model inspired by present-day technology. To illustrate the power of this new model, we show that a protocol for oblivious transfer (OT) is secure for any amount of quantum-storage noise, as long as honest players can perform perfect quantum operations. Our model also allows the security of protocols that cope with noise in the operations of the honest players and achieve more advanced tasks such as secure identification.

id: 0711.2926
title: Non-Hermitian Hamilton operator in open quantum systems
authors: Ingrid Rotter
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2926
abstract: In the Feshbach projection operator (FPO) formalism the whole function space is divided into two subspaces. One of them contains the wave functions localized in a certain finite region while the continuum of extended scattering wave functions is involved in the other subspace. The Hamilton operator of the whole system is Hermitian, that of the localized part is, however, non-Hermitian. This non-Hermitian Hamilton operator $H_{\rm eff}$ represents the core of the FPO method in present-day studies. It gives a unified description of discrete and resonance states. Furthermore, it contains the time operator. The eigenvalues $z_\lambda$ and eigenfunctions $\phi_\lambda$ of $H_{\rm eff}$ are an important ingredient of the $S$ matrix. They are energy dependent. The phases of the $\phi_\lambda$ are, generally, nonrigid. Most interesting physical effects are caused by the branch points in the complex plane. On the one hand, they cause the avoided level crossings that appear as level repulsion or widths bifurcation in approaching the branch points under different conditions. On the other hand, observable values are usually enhanced and accelerated in the vicinity of the branch points. In most cases, the theory is time asymmetric. An exception are the ${\cal PT}$ symmetric bound states in the continuum appearing in space symmetric systems due to the avoided level crossing phenomenon in the complex plane. In the paper, the peculiarities of the FPO method are considered and three typical phenomena are sketched: (i) the unified description of decay and scattering processes, (ii) the appearance of bound states in the continuum and (iii) the spectroscopic reordering processes characteristic of the regime with overlapping resonances.

id: 0711.2947
title: Transport of ions in a segmented linear Paul trap in printed-circuit-board technology
authors: G. Huber, T. Deuschle, W. Schnitzler, R. Reichle, K. Singer, F. Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2947
abstract: We describe the construction and operation of a segmented linear Paul trap, fabricated in printed-circuit-board technology with an electrode segment width of 500 microns. We prove the applicability of this technology to reliable ion trapping and report the observation of Doppler cooled ion crystals of Ca-40 with this kind of traps. Measured trap frequencies agree with numerical simulations at the level of a few percent from which we infer a high fabrication accuracy of the segmented trap. To demonstrate its usefulness and versatility for trapped ion experiments we study the fast transport of a single ion. Our experimental results show a success rate of 99.0(1)% for a transport distance of 2x2mm in a round-trip time of T=20us, which corresponds to 4 axial oscillations only. We theoretically and experimentally investigate the excitation of oscillations caused by fast ion transports with error-function voltage ramps: For a slightly slower transport (a round-trip shuttle within T=30us) we observe non-adiabatic motional excitation of 0.89(15)meV.

id: 0711.2964
title: Optimal Algorithmic Cooling of Spins
authors: Yuval Elias, Jos¨¦ M. Fernandez, Tal Mor, Yossi Weinstein
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: Lecture Notes in Comput. Sci. (LNCS), vol 4618, pp. 2-26, Unconvetional Computation, Springer, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2964
abstract: Algorithmic Cooling (AC) of Spins is potentially the first near-future application of quantum computing devices. Straightforward quantum algorithms combined with novel entropy manipulations can result in a method to improve the identification of molecules. We introduce here several new exhaustive cooling algorithms, such as the Tribonacci and k-bonacci algorithms. In particular, we present the ``all-bonacci'' algorithm, which appears to reach the maximal degree of cooling obtainable by the optimal AC approach.

id: 0711.2973
title: Emergence and Computation at the Edge of Classical and Quantum Systems
authors: Ignazio Licata
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2973
abstract: The problem of emergence in physical theories makes necessary to build a general theory of the relationships between the observed system and the observing system. It can be shown that there exists a correspondence between classical systems and computational dynamics according to the Shannon-Turing model. A classical system is an informational closed system with respect to the observer; this characterizes the emergent processes in classical physics as phenomenological emergence. In quantum systems, the analysis based on the computation theory fails. It is here shown that a quantum system is an informational open system with respect to the observer and able to exhibit processes of observational, radical emergence. Finally, we take into consideration the role of computation in describing the physical world.

id: 0711.3000
title: Quantum Mechanics and imprecise probability
authors: Bruno Galvan
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure. To appear in Journal of Statistical Physics, almost the published version
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 131, 1155-1167 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3000
abstract: An extension of the Born rule, the {\it quantum typicality rule}, has recently been proposed [B. Galvan: Found. Phys. 37, 1540-1562 (2007)]. Roughly speaking, this rule states that if the wave function of a particle is split into non-overlapping wave packets, the particle stays approximately inside the support of one of the wave packets, without jumping to the others. In this paper a formal definition of this rule is given in terms of {\it imprecise probability}. An imprecise probability space is a measurable space $(\Omega, {\cal A})$ endowed with a {\it set} of probability measures $\cal P$. The quantum formalism and the quantum typicality rule allow us to define a set of probabilities ${\cal P}_\Psi$ on $(X^T, {\cal F})$, where $X$ is the configuration space of a quantum system, $T$ is a time interval and ${\cal F}$ is the $\sigma$-algebra generated by the cylinder sets. Thus, it is proposed that a quantum system can be represented as the {\it imprecise stochastic process} $(X^T, {\cal F}, {\cal P}_\Psi)$, which is a canonical stochastic process in which the single probability measure is replaced by a set of measures. It is argued that this mathematical model, when used to represent macroscopic systems, has sufficient predictive power to explain both the results of the statistical experiments and the quasi-classical structure of the macroscopic evolution.

id: 0711.3019
title: Quantum-Space Attacks
authors: Ran Gelles, Tal Mor
comments: 25 pages, 3 figures. An improved and slightly longer version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3019
abstract: Theoretical quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols commonly rely on the use of qubits (quantum bits). In reality, however, due to practical limitations, the legitimate users are forced to employ a larger quantum (Hilbert) space, say a quhexit (quantum six-dimensional) space, or even a much larger quantum Hilbert space. Various specific attacks exploit of these limitations. Although security can still be proved in some very special cases, a general framework that considers such realistic QKD protocols, as well as} attacks on such protocols, is still missing. We describe a general method of attacking realistic QKD protocols, which we call the `quantum-space attack'. The description is based on assessing the enlarged quantum space actually used by a protocol, the `quantum space of the protocol'. We demonstrate these new methods by classifying various (known) recent attacks against several QKD schemes, and by analyzing a novel attack on interferometry-based QKD.

id: 0711.3066
title: Entangling Power of an Expanding Universe
authors: Greg Ver Steeg, Nicolas C. Menicucci
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; v5: final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 79, 044027 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3066
abstract: We show that entanglement can be used to detect spacetime curvature. Quantum fields in the Minkowski vacuum are entangled with respect to local field modes. This entanglement can be swapped to spatially separated quantum systems using standard local couplings. A single, inertial field detector in the exponentially expanding (de Sitter) vacuum responds as if it were bathed in thermal radiation in a Minkowski universe. We show that using two inertial detectors, interactions with the field in the thermal case will entangle certain detector pairs that would not become entangled in the corresponding de Sitter case. The two universes can thus be distinguished by their entangling power.

id: 0711.3109
title: Monitoring derivation of the quantum linear Boltzmann equation
authors: Klaus Hornberger, Bassano Vacchini
comments: published version, 20 pages, 2 figures; now in fancy two-column format
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022112 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3109
abstract: We show how the effective equation of motion for a distinguished quantum particle in an ideal gas environment can be obtained by means of the monitoring approach introduced in [EPL 77, 50007 (2007)]. The resulting Lindblad master equation accounts for the quantum effects of the scattering dynamics in a non-perturbative fashion and it describes decoherence and dissipation in a unified framework. It incorporates various established equations as limiting cases and reduces to the classical linear Boltzmann equation once the state is diagonal in momentum.

id: 0711.3111
title: Quantum Secret Sharing with Multi-level Mutually (Un-)Biased Bases
authors: I-Ching Yu, Feng-Li Lin, Ching-Yu Huang
comments: 5 pages, v2 typos corrected, v3 content improved, v4 propose a new protocol against entanglement-assisted participant's attack
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3111
abstract: We construct general schemes for multi-partite quantum secret sharing using multi-level systems, and find that the consistent conditions for valid measurements can be summarized in two simple algebraic conditions. The scheme using the very high dimensional mutually unbiased bases can in principle achieve perfect security against intercept-resend attack; and for the scheme using mutually biased bases, it reaches the optimal but non-perfect security at 4-level system. We also address the security issue against the general attacks in the context of our multi-level schemes. Especially, we propose new protocol to enhance both the efficiency and the security against the entanglement-assisted participant's attack by incorporating quantum-key-distribution and measurement-basis-encrypted schemes so that its security is as robust as quantum-key-distribution.

id: 0711.3116
title: Seeking better times: atomic clocks in the generalized Tonks-Girardeau regime
authors: S. V. Mousavi, A. del Campo, I. Lizuain, M. Pons, J. G. Muga
comments: Revised manuscript, 8 pages, 8 figures, proceedings of the 395th WE-Heraeus Seminar on "Time Dependent Phenomena in Quantum Mechanics ", Blaubeuren, Germany, September 2007
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 99, 012014 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3116
abstract: This article is based on the talk with the same title at the Blaubeuren meeting. First we discuss briefly the importance of time and time keeping, explaining the basic functioning of clocks in general and atomic clocks in particular, which rely on Ramsey interferometry. The usefulness of cold atoms is discussed as well as their limits in Bose-Einstein condensates. An alternative that we study is a different cold-atom regime: the Tonks-Girardeau (TG) gas of tightly confined and strongly interacting bosons. The TG gas is reviewed and then generalized for two-level atoms. Finally, we explore the combination of Ramsey interferometry and TG gases.

id: 0711.3138
title: Non-Markovian decoherence and disentanglement scenarios in quantum Brownian motion
authors: C. Hoerhammer, H. Buettner
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3138
abstract: We study the non-Markovian decoherence and disentanglement dynamics of dissipative quantum systems with special emphasis on non-Gaussian continuous variable systems. The dynamics are described by the Hu-Paz-Zhang master equation of quantum Brownian motion. The time evolution of the decoherence function of a single-mode superposition is compared to the concurrence of a two-mode entangled state. It is verified that moderate non-Markovian influences slow down the decay of interference fringes and quantum correlations, while strong non-Markovian effects resulting from an out-of-resonance bath can even accelerate the loss of coherence, compared to predictions of Markovian approximations. Qualitatively different scenarios including exponential, Gaussian or algebraic decay of the decoherence function are analyzed. It is shown that partial revivals of coherence can occur in case of non-Lindblad-type dynamics.

id: 0711.3146
title: Quantum model of microcavity intersubband electroluminescent devices
authors: Simone De Liberato, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: Published as Phys. Rev. B 77, 155321 (2008)
journal: Physical Review B (2008) 77, 155321
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3146
abstract: We present a quantum theoretical analysis of the electroluminescence from an intersubband transition of a quantum well structure embedded in a planar microcavity. By using a cluster factorization method, we have derived a closed set of dynamical equations for the quantum well carrier and cavity photon occupation numbers, the correlation between the cavity field and the intersubband polarization, as well as polarization-polarization contributions. In order to model the electrical excitation, we have considered electron population tunneling from an injector and into an extractor contact. The tunneling rates have been obtained by considering the bare electronic states in the quantum well and the limit of validity of this approximation (broad-band injection) are discussed in detail. We apply the present quantum model to provide a comprehensive description of the electronic transport and optical properties of an intersubband microcavity light emitting diode, accounting for non-radiative carrier relaxation and Pauli blocking. We study the enhancement of the electroluminescence quantum efficiency passing from the weak to the strong polariton coupling regime.

id: 0711.3172
title: Assessing non-Markovian dynamics
authors: M.M. Wolf, J. Eisert, T.S. Cubitt, J.I. Cirac
comments: 5 pages, RevTex, 2 figures. (Except from typesetting) version to be published in the Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 150402 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3172
abstract: We investigate what a snapshot of a quantum evolution - a quantum channel reflecting open system dynamics - reveals about the underlying continuous time evolution. Remarkably, from such a snapshot, and without imposing additional assumptions, it can be decided whether or not a channel is consistent with a time (in)dependent Markovian evolution, for which we provide computable necessary and sufficient criteria. Based on these, a computable measure of `Markovianity' is introduced. We discuss how the consistency with Markovian dynamics can be checked in quantum process tomography. The results also clarify the geometry of the set of quantum channels with respect to being solutions of time (in)dependent master equations.

id: 0711.3244
title: Doppler-free, Multi-wavelength Acousto-optic deflector for two-photon addressing arrays of Rb atoms in a Quantum Information Processor
authors: Sangtaek Kim, Robert R. Mcleod, Mark Saffman, Kelvin H. Wagner
comments: 28 pages, 16 figures, submitted to Applied Optics
journal: Appl. Opt. 47, 1816 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3244
abstract: We demonstrate a dual wavelength acousto-optic deflector (AOD) designed to deflect two wavelengths to the same angles by driving with two RF frequencies. The AOD is designed as a beam scanner to address two-photon transitions in a two-dimensional array of trapped neutral Rb atoms in a quantum computer. Momentum space is used to design AODs that have the same diffraction angles for two wavelengths (780 nm and 480 nm) and have non-overlapping Bragg-matched frequency response at these wavelengths, so that there will be no crosstalk when proportional RF frequencies are applied to diffract the two wavelengths. The appropriate crystal orientation, crystal shape, transducer size, and transducer height are determined for an AOD made with a Tellurium dioxide crystal (TeO2). The designed and fabricated AOD has more than 100 resolvable spots, widely separated bandshapes for the two wavelengths within an overall octave bandwidth, spatially overlapping diffraction angles for both wavelengths (780 nm and 480 nm), and a 4 usec or less access time. Cascaded AODs in which the first device upshifts and the second downshifts allow Doppler-free scanning as required for addressing the narrow atomic resonance without detuning. We experimentally show the diffraction-limited Doppler-free scanning performance and spatial resolution of the designed AOD.

id: 0711.3260
title: Bogoliubov Hamiltonian as Derivative of Dirac Hamiltonian via Braid Relation
authors: Bao-Xing Xie, Kang Xue, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 3 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3260
abstract: In this paper we discuss a new type of 4-dimensional representation of the braid group. The matrices of braid operations are constructed by q-deformation of Hamiltonians. One is the Dirac Hamiltonian for free electron with mass m, the other, which we find, is related to the Bogoliubov Hamiltonian for quasiparticles in $^3$He-B with the same free energy and mass being m/2. In the process, we choose the free q-deformation parameter as a special value in order to be consistent with the anyon description for fractional quantum Hall effect with $\nu = 1/2$.

id: 0711.3362
title: Partial list of bipartite Bell inequalities with four binary settings
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 6 pages. Other inequalities welcome. Accepted for publication in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008) 3162
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3362
abstract: We give a partial list of 26 tight Bell inequalities for the case where Alice and Bob choose among four two-outcome measurements. All tight Bell inequalities with less settings are reviewed as well. For each inequality we compute numerically the maximal quantum violation, the resistance to noise and the minimal detection efficiency required for closing the detection loophole. Surprisingly, most of these inequalities are outperformed by the CHSH inequality.

id: 0711.3369
title: Van der Waals interaction and spontaneous decay of an excited atom in a superlens-type geometry
authors: Agnes Sambale, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch, Ho Trung Dung
comments: 10 Pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 78 (5), 053828 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3369
abstract: Within the framework of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics, the resonant van der Waals potential experienced by an excited two-level atom near a planar magneto-electric two-layer system consisting of a slab of left-handed material and a perfect mirror is studied. It is shown that disregarding of material absorption leads to unphysical results, with divergent values for the potential away from the surface. Under appropriate conditions, the setup is found to feature a barrier near the surface which can be employed to levitate particles or used as a trapping or cooling mechanism. Finally, the problem of spontaneous decay [J. K\"{a}stel and M. Fleischhauer, Phys. Rev. A \textbf{68}, 011804(R) (2005)] is revisited. Disregarding of absorption is shown to drastically falsify the dependence on the atomic position of the decay rate.

id: 0711.3377
title: Storage and retrieval of nonclassical photon pairs and conditional single photons generated by parametric down-conversion process
authors: K. Akiba, K. Kashiwagi, M. Arikawa, M. Kozuma
comments: 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 013049 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3377
abstract: Storage and retrieval of parametric down-conversion (PDC) photons are demonstrated with electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). Extreme frequency filtering is performed for THz order of broadband PDC light and the frequency bandwidth of the light is reduced to MHz order. Storage and retrieval procedures are carried out for the frequency filtered PDC photons. Since the filtered bandwidth [full width at half-maximum (FWHM) = 9 MHz] is within the EIT window (FWHM = 12.6 MHz), the flux of the PDC light is successfully stored and retrieved. The nonclassicality of the retrieved light is confirmed by using photon counting method, where the classical inequality which is only satisfied for classical light fields is introduced. Since the PDC photons can be utilized for producing the single photon state conditionally, storage and retrieval procedures are also performed for the conditional single photons. Anti-correlation parameter used for checking the property of single photon state shows the value less than 1, which means the retrieved light is in a non-classical region.

id: 0711.3390
title: A class of inequalities inducing new separability criteria for bipartite quantum systems
authors: Paolo Aniello, Cosmo Lupo
comments: examples added; references added; results improved; title slightly modified
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 355303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3390
abstract: Inspired by the realignment or computable cross norm criterion, we present a new result about the characterization of quantum entanglement. Precisely, an interesting class of inequalities satisfied by all separable states of a bipartite quantum system is derived. These inequalities induce new separability criteria that generalize the realignment criterion.

id: 0711.3394
title: Maximally entangled fermions
authors: Dirk-M. Schlingemann, Marco Cozzini, Michael Keyl, Lorenzo Campos Venuti
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, RevTex, minor errors are corrected, section "Conclusions" is added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3394
abstract: Fermions play an essential role in many areas of quantum physics and it is desirable to understand the nature of entanglement within systems that consists of fermions. Whereas the issue of separability for bipartite fermions has extensively been studied in the present literature, this paper is concerned with maximally entangled fermions. A complete characterization of maximally entangled quasifree (gaussian) fermion states is given in terms of the covariance matrix. This result can be seen as a step towards distillation protocols for maximally entangled fermions.

id: 0711.3401
title: Uniform approximation for the overlap caustic of a quantum state with its translations
authors: Eduardo Zambrano, Alfredo M Ozorio de Almeida
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Nonlinearity 21 783 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3401
abstract: The semiclassical Wigner function for a Bohr-quantized energy eigenstate is known to have a caustic along the corresponding classical closed phase space curve in the case of a single degree of freedom. Its Fourier transform, the semiclassical chord function, also has a caustic along the conjugate curve defined as the locus of diameters, i.e. the maximal chords of the original curve. If the latter is convex, so is its conjugate, resulting in a simple fold caustic. The uniform approximation through this caustic, that is here derived, describes the transition undergone by the overlap of the state with its translation, from an oscillatory regime for small chords, to evanescent overlaps, rising to a maximum near the caustic. The diameter-caustic for the Wigner function is also treated.

id: 0711.3428
title: Absorption free superluminal light propagation in a three level pump-probe system
authors: M. Mahmoudi, S. Worya Rabiei, L. Ebrahimi Zohravi, M. Sahrai
comments: 
journal: Optics Communications 281 (2008) 4681-4686
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3428
abstract: We investigate the dispersion and the absorption properties of a weak probe field in a three-level pump-probe atomic system. It is shown that the slope of dispersion changes from positive to negative just with the intensity of the coherent or indirect incoherent pumping fields. It is demonstrated that the absorption free superluminal light propagation is appeared in this system.

id: 0711.3438
title: Complementarity of Private and Correctable Subsystems in Quantum Cryptography and Error Correction
authors: Dennis Kretschmann, David W. Kribs, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, preprint version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032330 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3438
abstract: We make an explicit connection between fundamental notions in quantum cryptography and quantum error correction. Error-correcting subsystems (and subspaces) for quantum channels are the key vehicles for contending with noise in physical implementations of quantum information-processing. Private subsystems (and subspaces) for quantum channels play a central role in cryptographic schemes such as quantum secret sharing and private quantum communication. We show that a subsystem is private for a channel precisely when it is correctable for a complementary channel. This result is shown to hold even for approximate notions of private and correctable defined in terms of the diamond norm for superoperators.

id: 0711.3439
title: Generation of spatially broadband twin beams for quantum imaging
authors: V. Boyer, A. M. Marino, P. D. Lett
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3439
abstract: We generate spatially multimode twin beams using 4-wave mixing in a hot atomic vapor in a phase-insensitive traveling-wave amplifier configuration. The far-field coherence area measured at 3.5 MHz is shown to be much smaller than the angular bandwidth of the process and bright twin images with independently quantum-correlated sub-areas can be generated with little distortion. The available transverse degrees of freedom form a high-dimensional Hilbert space which we use to produce quantum-correlated twin beams with finite orbital angular momentum.

id: 0711.3477
title: Gaussian entanglement of symmetric two-mode Gaussian states
authors: Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian
comments: Submitted to European Physical Journal Special Topics as a contribution to CEWQO, Palermo 2007
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 160, 281--289 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3477
abstract: A Gaussian degree of entanglement for a symmetric two-mode Gaussian state can be defined as its distance to the set of all separable two-mode Gaussian states. The principal property that enables us to evaluate both Bures distance and relative entropy between symmetric two-mode Gaussian states is the diagonalization of their covariance matrices under the same beam-splitter transformation. The multiplicativity property of the Uhlmann fidelity and the additivity of the relative entropy allow one to finally deal with a single-mode optimization problem in both cases. We find that only the Bures-distance Gaussian entanglement is consistent with the exact entanglement of formation.

id: 0711.3502
title: Efficient quantum direct communication with authentication
authors: Liu Wen-jie, Chen Han-wu, Li Zhi-qiang, Liu Zhi-hao
comments: 4 pages, 4 tables
journal: Chinese Physics Letters 2008, 25, 2354-2357
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3502
abstract: Two protocols of quantum direct communication with authentication [Phys. Rev. A 73, 042305(2006)] were recently indicated to be insecure against the authenticator Trent's attacks [Phys. Rev. A 75, 026301(2007)]. We present two efficient protocols by using four Pauli operations, which are secure against inner Trent's attacks as well as outer Eve's attacks. Finally, we generalize them to multiparty quantum direction communication.

id: 0711.3505
title: Towards a picosecond transform-limited nitrogen-vacancy based single photon source
authors: Chun-Hsu Su, Andrew D. Greentree, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Optics Express, vol. 16, no. 9, pp. 6240-6250 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3505
abstract: We analyze a nitrogen-vacancy (NV^-) colour centre based single photon source based on cavity Purcell enhancement of the zero phonon line and suppression of other transitions. Optimal performance conditions of the cavity-centre system are analyzed using Master equation and quantum trajectory methods. By coupling the centre strongly to a high-finesse optical cavity [Q ~ O(10^4-10^5), V ~ lambda^3] and using sub-picosecond optical excitation the system has striking performance, including effective lifetime of 70 ps, linewidth of 0.01 nm, near unit single photon emission probability and small [O(10^-5)] multi-photon probability.

id: 0711.3517
title: One-dimensional quantum cellular automata over finite, unbounded configurations
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Vincent Nesme, Reinhard Werner
comments: 9 pages, revtex, 8 figures
journal: 2nd Int. Conf. on Language and Automata Theory and Applications, LATA 2008, Spain. Proceedings to appear in LNCS.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3517
abstract: One-dimensional quantum cellular automata (QCA) consist in a line of identical, finite dimensional quantum systems. These evolve in discrete time steps according to a local, shift-invariant unitary evolution. By local we mean that no instantaneous long-range communication can occur. In order to define these over a Hilbert space we must restrict to a base of finite, yet unbounded configurations. We show that QCA always admit a two-layered block representation, and hence the inverse QCA is again a QCA. This is a striking result since the property does not hold for classical one-dimensional cellular automata as defined over such finite configurations. As an example we discuss a bijective cellular automata which becomes non-local as a QCA, in a rare case of reversible computation which does not admit a straightforward quantization. We argue that a whole class of bijective cellular automata should no longer be considered to be reversible in a physical sense. Note that the same two-layered block representation result applies also over infinite configurations, as was previously shown for one-dimensional systems in the more elaborate formalism of operators algebras [9]. Here the proof is made simpler and self-contained, moreover we discuss a counterexample QCA in higher dimensions.

id: 0711.3519
title: Quantization of exciton in magnetic field background
authors: Pulak Ranjan Giri, S. K. Chakrabarti
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett. A24:321-329, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3519
abstract: The possible mismatch between the theoretical and experimental absorption of the edge peaks in semiconductors in a magnetic field background may arise due to the approximation scheme used to analytically calculate the absorption coefficient. As a possible remedy we suggest to consider nontrivial boundary conditions on x-y plane by in-equivalently quantizing the exciton in background magnetic field. This inequivalent quantization is based on von Neumann's method of self-adjoint extension, which is characterized by a parameter \Sigma. We obtain bound state solution and scattering state solution, which in general depend upon the self-adjoint extension parameter \Sigma. The parameter \Sigma can be used to fine tune the optical absorption coefficient K(\Sigma) to match with the experiment.

id: 0711.3520
title: Perfect Quantum Teleportation and Superdense coding with $P_{max} = 1/2$ states
authors: Eylee Jung, Mi-Ra Hwang, DaeKil Park, Jin-Woo Son, S. Tamaryan
comments: 9 pages, no figure, V2: 11 pages. Prove that two general 3-qubit states, which allow the perfect quantum teleportation, have $P_{max} = 1/2$
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3520
abstract: We conjecture that criterion for perfect quantum teleportation is that the Groverian entanglement of the entanglement resource is $1/\sqrt{2}$. In order to examine the validity of our conjecture we analyze the quantum teleportation and superdense coding with $|\Phi> = (1/\sqrt{2}) (|00q_1> + |11q_2>)$, where $|q_1>$ and $|q_2>$ are arbitrary normalized single qubit states. It is shown explicitly that $|\Phi>$ allows perfect two-party quantum teleportation and superdense coding scenario. Next we compute the Groverian measures for $|\psi>=\sqrt{1/2 - b^2}|100>+b |010>+a|001> +\sqrt{1/2-a^2}|111>$ and $|\tilde{\psi}>=a|000>+b|010>+\sqrt{1/2 - (a^2+b^2)}|100> + (1/\sqrt{2}) |111>$, which also allow the perfect quantum teleportation. It is shown that both states have $1/\sqrt{2}$ Groverian entanglement measure, which strongly supports that our conjecture is valid.

id: 0711.3526
title: Unconditionally secure quantum key-distribution with relatively strong signal pulse
authors: Kiyoshi Tamaki
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032341 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3526
abstract: We propose an unconditionally secure quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol, which uses a relatively strong signal pulse. While our protocol shares similar security bases as the Bennett 1992 protocol with a strong reference pulse (B92), our scheme uses a smaller number of detectors and it is robust against Rayleigh scattering in an optical fibre. We derive a lower bound of secret key generation rate of our protocol and show that our protocol can cover relatively long distances, assuming precise phase modulations and stable interferometers.

id: 0711.3529
title: A short note on the presence of spurious states in finite basis approximations
authors: R. C. Andrew, H. G. Miller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3529
abstract: The genesis of spurious solutions in finite basis approximations to operators which possess a continuum and a point spectrum is discussed and a simple solution for identifying these solutions is suggested.

id: 0711.3539
title: Do Elementary Particles Have an Objective Existence?
authors: Bilha Nissenson
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3539
abstract: The formulation of quantum theory does not comply with the notion of objective existence of elementary particles. Objective existence independent of observation implies the distinguishability of elementary particles. In other words: If elementary particles have an objective existence independent of observations, then they are distinguishable. Or if elementary particles are indistinguishable then matter cannot have existence independent of our observation. This paper presents a simple deduction of the above statements, their compatibility with quantum theory, an example of quantum uniqueness situation and a suggested experiment. The conclusion is a short discussion about the redundancy of such phenomena.

id: 0711.3544
title: Alternative Method for Determining the Feynman Propagator of a Non-Relativistic Quantum Mechanical Problem
authors: Marcos Moshinsky, Emerson Sadurni, Adolfo del Campo
comments: This is a contribution to the Proc. of the Seventh International Conference ''Symmetry in Nonlinear Mathematical Physics'' (June 24-30, 2007, Kyiv, Ukraine), published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL In v2 misprints are corrected
journal: SIGMA 3 (2007), 110, 12 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3544
abstract: A direct procedure for determining the propagator associated with a quantum mechanical problem was given by the Path Integration Procedure of Feynman. The Green function, which is the Fourier Transform with respect to the time variable of the propagator, can be derived later. In our approach, with the help of a Laplace transform, a direct way to get the energy dependent Green function is presented, and the propagator can be obtained later with an inverse Laplace transform. The method is illustrated through simple one dimensional examples and for time independent potentials, though it can be generalized to the derivation of more complicated propagators.

id: 0711.3558
title: Dynamics of Bloch vector in thermal Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Hiroo Azuma
comments: 16 pages, 8 eps figures, latex2e; v2: a new section and references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 063820 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3558
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the dynamics of the Bloch vector of a single two-level atom which interacts with a single quantized electromagnetic field mode according to the Jaynes-Cummings model, where the field is initially prepared in a thermal state. The time evolution of the Bloch vector S(t) seems to be in complete disorder because of the thermal distribution of the initial state of the field. Both the norm and the direction of S(t) oscillate hard and their periods seem infinite. We observe that the trajectory of the time evolution of S(t) in the two- or three-dimensional space does not form a closed path. To remove the fast frequency oscillation from the trajectory, we take the time-average of the Bloch vector S(t). We examine the histogram of {S_{z}(n\Delta t)|n=0,1,...,N} for small \Delta t and large N. It represents an absolute value of a derivative of the inverse function of S_{z}(t). (When the inverse function of y=S_{z}(t) is a multi-valued function, the histogram represents a summation of the absolute values of its derivatives at points whose real parts are equal to y on the Riemann surface.) We examine the dependence of the variance of the histogram on the temperature of the field. We estimate the lower bound of the entanglement between the atom and the field.

id: 0711.3562
title: EPR argument and Bell inequalities for Bose-Einstein spin condensates
authors: Franck Lalo?, William J. Mullin
comments: a few misprints corrected, a reference added. This is the published version
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 77 (2008) 022108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3562
abstract: We discuss the properties of two Bose-Einstein condensates in different spin states, represented quantum mechanically by a double Fock state. Individual measurements of the spins of the particles are performed in transverse directions (perpendicular to the spin quantization axis), giving access to the relative phase of the two macroscopically occupied states. Before the first spin measurement, the phase is completely undetermined; after a few measurements, a more and more precise knowledge of its value emerges under the effect of the quantum measurement process. This naturally leads to the usual notion of a quasi-classical phase (Anderson phase) and to an interesting transposition of the EPR (Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen) argument to macroscopic physical quantities. The purpose of this article is to discuss this transposition, as well as situations where the notion of a quasi-classical phase is no longer sufficient to account for the quantum results, and where significant violations of Bell type inequalities are predicted.

id: 0711.3578
title: A formula for the spectral projection of the time operator
authors: Maurice Courbage, Seyed Majid Saberi Fathi
comments: This paper will be published in the proceeding of XXV Workshop on Geometric Methods in Physics in the Journal of Geometry and Symmetry in Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3578
abstract: In this paper, we study the one-level Friedrichs model with using the quantum time super-operator that predicts the excited state decay inside the continuum. Its survival probability in long time limit is an algebraically decreasing function and an exponentially decreasing multiplied by the oscillating functions.

id: 0711.3608
title: Quantum Benchmark for Teleportation and Storage of Squeezed States
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Giulio Chiribella
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 170503 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3608
abstract: We provide a quantum benchmark for teleportation and storage of single-mode squeezed states with zero displacement and a completely unknown degree of squeezing along a given direction. For pure squeezed input states, a fidelity higher than 81.5% has to be attained in order to outperform any classical strategy based on an estimation of the unknown squeezing and repreparation of squeezed states. For squeezed thermal input states, we derive an upper and a lower bound on the classical average fidelity which tighten for moderate degree of mixedness. These results enable a critical discussion of recent experiments with squeezed light.

id: 0711.3617
title: Geometrical Domain of Spin 1/2 Probability Mass Function
authors: Karthik Bharath, Swarnamala Sirsi, A R Usha Devi
comments: Submitted to Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3617
abstract: The quantum analogue of the classical characteristic function for a spin 1/2 assembly is considered and the probability mass function of the random vector associated with the assembly is derived. It is seen that the positive regions of Wigner and Margenau-Hill quasi distributions for the three components of spin, correspond to a trivariate probability mass function. We identify the domain of these positive regions as an Octahedron inscribed in the Bloch sphere with its vertices on the surface of the sphere. It is in this domain that a quantum characteristic function characterizing the quasi distribution, admits a probability mass function in IR^3 . It is also observed that the classical variates X1, X2, X3 corresponding to the 3 spin operators \sigma_1,\sigma_2,\sigma_3 in the domain, are independent iff the Bloch vector lies on any one of the axes.

id: 0711.3636
title: Computing Stabilized Norms for Quantum Operations via the Theory of Completely Bounded Maps
authors: Nathaniel Johnston, David W. Kribs, Vern I. Paulsen
comments: 21 pages, preprint version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3636
abstract: The diamond and completely bounded norms for linear maps play an increasingly important role in quantum information science, providing fundamental stabilized distance measures for differences of quantum operations. Based on the theory of completely bounded maps, we formulate an algorithm to compute the norm of an arbitrary linear map. We present an implementation of the algorithm via Maple, discuss its efficiency, and consider the case of differences of unitary maps.

id: 0711.3652
title: Sequential Implementation of Global Quantum Operations
authors: L. Lamata, J. Leon, D. Perez-Garcia, D. Salgado, E. Solano
comments: 4 pages, accepted in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 180506 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3652
abstract: We study the possibility for a global unitary applied on an arbitrary number of qubits to be decomposed in a sequential unitary procedure, where an ancillary system is allowed to interact only once with each qubit. We prove that sequential unitary decompositions are in general impossible for genuine entangling operations, even with an infinite-dimensional ancilla, being the controlled-NOT gate a paradigmatic example. Nevertheless, we find particular nontrivial operations in quantum information that can be performed in a sequential unitary manner, as is the case of quantum error correction and quantum cloning.

id: 0711.3655
title: Coupling of plasmonic nanoparticles to their environments in the context of van der Waals-Casimir interactions
authors: U. H?kanson, M. Agio, S. K¨¹hn, L. Rogobete, T. Kalkbrenner, V. Sandoghdar
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 155408 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3655
abstract: We present experiments in which the interaction of a single gold nanoparticle with glass substrates or with another gold particle can be tuned by in-situ control of their separations using scanning probe technology. We record the plasmon resonances of the coupled systems as a function of the polarization of the incident field and the particle position. The distinct spectral changes of the scattered light from the particle pair are in good agreement with the outcome of finite difference time-domain (FDTD) calculations. We believe our experimental technique holds promise for the investigation of the van der Waals-Casimir type interactions between nanoscopic neutral bodies.

id: 0711.3662
title: Experimental Determination of Thermal Entanglement in Spin Clusters using Magnetic Susceptibility Measurements
authors: A. M. Souza, M. S. Reis, D. O. Soares-Pinto, I. S. Oliveira, R. S. Sarthour
comments: Submited to Phys. Rev. B
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW B 77 104402 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3662
abstract: The present work reports an experimental observation of thermal entanglement in a clusterized spin chain formed in the compound Na$_2$Cu$_5$Si$_4$O$_{14}$. The presence of entanglement was investigated through two measured quantities, an Entanglement Witness and the Entanglement of Formation, both derived from the magnetic susceptibility. It was found that pairwise entanglement exists below $ \sim 200$ K. Tripartite entanglement was also observed below $ \sim 240$ K. A theoretical study of entanglement evolution as a function of applied field and temperature is also presented.

id: 0711.3714
title: Remote controlled-NOT gate of d-dimension
authors: Gui-Fang Dang, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; corrected typos, added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3714
abstract: Single qubit rotation gate and the controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate constitute a complete set of gates for universal quantum computation. In general the CNOT gate are only for two nearby qubits. For two qubits which are remote from each other, we need a series of swap gates to transfer these two qubits to the nearest neighboring sites, and then after the CNOT gate we should transfer them to their original sites again. However, a series of swap gates are resource for quantum information processing. One economy way which does not consume so much resource is to implement CNOT gate remotely. The remote CNOT gate is to implement the CNOT gate for two remotely separated qubits with the help of one additional maximally entangled state. The original remote CNOT gate is for two qubits, here we will present the d-dimensional remote CNOT gate. The role of quantum teleportation is identified in the process of the remote CNOT gate.

id: 0711.3715
title: Using Entanglement in Quantum Multi-Prover Interactive Proofs
authors: Julia Kempe, Hirotada Kobayashi, Keiji Matsumoto, Thomas Vidick
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3715
abstract: The central question in quantum multi-prover interactive proof systems is whether or not entanglement shared between provers affects the verification power of the proof system. We study for the first time positive aspects of prior entanglement and show that entanglement is useful even for honest provers. We show how to use shared entanglement to parallelize any multi-prover quantum interactive proof system to a one-round system with perfect completeness, with one extra prover. Alternatively, we can also parallelize to a three-turn system with the same number of provers, where the verifier only broadcasts the outcome of a coin flip. This "public-coin" property is somewhat surprising, since in the classical case public-coin multi-prover interactive proofs are equivalent to single prover ones.

id: 0711.3729
title: Schwinger Representation for the Symmetric Group: Two explicit constructions for the Carrier Space
authors: S. Chaturvedi, G. Marmo, N. Mukunda, R. Simon
comments: Latex, 6 pages
journal: Phys.Lett.A372:3763-3767,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3729
abstract: We give two explicit construction for the carrier space for the Schwinger representation of the group $S_n$. While the first relies on a class of functions consisting of monomials in antisymmetric variables, the second is based on the Fock space associated with the Greenberg algebra.

id: 0711.3731
title: Effects of relative phase and interactions on atom-laser outcoupling from a double-well Bose-Einstein condensate: Markovian and non-Markovian dynamics
authors: G. M. Nikolopoulos, C. Lazarou, P. Lambropoulos
comments: to appear in J. Phys. B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41 (2008) 025301.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3731
abstract: We investigate aspects of the dynamics of a continuous atom-laser scheme based on the merging of independently formed atomic condensates. Our theoretical analysis covers the Markovian as well as the non-Markovian operational regimes, and is based on a semiclassical (mean-field) two-mode model. The role of the relative phase between the two condensates and the effect of interatomic interactions on the evolution of the trapped populations and the distribution of outcoupled atoms are discussed.

id: 0711.3735
title: Local entanglement of multidimensional continuous-variable systems
authors: H.-C. Lin, A. J. Fisher
comments: RevTex, 11 pages, 3 figures (13 files)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012349 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3735
abstract: We study the `local entanglement' remaining after filtering operations corresponding to imperfect measurements performed by one or both parties, such that the parties can only determine whether or not the system is located in some region of space. The local entanglement in pure states of general bipartite multidimensional continuous-variable systems can be completely determined through simple expressions. We apply our approach to semiclassical WKB systems, multi-dimensional harmonic oscillators, and a hydrogen atom as three examples.

id: 0711.3762
title: Universal Behavior of Quantum Walks with Long-Range Steps
authors: Oliver Muelken, Volker Pernice, Alexander Blumen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 021117 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3762
abstract: Quantum walks with long-range steps $R^{-\gamma}$ ($R$ being the distance between sites) on a discrete line behave in similar ways for all $\gamma\geq2$. This is in contrast to classical random walks, which for $\gamma >3$ belong to a different universality class than for $\gamma \leq 3$. We show that the average probabilities to be at the initial site after time $t$ as well as the mean square displacements are of the same functional form for quantum walks with $\gamma=2$, 4, and with nearest neighbor steps. We interpolate this result to arbitrary $\gamma\geq2$.

id: 0711.3798
title: Spin entanglement, decoherence and Bohm's EPR paradox
authors: E. G. Cavalcanti, P. D. Drummond, H. A. Bachor, M. D. Reid
comments: 4 pages 3 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 17, Issue 21, pp. 18693-18702 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3798
abstract: We obtain criteria for entanglement and the EPR paradox for spin-entangled particles and analyse the effects of decoherence caused by absorption and state purity errors. For a two qubit photonic state, entanglement can occur for all transmission efficiencies. In this case, the state preparation purity must be above a threshold value. However, Bohm's spin EPR paradox can be achieved only above a critical level of loss. We calculate a required efficiency of 58%, which appears achievable with current quantum optical technologies. For a macroscopic number of particles prepared in a correlated state, spin entanglement and the EPR paradox can be demonstrated using our criteria for efficiencies {\eta} > 1/3 and {\eta} > 2/3 respectively. This indicates a surprising insensitivity to loss decoherence, in a macroscopic system of ultra-cold atoms or photons.

id: 0711.3825
title: Effects of a classical homogeneous gravitational field on the cavity-field entropy and generation of the Schrodinger-cat states in the Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: M.Mohammadi, M.H.Naderi, M.Soltanolkotabi
comments: 15 pages, 9figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3825
abstract: In this paper, we examine the effects of the gravitational field on the dynamical evolution of the cavity-field entropy and the creation of the Schrodinger-cat state in the Jaynes-Cummings model. We consider a moving two-level atom interacting with a single mode quantized cavity-field in the presence of a classical homogeneous gravitational field. Based on an su(2) algebra, as the dynamical symmetry group of the model, we derive the reduced density operator of the cavity-field which includes the effects of the atomic motion and the gravitational field. Also, we obtain the exact solution and the approximate solution for the system-state vector, and examine the atomic dynamics. By considering the temporal evolution of the cavity-field entropy as well as the dynamics of the Q-function of the cavity-field we study the effects of the gravitational field on the generation of the Schrodinger-cat states of the cavity-field by using the Q-function, field entropy and approximate solution for the system-state vector. The results show that the gravitational field destroys the generation of the Schrodinger-cat state of the cavity-field.

id: 0711.3850
title: Electromagnetic Field Induced Modification of Branching Ratios for Emission in Structured Vacuum
authors: G.S.Agarwal, Sumanta Das
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, Submitted to New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3850
abstract: We report a fundamental effect of the electromagnetic field induced modification of the branching ratios for emission into several final states. The modifications are especially significant if the vacuum into which the atom is radiating has a finite spectral width comparable with the separation of the final states. This is easily realizable in cavity QED. Further our results are quite generic and are applicable to any system interacting with a structured reservoir.

id: 0711.3866
title: Integrated Optical Approach to Trapped Ion Quantum Computation
authors: Jungsang Kim, Changsoon Kim
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. Vol 9, No 2. (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3866
abstract: Recent experimental progress in quantum information processing with trapped ions have demonstrated most of the fundamental elements required to realize a scalable quantum computer. The next set of challenges lie in realization of a large number of qubits and the means to prepare, manipulate and measure them, leading to error-protected qubits and fault tolerant architectures. The integration of qubits necessarily require integrated optical approach as most of these operations involve interaction with photons. In this paper, we discuss integrated optics technologies and concrete optical designs needed for the physical realization of scalable quantum computer.

id: 0711.3882
title: Entanglement in an SU(n) Valence-Bond-Solid State
authors: Hosho Katsura, Takaaki Hirano, Vladimir E. Korepin
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures; one reference added
journal: J. Phys. A:Math & Theor. 41, 135304(2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3882
abstract: We investigate entanglement properties in the ground state of the open/periodic SU($n$) generalized valence-bond-solid state consisting of representations of SU($n$). We obtain exact expression for the reduced density matrix of a block of contiguous spins and explicitly evaluate the von Neumann and the R\'enyi entropies. We discover that the R\'enyi entropy is independent of the parameter $\alpha$ in the limit of large block sizes and its value $2 \log n$ coincides with that of von Neumann entropy. We also find the direct relation between the reduced density matrix of the subsystem and edge states for the corresponding open boundary system.

id: 0711.3884
title: Dynamics of cascade three-level system interacting with the classical and quantized field
authors: Mihir Ranjan Nath, Surajit Sen, Gautam Gangopadhyay
comments: 10 pages, 5 Figures
journal: Pramana-Journal of Physics Vol. 61, No. 6, 1089 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3884
abstract: We study the exact solutions of the cascade three-level atom interacting with a single mode classical and quantized field with different initial conditions of the atom. For the semiclassical model, it is found that if the atom is initially in the middle level, the time dependent populations of the upper and lower levels are always equal. This dynamical symmetry exhibited by the classical field is spoiled on quantization of the field mode. To reveal this nonclassical effect an Euler matrix formalism is developed to solve the dressed states of the cascade Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM). Possible modification of such effect on the collapse and revival phenomenon is also discussed by taking the quantized field in a coherent state.

id: 0711.3885
title: Quantum smoothing
authors: Masahiro Yanagisawa
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3885
abstract: Quantum initial state estimation through entanglement and continuous measurement is introduced. This paper provides a unified formulation of classical and quantum smoothing and shows a smoothing uncertainty relation. As an example, a communication between two parties via a two mode squeezed state is shown.

id: 0711.3887
title: Spherical-separablility of non-Hermitian Dirac Hamiltonians and pseudo-PT-symmetry
authors: Omar Mustafa
comments: This paper has been withdrawn for its now combined with 0710.5814 to form 0801.3572
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3887
abstract: A non-Hermitian P$_{\phi}$T$_{\phi}$-symmetrized spherically-separable Dirac Hamiltonian is considered. It is observed that the descendant Hamiltonians H$_{r}$, H$_{\theta}$, and H$_{\phi}$ play essential roles and offer some user-feriendly options as to which one (or ones) of them is (or are) non-Hermitian. Considering a P$_{\phi}$T$_{\phi}$-symmetrized H$_{\phi}$, we have shown that the conventional relativistic energy eigenvalues are recoverable. We have also witnessed an unavoidable change in the azimuthal part of the general wavefunction. Moreover, setting a possible interaction $V(\theta)$=0 in the descendant Hamiltonian H$_{\theta}$ would manifest a change in the angular $\theta$-dependent part of the general solution too. Whilst some P$_{\phi}$T$_{\phi}$-symmetrized H$_{\phi}$ Hamiltonians are considered, a recipe to keep the regular magnetic quantum number m, as defined in the regular traditional Hermitian settings, is suggested. Hamiltonians possess properties similar to the PT-symmetric ones (here the non-Hermitian

id: 0711.3906
title: Low energy properties of non-perturbative quantum systems: a space reduction approach
authors: Tarek Khalil, Jean Richert
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, to appear in PLA
journal: Physics Letters A 372 (2008) 2217--2222
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3906
abstract: We propose and test a renormalization procedure which acts in Hilbert space. We test its efficiency on strongly correlated quantum spin systems by working out and analyzing the low-energy spectral properties of frustrated quantum spin systems in different parts of the phase diagram and in the neighbourhood of quantum critical points.

id: 0711.3939
title: Proposal of a Cold-atom Realization of Quantum Maps with Hofstadter's Butterfly Spectrum
authors: Jiao Wang, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, minor changes, to appear in Phys. Rev. A (Rapid Communication)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 031405 (Rapid Communication), 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3939
abstract: Quantum systems with Hofstadter's butterfly spectrum are of fundamental interest to many research areas. Based upon slight modifications of existing cold-atom experiments, a cold-atom realization of quantum maps with Hofstadter's butterfly spectrum is proposed. Connections and differences between our realization and the kicked Harper model are identified. This work also exposes, for the first time, a simple connection between the kicked Harper model and the kicked rotor model, the two paradigms of classical and quantum chaos.

id: 0711.3965
title: Macroscopical Entangled Coherent State Generator in V configuration atom system
authors: Ling Zhou, Han Xiong
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3965
abstract: In this paper, we propose a scheme to produce pure and macroscopical entangled coherent state. When a three-level ''V'' configuration atom interacts with a doubly reasonant cavity, under the strong classical driven condition, entangled coherent state can be generated from vacuum fields. An analytical solution for this system under the presence of cavity losses is also given.

id: 0711.3975
title: Unitarity plus causality implies localizability
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Vincent Nesme, Reinhard Werner
comments: V1: 5 pages, revtex. V2: Generalizes V1, explanatory slides available at this http URL V3: More precisions and references
journal: QIP 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3975
abstract: We consider a graph with a single quantum system at each node. The entire compound system evolves in discrete time steps by iterating a global evolution $U$. We require that this global evolution $U$ be unitary, in accordance with quantum theory, and that this global evolution $U$ be causal, in accordance with special relativity. By causal we mean that information can only ever be transmitted at a bounded speed, the speed bound being quite naturally that of one edge of the underlying graph per iteration of $U$. We show that under these conditions the operator $U$ can be implemented locally; i.e. it can be put into the form of a quantum circuit made up with more elementary operators -- each acting solely upon neighbouring nodes. We take quantum cellular automata as an example application of this representation theorem: this analysis bridges the gap between the axiomatic and the constructive approaches to defining QCA. KEYWORDS: Quantum cellular automata, Unitary causal operators, Quantum walks, Quantum computation, Axiomatic quantum field theory, Algebraic quantum field theory, Discrete space-time.

id: 0711.3977
title: Hidden-variable theory versus Copenhagen quantum mechanics
authors: Milos V. Lokajicek
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures; v2: local refinements and improvements of the text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3977
abstract: The main assumptions the Copenhagen quantum mechanics has been based on will be summarized and the known (not yet decided) contradiction between Einstein and Bohr will be newly analyzed. The given assumptions have been represented basically by time-dependent Schroedinger equation, to which some further assumptions have been added. Some critical comments have been raised against the given mathematical model structure by Pauli (1933) and by Susskind and Glogover (1964). They may be removed if only the Schroedinger equation is conserved and the additional assumptions are abandoned, as shown recently. It seems to be in contradiction to the numerous declarations that the Copenhagen model has been approved by experimental results. However, in the most of these experiments only the agreement with the mere Schroedinger equation has been tested. All mentioned assumptions have been tested practically only in the EPR experiment (measurement of coincidence light transmission through two polarizers) proposed originally by Einstein (1935). Also these experimental results have been interpreted as supporting the Copenhagen alternative, which has not been, however, true. In fact the microscopic world may be described correspondingly only with the help of the hidden-variable theory that is represented by the Schroedinger equation without mentioned additional assumptions, which has the consequence that the earlier interpretation gap between microscopic and macroscopic worlds has been removed. The only difference concerns the existence of discrete states. The possibilities of the human reason of getting to know the nature will be also shortly discussed in the beginning of this contribution.

id: 0711.3979
title: Fidelity for imperfect postselection
authors: Craig S. Hamilton, John Jeffers
comments: 8 Pages, 8 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 052106 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3979
abstract: We describe a simple measure of fidelity for mixed state postselecting devices. The measure is most appropriate for postselection where the task performed by the output is only effected by a specific state.

id: 0711.4016
title: Quantum interference phenomena in four-wave mixing processes in a cavity driven by quantized fields
authors: Pengbo Li
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4016
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to some problems.

id: 0711.4021
title: How many CNOT gates does it take to generate a three-qubit state ?
authors: Marko Znidaric, Olivier Giraud, Bertrand Georgeot
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032320 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4021
abstract: The number of two-qubit gates required to transform deterministically a three-qubit pure quantum state into another is discussed. We show that any state can be prepared from a product state using at most three CNOT gates, and that, starting from the GHZ state, only two suffice. As a consequence, any three-qubit state can be transformed into any other using at most four CNOT gates. Generalizations to other two-qubit gates are also discussed.

id: 0711.4032
title: Increasing the power of the verifier in Quantum Zero Knowledge
authors: Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Iordanis Kerenidis
comments: 17 pages, 0 figures, to appear in FSTTCS'08
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4032
abstract: In quantum zero knowledge, the assumption was made that the verifier is only using unitary operations. Under this assumption, many nice properties have been shown about quantum zero knowledge, including the fact that Honest-Verifier Quantum Statistical Zero Knowledge (HVQSZK) is equal to Cheating-Verifier Quantum Statistical Zero Knowledge (QSZK) (see [Wat02,Wat06]). In this paper, we study what happens when we allow an honest verifier to flip some coins in addition to using unitary operations. Flipping a coin is a non-unitary operation but doesn't seem at first to enhance the cheating possibilities of the verifier since a classical honest verifier can flip coins. In this setting, we show an unexpected result: any classical Interactive Proof has an Honest-Verifier Quantum Statistical Zero Knowledge proof with coins. Note that in the classical case, honest verifier SZK is no more powerful than SZK and hence it is not believed to contain even NP. On the other hand, in the case of cheating verifiers, we show that Quantum Statistical Zero Knowledge where the verifier applies any non-unitary operation is equal to Quantum Zero-Knowledge where the verifier uses only unitaries. One can think of our results in two complementary ways. If we would like to use the honest verifier model as a means to study the general model by taking advantage of their equivalence, then it is imperative to use the unitary definition without coins, since with the general one this equivalence is most probably not true. On the other hand, if we would like to use quantum zero knowledge protocols in a cryptographic scenario where the honest-but-curious model is sufficient, then adding the unitary constraint severely decreases the power of quantum zero knowledge protocols.

id: 0711.4037
title: Nonlinear Effects in Pulse Propagation through Doppler-Broadened Closed-Loop Atomic Media
authors: Robert Fleischhaker, J?rg Evers
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 043805 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4037
abstract: Nonlinear effects in pulse propagation through a medium consisting of four-level double-$\Lambda$-type systems are studied theoretically. We apply three continous-wave driving fields and a pulsed probe field such that they form a closed interaction loop. Due to the closed loop and the finite frequency width of the probe pulses the multiphoton resonance condition cannot be fulfilled, such that a time-dependent analysis is required. By identifying the different underlying physical processes we determine the parts of the solution relevant to calculate the linear and nonlinear response of the system. We find that the system can exhibit a strong intensity dependent refractive index with small absorption over a range of several natural linewidths. For a realistic example we include Doppler and pressure broadening and calculate the nonlinear selfphase modulation in a gas cell with Sodium vapor and Argon buffer gas. We find that a selfphase modulation of $\pi$ is achieved after a propagation of few centimeters through the medium while the absorption in the corresponding spectral range is small.

id: 0711.4066
title: Quantum reflection and dwell times of metastable states
authors: Neelima G. Kelkar
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.99:210403,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4066
abstract: The concept of phase and dwell times used in tunneling is extended to quantum collisions to derive a relation between the phase and dwell time delays in scattering. This relation can be used to remove the near threshold s-wave singularities in the Wigner-Eisenbud delay times and amounts to an extension of the concept of quantum reflection to strong interactions. Dwell time delay emerges as the quantity which gives the correct behaviour of the density of states of a metastable state at all energies. This fact is demonstrated by investigating some recently found metastable states of mesic-nuclei.

id: 0711.4114
title: Quantum weak coin flipping with arbitrarily small bias
authors: Carlos Mochon
comments: 80 pages. The main result has thus far only been checked by the author, so it may yet be destined to join the other set of illustrious bit-commitment/coin-flipping papers. For updates see this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4114
abstract: "God does not play dice. He flips coins instead." And though for some reason He has denied us quantum bit commitment. And though for some reason he has even denied us strong coin flipping. He has, in His infinite mercy, granted us quantum weak coin flipping so that we too may flip coins. Instructions for the flipping of coins are contained herein. But be warned! Only those who have mastered Kitaev's formalism relating coin flipping and operator monotone functions may succeed. For those foolhardy enough to even try, a complete tutorial is included.

id: 0711.4115
title: Path integral for half-binding potentials as quantum mechanical analog for black hole partition functions
authors: Daniel Grumiller
comments: 6 pages, proceedings contribution to "Path integrals - New Trends and Perspectives", Dresden, September 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4115
abstract: The semi-classical approximation to black hole partition functions is not well-defined, because the classical action is unbounded and the first variation of the uncorrected action does not vanish for all variations preserving the boundary conditions. Both problems can be solved by adding a Hamilton-Jacobi counterterm. I show that the same problem and solution arises in quantum mechanics for half-binding potentials.

id: 0711.4149
title: Test of weak measurement on a two- or three-qubit computer
authors: Todd A. Brun, Lajos Diosi, Walter T. Strunz
comments: To appear in Physical Review A. Title changed. 6 pages in RevTeX format
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032101 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4149
abstract: Current quantum computer technology is sufficient to realize weak measurements and the corresponding concept of weak values. We demonstrate how the weak value anomaly can be tested, along with consistency and simultaneity of weak values, using only discrete degrees of freedom. All you need is a quantum computer with two--or better, three--qubits. We also give an interpretation of the weak value as an effective field strength in a postselected spin measurement.

id: 0711.4155
title: The Expressional Limits of Formal Languages in the Notion of Observation
authors: Stathis Livadas
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4155
abstract: In this article I deal with the notion of observation in the most fundamental sense and its representation by means of formal languages serving as expressional tools of formal-axiomatical theories. In doing so, I have taken this notion in two diverse contexts. In the first as an epistemic notion that refers to its interpretation in a formal mathematical environment and then to its interpretation in a quantum mechanical environment. The second context in which I tried to approach the notion of observation is that of a phenomenological constitution basically as it is described in E. Husserl's original works. Assuming that in phenomenological constitution mathematical objects are special cases of perceptual objects including consequently objects of a quantum mechanical measurement, the question is to inquire on the limits of their description in the language of a formal-axiomatical theory. On one hand, I derive an irreducibility on the level of observables as indecomposable atoms without any further syntactical content in formal representation and on the other a transcendence of a continuous substratum self-constituted as a kind of impredicative synthetic unity on which to define an observational frame and generate a predicative universe of discourse.

id: 0711.4177
title: Generation of polarization entanglement from spatially-correlated photons in spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Ryosuke Shimizu, Takashi Yamaguchi, Yasuyoshi Mitsumori, Hideo Kosaka, Keiichi Edamatsu
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4177
abstract: We propose a novel scheme to generate polarization entanglement from spatially-correlated photon pairs. We experimentally realized a scheme by means of a spatial correlation effect in a spontaneous parametric down-conversion and a modified Michelson interferometer. The scheme we propose in this paper can be interpreted as a conversion process from spatial correlation to polarization entanglement.

id: 0711.4186
title: Generating an entangled coherent state of two cavity modes in a three-level ¦«- type atomic system
authors: Qing-Xia Mu, Yong-Hong Ma, L. Zhou
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4186
abstract: In this paper, we present a scheme to generate an entangled coherent state by considering a three-level \Lambda - type atom interacting with a two-mode cavity driven by classical fields. The two-mode entangled coherent state can be obtained under large detuning conditions. Considering the cavity decay, an analytical solution is deduced.

id: 0711.4212
title: Quantum cloning a pair of orthogonally polarized photons with linear optics
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052308 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4212
abstract: A linear optical probabilistic scheme for the optimal cloning of a pair of orthogonally-polarized photons is devised, based on single- and two-photon interferences. It consists in a partial symmetrization device, realized with a modified unbalanced Mach-Zehnder interferometer, followed by two independent Hong-Ou-Mandel interferometers. This scheme has the advantage that it enables quantum cloning without the need for stimulated amplification in a nonlinear medium. It can also be modified so to make an optical two-qubit partial SWAP gate, thereby providing a potentially useful tool to linear optics quantum computing.

id: 0711.4232
title: Lepton Generation Problem, Some Properties and Implications of the Curved Spacetime Dirac Equation -- (II)
authors: G. G. Nyambuya
comments: I figure added, Improvements to the arguments made
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4232
abstract: This reading is a continuation of the earlier reading Nyambuya (2008); where three new Curved Spacetime Dirac Equations have been derived mainly to try and account in a natural way for the observed anomalous gyromagnetic ratio of fermions and the suggestions is that particles including the Electron, which is thought to be a point particle, do have a finite spatial size and this is one of the reasons for the observed anomalous gyromagnetic ratio. Combining the idea in Nyambuya (2008) which lead to the derivation of the three new Curved Spacetime Dirac Equations, and the proposed Unified Field Theory (Nyambuya 2007), a total of 12 equations each with 16 sub-components are generated thus leading to a total of 192 equations for the Curved Spacetime Dirac Equation. Some symmetries of these equations are investigated, i.e., the Lorentz symmetry, charge conjugation symmetry (C), time reversal symmetry (T), Space reversal (P) and a combination of the C, P and T - symmetries. It is shown that these equations are Lorentz invariant, obey C-symmetry and that some violate T and P-symmetry while others do not and that they all obey PT-symmetry. These symmetries show (or modestly said -- seem to suggest) that anti-particles have positive mass and energy but a negative rest-mass and the opposite sign in electronic charge. Through the inspection of these symmetries, a suggestion is (here) made to the effect that the rest-mass of a particle must be related to the electronic charge of that particle thus leading us to a possible resolution of whether or not Neutrinos do have a none-zero rest-mass. Additionally, we demonstrate that these equations have the potency to explain naturally the observed lepton generation phenomena.

id: 0711.4245
title: Fully frustrated Josephson junction ladders with Mobius boundary conditions as topologically protected qubits
authors: Gerardo Cristofano, Vincenzo Marotta, Adele Naddeo, Giuliano Niccoli
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures, in print in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008) 2464
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4245
abstract: We show how to realize a ``protected'' qubit by using a fully frustrated Josephson Junction ladder (JJL) with Mobius boundary conditions. Such a system has been recently studied within a twisted conformal field theory (CFT) approach (Mod. Phys. Lett. A 15 (2000) 1679; Nucl. Phys. B 641 (2002) 547) and shown to develop the phenomenon of flux fractionalization (Eur. Phys. J. B 49 (2006) 83). The relevance of a ``closed'' geometry has been fully exploited in relating the topological properties of the ground state of the system to the presence of half flux quanta and the emergence of a topological order has been predicted (JSTAT (2005) P03006). In this letter the stability and transformation properties of the ground states under adiabatic magnetic flux change are analyzed and the deep consequences on the realization of a solid state qubit, protected from decoherence, are presented.

id: 0711.4251
title: The role of help in Classical and Quantum Zero-Knowledge
authors: Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Iordanis Kerenidis
comments: 22 pages, 0 figures, This paper will be be superseded by joint work with Dragos Florin Ciocan and Salil Vadhan and will be presented at TCC'08
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4251
abstract: We study the role of help in Non-Interactive Zero-Knowledge protocols and its relation to the standard interactive model. In the classical case, we show that help and interaction are equivalent, answering an open question of Ben-Or and Gutfreund. This implies a new complete problem for the class SZK, the Image Intersection Density. For this problem, we also prove a polarization lemma which is stronger than the previously known one. In the quantum setting, we define the notion of quantum help and show in a more direct way that help and interaction are again equivalent. Moreover, we define quantum Non-Interactive Zero-Knowledge with classical help and prove that it is equal to the class of languages that have classical honest-Verifier Zero Knowledge protocols secure against quantum Verifiers. Last, we provide new complete problems for all these quantum classes. Similar results were independently discovered by Dragos Florin Ciocan and Salil Vadhan.

id: 0711.4258
title: Algebraic fidelity decay for local perturbations
authors: R. Hoehmann, U. Kuhl, H.-J. Stoeckmann
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: PRL 100, 124101 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4258
abstract: From a reflection measurement in a rectangular microwave billiard with randomly distributed scatterers the scattering and the ordinary fidelity was studied. The position of one of the scatterers is the perturbation parameter. Such perturbations can be considered as {\em local} since wave functions are influenced only locally, in contrast to, e. g., the situation where the fidelity decay is caused by the shift of one billiard wall. Using the random-plane-wave conjecture, an analytic expression for the fidelity decay due to the shift of one scatterer has been obtained, yielding an algebraic $1/t$ decay for long times. A perfect agreement between experiment and theory has been found, including a predicted scaling behavior concerning the dependence of the fidelity decay on the shift distance. The only free parameter has been determined independently from the variance of the level velocities.

id: 0711.4259
title: Coherent control of light field with electromagnetically induced transparency in a dark state Raman coherent tripod system
authors: YongYao Li, HuaRong Zhang, YongZhu Chen, JianYing Zhou
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4259
abstract: The coherent superposition of two-atomic levels induced by coherent population trapping is employed in a standard $\Lambda$ type scheme to form a tripod-like system. A weak probe pulse scanning across the system is shown to experience a crossover from absorption to transparent and then to amplification. Consequently the group velocity of the probe pulse can be controlled to propagate either as a subluminal, a standard, a superluminal or even a negative speed. It is shown that the propagation behavior of the light field is entirely determined and controlled by the initial states of the coherent superposition.

id: 0711.4271
title: Solution of spin-boson systems in one and two-dimensional geometry via the asymptotic iteration method
authors: R. Koc, O. Ozer, H. Tutunculer, R. G. Yildirim
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures. Please check "this http URL" for other studies of Nuclear Physics Group at University of Gaziantep
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 59, 375-383 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4271
abstract: We consider solutions of the $2\times 2$ matrix Hamiltonian of physical systems within the context of the asymptotic iteration method. Our technique is based on transformation of the associated Hamiltonian in the form of the first order coupled differential equations. We construct a general matrix Hamiltonian which includes a wide class of physical models. The systematic study presented here reproduces a number of earlier results in a natural way as well as leading to new findings. Possible generalizations of the method are also suggested.

id: 0711.4280
title: Quantum Zeno dynamics and quantum Zeno subspaces
authors: Paolo Facchi, Giuseppe Marmo, Saverio Pascazio
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures. Dedicated to George Sudarshan on the occasion of his 75th birthday. Review of the quantum Zeno dynamics in its three different formulations. Proposal of a novel experiment in Section 10
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.196:012017,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4280
abstract: A quantum Zeno dynamics can be obtained by means of frequent measurements, frequent unitary kicks or a strong continuous coupling and yields a partition of the total Hilbert space into quantum Zeno subspaces, among which any transition is hindered. We focus on the "continuous" version of the quantum Zeno effect and look at several interesting examples. We first analyze these examples in practical terms, towards applications, then propose a novel experiment.

id: 0711.4282
title: Experimentally friendly geometrical criteria for entanglement
authors: P. Badziag, C. Brukner, W. Laskowski, T. Paterek, M. Zukowski
comments: 4 pages, journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 140403 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4282
abstract: We present an intuitive geometrical entanglement criterion. It allows formulation of simple and experimentally friendly sufficient conditions for entanglement. The conditions are illustrated with several examples. Moreover, a generalization of our approach is a necessary and sufficient separability condition. It can be associated with a family of entanglement identifiers, which is strictly richer than the family of entanglement witnesses.

id: 0711.4286
title: Quantum state discrimination: a geometric approach
authors: D. Markham, J.A. Miszczak, Z. Puchala, K. Zyczkowski
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042111 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4286
abstract: We analyse the problem of finding sets of quantum states that can be deterministically discriminated. From a geometric point of view this problem is equivalent to that of embedding a simplex of points whose distances are maximal with respect to the Bures distance (or trace distance). We derive upper and lower bounds for the trace distance and for the fidelity between two quantum states, which imply bounds for the Bures distance between the unitary orbits of both states. We thus show that when analysing minimal and maximal distances between states of fixed spectra it is sufficient to consider diagonal states only. Hence considering optimal discrimination, given freedom up to unitary orbits, it is sufficient to consider diagonal states. This is illustrated geometrically in terms of Weyl chambers.

id: 0711.4298
title: Steering quantum transitions between three crossing energy levels
authors: S. S. Ivanov, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4298
abstract: We calculate the propagator and the transition probabilities for a coherently driven three-state quantum system. The energies of the three states change linearly in time, whereas the interactions between them are pulse-shaped. We derive a highly accurate analytic approximation by assuming independent pairwise Landau-Zener transitions occurring instantly at the relevant avoided crossings, and adiabatic evolution elsewhere. Quantum interferences are identified, which occur due to different possible evolution paths in Hilbert space between an initial and a final state. A detailed comparison with numerical results for Gaussian-shaped pulses demonstrates a remarkable accuracy of the analytic approximation. We use the analytic results to derive estimates for the half-width of the excitation profile, and for the parameters required for creation of a maximally coherent superposition of the three states. These results are of potential interest in ladder climbing in alkali atoms by chirped laser pulses, in quantum rotors, in transitions between Zeeman sublevels of a J=1 level in a magnetic field, and in control of entanglement of a pair of spin-1/2 particles. The results for the three-state system can be generalized, without essential difficulties, to higher dimensions.

id: 0711.4299
title: Quantum computers can search rapidly by using almost any selective transformations
authors: Avatar Tulsi
comments: 8 pages, Accepted for publication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4299
abstract: The search problem is to find a state satisfying certain properties out of a given set. Grover's algorithm drives a quantum computer from a prepared initial state to the target state and solves the problem quadratically faster than a classical computer. The algorithm uses selective transformations to distinguish the initial state and target state from other states. It does not succeed unless the selective transformations are very close to phase-inversions. Here we show a way to go beyond this limitation. An important application lies in quantum error-correction, where the errors can cause the selective transformations to deviate from phase-inversions. The algorithms presented here are robust to errors as long as the errors are reproducible and reversible. This particular class of systematic errors arise often from imperfections in apparatus setup. Hence our algorithms offer a significant flexibility in the physical implementation of quantum search.

id: 0711.4370
title: A hazard of open quantum dynamics: Markov approximations encounter map domains
authors: Thomas F. Jordan, Anil Shaji, E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4370
abstract: A Markov approximation in open quantum dynamics can give unphysical results when a map acts on a state that is not in its domain. This is examined here in a simple example, an open quantum dynamics for one qubit in a system of two interacting qubits, for which the map domains have been described quite completely. A time interval is split into two parts and the map from the exact dynamics for the entire interval is replaced by the conjunction of that same map for both parts. If there is any correlation between the two qubits, unphysical results can appear as soon as the map conjunction is used, even for infinitesimal times. If the map is repeated an unlimited number of times, every state is at risk of being taken outside the bounds of physical meaning. Treatment by slippage of initial conditions is discussed.

id: 0711.4395
title: Quantum transport and spin dynamics on shearless tori
authors: K. Kudo, T. S. Monteiro
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 055203(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4395
abstract: We investigate for quantum dynamics in phase-space regions containing ``shearless tori''. We show that the properties of these peculiar classical phase-space structures -- important to the dynamics of tokamaks -- may be exploited for quantum information applications. In particular we show that shearless tori permit the non-dispersive transmission of localized wavepackets. The quantum many-body Hamiltonian of a Heisenberg ferromagnetic spin chain, subjected to an oscillating magnetic field, can be reduced to a classical one-body ``image'' dynamical system which is the well-studied Harper map. The Harper map belongs to a class of Hamiltonian systems (non-twist maps) which contain shearless tori. We show that a variant with sinusoidal time driving ``driven Harper model'' produces shearless tori which are especially suitable for quantum state transfer. The behavior of the concurrence is investigated as an example.

id: 0711.4445
title: Two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate in a high-frequency driving field that directly couples the two modes
authors: Qi Zhang, Peter Hanggi, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, revised version, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 053607 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4445
abstract: A two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate coupled by a high-frequency modulation field is found to display rich features. An effective stationary Hamiltonian approach reveals the emergence of additional degenerate eigenstates as well as new topological structures of the spectrum. Possible applications, such as the suppression of nonlinear Landau-Zener tunneling, are discussed. An interesting phenomenon, which we call "deterministic symmetry-breaking trapping" associated with separatrix crossing, is also found in an adiabatic process.

id: 0711.4468
title: Quantum secret sharing based on Smolin states alone
authors: Guang Ping He, Z. D. Wang, Yan-Kui Bai
comments: Published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 415304 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4468
abstract: It was indicated [Yu 2007 Phys. Rev. A 75 066301] that a previous proposed quantum secret sharing (QSS) protocol based on Smolin states [Augusiak 2006 Phys. Rev. A 73 012318] is insecure against an internal cheater. Here we build a different QSS protocol with Smolin states alone, and prove it to be secure against known cheating strategies. Thus we open a promising venue for building secure QSS using merely Smolin states, which is a typical kind of bound entangled states. We also propose a feasible scheme to implement the protocol experimentally.

id: 0711.4477
title: Three-tangle for mixtures of generalized GHZ and generalized W states
authors: Christopher Eltschka, Andreas Osterloh, Jens Siewert, Armin Uhlmann
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 043014 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4477
abstract: We give a complete solution for the three-tangle of mixed three-qubit states composed of a generalized GHZ state, a|000>+b|111>, and a generalized W state, c|001>+d|010>+f|100>. Using the methods introduced by Lohmayer et al. we provide explicit expressions for the mixed-state three-tangle and the corresponding optimal decompositions for this more general case. Moreover, as a special case we obtain a general solution for a family of states consisting of a generalized GHZ state and an orthogonal product state.

id: 0711.4483
title: A class of positive atomic maps
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 15 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 215201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4483
abstract: We construct a new class of positive indecomposable maps in the algebra of `d x d' complex matrices. These maps are characterized by the `weakest' positivity property and for this reason they are called atomic. This class provides a new reach family of atomic entanglement witnesses which define important tool for investigating quantum entanglement. It turns out that they are able to detect states with the `weakest' quantum entanglement.

id: 0711.4500
title: Correlations in orbital angular momentum of spatially entangled paired photons generated in parametric downconversion
authors: Clara I. Osorio, Gabriel Molina-Terriza, Juan P. Torres
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to PRA
journal: Clara I. Osorio, Gabriel Molina-Terriza, and Juan P. Torres, Phys. Rev. A 77, 015810 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4500
abstract: What are the orbital angular momentum correlations between spatially entangled photon pairs generated in spontaneous parametric down-conversion? We show that the answer to this question can be given in two alternative, although complementary, ways. The answer posed in this letter explains satisfactorily the seemingly contradictory results obtained in different experiments, and theoretical approaches.

id: 0711.4502
title: An Improvement of the Asymptotic Iteration Method for Exactly Solvable Eigenvalue Problems
authors: I. Boztosun, M. Karakoc
comments: RevTex4, 8 pages
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 24 (11) 3028 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4502
abstract: We derive a formula that simplifies the original asymptotic iteration method formulation to find the energy eigenvalues for the analytically solvable cases. We then show that there is a connection between the asymptotic iteration and the Nikiforov--Uvarov methods, which both solve the second order linear ordinary differential equations analytically.

id: 0711.4534
title: Experimental realization of linear-optical partial SWAP gates
authors: A. Cernoch, J. Soubusta, L. Bartuskova, M. Dusek, J. Fiurasek
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 180501 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4534
abstract: We present a linear-optical implementation of a class of two-qubit partial SWAP gates for polarization states of photons. Different gate operations, including the SWAP and entangling square root of SWAP, can be obtained by changing a classical control parameter -- namely the path difference in the interferometer. Reconstruction of output states, full process tomography and evaluation of entanglement of formation prove very good performance of the gates.

id: 0711.4538
title: On a recent proposal of faster than light quantum communication
authors: A. Bassi, G.C. Ghirardi
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX. Minor changes made
journal: Int. Journ. Theor. Phys. 47, 2500 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4538
abstract: In a recent paper, A.Y. Shiekh has discussed an experimental set-up which, in his opinion, should make possible faster-than-light communication using the collapse of the quantum wave function. Contrary to the many proposals which have been presented in the past, he does not resort to an entangled state of two systems but he works with a single particle in a superposition of two states - corresponding to its propagation in opposite directions - one of which goes through an appropriate interferometer. The possibility for an observer near the interferometer to introduce or not, at his free will, a phase shifter along one of the paths should allow to change instantaneously the probability of finding the particle in the far-away region corresponding to the other state of the superposition and, correspondingly, to change the intensity of a beam of particles reaching a distant observer. In this paper we show a flaw in the argument: once more, as it has been proved in full generality a long time ago, the process of wave packet reduction cannot be used for superluminal communication.

id: 0711.4603
title: A Note on Quantum Hamming Bound
authors: Salah A. Aly
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4603
abstract: Proving the quantum Hamming bound for degenerate nonbinary stabilizer codes has been an open problem for a decade. In this note, I prove this bound for double error-correcting degenerate stabilizer codes. Also, I compute the maximum length of single and double error-correcting MDS stabilizer codes over finite fields.

id: 0711.4631
title: On Secure Quantum Key Distribution Using Continuous Variables of Single Photons
authors: Lijian Zhang, Christine Silberhorn, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4631
abstract: We analyse the distribution of secure keys using quantum cryptography based on the continuous variable degree of freedom of entangled photon pairs. We derive the information capacity of a scheme based on the spatial entanglement of photons from a realistic source, and show that the standard measures of security known for quadrature-based continuous variable quantum cryptography (CV-QKD) are inadequate. A specific simple eavesdropping attack is analysed to illuminate how secret information may be distilled well beyond the bounds of the usual CV-QKD measures.

id: 0711.4633
title: Dynamics of periodic anticrossings: Decoherence, pointer states and hysteresis curves
authors: Peter Foldi, Mihaly G. Benedict, F. M. Peeters
comments: 10 pages, 9 slightly reduced quality figures, submitted to PRA; More details concerning applications to molacular nanomagnets are given
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 013406 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4633
abstract: We consider a strongly driven two-level (spin) system, with a periodic external field that induces a sequence of avoided level crossings. The spin system interacts with a bosonic reservoir which leads to decoherence. A Markovian dynamical equation is introduced without relying on the rotating wave approximation in the system-external field interaction. We show that the time evolution of the two-level system is directed towards an incoherent sum of periodic Floquet states regardless of the initial state and even the type of the coupling to the environment. Analyzing the time scale of approaching these time-dependent pointer states, information can be deduced concerning the nature and strength of the system-environment coupling. The inversion as a function of the external field is usually multi-valued, and the form of these hysteresis curves is qualitatively different for low and high temperatures. For moderate temperatures we found that the series of Landau-Zener-St\"{u}ckelberg-type transitions still can be used for state preparation, regardless of the decoherence rate. Possible applications include quantum information processing and molecular nanomagnets.

id: 0711.4641
title: Relational evolution of a simple quantum Hamiltonian model
authors: Daniele Colosi
comments: 9 pages, LaTex + revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4641
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a time reparametrization invariant system with a vanishing Hamiltonian. The evolution of the physical degrees of freedom of the system is described, both at the classical and at the quantum level, in relational terms by the construction of an internal time parameter. We use the Pegg-Barnett phase operator formalism in finite dimensional Hilbert space as an essential ingredient.

id: 0711.4642
title: One, Two, and $n$ Qubit Decoherence
authors: Carlos Pineda
comments: PhD thesis, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico. Compiled with pdflatex, 146 pages. All the content only in english but alternate cover and abstract also available in spanish
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4642
abstract: We study decoherence of one, two, and $n$ non-interacting qubits. Decoherence, measured in terms of purity, is calculated in linear response approximation, making use of the spectator configuration. The environment and its interaction with the qubits are modelled by random matrices. For two qubits, numerical studies reveal a simple one to one correspondence between its decoherence and its internal entanglement decay. Using this relation we are able to give a formula for concurrence decay. For large environments the evolution induces a unital channel in the two qubits, providing a partial explanation for the relation above. Using a kicked Ising spin network, we study the exact evolution of two non-interacting qubits in the presence of a spin bath. We find that the entanglement (as measured by concurrence) of the two qubits has a close relation to the purity of the pair, and closely follows an analytic relation derived for Werner states. As a collateral result we find that an integrable environment causes quadratic decay of concurrence as well as of purity, while a chaotic environment causes linear decay. Both quantities display recurrences in some integrable environments. Good agreement with the results found using random matrix theory is obtained. Finally, we analyze decoherence of a quantum register in the absence of non-local operations. The problem is solved in terms of a sum rule which implies linear scaling in the number of qubits. Each term involves a single qubit and its entanglement with the remaining ones. Two conditions are essential: decoherence must be small and the coupling of different qubits must be uncorrelated in the interaction picture. We apply the result to the random matrix model, and illustrate its reach considering a GHZ state coupled to a spin bath.

id: 0711.4650
title: A Classification of Hidden-Variable Properties
authors: Adam Brandenburger, Noson Yanofsky
comments: 28 pages; added references; clearer exposition. Final version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 425302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4650
abstract: Hidden variables are extra components added to try to banish counterintuitive features of quantum mechanics. We start with a quantum-mechanical model and describe various properties that can be asked of a hidden-variable model. We present six such properties and a Venn diagram of how they are related. With two existence theorems and three no-go theorems (EPR, Bell, and Kochen-Specker), we show which properties of empirically equivalent hidden-variable models are possible and which are not. Formally, our treatment relies only on classical probability models, and physical phenomena are used only to motivate which models to choose.

id: 0711.4659
title: Underlying Determinism, Stationary Phase and Quantum Mechnics
authors: R.Fukuda
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4659
abstract: In a newly introduced time scale $\tau$, much smaller than the usual $t$, any object is assumed to be a point-like particle, having a definite position. It fluctuates without dynamics and the wave function $\Psi$ is defined by averaging the square root of the density. In $t$-scale, the Schr$\ddot{\rm o}$dinger equation holds and for a macrovariable just a classical path is picked up as a peak of $\Psi$ by the stationary phase, which is the observable signal. In the measuring process, the stationary phase branches into many but one branch is selected by underlying determinism, leading to the correct detection probability.

id: 0711.4695
title: Delay Times for Symmetrized and Antisymmetrized Quantum Tunneling Configurations
authors: Alex E. Bernardini
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J . D48 (2008) 151-155
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4695
abstract: The transit times are obtained for a symmetrized (two identical bosons) and an antisymmetrized (two identical fermions) quantum colliding configuration. Considering two identical particles symmetrically impinging on a one-dimensional barrier, we demonstrate that the phase time and the dwell time give connected results where, however, the exact position of the scattered particles is explicitly determined by the phase time (group delay). For the antisymmetrized wave function configuration, an unusual effect of {\em accelerated} transmission is clearly identified in a simultaneous tunneling of two identical fermions.

id: 0711.4703
title: Optical Simulation of Yang-Baxter Equation
authors: Shuang-Wei Hu, Ming-Guang Hu, Kang Xue, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures; introduction and second section are dramatically rewritten, in order to improve the physical sense
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4703
abstract: In this paper, several proposals of optically simulating Yang-Baxter equations have been presented. Motivated by the recent development of anyon theory, we apply Temperley-Lieb algebra as a bridge to recast four-dimentional Yang-Baxter equation into its two-dimensional counterpart. In accordance with both representations, we find the corresponding linear-optical simulations, based on the highly efficient optical elements. Both the freedom degrees of photon polarization and location are utilized as the qubit basis, in which the unitary Yang-Baxter matrices are decomposed into combination of actions of basic optical elements.

id: 0711.4705
title: Cavity-induced temperature control of a two-level system
authors: Hendrik Weimer, G¨¹nter Mahler
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 053819 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4705
abstract: We consider a two-level atom interacting with a single mode of the electromagnetic field in a cavity within the Jaynes-Cummings model. Initially, the atom is thermal while the cavity is in a coherent state. The atom interacts with the cavity field for a fixed time. After removing the atom from the cavity and applying a laser pulse the atom will be in a thermal state again. Depending on the interaction time with the cavity field the final temperature can be varied over a large range. We discuss how this method can be used to cool the internal degrees of freedom of atoms and create heat baths suitable for studying thermodynamics at the nanoscale.

id: 0711.4712
title: Programmable discriminator of coherent states - experimental realization
authors: L. Bartuskova, A. Cernoch, J. Soubusta, M. Dusek
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 034306 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4712
abstract: The optical implementation of the recently proposed unambiguous identification of coherent states is presented. Our system works as a programmable discriminator between two, in general non-orthogonal weak coherent states. The principle of operation lies in the interference of three light beams - two program states and one unknown coherent state which can be equal to whichever of the two program states. The experiment is based on fiber optics. Its results confirm theoretical predictions and the experimental setup can be straightforwardly extended for higher numbers of program states.

id: 0711.4735
title: Recovering the stationary phase condition for accurately obtaining scattering and tunneling times
authors: Alex E. Bernardini
comments: 32 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B23 (2009) 2167
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4735
abstract: The stationary phase method is often employed for computing tunneling {\em phase} times of analytically-continuous {\em gaussian} or infinite-bandwidth step pulses which collide with a potential barrier. The indiscriminate utilization of this method without considering the barrier boundary effects leads to some misconceptions in the interpretation of the phase times. After reexamining the above barrier diffusion problem where we notice the wave packet collision necessarily leads to the possibility of multiple reflected and transmitted wave packets, we study the phase times for tunneling/reflecting particles in a framework where an idea of multiple wave packet decomposition is recovered. To partially overcome the analytical incongruities which rise up when tunneling phase time expressions are obtained, we present a theoretical exercise involving a symmetrical collision between two identical wave packets and a one dimensional squared potential barrier where the scattered wave packets can be recomposed by summing the amplitudes of simultaneously reflected and transmitted waves.

id: 0711.4738
title: Interpreting the Quantum Wave Function in Terms of 'Interacting Faculties'
authors: Christian de Ronde
comments: 34 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4738
abstract: In this article we discuss the problem of finding an interpretation of quantum mechanics which provides an objective account of physical reality. In the first place we discuss the problem of interpretation and analyze the importance of such an objective account in physics. In this context we present the problems which arise when interpreting the quantum wave function within the orthodox formulation of quantum mechanics. In connection to this critic, we expose the concept of 'entity' as an epistemological obstruction. In the second part of this paper we discuss the relation between actuality and potentiality in classical and quantum physics, and continue to present the concept of 'ontological potentiality' which is distinguished from the generic Aristotelian notion of potentiality in terms of 'becoming actual'. In this paper our main aim is to provide an objective interpretation of quantum mechanics which allows us to discuss the meaning of physical reality according to the theory. For this specific propose we present the concept of 'faculty' in place of the concept of 'entity'. Within our theory of faculties, we continue to discuss and interpret two paradigmatic experiments of quantum mechanics such as the double-slit and Schrodinger's cat.

id: 0711.4770
title: Exponential complexity and ontological theories of quantum mechanics
authors: Alberto Montina
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022104 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4770
abstract: Ontological theories of quantum mechanics describe a single system by means of well-defined classical variables and attribute the quantum uncertainties to our ignorance about the underlying reality represented by these variables. We consider the general class of ontological theories describing a quantum system by a set of variables with Markovian (either deterministic or stochastic) evolution. We provide the first proof that the number of continuous variables can not be smaller than 2N-2, N being the Hilbert space dimension. Thus, any ontological Markovian theory of quantum mechanics requires a number of variables which grows exponentially with the physical size. This result is relevant also in the framework of quantum Monte Carlo methods.

id: 0711.4799
title: Entanglement dynamics of two independent qubits in environments with and without memory
authors: B. Bellomo, R. Lo Franco, G. Compagno
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 77, 032342 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4799
abstract: A procedure to obtain the dynamics of $N$ independent qudits ($d$-level systems) each interacting with its own reservoir, for any arbitrary initial state, is presented. This is then applied to study the dynamics of the entanglement of two qubits, initially in an extended Werner-like mixed state with each of them in a zero temperature non-Markovian environment. The dependence of the entanglement dynamics on the purity and degree of entanglement of the initial states and on the amount of non-Markovianity is also given. This extends the previous work about non-Markovian effects on the two-qubit entanglement dynamics for initial Bell-like states [B. Bellomo \textit{et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{99}, 160502 (2007)]. The effect of temperature on the two-qubit entanglement dynamics in a Markovian environment is finally obtained.

id: 0711.4840
title: Entanglement, Non-linear Dynamics, and the Heisenberg Limit
authors: L. Pezze', A. Smerzi
comments: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 100401 (2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4840
abstract: We show that the quantum Fisher information provides a sufficient condition to recognize multi-particle entanglement in a $N$ qubit state. The same criterion gives a necessary and sufficient condition for sub shot-noise phase sensitivity in the estimation of a collective rotation angle $\theta$. The analysis therefore singles out the class of entangled states which are {\it useful} to overcome classical phase sensitivity in metrology and sensors. We finally study the creation of useful entangled states by the non-linear dynamical evolution of two decoupled Bose-Einstein condensates or trapped ions.

id: 0711.4870
title: Bright bichromatic entanglement and quantum dynamics of sum frequency generation
authors: M.K. Olsen, A.S. Bradley
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4870
abstract: We investigate the quantum properties of the well-known process of sum frequency generation, showing that it is potentially a very useful source of non-classical states of the electromagnetic field, some of which are not possible with the more common techniques. We show that it can produce quadrature squeezed light, bright bichromatic entangled states and symmetric and asymmetric demonstrations of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox. We also show that the semiclassical equations totally fail to describe the mean-field dynamics when the cavity is strongly pumped.

id: 0711.4892
title: The Macroscopic Quantum Effect in Nonlinear Oscillating Systems: a Possible Bridge between Classical and Quantum Physics
authors: Danil Doubochinski, Jonathan Tennenbaum
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures. Paper presented at Seminar "Atomic Structure: New Ideas and Perspectives", Moscow, Jan. 15, 2007
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4892
abstract: Einstein, De Broglie and others hoped that the schism between classical and quantum physics might one day be overcome by a theory taking into account the essential nonlinearity of elementary physical processes. However, neither their attempts, nor subsequent ones were able to supply a unifying principle that could serve as a starting-point for a coherent understanding of both microphysical and macroscopic phenomena. In the late 1960s the phenomenon of amplitude quantization, or Macroscopic Quantum Effect (MQE), was discovered in a class of nonlinear oscillating systems in which two or more subsystems are coupled to each other by interactions having a specific phase-dependent character -- so-called argumental interactions. Experimental and theoretical studies of the MQE, carried out up to the present time, suggest the possibility of a new conceptual framework for physics, which would provide a bridge between classical and quantum physics, replacing the Newtonian notion of "force" by a new conception of physical interaction. The present paper presents a brief introduction to the MQE and some ideas about its possible significance in the search for new approaches to the understanding of quantum phenomena.

id: 0711.4899
title: A quantum exactly solvable non-linear oscillator related with the isotonic oscillator
authors: J.F. Cari?ena, A.M. Perelomov, M.F. Ra?ada, M. Santander
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 085301 (10 p.) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4899
abstract: A nonpolynomial one-dimensional quantum potential representing an oscillator, that can be considered as placed in the middle between the harmonic oscillator and the isotonic oscillator (harmonic oscillator with a centripetal barrier), is studied. First the general case, that depends of a parameter $a$, is considered and then a particular case is studied with great detail. It is proven that it is Schr\"odinger solvable and then the wave functions $\Psi_n$ and the energies $E_n$ of the bound states are explicitly obtained. Finally it is proven that the solutions determine a family of orthogonal polynomials ${\cal P}_n(x)$ related with the Hermite polynomials and such that: (i) Every ${\cal P}_n$ is a linear combination of three Hermite polynomials, and (ii) They are orthogonal with respect to a new measure obtained by modifying the classic Hermite measure.

id: 0711.4954
title: The Vacuum Fluctuation Theorem: Exact Schroedinger Equation via Nonequilibrium Thermodynamics
authors: Gerhard Groessing
comments: 39 pages; sign error in equ. (3.2.29) now corrected
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372, 25 (2008) 4556-4563
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4954
abstract: By assuming that a particle of energy hbar.omega is actually a dissipative system maintained in a nonequilibrium steady state by a constant throughput of energy (heat flow), the exact Schroedinger equation is derived, both for conservative and nonconservative systems. Thereby, only universal properties of oscillators and nonequilibrium thermostatting are used, such that a maximal model independence of the hypothesised sub-quantum physics is guaranteed. It is claimed that this represents the shortest derivation of the Schroedinger equation from (modern) classical physics in the literature, and the only exact one, too. Moreover, a "vacuum fluctuation theorem" is presented, with particular emphasis on possible applications for a better understanding of quantum mechanical nonlocal effects.

id: 0711.4958
title: Diffusion Monte Carlo calculations for the ground states of atoms and ions in neutron star magnetic fields
authors: S. Bucheler, D. Engel, J. Main, G. Wunner
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, proceedings of the "9th International Conference on Path Integrals - New Trends and Perspectives", Max-Planck-Institut fur Physik komplexer Systeme, Dresden, Germany, September 23 - 28, 2007, to be published as a book by World Scientific, Singapore (2008)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4958
abstract: The diffusion quantum Monte Carlo method is extended to solve the old theoretical physics problem of many-electron atoms and ions in intense magnetic fields. The feature of our approach is the use of adiabatic approximation wave functions augmented by a Jastrow factor as guiding functions to initialize the quantum Monte Carlo prodecure. We calcula te the ground state energies of atoms and ions with nuclear charges from Z= 2, 3, 4, ..., 26 for magnetic field strengths relevant for neutron stars.

id: 0711.4960
title: Coherent backscattering of light from saturated atoms
authors: Vyacheslav Shatokhin, Thomas Wellens, Cord M¨¹ller, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 151, 51-57 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4960
abstract: We survey recent progress achieved in understanding the impact of inelastic processes on coherent backscattering of light from cold atoms that are saturated by a powerful laser field.

id: 0711.4970
title: Scarring in open quantum systems
authors: Diego Wisniacki, Gabriel G. Carlo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4970
abstract: We study scarring phenomena in open quantum systems. We show numerical evidence that individual resonance eigenstates of an open quantum system present localization around unstable short periodic orbits in a similar way as their closed counterparts. The structure of eigenfunctions around these classical objects is not destroyed by the opening. This is exposed in a paradigmatic system of quantum chaos, the cat map.

id: 0711.0014
title: Quantum loop models and the non-abelian toric code
authors: Paul Fendley
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0014
abstract: I define quantum loop models whose degrees of freedom are Ising spins on the square lattice as in the toric code, but where the excitations should have non-abelian statistics. The inner product is topological, allowing a direct implementation of the anyonic fusion matrix on the lattice. It also makes deconfined anyons possible for a variety of values of the weight per loop $d$ in the ground state. For d=\sqrt{2}, a gapped non-abelian topological phase can occur with only four-spin interactions.

id: 0711.0035
title: The Point Processes of the GRW Theory of Wave Function Collapse
authors: Roderich Tumulka
comments: 72 pages LaTeX, 3 figures
journal: Reviews in Mathematical Physics 21:155-227 (2009)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0035
abstract: The Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber (GRW) theory is a physical theory that, when combined with a suitable ontology, provides an explanation of quantum mechanics. The so-called collapse of the wave function is problematic in conventional quantum theory but not in the GRW theory, in which it is governed by a stochastic law. A possible ontology is the flash ontology, according to which matter consists of random points in space-time, called flashes. The joint distribution of these points, a point process in space-time, is the topic of this work. The mathematical results concern mainly the existence and uniqueness of this distribution for several variants of the theory. Particular attention is paid to the relativistic version of the GRW theory that I developed in 2004.

id: 0711.0066
title: Photon statistics from a resonantly driven quantum dot
authors: Ahsan Nazir
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 153309 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0066
abstract: Photon correlations in the emission of a resonantly driven quantum dot are investigated, accounting for the influence of the solid-state phonon environment. An analytical expression is derived for the second-order fluorescence intensity correlation function, from which regimes of correlated and uncorrelated photon emission are predicted as the driving field is varied. Experiments to investigate this effect would provide valuable insight into quantum dot carrier-phonon dynamics and are feasible with current technology.

id: 0711.0210
title: The Cooper Pair Pump as a Quantized Current Source
authors: Rapha?l Leone, Laurent L¨¦vy, Philippe Lafarge
comments: 4 PRL pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0210
abstract: A new charge quantization in a phase-polarized Cooper Pair Pump (CPP) is proposed, based on the topological properties of its Hamiltonian ground state over a three-dimensional parameter space $\mathbb{P}$. The charge is quantized using a set of path in $\mathbb{P}$ covering the surface of a torus, and is a multiple of the integer Chern index $c_1$ of this surface. This quantization is asymptotic but the pumped charge converges rapidly to the quantized value with the increase in the path frequency. The topological nature of the current makes this CPP implementation an excellent candidate for a metrological current standard.

id: 0711.0218
title: Observation of Berry's Phase in a Solid State Qubit
authors: P. J. Leek, J. M. Fink, A. Blais, R. Bianchetti, M. G?ppl, J. M. Gambetta, D. I. Schuster, L. Frunzio, R. J. Schoelkopf, A. Wallraff
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, version with high resolution figures available at this http URL
journal: Science 318, 1889 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0218
abstract: In quantum information science, the phase of a wavefunction plays an important role in encoding information. While most experiments in this field rely on dynamic effects to manipulate this information, an alternative approach is to use geometric phase, which has been argued to have potential fault tolerance. We demonstrate the controlled accumulation of a geometric phase, Berry's phase, in a superconducting qubit, manipulating the qubit geometrically using microwave radiation, and observing the accumulated phase in an interference experiment. We find excellent agreement with Berry's predictions, and also observe a geometry dependent contribution to dephasing.

id: 0711.0304
title: Quantum Physics Exploring Gravity in the Outer Solar System: The Sagas Project
authors: P. Wolf, Ch. J. Bord¨¦, A. Clairon, L. Duchayne, A. Landragin, P. Lemonde, G. Santarelli, W. Ertmer, E. Rasel, F.S. Cataliotti, M. Inguscio, G.M. Tino, P. Gill, H. Klein, S. Reynaud, C. Salomon, E. Peik, O. Bertolami, P. Gil, J. P¨¢ramos, C. Jentsch, U. Johann, A. Rathke, P. Bouyer, L. Cacciapuoti, D. Izzo, P. De Natale, B. Christophe, P. Touboul, S.G. Turyshev, J.D. Anderson, M.E. Tobar, F. Schmidt-Kaler, J. Vigu¨¦, A. Madej, L. Marmet, M-C. Angonin, P. Delva, P. Tourrenc, G. Metris, H. M¨¹ller, R. Walsworth, Z.H. Lu, L. Wang, K. Bongs, A. Toncelli, M. Tonelli, H. Dittus, C. L?mmerzahl, G. Galzerano, P. Laporta, J. Laskar, A. Fienga, F. Roques, K. Sengstock
comments: 39 pages. Submitted in abridged version to Experimental Astronomy
journal: Exper.Astron.23:651-687,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0304
abstract: We summarise the scientific and technological aspects of the SAGAS (Search for Anomalous Gravitation using Atomic Sensors) project, submitted to ESA in June 2007 in response to the Cosmic Vision 2015-2025 call for proposals. The proposed mission aims at flying highly sensitive atomic sensors (optical clock, cold atom accelerometer, optical link) on a Solar System escape trajectory in the 2020 to 2030 time-frame. SAGAS has numerous science objectives in fundamental physics and Solar System science, for example numerous tests of general relativity and the exploration of the Kuiper belt. The combination of highly sensitive atomic sensors and of the laser link well adapted for large distances will allow measurements with unprecedented accuracy and on scales never reached before. We present the proposed mission in some detail, with particular emphasis on the science goals and associated measurements.

id: 0711.0586
title: Topological quantization by controlled paths: application to Cooper pairs pumps
authors: Rapha?l Leone, Laurent L¨¦vy
comments: 16 PRB pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0586
abstract: When physical systems are tunable by three classical parameters, level degeneracies may occur at isolated points in parameter space. A topological singularity in the phase of the degenerate eigenvectors exists at these points. When a path encloses such point, the accumulated geometrical phase is sensitive to its presence. Furthermore, surfaces in parameter space enclosing such point can be used to characterize the eigenvector singularities through their Chern indices, which are integers. They can be used to quantize a physical quantity of interest. This quantity changes continuously during an adiabatic evolution along a path in parameter space. Quantization requires to turn this path into a surface with a well defined Chern index. We analyze the conditions necessary to a {\em Topological Quantization by Controlled Paths}. It is applied to Cooper pair pumps. For more general problems, a set of four criteria are proposed to check if topological quantization is possible.

id: 0711.0677
title: Exact Minimum Eigenvalue Distribution of an Entangled Random Pure State
authors: Satya N. Majumdar, Oriol Bohigas, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures included; typos corrected; to appear in J. Stat. Phys
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 131, 33 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0677
abstract: A recent conjecture regarding the average of the minimum eigenvalue of the reduced density matrix of a random complex state is proved. In fact, the full distribution of the minimum eigenvalue is derived exactly for both the cases of a random real and a random complex state. Our results are relevant to the entanglement properties of eigenvectors of the orthogonal and unitary ensembles of random matrix theory and quantum chaotic systems. They also provide a rare exactly solvable case for the distribution of the minimum of a set of N {\em strongly correlated} random variables for all values of N (and not just for large N).

id: 0711.0772
title: Local tuning of photonic crystal cavities using chalcogenide glasses
authors: Andrei Faraon, Dirk Englund, Douglas Bulla, Barry Luther-Davies, Benjamin J. Eggleton, Nick Stoltz, Pierre Petroff, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0772
abstract: We demonstrate a method to locally change the refractive index in planar optical devices by photodarkening of a thin chalcogenide glass layer deposited on top of the device. The method is used to tune the resonance of GaAs-based photonic crystal cavities by up to 3 nm at 940 nm, with only 5% deterioration in cavity quality factor. The method has broad applications for postproduction tuning of photonic devices.

id: 0711.0774
title: Exact Casimir Interaction Between Semitransparent Spheres and Cylinders
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Jef Wagner
comments: 5 pages, 4 eps figures; expanded discussion of previous work and additional references added, minor typos corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.D77:045005,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0774
abstract: A multiple scattering formulation is used to calculate the force, arising from fluctuating scalar fields, between distinct bodies described by $\delta$-function potentials, so-called semitransparent bodies. (In the limit of strong coupling, a semitransparent boundary becomes a Dirichlet one.) We obtain expressions for the Casimir energies between disjoint parallel semitransparent cylinders and between disjoint semitransparent spheres. In the limit of weak coupling, we derive power series expansions for the energy, which can be exactly summed, so that explicit, very simple, closed-form expressions are obtained in both cases. The proximity force theorem holds when the objects are almost touching, but is subject to large corrections as the bodies are moved further apart.

id: 0711.1337
title: External Fields as a Probe for Fundamental Physics
authors: Holger Gies
comments: 12 pages, plenary talk at QFEXT07, Leipzig, September 2007
journal: J.Phys.A41:164039,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1337
abstract: Quantum vacuum experiments are becoming a flexible tool for investigating fundamental physics. They are particularly powerful for searching for new light but weakly interacting degrees of freedom and are thus complementary to accelerator-driven experiments. I review recent developments in this field, focusing on optical experiments in strong electromagnetic fields. In order to characterize potential optical signatures, I discuss various low-energy effective actions which parameterize the interaction of particle-physics candidates with optical photons and external electromagnetic fields. Experiments with an electromagnetized quantum vacuum and optical probes do not only have the potential to collect evidence for new physics, but special-purpose setups can also distinguish between different particle-physics scenarios and extract information about underlying microscopic properties.

id: 0711.1380
title: Preliminaries in Many-Particle Quantum Gravity: Einstein-Friedmann Spacetime
authors: Lukasz Andrzej Glinka
comments: 7 pages, this http URL&article_id=6590&volumes_id=750&journals_id=246
journal: New Advances in Physics, Vol. 7, No. 2, July-December 2013, pp. 127-133
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1380
abstract: Preliminaries for Many-Particle approach to quantization of Einstein-Hilbert theory of gravitation are presented in this paper. Einstein-Friedmann Spacetime is detailed discussed from this point of view. Von Neumann-Araki-Woods second quantization in Fock space of canonical Hamilton field equations is presented. In result Spacetime as system with Bose-Einstein statistics is described and thermodynamics of the system is computed.

id: 0711.1392
title: Nuclear-spin relaxation of $^{207}$Pb in ferroelectric powders
authors: L.-S. Bouchard, A. O. Sushkov, D. Budker, J. J. Ford, A. S. Lipton
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022102 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1392
abstract: Motivated by a recent proposal by O. P. Sushkov and co-workers to search for a P,T-violating Schiff moment of the $^{207}$Pb nucleus in a ferroelectric solid, we have carried out a high-field nuclear magnetic resonance study of the longitudinal and transverse spin relaxation of the lead nuclei from room temperature down to 10 K for powder samples of lead titanate (PT), lead zirconium titanate (PZT), and a PT monocrystal. For all powder samples and independently of temperature, transverse relaxation times were found to be $T_2\approx 1.5 $ms, while the longitudinal relaxation times exhibited a temperature dependence, with $T_1$ of over an hour at the lowest temperatures, decreasing to $T_1\approx 7 $s at room temperature. At high temperatures, the observed behavior is consistent with a two-phonon Raman process, while in the low temperature limit, the relaxation appears to be dominated by a single-phonon (direct) process involving magnetic impurities. This is the first study of temperature-dependent nuclear-spin relaxation in PT and PZT ferroelectrics at such low temperatures. We discuss the implications of the results for the Schiff-moment search.

id: 0711.1483
title: Dynamical creation of bosonic Cooper-like pairs
authors: T. Keilmann, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 110406 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1483
abstract: We propose a scheme to create a metastable state of paired bosonic atoms in an optical lattice. The most salient features of this state are that the wavefunction of each pair is a Bell state and that the pair size spans half the lattice, similar to fermionic Cooper pairs. This mesoscopic state can be created with a dynamical process that involves crossing a quantum phase transition and which is supported by the symmetries of the physical system. We characterize the final state by means of a measurable two-particle correlator that detects both the presence of the pairs and their size.

id: 0711.2343
title: Quantum non-demolition measurements of single donor spins in semiconductors
authors: Mohan Sarovar, Kevin C. Young, Thomas Schenkel, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 8+ pages. 4 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 78, 245302 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2343
abstract: We propose a technique for measuring the state of a single donor electron spin using a field-effect transistor induced two-dimensional electron gas and electrically detected magnetic resonance techniques. The scheme is facilitated by hyperfine coupling to the donor nucleus. We analyze the potential sensitivity and outline experimental requirements. Our measurement provides a single-shot, projective, and quantum non-demolition measurement of an electron-encoded qubit state.

id: 0711.2641
title: Extensive nonadditive entropy in quantum spin chains
authors: Filippo Caruso, Constantino Tsallis
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, Invited Paper presented at the international conference CTNEXT07, satellite of STATPHYS23, 1-5 July 2007, Catania, Italy
journal: AIP conference Proceedings 965 (2007) p. 51
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2641
abstract: We present details on a physical realization, in a many-body Hamiltonian system, of the abstract probabilistic structure recently exhibited by Gell-Mann, Sato and one of us (C.T.), that the nonadditive entropy $S_q=k [1- Tr \hat{\rho}^q]/[q-1]$ ($\hat{\rho}\equiv$ density matrix; $S_1=-k Tr \hat{\rho} \ln \hat{\rho}$) can conform, for an anomalous value of q (i.e., q not equal to 1), to the classical thermodynamical requirement for the entropy to be extensive. Moreover, we find that the entropic index q provides a tool to characterize both universal and nonuniversal aspects in quantum phase transitions (e.g., for a L-sized block of the Ising ferromagnetic chain at its T=0 critical transverse field, we obtain $\lim_{L\to\infty}S_{\sqrt{37}-6}(L)/L=3.56 \pm 0.03$). The present results suggest a new and powerful approach to measure entanglement in quantum many-body systems. At the light of these results, and similar ones for a d=2 Bosonic system discussed by us elsewhere, we conjecture that, for blocks of linear size L of a large class of Fermionic and Bosonic d-dimensional many-body Hamiltonians with short-range interaction at T=0, we have that the additive entropy $S_1(L) \propto [L^{d-1}-1]/(d-1)$ (i.e., $ \ln L$ for $d=1$, and $ L^{d-1}$ for d>1), hence it is not extensive, whereas, for anomalous values of the index q, we have that the nonadditive entropy $S_q(L)\propto L^d$ ($\forall d$), i.e., it is extensive. The present discussion neatly illustrates that entropic additivity and entropic extensivity are quite different properties, even if they essentially coincide in the presence of short-range correlations.

id: 0711.2854
title: Generating Function in Quantum Mechanics: An Application to Counting Problems
authors: Li Han
comments: 1 table, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2854
abstract: In this paper we present a generating function approach to two counting problems in elementary quantum mechanics. The first is to find the total ways of distributing identical particles among different states. The second is to find the degeneracies of energy levels in a quantum system with multiple degrees of freedom. Our approach provides an alternative to the methods in textbooks.

id: 0711.3015
title: Quantum magnetism and criticality
authors: Subir Sachdev
comments: 39 pages, 10 figures, review article for non-specialists; (v2) added clarifications and references; (v3) minor corrections; (v4) added footnote on hydrodynamic long-time tails
journal: Nature Physics 4, 173 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3015
abstract: Magnetic insulators have proved to be fertile ground for studying new types of quantum many body states, and I survey recent experimental and theoretical examples. The insights and methods transfer also to novel superconducting and metallic states. Of particular interest are critical quantum states, sometimes found at quantum phase transitions, which have gapless excitations with no particle- or wave-like interpretation, and control a significant portion of the finite temperature phase diagram. Remarkably, their theory is connected to holographic descriptions of Hawking radiation from black holes.

id: 0711.3048
title: Volumes of Space as Subsystems
authors: Federico Piazza, Fabio Costa
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3048
abstract: As a novel approach with possible relevance to semiclassical gravity, we propose to define regions of space as quantum subsystems. After recalling how to divide a generic quantum system into ``parts'', we apply this idea to a free scalar field in Minkowski space and we compare two different localization schemes. The first scheme is the standard one, induced by the local relativistic fields; the alternative scheme that we consider is the one induced by the Newton-Wigner operators. If degrees of freedom are divided according to the latter, the Hamiltonian of the field exhibits a certain amount of non-locality. Moreover, when a region of space is cut off from the rest according to the Newton-Wigner scheme, the geometric entropy is finite and exhibits a sensible thermodynamic behaviour.

id: 0711.3295
title: On Order, Disorder and Coherence
authors: Geoffrey Sewell
comments: To be published in Modern Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3295
abstract: We provide a brief survey of quantum statistical characterisations of order, disorder and coherence in systems of many degrees of freedom. Here, order and coherence are described in terms of symmetry breakdown, while disorder is described in terms of entropy and algorithmic complexity, whose interconnection has been recently extended from the classical to the quantum domain. We see that, in the present physical context, the concepts of order and disorder are not mutually antithetical, but bear an interrelationship similar to that between signals and noise.

id: 0711.3347
title: Straight Quantum Waveguide with Robin Boundary Conditions
authors: Martin Jilek
comments: This is a contribution to the Proc. of the 3-rd Microconference "Analytic and Algebraic Methods III"(June 19, 2007, Prague, Czech Republic), published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 3 (2007), 108, 12 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3347
abstract: We investigate spectral properties of a quantum particle confined to an infinite straight planar strip by imposing Robin boundary conditions with variable coupling. Assuming that the coupling function tends to a constant at infinity, we localize the essential spectrum and derive a sufficient condition which guarantees the existence of bound states. Further properties of the associated eigenvalues and eigenfunctions are studied numerically by the mode-matching technique.

id: 0711.3391
title: Exact valence bond entanglement entropy and probability distribution in the XXX spin chain and the Potts model
authors: Jesper Lykke Jacobsen, Hubert Saleur
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3391
abstract: By relating the ground state of Temperley-Lieb hamiltonians to partition functions of 2D statistical mechanics systems on a half plane, and using a boundary Coulomb gas formalism, we obtain in closed form the valence bond entanglement entropy as well as the valence bond probability distribution in these ground states. We find in particular that for the XXX spin chain, the number N_c of valence bonds connecting a subsystem of size L to the outside goes, in the thermodynamic limit, as <N_c> = (4/pi^2) ln L, disproving a recent conjecture that this should be related with the von Neumann entropy, and thus equal to 1/(3 ln 2) ln L. Our results generalize to the Q-state Potts model.

id: 0711.3676
title: Entanglement growth and simulation efficiency in one-dimensional quantum lattice systems
authors: Alvaro Perales, Guifre Vidal
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev A 78, 042337 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3676
abstract: We study the evolution of one-dimensional quantum lattice systems when the ground state is perturbed by altering one site in the middle of the chain. For a large class of models, we observe a similar pattern of entanglement growth during the evolution, characterized by a moderate increase of significant Schmidt coefficients in all relevant bipartite decompositions of the state. As a result, the evolution can be accurately described by a matrix product state and efficiently simulated using the time-evolving block decimation algorithm.

id: 0711.3773
title: Quantum measurement and quantum gravity : many-worlds or collapse of the wave-function?
authors: T. P. Singh
comments: 23 pages. Based on talks given at: [FTAGVI, HRI, Allahabad, 13-18 Nov. 2007]; [Himalayan Relativity Dialog, Mirik, April, 2007]; [Workshop Session on Quantum Gravity, IAGRG, Delhi, Feb. 2007]; [Parmenides Workshop: The present - perspectives from physics and philosophy, Wildbad Kreuth, Germany, October, 2006]; [ICGC,Pune, Dec.2007]
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.174:012024,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3773
abstract: At present, there are two possible, and equally plausible, explanations for the physics of quantum measurement. The first explanation, known as the many-worlds interpretation, does not require any modification of quantum mechanics, and asserts that at the time of measurement the Universe splits into many branches, one branch for every possible alternative. The various branches do not interfere with each other because of decoherence, thus providing a picture broadly consistent with the observed Universe. The second explanation, which requires quantum mechanics to be modified from its presently known form, is that at the time of measurement the wave-function collapses into one of the possible alternatives. The two explanations are mutually exclusive, and up until now, no theoretical reasoning has been put forward to choose one explanation over the other. In this article, we provide an argument which implies that the collapse interpretation is favored over the many-worlds interpretation. Our starting point is the assertion (which we justify) that there ought to exist a reformulation of quantum mechanics which does not refer to a classical spacetime manifold. The need for such a reformulation implies that quantum theory becomes non-linear on the Planck mass/energy scale. Standard linear quantum mechanics is an approximation to this non-linear theory, valid at energy scales much smaller than the Planck scale. Using ideas based on noncommutative differential geometry, we develop such a reformulation and derive a non-linear Schr\"{o}dinger equation, which can explain collapse of the wave-function. We also obtain an expression for the lifetime of a quantum superposition. We suggest ideas for an experimental test of this model.

id: 0711.3831
title: Generation of macroscopic superposition states in ring superlattices
authors: Andreas Nunnenkamp, Ana Maria Rey, Keith Burnett
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures; minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 023622 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3831
abstract: Ultracold bosons in rotating ring lattices have previously been shown to form macroscopic superpositions of different quasi-momentum states. We demonstrate that the generation of such kind of states using slightly non-uniform ring lattices has several advantages: the energy gap decreases less severely with the number of particles, the sensitivity to detunings from the critical rotation frequency is reduced, and the scheme is not limited to commensurate filling. We show that different quasi-momentum states can be distinguished in time-of-flight absorption imaging and propose to probe correlations via the many-body oscillations induced by a sudden change in the rotation frequency.

id: 0711.3989
title: Perturbative Results Without Diagrams
authors: R. Rosenfelder
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, WS style (included), to be published in Proceedings of "Path Integrals - New Trends and Perspectives", Dresden (Germany), Sept. 23 - 28, 2007
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3989
abstract: Higher-order perturbative calculations in Quantum (Field) Theory suffer from the factorial increase of the number of individual diagrams. Here I describe an approach which evaluates the total contribution numerically for finite temperature from the cumulant expansion of the corresponding observable followed by an extrapolation to zero temperature. This method (originally proposed by Bogolyubov and Plechko) is applied to the calculation of higher-order terms for the ground-state energy of the polaron. Using state-of-the-art multidimensional integration routines 2 new coefficients are obtained corresponding to a 4- and 5-loop calculation.

id: 0711.4007
title: BEC "level" for measuring small forces
authors: S. G. Bhongale, Eddy Timmermans
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 185301 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4007
abstract: We propose a device that consists of a trapped two-component phase- separated Bose-Einstein condensate to measure small forces and map weak potential energy landscapes. The resolution as well as the measurement precision of this device can be set dynamically, allowing measurements at multiple scales.

id: 0711.4015
title: Twisted spin Sutherland models from quantum Hamiltonian reduction
authors: L. Feher, B.G. Pusztai
comments: 30 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 194009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4015
abstract: Recent general results on Hamiltonian reductions under polar group actions are applied to study some reductions of the free particle governed by the Laplace-Beltrami operator of a compact, connected, simple Lie group. The reduced systems associated with arbitrary finite dimensional irreducible representations of the group by using the symmetry induced by twisted conjugations are described in detail. These systems generically yield integrable Sutherland type many-body models with spin, which are called twisted spin Sutherland models if the underlying twisted conjugations are built on non-trivial Dynkin diagram automorphisms. The spectra of these models can be calculated, in principle, by solving certain Clebsch-Gordan problems, and the result is presented for the models associated with the symmetric tensorial powers of the defining representation of SU(N).

id: 0711.4247
title: On the optimization of the principal eigenvalue for single-centre point-interaction operators in a bounded region
authors: Pavel Exner, Andrea Mantile
comments: LaTeX, 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4247
abstract: We investigate relations between spectral properties of a single-centre point-interaction Hamiltonian describing a particle confined to a bounded domain $\Omega\subset\mathbb{R}^{d},\: d=2,3$, with Dirichlet boundary, and the geometry of $\Omega$. For this class of operators Krein's formula yields an explicit representation of the resolvent in terms of the integral kernel of the unperturbed one, $(-\Delta_{\Omega}^{D}+z) ^{-1}$. We use a moving plane analysis to characterize the behaviour of the ground-state energy of the Hamiltonian with respect to the point-interaction position and the shape of $\Omega$, in particular, we establish some conditions showing how to place the interaction to optimize the principal eigenvalue.

id: 0711.4460
title: Physics in the multiverse: an introductory review
authors: Aurelien Barrau
comments: 6 pages, html version available here : this http URL
journal: CERN Cour.47:13-17,2007
subjects: Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4460
abstract: This brief note, written for non-specialists, aims at drawing an introductive overview of the multiverse issue.

id: 0711.4786
title: Discovery of exceptional points in the Bose-Einstein condensation of gases with attractive 1/r-interaction
authors: Holger Cartarius, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 013618 (2008)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4786
abstract: The extended Gross-Pitaevskii equation for the Bose-Einstein condensation of gases with attractive 1/r-interaction has a second solution which is born together with the ground state in a tangent bifurcation. At the bifurcation point both states coalesce, i.e., the energies and the wave functions are identical. We investigate the bifurcation point in the context of exceptional points, a phenomenon known for linear non-Hermitian Hamiltonians. We point out that the mean field energy, the chemical potential, and the wave functions show the same behavior as an exceptional point in a linear, non-symmetric system. The analysis of the analytically continued Gross-Pitaevskii equation reveals complex waves at negative scattering lengths below the tangent bifurcation. These solutions are interpreted as a decay of the condensate caused by an absorbing potential.

id: 0711.4585
title: Prevalence of marginally unstable periodic orbits in chaotic billiards
authors: E. G. Altmann, T. Friedrich, A. E. Motter, H. Kantz, A. Richter
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 016205 (2008)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4585
abstract: The dynamics of chaotic billiards is significantly influenced by coexisting regions of regular motion. Here we investigate the prevalence of a different fundamental structure, which is formed by marginally unstable periodic orbits and stands apart from the regular regions. We show that these structures both {\it exist} and {\it strongly influence} the dynamics of locally perturbed billiards, which include a large class of widely studied systems. We demonstrate the impact of these structures in the quantum regime using microwave experiments in annular billiards.

id: 0711.4600
title: Localization and the interface between quantum mechanics, quantum field theory and quantum gravity
authors: Bert Schroer
comments: 70 pages, actualization, addition of references
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4600
abstract: We show that there are significant conceptual differences between QM and QFT which make it difficult to view the latter as just a relativistic extension of the principles of QM. At the root of this is a fundamental distinction between Born-localization in QM (which in the relativistic context changes its name to Newton-Wigner localization) and modular localization which is the localization underlying QFT, after one liberates it from its standard presentation in terms of field coordinates. The first comes with a probability notion and projection operators, whereas the latter describes causal propagation in QFT and leads to thermal aspects of locally reduced finite energy states. The Born-Newton-Wigner localization in QFT is only applicable asymptotically and the covariant correlation between asymptotic in and out localization projectors is the basis of the existence of an invariant scattering matrix. Taking these significant differences serious has not only repercussions for the philosophy of science, but also leads to a new structural properties as a consequence of vacuum polarization: the area law for localization entropy near the the causal localization horizon and a more realistic cutoff independent setting for the cosmological vacuum energy density which is compatible with local covariance. The article presents some observations about the interface between QFT in CST and QG.

id: 0711.4729
title: Bogoliubov theory of quantum correlations in the time-dependent Bose-Hubbard model
authors: Uwe R. Fischer, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, Michael Uhlmann
comments: 11 pages of RevTex4, 2 figures; significantly extended, with several analytically solvable cases added, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 043615 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4729
abstract: By means of an adapted mean-field expansion for large fillings $n\gg1$, we study the evolution of quantum fluctuations in the time-dependent Bose-Hubbard model, starting in the superfluid state and approaching the Mott phase by decreasing the tunneling rate or increasing the interaction strength in time. For experimentally relevant cases, we derive analytical results for the temporal behavior of the number and phase fluctuations, respectively. This allows us to calculate the growth of the quantum depletion and the decay of off-diagonal long-range order. We estimate the conditions for the observability of the time dependence in the correlation functions in the experimental setups with external trapping present. Finally, we discuss the analogy to quantum effects in the early universe during the inflationary epoch.

id: 0711.4733
title: A Coupled Oscillator Model for Grover's Quantum Database Search Algorithm
authors: Aavishkar A. Patel
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures. Presented at the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair 2007, Albuquerque, USA
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4733
abstract: Grover's database search algorithm is the optimal algorithm for finding a desired object from an unsorted collection of items. Although it was discovered in the context of quantum computation, it is simple and versatile enough to be implemented using any physical system that allows superposition of states, and several proposals have been made in the literature. I study a mechanical realisation of the algorithm using coupled simple harmonic oscillators, and construct its physical model for the simplest case of four identical oscillators. The identification oracle is implemented as an elastic reflection of the desired oscillator, and the overrelaxation operation is realised as evolution of the system by half an oscillation period. I derive the equations of motion, and solve them both analytically and by computer simulation. I extend the ideal case analysis and explore the sensitivity of the algorithm to changes in the initial conditions, masses of springs and damping. The amplitude amplification provided by the algorithm enhances the energy of the desired oscillator, while running the algorithm backwards spreads out the energy of the perturbed oscillator among its partners. The former (efficient focusing of energy into a specific oscillator) can have interesting applications in processes that need crossing of an energy threshold for completion, and can be useful in nanotechnological devices and catalysis. The latter (efficient redistribution of energy) can be useful in processes requiring rapid dissipation of energy, such as shock-absorbers and vibrational shielding. I present some tentative proposals.

id: 0711.4118
title: Holographic entanglement entropy for disconnected regions
authors: Veronika E. Hubeny, Mukund Rangamani
comments: 3 eps figures, 17 pages. v2: minor changes
journal: JHEP0803:006,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4118
abstract: We present a simple derivation of the entanglement entropy for a region made up of a union of disjoint intervals in 1+1 dimensional quantum field theories using holographic techniques. This generalizes the results for 1+1 dimensional conformal field theories derived previously by exploiting the uniformization map. We further comment on the generalization of our result to higher dimensional field theories.

id: 0711.3431
title: How to fix a broken symmetry: Quantum dynamics of symmetry restoration in a ferromagnetic Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Bogdan Damski, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 15 pages, 11 figures, final version accepted in NJP (slight changes with respect to the former submission)
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 045023 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3431
abstract: We discuss the dynamics of a quantum phase transition in a spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate when it is driven from the magnetized broken-symmetry phase to the unmagnetized ``symmetric'' polar phase. We determine where the condensate goes out of equilibrium as it approaches the critical point, and compute the condensate magnetization at the critical point. This is done within a quantum Kibble-Zurek scheme traditionally employed in the context of symmetry-breaking quantum phase transitions. Then we study the influence of the nonequilibrium dynamics near a critical point on the condensate magnetization. In particular, when the quench stops at the critical point, nonlinear oscillations of magnetization occur. They are characterized by a period and an amplitude that are inversely proportional. If we keep driving the condensate far away from the critical point through the unmagnetized ``symmetric'' polar phase, the amplitude of magnetization oscillations slowly decreases reaching a non-zero asymptotic value. That process is described by the equation that can be mapped onto the classical mechanical problem of a particle moving under the influence of harmonic and ``anti-friction'' forces whose interplay leads to surprisingly simple fixed-amplitude oscillations. We obtain several scaling results relating the condensate magnetization to the quench rate, and verify numerically all analytical predictions.

id: 0711.0129
title: Fuzzy Geometry of Phase Space and Quantization of Massive Fields
authors: S.N.Mayburov
comments: 13 pages, Talk given at QFEXT07 Workshop, Leipzig, Sept. 2007
journal: J.Phys.A41:164071,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.0129
abstract: The quantum space-time and the phase space with fuzzy structure is investigated as the possible quantization formalism. In this theory the state of nonrelativistic particle corresponds to the element of fuzzy ordered set (Foset) - fuzzy point. Due to Foset partial (weak) ordering, particle's space coordinate x acquires principal uncertainty dx. It's shown that Shroedinger formalism of Quantum Mechanics can be completely derived from consideration of particle evolution in fuzzy phase space with minimal number of axioms.

id: 0711.2806
title: Perturbative Treatment of Symmetry Breaking Within Random Matrix Theory
authors: J. X. de Carvalho, M. S. Hussein, M. P. Pato, A. J. Sargeant
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A372:4898-4901,2008
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.2806
abstract: We discuss the applicability, within the Random Matrix Theory, of perturbative treatment of symmetry breaking to the experimental data on the flip symmetry breaking in quartz crystal. We found that the values of the parameter that measures this breaking are different for the spacing distribution as compared to those for the spectral rigidity. We consider both twofold and threefold symmetries. The latter was found to account better for the spectral rigidity than the former. Both cases, however, underestimate the experimental spectral rigidity at large L. This discrepancy can be resolved if an appropriate number of eigenfrequecies is considered to be missing in the sample. Our findings are relevant to isospin violation study in nuclei.

id: 0711.4716
title: The Theory of Kairons
authors: Arkadiusz Jadczyk
comments: Latex, 21 pages, 1 figure, several misprints from the previous version corrected
journal: Advances in Applied Clifford Algebras, Volume 19, Issue 1 , 2009, pp 63-82
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.4716
abstract: In relativistic quantum mechanics wave functions of particles satisfy field equations that have initial data on a space--like hypersurface. We propose a dual field theory of ``wavicles'' that have their initial data on a time--like worldline. Propagation of such fields is superluminal, even though the Hilbert space of the solutions carries a unitary representation of the Poincare group of mass zero. We call the objects described by these field equations ``Kairons''. The paper builds the field equations in a general relativistic framework, allowing for a torsion. Kairon fields are section of a vector bundle over space-time. The bundle has infinite--dimensional fibres.

