id: 0711.1288
title: Review on qudits production and their application to Quantum Communication and Studies on Local Realism
authors: Marco Genovese, Paolo Traina
comments: 
journal: Adv. Sci. Lett. 1, 153-160 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1288
abstract: The codification in higher dimensional Hilbert Spaces (whose logical basis states are dubbed qudits in analogy with bidimensional qubits) presents various advantages both for Quantum Information applications and for studies on Foundations of Quantum Mechanics. Purpose of this review is to introduce qudits, to summarize their application to Quantum Communication and researches on Local Realism and, finally, to describe some recent experiment for realizing them. A Little more in details: after a short introduction, we will consider the advantages of testing local realism with qudits, discussing both the 3-4 dimensional case (both for maximally and non-maximally entanglement) and then the extension to an arbitrary dimension. Afterwards, we will discuss the theoretical results on using qudits for quantum communication, epitomizing the outcomes on a larger security in Quantum Key Distribution protocols (again considering separately qutrits, ququats and generalization to arbitrary dimension). Finally, we will present the experiments performed up to now for producing quantum optical qudits and their applications. In particular, we will mention schemes based on interferometric set-ups, orbital angular momentum entanglement and biphoton polarization. Finally, we will summarize what hyperentanglement is and its applications.

id: 0711.1555
title: Decoherence in quantum walks and quantum computers
authors: Andrew P. Hines, P.C.E. Stamp
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures; to appear in Theory Canada 3 special issue if the Canadian Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1555
abstract: Decoherence is the major stumbling block in the realization of a large-scale quantum computer. Ingenious methods have been devised to overcome decoherence, but their success has been proven only for over-simplified models of system-environment interaction. Whether such methods will be reliable in the face of more realistic models is a fundamental open question. In this partly pedagogical article, we study two toy models of quantum information processing, using the language of \emph{quantum walks}. Decoherence is incorporated in 3 ways - by coupling to a noisy `projective measurement' system, and by coupling to oscillator and spin baths.

id: 0711.1694
title: Symmetry in quantum walks
authors: Hari Krovi
comments: 136 pages, Ph.D. thesis, University of Southern California, 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1694
abstract: A discrete-time quantum walk on a graph is the repeated application of a unitary evolution operator to a Hilbert space corresponding to the graph. Hitting times for discrete quantum walks on graphs give an average time before the walk reaches an ending condition. We derive an expression for hitting time using superoperators, and numerically evaluate it for the walk on the hypercube for various coins and decoherence models. We show that, by contrast to classical walks, quantum walks can have infinite hitting times for some initial states. We seek criteria to determine if a given walk on a graph will have infinite hitting times, and find a sufficient condition for their existence. The phenomenon of infinite hitting times is in general a consequence of the symmetry of the graph and its automorphism group. Symmetries of a graph, given by its automorphism group, can be inherited by the evolution operator. Using the irreducible representations of the automorphism group, we derive conditions such that quantum walks defined on this graph must have infinite hitting times for some initial states. Symmetry can also cause the walk to be confined to a subspace of the original Hilbert space for certain initial states. We show that a quantum walk confined to the subspace corresponding to this symmetry group can be seen as a different quantum walk on a smaller quotient graph and we give an explicit construction of the quotient graph. We conjecture that the existence of a small quotient graph with finite hitting times is necessary for a walk to exhibit a quantum speed-up. Finally, we use symmetry and the theory of decoherence-free subspaces to determine when the subspace of the quotient graph is a decoherence-free subspace of the dynamics.

id: 0711.1882
title: Optimizing the discrete time quantum walk using a SU(2) coin
authors: C.M. Chandrashekar, R. Srikanth, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032326 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1882
abstract: We present a generalized version of the discrete time quantum walk, using the SU(2) operation as the quantum coin. By varying the coin parameters, the quantum walk can be optimized for maximum variance subject to the functional form $\sigma^2 \approx N^2$ and the probability distribution in the position space can be biased. We also discuss the variation in measurement entropy with the variation of the parameters in the SU(2) coin. Exploiting this we show how quantum walk can be optimized for improving mixing time in an $n$-cycle and for quantum walk search.

id: 0711.3762
title: Universal Behavior of Quantum Walks with Long-Range Steps
authors: Oliver Muelken, Volker Pernice, Alexander Blumen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 021117 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3762
abstract: Quantum walks with long-range steps $R^{-\gamma}$ ($R$ being the distance between sites) on a discrete line behave in similar ways for all $\gamma\geq2$. This is in contrast to classical random walks, which for $\gamma >3$ belong to a different universality class than for $\gamma \leq 3$. We show that the average probabilities to be at the initial site after time $t$ as well as the mean square displacements are of the same functional form for quantum walks with $\gamma=2$, 4, and with nearest neighbor steps. We interpolate this result to arbitrary $\gamma\geq2$.

id: 0711.3975
title: Unitarity plus causality implies localizability
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Vincent Nesme, Reinhard Werner
comments: V1: 5 pages, revtex. V2: Generalizes V1, explanatory slides available at this http URL V3: More precisions and references
journal: QIP 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0711.3975
abstract: We consider a graph with a single quantum system at each node. The entire compound system evolves in discrete time steps by iterating a global evolution $U$. We require that this global evolution $U$ be unitary, in accordance with quantum theory, and that this global evolution $U$ be causal, in accordance with special relativity. By causal we mean that information can only ever be transmitted at a bounded speed, the speed bound being quite naturally that of one edge of the underlying graph per iteration of $U$. We show that under these conditions the operator $U$ can be implemented locally; i.e. it can be put into the form of a quantum circuit made up with more elementary operators -- each acting solely upon neighbouring nodes. We take quantum cellular automata as an example application of this representation theorem: this analysis bridges the gap between the axiomatic and the constructive approaches to defining QCA. KEYWORDS: Quantum cellular automata, Unitary causal operators, Quantum walks, Quantum computation, Axiomatic quantum field theory, Algebraic quantum field theory, Discrete space-time.

