id: 0712.0625
title: Mixing Times in Quantum Walks on the Hypercube
authors: F.L. Marquezino, R. Portugal, G. Abal, R. Donangelo
comments: REVTeX, 9 pages, with small corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042312 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0625
abstract: The mixing time of a discrete-time quantum walk on the hypercube is considered. The mean probability distribution of a Markov chain on a hypercube is known to mix to a uniform distribution in time O(n log n). We show that the mean probability distribution of a discrete-time quantum walk on a hypercube mixes to a (generally non-uniform) distribution pi(x) in time O(n) and the stationary distribution is determined by the initial state of the walk. An explicit expression for pi(x) is derived for the particular case of a symmetric walk. These results are consistent with those obtained previously for a continuous-time quantum walk. The effect of decoherence due to randomly breaking links between connected sites in the hypercube is also considered. We find that the probability distribution mixes to the uniform distribution as expected. However, the mixing time has a minimum at a critical decoherence rate $p \approx 0.1$. A similar effect was previously reported for the QW on the N-cycle with decoherence from repeated measurements of position. A controlled amount of decoherence helps to obtain--and preserve--a uniform distribution over the $2^n$ sites of the hypercube in the shortest possible time.

id: 0712.1008
title: Quantum Simulated Annealing
authors: R. Somma, S. Boixo, H. Barnum
comments: 8 pages, 2 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1008
abstract: We develop a quantum algorithm to solve combinatorial optimization problems through quantum simulation of a classical annealing process. Our algorithm combines techniques from quantum walks, quantum phase estimation, and quantum Zeno effect. It can be viewed as a quantum analogue of the discrete-time Markov chain Monte Carlo implementation of classical simulated annealing. Our implementation scales with the inverse of the square root of the minimum spectral gap of the stochastic matrix used in the classical simulation. The quantum algorithm outperforms the classical one, which scales with the inverse of the gap.

