id: 0712.0014
title: Entanglement Mechanisms in One-Dimensional Potential Scattering
authors: N.L. Harshman, P. Singh
comments: 14 pages IOP style, 5 figures, conference proceeding for QTS-5; version 2 has some clarifications, corrections, and general improvements; submitted to JPA
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 155304.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0014
abstract: When two non-relativistic particles scatter in one dimension, they can become entangled. This entanglement process is constrained by the symmetries of the scattering system and the boundary conditions on the incoming state. Applying these constraints, three different mechanisms of entanglement can be identified: the superposition of reflected and transmitted modes, momentum correlations of the reflected mode due to inversion of the relative momentum, and momentum correlations in the transmitted and reflected modes due to dependence of the scattering amplitude on the relative momentum. We consider three standard potentials, the hard core, Dirac delta, and double Dirac delta, and show that the relative importance of these mechanisms depends on the interaction and on the properties of the incoming wave function. We find that even when the momenta distributions of the incoming articles are sharply peaked, entanglement due to the momentum correlations generated by reflection can be quite large for particles with unequal mass.

id: 0712.0015
title: Phase transitions of bipartite entanglement
authors: P. Facchi, U. Marzolino, G. Parisi, S. Pascazio, A. Scardicchio
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 050502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0015
abstract: We study a random matrix model for the statistical properties of the purity of a bipartite quantum system at a finite (fictitious) temperature. This enables us to write the generating function for the cumulants, for both balanced and unbalanced bipartitions. It also unveils an unexpected feature of the system, namely the existence of two phase transitions, characterized by different spectra of the density matrices. One of the critical phases is described by the statistical mechanics of random surfaces, the other is a second-order phase transition.

id: 0712.0059
title: Entanglement-induced Decoherence and Energy Eigenstates
authors: Wen-ge Wang, Jiangbin Gong, G. Casati, Baowen Li
comments: 5 pages and 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012108 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0059
abstract: Using recent results in the field of quantum chaos we derive explicit expressions for the time scale of decoherence induced by the system-environment entanglement. For a generic system-environment interaction and for a generic quantum chaotic system as environment, conditions are derived for energy eigenstates to be preferred states in the weak coupling regime. A simple model is introduced to numerically confirm our predictions. The results presented here may also help understanding the dynamics of quantum entanglement generation in chaotic quantum systems.

id: 0712.0060
title: Dark-State Polaritons for multi-component and stationary light fields
authors: F. E. Zimmer, J. Otterbach, R. G. Unanyan, B. W. Shore, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 77, 063823 (6 pages) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0060
abstract: We present a general scheme to determine the loss-free adiabatic eigensolutions (dark-state polaritons) of the interaction of multiple probe laser beams with a coherently driven atomic ensemble under conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency. To this end we generalize the Morris-Shore transformation to linearized Heisenberg-Langevin equations describing the coupled light-matter system in the weak excitation limit. For the simple lambda-type coupling scheme the generalized Morris-Shore transformation reproduces the dark-state polariton solutions of slow light. Here we treat a closed-loop dual-V scheme wherein two counter-propagating control fields generate a quasi stationary pattern of two counter-propagating probe fields -- so-called stationary light. We show that contrary to previous predictions,there exists a single unique dark-state polariton; it obeys a simple propagation equation.

id: 0712.0103
title: A Construction of Quantum Stabilizer Codes Based on Syndrome Assignment by Classical Parity-Check Matrices
authors: Ching-Yi Lai, Chung-Chin Lu
comments: 34 pages, 3 figures, 5 tables, index terms add, abstract and conclusion slightly modified
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 57(10), 7163 - 7179, (2011),
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0103
abstract: In quantum coding theory, stabilizer codes are probably the most important class of quantum codes. They are regarded as the quantum analogue of the classical linear codes and the properties of stabilizer codes have been carefully studied in the literature. In this paper, a new but simple construction of stabilizer codes is proposed based on syndrome assignment by classical parity-check matrices. This method reduces the construction of quantum stabilizer codes to the construction of classical parity-check matrices that satisfy a specific commutative condition. The quantum stabilizer codes from this construction have a larger set of correctable error operators than expected. Its (asymptotic) coding efficiency is comparable to that of CSS codes. A class of quantum Reed-Muller codes is constructed, which have a larger set of correctable error operators than that of the quantum Reed-Muller codes developed previously in the literature. Quantum stabilizer codes inspired by classical quadratic residue codes are also constructed and some of which are optimal in terms of their coding parameters.

id: 0712.0140
title: The von Neumann Entropy of EPR Spin Correlation for the Relativistic Pairs
authors: Yoshihisa Nishikawa
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures; changed the title, revised the manuscript, added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0140
abstract: Variation of the von Neumann entropy by the Lorentz transformation is discussed. Taking the spin-singlet state in the center of mass frame, the von Neumann entropy in the laboratory frame is calculated from the reduced density matrix obtained by taking the trace over 4-momentum after the Lorentz transformation. As the model to discuss the EPR spin correlation, it is supposed that one parent particle splits into a superposition state of various pair states in various directions. Computing the von Neumann entropy and the Shannon entropy, we have shown a global behavior of the entropy to see a relativistic effect. We discuss also the super-relativistic limit, distinguishability between the two particles of the pair and so on.

id: 0712.0141
title: Electrical detection of spin echoes for phosphorus donors in silicon
authors: Hans Huebl, Felix Hoehne, Benno Grolik, Andre R. Stegner, Martin Stutzmann, Martin S. Brandt
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 177602 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0141
abstract: The electrical detection of spin echoes via echo tomography is used to observe decoherence processes associated with the electrical readout of the spin state of phosphorus donor electrons in silicon near a SiO$_2$ interface. Using the Carr-Purcell pulse sequence, an echo decay with a time constant of $1.7\pm0.2 \rm{\mu s}$ is observed, in good agreement with theoretical modeling of the interaction between donors and paramagnetic interface states. Electrical spin echo tomography thus can be used to study the spin dynamics in realistic spin qubit devices for quantum information processing.

id: 0712.0149
title: The Quantum Measurement Problem: State of Play
authors: David Wallace
comments: LaTeX, 85 pages. Forthcoming in Rickles (ed.), The Ashgate Companion to the New Philosophy of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0149
abstract: This is a preliminary version of an article to appear in the forthcoming Ashgate Companion to the New Philosophy of Physics. I don't advocate any particular approach to the measurement problem (not here, at any rate!) but I do focus on the importance of decoherence theory to modern attempts to solve the measurement problem, and I am fairly sharply critical of some aspects of the "traditional" formulation.

id: 0712.0150
title: Klein's Paradox
authors: A. Bounames, L. Chetouani
comments: 18 pages, Latex, another title has been used in the published version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 279 (2001) 139-150
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0150
abstract: We solve the one dimensional Feshbach-Villars equation for spin-1/2 particle subjected to a scalar smooth potential. The eight component wave function is given in terms of the hypergeometric functions and via a limiting procedure, the wave functions of the step potential are deduced. These wave functions are used to test the validity of the boundary conditions deduced from the Feshbach-Villars transformation. The creation of pairs is predicted from the boundary condition of the charge density.

id: 0712.0184
title: Femtosecond Photodissociation of Molecules Facilitated by Noise
authors: Kamal P. Singh, Anatole Kenfack, Jan M.Rost
comments: 5 pages,5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0184
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of diatomic molecules subjected to both a femtosecond mid-infrared laser pulse and Gaussian white noise. The stochastic Schr\"odinger equation with a Morse potential is used to describe the molecular vibrations under noise and the laser pulse. For weak laser intensity, well below the dissociation threshold, it is shown that one can find an optimum amount of noise that leads to a dramatic enhancement of the dissociation probability. The enhancement landscape which is shown as a function of both the noise and the laser strength, exhibits a global maximum. A frequency-resolved gain profile is recorded with a pump-probe set-up which is experimentally realizable. With this profile we identify the linear and nonlinear multiphoton processes created by the interplay between laser and noise and assess their relative contribution to the dissociation enhancement.

id: 0712.0221
title: Tunable resonators for quantum circuits
authors: A. Palacios-Laloy, F. Nguyen, F. Mallet, P. Bertet, D. Vion, D. Esteve
comments: subm. to JLTP (Proc. of LTD12 conference)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0221
abstract: We have designed, fabricated and measured high-Q $\lambda/2$ coplanar waveguide microwave resonators whose resonance frequency is made tunable with magnetic field by inserting a DC-SQUID array (including 1 or 7 SQUIDs) inside. Their tunability range is 30% of the zero field frequency. Their quality factor reaches up to 3$\times10^4$. We present a model based on thermal fluctuations that accounts for the dependance of the quality factor with magnetic field.

id: 0712.0222
title: 2-photon ionization and necessary laser and vacuum systems for experiments with trapped strontium ions
authors: E. Kirilov, S. Putterman
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0222
abstract: We describe a efficient way to photoionize strontium atoms in a linear radio-frequency trap. We use a 2-photon second order process to excite the autoionization resonance (4d2 + 5p2) 1D2. A doubled pulsed Ti:Saphire laser system is used at 431nm to provide 100fsec pulses at 82Mhz. The fabrication of the laser systems for addressing the Sr+ transitions necessary for laser cooling and excitation of quantum jumps, vacuum system and ion trap structure are also described in detail. With the current setup a easy and repeatable trapping of linear ion chains is achieved at UHV pressures.

id: 0712.0230
title: Experimental test of uncertainty relations for quantum mechanics on a circle
authors: J. Rehacek, Z. Bouchal, R. Celechovsky, Z. Hradil, L. L. Sanchez-Soto
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures. Submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032110 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0230
abstract: We rederive uncertainty relations for the angular position and momentum of a particle on a circle by employing the exponential of the angle instead of the angle itself, which leads to circular variance as a natural measure of resolution. Intelligent states minimizing the uncertainty product under the constraint of a given uncertainty in angle or in angular momentum turn out to be given by Mathieu wave functions. We also discuss a number of physically feasible approximations to these optimal states. The theory is applied to the orbital angular momentum of a beam of photons and verified in an experiment that employs computer-controlled spatial light modulators both at the state preparation and analyzing stages.

id: 0712.0256
title: Hamiltonian Design in Atom-Light Interactions with Rubidium Ensembles: A Quantum Information Toolbox
authors: S. R. de Echaniz, M. Koschorreck, M. Napolitano, M. Kubasik, M. W. Mitchell
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; added references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032316 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0256
abstract: We study the coupling between collective variables of atomic spin and light polarization in an ensemble of cold 87Rb probed with polarized light. The effects of multiple hyperfine levels manifest themselves as a rank-2 tensor polarizability, whose irreducible components can be selected by means of probe detuning. The D1 and D2 lines of Rb are explored and we identify different detunings which lead to Hamiltonians with different symmetries for rotations. As possible applications of these Hamiltonians, we describe schemes for spin squeezing, quantum cloning, quantum memory, and measuring atom number.

id: 0712.0259
title: Photo-Emission of a Single-Electron Wave-Packet in a Strong Laser Field
authors: Justin Peatross, Carsten M¨¹ller, Karen Z. Hatsagortsyan, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 153601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0259
abstract: The radiation emitted by a single-electron wave packet in an intense laser field is considered. A relation between the exact quantum formulation and its classical counterpart is established via the electron's Wigner function. In particular we show that the wave packet, even when it spreads to the scale of the wavelength of the driving laser field, cannot be treated as an extended classical charge distribution but rather behaves as a point-like emitter carrying information on its initial quantum state. We outline an experimental setup dedicated to put this conclusion to the test.

id: 0712.0268
title: Exact solution of Schrodinger equation for modified Kratzer's molecular potential with the position-dependent mass
authors: Ramazan Sever, Cevdet Tezcan
comments: 9 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. E 17, 1327(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0268
abstract: Exact solutions of Schrodinger equation are obtained for the modified Kratzer and the corrected Morse potentials with the position-dependent effective mass. The bound state energy eigenvalues and the corresponding eigenfunctions are calculated for any angular momentum for target potentials. Various forms of point canonical transformations are applied. PACS numbers: 03.65.-w; 03.65.Ge; 12.39.Fd Keywords: Morse potential, Kratzer potential, Position-dependent mass, Point canonical transformation, Effective mass Schr\"{o}dinger equation.

id: 0712.0291
title: A proof for the informational completeness of the rotated quadrature observables
authors: J. Kiukas, P. Lahti, J.-P. Pellonpaa
comments: 11 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 175206 (11 pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0291
abstract: We give a new mathematically rigorous proof for the fact that, when $S$ is a dense subset of $[0,2\pi)$, the rotated quadrature operators $Q_\theta$, $\theta\in S$, of a single mode electromagnetic field constitute an informationally complete set of observables.

id: 0712.0297
title: Lower bounds on the squashed entanglement for multi-party systems
authors: Wei Song
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys, 48, 2191(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0297
abstract: Squashed entanglement is a promising entanglement measure that can be generalized to multipartite case, and it has all of the desirable properties for a good entanglement measure. In this paper we present computable lower bounds to evaluate the multipartite squashed entanglement. We also derive some inequalities relating the squashed entanglement to the other entanglement measure.

id: 0712.0307
title: Quantum Hamilton-Jacobi Theory
authors: Marco Roncadelli, L. S. Schulman
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 170406 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0307
abstract: Quantum canonical transformations have attracted interest since the beginning of quantum theory. Based on their classical analogues, one would expect them to provide a powerful quantum tool. However, the difficulty of solving a nonlinear operator partial differential equation such as the quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation (QHJE) has hindered progress along this otherwise promising avenue. We overcome this difficulty. We show that solutions to the QHJE can be constructed by a simple prescription starting from the propagator of the associated Schroedinger equation. Our result opens the possibility of practical use of quantum Hamilton-Jacobi theory. As an application we develop a surprising relation between operator ordering and the density of paths around a semiclassical trajectory.

id: 0712.0320
title: Multiple-time states and multiple-time measurements in quantum mechanics
authors: Y. Aharonov, S. Popescu, J. Tollaksen, L. Vaidman
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0320
abstract: We discuss experimental situations that consist of multiple preparation and measurement stages. This leads us to a new approach to quantum mechanics. In particular, we introduce the idea of multi-time quantum states which are the appropriate tools for describing these experimental situations. We also describe multi-time measurements and discuss their relation to multi-time states. A consequence of our new formalism is to put states and operators on an equal footing. Finally we discuss the implications of our new approach to quantum mechanics for the problem of the flow of time.

id: 0712.0346
title: Multipartite entanglement measure for all discrete systems
authors: Beatrix C. Hiesmayr, Marcus Huber
comments: Extended version including explicitly the 3 qubit case, 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012342 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0346
abstract: Via a multidimensional complementarity relation we derive a novel operational entanglement measure for any discrete quantum system, i.e. for any multidimensional and multipartite system. This new measure admits a separation into different classes of entanglement obtained by using a flip operator 2,3,...,n times, defining a m-flip concurrence. For mixed states bounds on this m-flip concurrence can be obtained. Moreover, the information content of a n partite multidimensional system admits an intuitive interpretation. Explicitly, the three qubits system is analyzed and the physical difference in entanglement of the W-state, the GHZ state or the bi-separable state is revealed.

id: 0712.0347
title: Superluminal propagation of evanescent modes as a quantum effect
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong, Bing He
comments: Also as a Reply to the Comment by H. G. Winful [Phys. Rev. A 76, 057803 (2007)], to be published in Annalen der Physik
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 17, No. 5, 319-325 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0347
abstract: Contrary to mechanical waves, the two-slit interference experiment of single photons shows that the behavior of classical electromagnetic waves corresponds to the quantum mechanical one of single photons, which is also different from the quantum-field-theory behavior such as the creations and annihilations of photons, the vacuum fluctuations, etc. Owing to a purely quantum effect, quantum tunneling particles including tunneling photons (evanescent modes) can propagate over a spacelike interval without destroying causality. With this picture we conclude that the superluminality of evanescent modes is a quantum mechanical rather than a classical phenomenon.

id: 0712.0478
title: The second law of thermodynamics in the quantum Brownian oscillator at an arbitrary temperature
authors: Ilki Kim, Guenter Mahler
comments: Accepted for publication in EPJ B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0478
abstract: In the classical limit no work is needed to couple a system to a bath with sufficiently weak coupling strength (or with arbitrarily finite coupling strength for a linear system) at the same temperature. In the quantum domain this may be expected to change due to system-bath entanglement. Here we show analytically that the work needed to couple a single linear oscillator with finite strength to a bath cannot be less than the work obtainable from the oscillator when it decouples from the bath. Therefore, the quantum second law holds for an arbitrary temperature. This is a generalization of the previous results for zero temperature [1,2]; in the high temperature limit we recover the classical behavior.

id: 0712.0483
title: Computational Complexity of interacting electrons and fundamental limitations of Density Functional Theory
authors: Norbert Schuch, Frank Verstraete
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. v2: Version accepted at Nature Physics; differs significantly from v1 (including new title). Includes an extra appendix (not contained in the journal version) on the NP-completeness of Hartree-Fock, which is taken from v1
journal: Nature Physics 5, 732 - 735 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0483
abstract: One of the central problems in quantum mechanics is to determine the ground state properties of a system of electrons interacting via the Coulomb potential. Since its introduction by Hohenberg, Kohn, and Sham, Density Functional Theory (DFT) has become the most widely used and successful method for simulating systems of interacting electrons, making their original work one of the most cited in physics. In this letter, we show that the field of computational complexity imposes fundamental limitations on DFT, as an efficient description of the associated universal functional would allow to solve any problem in the class QMA (the quantum version of NP) and thus particularly any problem in NP in polynomial time. This follows from the fact that finding the ground state energy of the Hubbard model in an external magnetic field is a hard problem even for a quantum computer, while given the universal functional it can be computed efficiently using DFT. This provides a clear illustration how the field of quantum computing is useful even if quantum computers would never be built.

id: 0712.0488
title: Indirect control with quantum accessor: coherent control by initial state preparation
authors: H. Dong, X.F. Liu, H.C. Fu, C.P. Sun
comments: References added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0488
abstract: This is the second one in our series of papers on indirect quantum control assisted by quantum accessor. In this paper we propose and study a new class of indirect quantum control(IDQC) scheme based on the initial states preparation of the accessor. In the present scheme, after the initial state of the accessor is properly prepared, the system is controlled by repeatedly switching on and off the interaction between the system and the accessor. This is different from the protocol of our first paper, where we manipulate the interaction between the controlled system and the accessor. We prove the controllability of the controlled system for the proposed indirect control scheme. Furthermore, we give an example with two coupled spins qubits to illustrate the scheme, the concrete control process and the controllability.

id: 0712.0491
title: Zitterbewegung by Quantum Field Theory Considerations
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong
comments: 5 pages, no figure, to be published in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 77, 045402 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0491
abstract: The validity of the work by Lamata et al [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 253005 (2007)] can be further shown by quantum field theory considerations.

id: 0712.0517
title: Recent developments in quantum key distribution: theory and practice
authors: Wolfgang Mauerer, Wolfram Helwig, Christine Silberhorn
comments: Invited paper for the Annals of Physics special issue on the occasion of Max Planck's 150th birthday. This made it inevitable to use Planck, Bohr, and Einstein instead of Alice, Bob, and Eve. Published version with minor corrections
journal: Ann. Phys. (Leipzig) 17, No. 2-3, 158, 175 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0517
abstract: Quantum key distribution is among the foremost applications of quantum mechanics, both in terms of fundamental physics and as a technology on the brink of commercial deployment. Starting from principal schemes and initial proofs of unconditional security for perfect systems, much effort has gone into providing secure schemes which can cope with numerous experimental imperfections unavoidable in real world implementations. In this paper, we provide a comparison of various schemes and protocols. We analyse their efficiency and performance when implemented with imperfect physical components. We consider how experimental faults are accounted for using effective parameters. We compare various protocols and provide guidelines as to which components propose best advances when being improved.

id: 0712.0620
title: Progress in methods to solve the Faddeev and Yakubovsky differential equations
authors: Alexander K. Motovilov
comments: A review article based on a talk given at the 20th European Conference on Few-Body Problems in Physics
journal: Few-Body Systems 43 (2008), 121-127
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0620
abstract: We shortly recall the derivation of the Faddeev-Yakubovsky differential equations and point out their main advantages. Then we give a review of the numerical approaches used to solve the bound-state and scattering problems for the three- and four-body systems based on these equations. A particular attention is payed to the latest developments.

id: 0712.0625
title: Mixing Times in Quantum Walks on the Hypercube
authors: F.L. Marquezino, R. Portugal, G. Abal, R. Donangelo
comments: REVTeX, 9 pages, with small corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042312 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0625
abstract: The mixing time of a discrete-time quantum walk on the hypercube is considered. The mean probability distribution of a Markov chain on a hypercube is known to mix to a uniform distribution in time O(n log n). We show that the mean probability distribution of a discrete-time quantum walk on a hypercube mixes to a (generally non-uniform) distribution pi(x) in time O(n) and the stationary distribution is determined by the initial state of the walk. An explicit expression for pi(x) is derived for the particular case of a symmetric walk. These results are consistent with those obtained previously for a continuous-time quantum walk. The effect of decoherence due to randomly breaking links between connected sites in the hypercube is also considered. We find that the probability distribution mixes to the uniform distribution as expected. However, the mixing time has a minimum at a critical decoherence rate $p \approx 0.1$. A similar effect was previously reported for the QW on the N-cycle with decoherence from repeated measurements of position. A controlled amount of decoherence helps to obtain--and preserve--a uniform distribution over the $2^n$ sites of the hypercube in the shortest possible time.

id: 0712.0670
title: Disclosing hidden information in the quantum Zeno effect: Pulsed measurement of the quantum time of arrival
authors: J. Echanobe, A. del Campo, J. G. Muga
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032112 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0670
abstract: Repeated measurements of a quantum particle to check its presence in a region of space was proposed long ago [G. R. Allcock, Ann. Phys. {\bf 53}, 286 (1969)] as a natural way to determine the distribution of times of arrival at the orthogonal subspace, but the method was discarded because of the quantum Zeno effect: in the limit of very frequent measurements the wave function is reflected and remains in the original subspace. We show that by normalizing the small bits of arriving (removed) norm, an ideal time distribution emerges in correspondence with a classical local-kinetic-energy distribution.

id: 0712.0686
title: Violation of Rotational Invariance of Local Realistic Models with Two Settings
authors: Koji Nagata, Jaewook Ahn
comments: 4 pages
journal: J. Korean Phys. Soc. 53, 2216 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0686
abstract: We have considered a two-particle Bell experiment to visualize the conflict between rotational invariance of physical laws and a specific local realistic theory. The experiment is reproducible by using a local realistic theory obtained in a two-setting Bell experiment. The generalized Bell inequality {[J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. {\bf 40}, 13101 (2007)]}, which is derived under the assumption that there exists a rotationally invariant local realistic theory, turns out to disprove such a local realistic model existing with a two-setting experiment. This implies that such a model is not rotationally invariant and should, therefore, be ruled out in some situations.

id: 0712.0722
title: Classical capacity of quantum channels with general Markovian correlated noise
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Tony Dorlas
comments: 
journal: Journal of Statistical Physics, vol. 134, nos. 5-6, pp. 1173-1195, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0722
abstract: The classical capacity of a quantum channel with arbitrary Markovian correlated noise is evaluated. For the general case of a channel with long-term memory, which corresponds to a Markov chain which does not converge to equilibrium, the capacity is expressed in terms of the communicating classes of the Markov chain. For an irreducible and aperiodic Markov chain, the channel is forgetful, and one retrieves the known expression for the capacity.

id: 0712.0730
title: Possible agreement of wave function reduction from the basic principles of quantum mechanics
authors: Roland Omn¨¨s
comments: "A shorter and clearer version of the previous paper, with improvements in the physical content"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0730
abstract: Reduction is shown to be a possible consequence of the basic principles of quantum mechanics, involving no branching of the quantum state of the universe. The key feature of a measurement is attributed to the creation of macroscopic germs of ionized tracks, bubbles, sparks and so on, in a superposed quantum state, the main mechanism being a breaking and a restoration of ``classicality'' in nearby macroscopic objects and their small patterns. A new significance of quantum probabilities, involving no absolute randomness, is also proposed.

id: 0712.0740
title: Phase noise measurements in long fiber interferometers for quantum repeaters applications
authors: Ji?¨ª Min¨¢?, Hugues de Riedmatten, Christoph Simon, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 9 pages with 10 figures
journal: J. Min\'a\v{r}, H. de Riedmatten, C. Simon, H. Zbinden, and N. Gisin, Phys. Rev. A77, 052325 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0740
abstract: Many protocols for long distance quantum communication require interferometric phase stability over long distances of optical fibers. In this paper we investigate the phase noise in long optical fibers both in laboratory environment and in installed commercial fibers in an urban environment over short time scales (up to hundreds of us). We show that the phase fluctuations during the travel time of optical pulses in long fiber loops are small enough to obtain high visibility first order interference fringes in a Sagnac interferometer configuration for fiber lengths up to 75 km. We also measure phase fluctuations in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer in installed fibers with arm length 36.5 km. We verify that the phase noise respects gaussian distribution and measure the mean phase change as a function of time difference. The typical time needed for a mean phase change of 0.1 rad is of order of 100 us, which provides information about the time scale available for active phase stabilization. Our results are relevant for future implementations of quantum repeaters in installed optical fiber networks.

id: 0712.0759
title: Quantum light depolarization: the phase-space perspective
authors: A. B. Klimov, J. L. Romero, L. L. Sanchez-Soto, A. Messina, A. Napoli
comments: 6 pages, no figures. Submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 033853 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0759
abstract: Quantum light depolarization is handled through a master equation obtained by coupling dispersively the field to a randomly distributed atomic reservoir. This master equation is solved by transforming it into a quasiprobability distribution in phase space and the quasiclassical limit is investigated.

id: 0712.0773
title: Influence of Absorbers on the Electromagnetic Radiation
authors: Neil V. Budko
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0773
abstract: The phenomenon of the electromagnetic absorption by arbitrarily distributed discrete absorbers is analyzed from the photon point of view. It is shown that apart from the decrease in the intensity of the signal the net effect of absorption includes a relative increase in the photon bunching.

id: 0712.0789
title: Quantum Computational Method of Finding the Ground State Energy and Expectation Values
authors: Sangchul Oh
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012326 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0789
abstract: We propose a new quantum computational way of obtaining a ground-state energy and expectation values of observables of interacting Hamiltonians. It is based on the combination of the adiabatic quantum evolution to project a ground state of a non-interacting Hamiltonian onto a ground state of an interacting Hamiltonian and the phase estimation algorithm to retrieve the ground-state energy. The expectation value of an observable for the ground state is obtained with the help of Hellmann-Feynman theorem. As an illustration of our method, we consider a displaced harmonic oscillator, a quartic anharmonic oscillator,and a potential scattering model. The results obtained by this method are in good agreement with the known results.

id: 0712.0841
title: Numerical Simulation of the Double Slit Interference with Ultracold Atoms
authors: Michel Gondran, Alexandre Gondran
comments: 25 pages, 15 figures
journal: Am. J. Phys. 73, 2005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0841
abstract: We present a numerical simulation of the double slit interference experiment realized by F. Shimizu, K. Shimizu and H. Takuma with ultracold atoms. We show how the Feynman path integral method enables the calculation of the time-dependent wave function. Because the evolution of the probability density of the wave packet just after it exits the slits raises the issue of the interpreting the wave/particle dualism, we also simulate trajectories in the de Broglie-Bohm interpretation.

id: 0712.0891
title: Statistical physics in deformed spaces with minimal length
authors: Taras Fityo
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures; several mistakes are corrected
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372, 5872-5877 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0891
abstract: We considered the thermodynamics in spaces with deformed commutation relation leading to existence of the minimal length. We developed a classical method of the partition function evaluation. We calculated the partition function and heat capacity for ideal gas and harmonic oscillators using this method. The obtained results are in good agreement with the exact quantum ones. We also showed that the minimal length introduction reduces degrees of freedom of an arbitrary system in the high temperature limit significantly.

id: 0712.0896
title: Quantum state decorrelation
authors: Giacomo M. D'Ariano, Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, Paolo Perinotti, Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, RevTex4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032344 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0896
abstract: We address the general problem of removing correlations from quantum states while preserving local quantum information as much as possible. We provide a complete solution in the case of two qubits, by evaluating the minimum amount of noise that is necessary to decorrelate covariant sets of bipartite states. We show that two harmonic oscillators in arbitrary Gaussian state can be decorrelated by a Gaussian covariant map. Finally, for finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces, we prove that states obtained from most cloning channels (e.g., universal and phase-covariant cloning) can be decorrelated only at the expense of a complete erasure of information about the copied state. More generally, in finite dimension, cloning without correlations is impossible for continuous sets of states. On the contrary, for continuos variables cloning, a slight modification of the customary set-up for cloning coherent states allows one to obtain clones without correlations.

id: 0712.0916
title: Finite de Finetti theorem for conditional probability distributions describing physical theories
authors: Matthias Christandl, Ben Toner
comments: Published version. 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 042104 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0916
abstract: We work in a general framework where the state of a physical system is defined by its behaviour under measurement and the global state is constrained by no-signalling conditions. We show that the marginals of symmetric states in such theories can be approximated by convex combinations of independent and identical conditional probability distributions, generalizing the classical finite de Finetti theorem of Diaconis and Freedman. Our results apply to correlations obtained from quantum states even when there is no bound on the local dimension, so that known quantum de Finetti theorems cannot be used.

id: 0712.0921
title: Going Beyond Bell's Theorem
authors: Daniel M. Greenberger, Michael A. Horne, Anton Zeilinger
comments: This original suggestion of GHZ-states and of what is today called multi-qubit entanglement is not generally accessible, so here we make it available electronically. Subsequently, such states were first realized with photons by Bouwmeester et al. arXiv:quant-ph/9810035 (PRL 82, 1345-49, 1999) and applied to a quantum nonlocality test by Pan et al. (Nature 403, 515-519, 2000)
journal: in: 'Bell's Theorem, Quantum Theory, and Conceptions of the Universe', M. Kafatos (Ed.), Kluwer, Dordrecht, 69-72 (1989)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0921
abstract: Bell's Theorem proved that one cannot in general reproduce the results of quantum theory with a classical, deterministic local model. However, Einstein originally considered the case where one could define an 'element of reality', namely for the much simpler case where one could predict with certainty a definite outcome for an experiment. For this simple case, Bell's Theorem says nothing. But by using a slightly more complicated model than Bell, one can show that even in this simple case where one can make definite predictions, one still cannot generally introduce deterministic, local models to explain the results.

id: 0712.0975
title: Random quantum codes from Gaussian ensembles and an uncertainty relation
authors: Patrick Hayden, Peter W. Shor, Andreas Winter
comments: 9 pages, two-column style. This paper is a companion to quant-ph/0702005 and quant-ph/0702006
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 15 (2008) 71-89
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0975
abstract: Using random Gaussian vectors and an information-uncertainty relation, we give a proof that the coherent information is an achievable rate for entanglement transmission through a noisy quantum channel. The codes are random subspaces selected according to the Haar measure, but distorted as a function of the sender's input density operator. Using large deviations techniques, we show that classical data transmitted in either of two Fourier-conjugate bases for the coding subspace can be decoded with low probability of error. A recently discovered information-uncertainty relation then implies that the quantum mutual information for entanglement encoded into the subspace and transmitted through the channel will be high. The monogamy of quantum correlations finally implies that the environment of the channel cannot be significantly coupled to the entanglement, and concluding, which ensures the existence of a decoding by the receiver.

id: 0712.0990
title: Off-Diagonal-Long-Range-Order Versus Entanglement
authors: Dagomir Kaszlikowski, Marcin Wiesniak
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0990
abstract: In this short note we discuss the relation between the so-called Off-Diagonal-Long-Range-Order in many-body interacting quantum systems introduced by C. N. Yang in Rev. Mod. Phys. {\bf 34}, 694 (1962) and entanglement. We argue that there is a direct relation between these two concepts.

id: 0712.0997
title: On the realization of Symmetries in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Kai Johannes Keller, Nikolaos A. Papadopoulos, Andr¨¦s F. Reyes-Lega
comments: 8 pages
journal: Math Semesterber (2008) 55: 149-160
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0997
abstract: The aim of this paper is to give a simple, geometric proof of Wigner's theorem on the realization of symmetries in quantum mechanics that clarifies its relation to projective geometry. Although several proofs exist already, it seems that the relevance of Wigner's theorem is not fully appreciated in general. It is Wigner's theorem which allows the use of linear realizations of symmetries and therefore guarantees that, in the end, quantum theory stays a linear theory. In the present paper, we take a strictly geometrical point of view in order to prove this theorem. It becomes apparent that Wigner's theorem is nothing else but a corollary of the fundamental theorem of projective geometry. In this sense, the proof presented here is simple, transparent and therefore accessible even to elementary treatments in quantum mechanics.

id: 0712.1008
title: Quantum Simulated Annealing
authors: R. Somma, S. Boixo, H. Barnum
comments: 8 pages, 2 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1008
abstract: We develop a quantum algorithm to solve combinatorial optimization problems through quantum simulation of a classical annealing process. Our algorithm combines techniques from quantum walks, quantum phase estimation, and quantum Zeno effect. It can be viewed as a quantum analogue of the discrete-time Markov chain Monte Carlo implementation of classical simulated annealing. Our implementation scales with the inverse of the square root of the minimum spectral gap of the stochastic matrix used in the classical simulation. The quantum algorithm outperforms the classical one, which scales with the inverse of the gap.

id: 0712.1015
title: Concurrence and negativity as distances
authors: D. Mundarain, J. Stephany
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1015
abstract: In this report we consider the three dimensional subset of the space of states of two qubits that may be written in the so called standard form. For those states we show that different measures of entanglement, specifically concurrence, negativity and the Hilbert-Schmidt distance are proportional to the euclidean distance between the point representing the state in the three dimensional parameter space and the set of separable states.

id: 0712.1048
title: Lasing of donor-bound excitons in ZnSe microdisks
authors: A. Pawlis, M. Panfilova, D. J. As, K. Lischka, K. Sanaka, T. D. Ladd, Y. Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; introduction rewritten
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1048
abstract: Excitons bound to flourine atoms in ZnSe have the potential for several quantum optical applications. Examples include optically accessible quantum memories for quantum information processing and lasing without inversion. These applications require the bound-exciton transitions to be coupled to cavities with high cooperativity factors, which results in the experimental observation of low-threshold lasing. We report such lasing from fluorine-doped ZnSe quantum wells in 3 and 6 micron microdisk cavities. Photoluminescence and selective photoluminescence spectroscopy confirm that the lasing is due to bound-exciton transitions.

id: 0712.1092
title: Comment on "Exposed-Key Weakness of Alpha-Eta" [Phys. Lett. A 370 (2007) 131]
authors: Ranjith Nair, Horace P. Yuen
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008) 7091-7096
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1092
abstract: We show that the insecurity claim of the AlphaEta cryptosystem made by C. Ahn and K. Birnbaum in Phys. Lett. A 370 (2007) 131-135 under heterodyne attack is based on invalid extrapolations of Shannon's random cipher analysis and on an invalid statistical independence assumption. We show, both for standard ciphers and AlphaEta, that expressions of the kind given by Ahn and Birnbaum can at best be interpreted as security lower bounds.

id: 0712.1098
title: Quantum Computations: Fundamentals And Algorithms
authors: Steven Duplij, Illia Shapoval
comments: 6 pages, presented at "Quantum Electrodynamics and Statistical Physics", 2nd Int. Conf., Sept. 19-23, 2006 Kharkov, Ukraine. For extended 28pp. (10pt,wide) version in Russian "Topological Methods In Quantum Computations" (J.KNU,2007) see this http URL
journal: Problems Of Atomic Science And Technology (PAST-VANT).-2007.-No.3(1).-p.230-235
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1098
abstract: Basic concepts of quantum theory of information, principles of quantum calculations and the possibility of creation on this basis unique on calculation power and functioning principle device, named quantum computer, are briefly reviewed. The main blocks of quantum logic, schemes of implementation of quantum calculations, as well as some known today effective quantum algorithms, called to realize advantages of quantum calculations upon classical, are concerned. Among them special place is taken by Shor's algorithm of number factorization, Grover's algorithm of unsorted database search and, finally, the most promising in application methods of quantum phenomena simulation, particularly quantum chaos. The most perspective methods of experimental realization of quantum computer, namely nuclear-magnetic resonance and trapped ions realizations, are discussed. Phenomena of decoherence, its influence on quantum computer stability and methods of quantum error correction are described.

id: 0712.1114
title: How to construct entanglement witnesses
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 145301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1114
abstract: We present very simple method for constructing indecomposable entanglement witnesses out of a given pair -- an entanglement witness W and the corresponding state detected by W. This method may be used to produce new classes of atomic witnesses which are able to detect the `weakest' quantum entanglement. Actually, it works perfectly in the multipartite case, too. Moreover, this method provides a powerful tool for constructing new examples of bound entangled states.

id: 0712.1197
title: Manipulation of single-photon states encoded in transverse spatial modes: possible and impossible tasks
authors: Gabriel F. Calvo, Antonio Pic¨®n
comments: Published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012302 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1197
abstract: Controlled generation and manipulation of photon states encoded in their spatial degrees of freedom is a crucial ingredient in many quantum information tasks exploiting higher-than-two dimensional encoding. Here, we prove the impossibility to arbitrarily modify $d$-level state superpositions (qu$d$its) for $d>2$, encoded in the transverse modes of light, with optical components associated to the group of symplectic transforms (Gaussian operations). Surprisingly, we also provide an explicit construction of how non-Gaussian operations acting on mode subspaces do enable to overcome the limit $d=2$. In addition, this set of operations realizes the full SU(3) algebra.

id: 0712.1211
title: Quantum Algorithms and Complexity for Continuous Problems
authors: A. Papageorgiou, J. F. Traub
comments: 32 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1211
abstract: Most continuous mathematical formulations arising in science and engineering can only be solved numerically and therefore approximately. We shall always assume that we're dealing with a numerical approximation to the solution. There are two major motivations for studying quantum algorithms and complexity for continuous problems. 1. Are quantum computers more powerful than classical computers for important scientific problems? How much more powerful? 2. Many important scientific and engineering problems have continuous formulations. To answer the first question we must know the classical computational complexity of the problem. Knowing the classical complexity of a continuous problem we obtain the quantum computation speedup if we know the quantum complexity. If we know an upper bound on the quantum complexity through the cost of a particular quantum algorithm then we can obtain a lower bound on the quantum speedup. Regarding the second motivation, in this article we'll report on high-dimensional integration, path integration, Feynman path integration, the smallest eigenvalue of a differential equation, approximation, partial differential equations, ordinary differential equations and gradient estimation. We'll also briefly report on the simulation of quantum systems on a quantum computer.

id: 0712.1238
title: Population trapping in three-state quantum loops revealed by Householder reflections
authors: A. A. Rangelov, N. V. Vitanov, B. W. Shore
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1238
abstract: Population trapping occurs when a particular quantum-state superposition is immune to action by a specific interaction, such as the well-known dark state in a three-state lambda system. We here show that in a three-state loop linkage, a Hilbert-space Householder reflection breaks the loop and presents the linkage as a single chain. With certain conditions on the interaction parameters, this chain can break into a simple two-state system and an additional spectator state. Alternatively, a two-photon resonance condition in this Householder-basis chain can be enforced, which heralds the existence of another spectator state. These spectator states generalize the usual dark state to include contributions from all three bare basis states and disclose hidden population trapping effects, and hence hidden constants of motion. Insofar as a spectator state simplifies the overall dynamics, its existence facilitates the derivation of analytic solutions and the design of recipes for quantum state engineering in the loop system. Moreover, it is shown that a suitable sequence of Householder transformations can cast an arbitrary N-dimensional hermitian Hamiltonian into a tridiagonal form. The implication is that a general N-state system, with arbitrary linkage patterns where each state connects to any other state, can be reduced to an equivalent chainwise-connected system, with nearest-neighbor interactions only, with ensuing possibilities for discovering hidden multidimensional spectator states and constants of motion.

id: 0712.1272
title: Navigation between quantum states by quantum mirrors
authors: P. A. Ivanov, B. T. Torosov, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 75, 012323 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1272
abstract: We introduce a technique that allows one to connect any two arbitrary (pure or mixed) superposition states of an N-state quantum system. The proposed solution to this inverse quantum mechanical problem is analytical, exact, and very compact. The technique uses standard and generalized quantum Householder reflections (QHRs), which require external pulses of precise areas and frequencies. We show that any two pure states can be linked by just a single generalized QHR. The transfer between any two mixed states with the same dynamic invariants (e.g., the same density matrix eigenvalues) requires in general N QHRs. Moreover, we propose recipes for synthesis of arbitrary preselected mixed states using a combination of QHRs and incoherent processes (pure dephasing or spontaneous emission).

id: 0712.1318
title: The Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Argument and the Bell Inequalities
authors: Laszlo E. Szabo
comments: (Review, forthcoming in The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy) 28 pages, LaTeX, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1318
abstract: In 1935 Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen (EPR) published an important paper in which they claimed that the whole formalism of quantum mechanics together with what they called "Reality Criterion" imply that quantum mechanics cannot be complete. That is, there must exist some elements of reality that are not described by quantum mechanics. There must be, they concluded, a more complete description of physical reality behind quantum mechanics. There must be a state, a hidden variable, characterizing the state of affairs in the world in more details than the quantum mechanical state, something that also reflects the missing elements of reality. Under some further but quite plausible assumptions, this conclusion implies that in some spin-correlation experiments the measured quantum mechanical probabilities should satisfy particular inequalities (Bell-type inequalities). The paradox consists in the fact that quantum probabilities do not satisfy these inequalities. And this paradoxical fact has been confirmed by several laboratory experiments in the last three decades. The problem is still open and hotly debated among both physicists and philosophers. It has motivated a wide range of research from the most fundamental quantum mechanical experiments through foundations of probability theory to the theory of stochastic causality as well as the metaphysics of free will.

id: 0712.1325
title: Quantum Circuits Architecture
authors: Giulio Chiribella, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 10 eps figures + Qcircuit.tex
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 060401 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1325
abstract: We present a method for optimizing quantum circuits architecture. The method is based on the notion of "quantum comb", which describes a circuit board in which one can insert variable subcircuits. The method allows one to efficiently address novel kinds of quantum information processing tasks, such as storing-retrieving, and cloning of channels.

id: 0712.1388
title: The Local Consistency Problem for Stoquastic and 1-D Quantum Systems
authors: Yi-Kai Liu
comments: 18 pages, submitted to IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity (CCC). v2: slightly revised introduction
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1388
abstract: The Local Hamiltonian problem (finding the ground state energy of a quantum system) is known to be QMA-complete. The Local Consistency problem (deciding whether descriptions of small pieces of a quantum system are consistent) is also known to be QMA-complete. Here we consider special cases of Local Hamiltonian, for ``stoquastic'' and 1-dimensional systems, that seem to be strictly easier than QMA. We show that there exist analogous special cases of Local Consistency, that have equivalent complexity (up to poly-time oracle reductions). Our main technical tool is a new reduction from Local Consistency to Local Hamiltonian, using SDP duality.

id: 0712.1404
title: Quantum Cloning, Bell's Inequality and Teleportation
authors: S.Adhikari, N.Ganguly, Indranil Chakrabarty, B.S.Choudhury
comments: 7 pages and no figures, Accepted in Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 415302 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1404
abstract: We analyze a possibility of using the two qubit output state from Buzek-Hillery quantum copying machine (not necessarily universal quantum cloning machine) as a teleportation channel. We show that there is a range of values of the machine parameter $\xi$ for which the two qubit output state is entangled and violates Bell-CHSH inequality and for a different range it remains entangled but does not violate Bell-CHSH inequality. Further we observe that for certain values of the machine parameter the two-qubit mixed state can be used as a teleportation channel. The use of the output state from the Buzek-Hillery cloning machine as a teleportation channel provides an additional appeal to the cloning machine and motivation of our present work.

id: 0712.1446
title: Unbounded Error Quantum Query Complexity
authors: Ashley Montanaro, Harumichi Nishimura, Rudy Raymond
comments: 14 pages
journal: Theoretical Computer Science vol. 412 no. 35, pp. 4619-4628, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1446
abstract: This work studies the quantum query complexity of Boolean functions in a scenario where it is only required that the query algorithm succeeds with a probability strictly greater than 1/2. We show that, just as in the communication complexity model, the unbounded error quantum query complexity is exactly half of its classical counterpart for any (partial or total) Boolean function. Moreover, we show that the "black-box" approach to convert quantum query algorithms into communication protocols by Buhrman-Cleve-Wigderson [STOC'98] is optimal even in the unbounded error setting. We also study a setting related to the unbounded error model, called the weakly unbounded error setting, where the cost of a query algorithm is given by q+log(1/2(p-1/2)), where q is the number of queries made and p>1/2 is the success probability of the algorithm. In contrast to the case of communication complexity, we show a tight Theta(log n) separation between quantum and classical query complexity in the weakly unbounded error setting for a partial Boolean function. We also show the asymptotic equivalence between them for some well-studied total Boolean functions.

id: 0712.1480
title: Stabilization of quantum information by combined dynamical decoupling and detected-jump error correction
authors: Daniel Geberth, Oliver Kern, Gernot Alber, Igor Jex
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 46, 381-394 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1480
abstract: Two possible applications of random decoupling are discussed. Whereas so far decoupling methods have been considered merely for quantum memories, here it is demonstrated that random decoupling is also a convenient tool for stabilizing quantum algorithms. Furthermore, a decoupling scheme is presented which involves a random decoupling method compatible with detected-jump error correcting quantum codes. With this combined error correcting strategy it is possible to stabilize quantum information against both spontaneous decay and static imperfections of a qubit-based quantum information processor in an efficient way.

id: 0712.1494
title: Improved one-way rates for BB84 and 6-state protocols
authors: Oliver Kern, Joseph M. Renes
comments: 17 pages, to appear in Quantum Information & Computation. Replaced by accepted version
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Vol.8, No.8/9, pp0756-0772, (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1494
abstract: We study the advantages to be gained in quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols by combining the techniques of local randomization, or noisy preprocessing, and structured (nonrandom) block codes. Extending the results of [Smith, Renes, and Smolin, quant-ph/0607018] pertaining to BB84, we improve the best-known lower bound on the error rate for the 6-state protocol from 14.11% for local randomization alone to at least 14.59%. Additionally, we also study the effects of iterating the combined preprocessing scheme and find further improvements to the BB84 protocol already at small block lengths.

id: 0712.1543
title: Quantum-limited position measurements of a dark matter-wave soliton
authors: Antonio Negretti, Carsten Henkel, Klaus Molmer
comments: RevTex4, 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 043606 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1543
abstract: We show that the position of a dark matter-wave soliton can be determined with a precision that scales with the atomic density as $n^{-3/4}$. This surpasses the standard shot-noise detection limit for independent particles, without use of squeezing and entanglement, and it suggests that interactions among particles may present new advantages in high-precision metrology. We also take into account quantum density fluctuations due to phonon and Goldstone modes and we show that they, somewhat unexpectedly, actually improve the resolution. This happens because the fluctuations depend on the soliton position and make a larger amount of information available.

id: 0712.1606
title: Computer simulation of Wheeler's delayed choice experiment with photons
authors: S. Zhao, S. Yuan, H. De Raedt, K. Michielsen
comments: Europhysics Letters (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1606
abstract: We present a computer simulation model of Wheeler's delayed choice experiment that is a one-to-one copy of an experiment reported recently (V. Jacques {\sl et al.}, Science 315, 966 (2007)). The model is solely based on experimental facts, satisfies Einstein's criterion of local causality and does not rely on any concept of quantum theory. Nevertheless, the simulation model reproduces the averages as obtained from the quantum theoretical description of Wheeler's delayed choice experiment. Our results prove that it is possible to give a particle-only description of Wheeler's delayed choice experiment which reproduces the averages calculated from quantum theory and which does not defy common sense.

id: 0712.1608
title: Lagrangian Densities and Principle of Least Action in Nonrelativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Donald H. Kobe
comments: 17 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1608
abstract: The Principle of Least Action is used with a simple Lagrangian density, involving second-order derivatives of the wave function, to obtain the Schroedinger equation. A Hamiltonian density obtained from this simple Lagrangian density shows that Hamilton's equations also give the Schroedinger equation. This simple Lagrangian density is equivalent to a standard Lagrangian density with first-order derivatives. For a time-independent system the Principle of Least Action reduces to the energy variational principle. For time-dependent systems the Principle of Least Action gives time-dependent approximations. Using a Hartree product trial wave function for a time-dependent many-boson system, we apply the Principle of Least Action to obtain the Gross-Pitaevskii equation that describes a Bose-Einstein condensate.

id: 0712.1616
title: Unambiguous comparison of ensembles of quantum states
authors: Michal Sedlak, Mario Ziman, Vladimir Buzek, Mark Hillery
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042304 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1616
abstract: We present a solution of the problem of the optimal unambiguous comparison of two ensembles of unknown quantum states (psi_1)^k and (psi_2)^l. We consider two cases: 1) The two unknown states psi_1 and psi_2 are arbitrary states of qudits. 2) Alternatively, they are coherent states of a harmonic oscillator. For the case of coherent states we propose a simple experimental realization of the optimal "comparison" machine composed of a finite number of beam-splitters and a single photodetector.

id: 0712.1628
title: Adiabatic Quantum Transport in a Spin Chain with a Moving Potential
authors: Vinitha Balachandran, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012303 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1628
abstract: Many schemes to realize quantum state transfer in spin chains are not robust to random fluctuations in the spin-spin coupling strength. In efforts to achieve robust quantum state transfer, an adiabatic quantum population transfer scheme is proposed in this study. The proposed scheme makes use of a slowly moving external parabolic potential and is qualitatively explained in terms of the adiabatic following of a quantum state with a moving separatrix structure in the classical phase space of a pendulum analogy. Detailed aspects of our adiabatic population transfer scheme, including its robustness, is studied computationally. Applications of our adiabatic scheme in quantum information transfer are also discussed, with emphasis placed on the usage of a dual spin chain to encode quantum phases. The results should also be useful for the control of electron tunneling in an array of quantum dots.

id: 0712.1634
title: Quantum Observables and a Model of Noncommutativity
authors: Tung Ten Yong
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1634
abstract: This paper considers a generalization of the notion of quantum observables in ontological models of quantum mechanics. Within this framework it is possible to construct physical models where quantum noncommutativity can arise dynamically. Unlike quantum systems, the basic entities in this model have definite properties. Relations with no-go theorems and other hidden variable theories are also discussed.

id: 0712.1637
title: Disproof of ''Disproof of Bell's Theorem by Clifford Algebra Valued Local Variables''
authors: Tung Ten Yong
comments: 3 pages, final reply to quant-ph/0703244v11, added one more section, objection remains the same
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1637
abstract: Key mathematical and conceptual errors are pointed out regarding the paper ''Disproof of Bell's Theorem by Clifford Algebra Valued Local Variables'' by Joy Christian.

id: 0712.1647
title: Non-associativity, supersymmetry and hidden variables
authors: Vladimir Dzhunushaliev
comments: typos corrected
journal: J.Math.Phys.49:042108,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Rings and Algebras (math.RA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1647
abstract: It is shown that the supersymmetric quantum mechanics has an octonionic generalization. The generalization is based on the inclusion of quaternions into octonions. The elements from the coset octonions/quaternions are unobservables bacause they cannot be considered as quantum operators as a consequence of their non-associative properties. The idea that the octonionic generalization of the supersymmetric quantum mechanics describes an observable particle formed with unobservable ``particles'' is presented.

id: 0712.1657
title: Entangling the ro-vibrational modes of a macroscopic mirror using radiation pressure
authors: M. Bhattacharya, P.-L. Giscard, P. Meystre
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1657
abstract: We consider the dynamics of a vibrating and rotating end-mirror of an optical Fabry-P{\'erot} cavity that can sustain Laguerre-Gaussian modes. We demonstrate theoretically that since the intra-cavity field carries linear as well as angular momentum, radiation pressure can create bipartite entanglement between a vibrational and a rotational mode of the mirror. Further we show that the ratio of vibrational and rotational couplings with the radiation field can easily be adjusted experimentally, which makes the generation and detection of entanglement robust to uncertainties in the cavity manufacture. This constitutes the first proposal to demonstrate entanglement between two qualitatively different degrees of freedom of the same macroscopic object.

id: 0712.1661
title: Entanglement of distant flux qubits mediated by non-classical electromagnetic field
authors: E. Zipper, M. Kurpas, J. Dajka, M. Kus
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 20 (2008) 275219
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1661
abstract: The mechanism for entanglement of two flux qubits each interacting with a single mode electromagnetic field is discussed. By performing a Bell state measurements (BSM) on photons we find the two qubits in an entangled state depending on the system parameters. We discuss the results for two initial states and take into consideration the influence of decoherence.

id: 0712.1681
title: Reply to the comment on "Stochastic local operations and classical communication invariant and the residual entanglement for n qubits"
authors: D. Li, X. Li, H. Huang, X. Li
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 056302 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1681
abstract: We have reviewed the comment in [3], posted on arXiv.org concerning our recent work in [1]. We reply to the comment in this paper.

id: 0712.1724
title: Coherent states for the quantum mechanics on a torus
authors: K. Kowalski, J. Rembielinski
comments: 2 eps figures
journal: K. Kowalski and J. Rembielinski, Phys. Rev. A, 75 (2007) 052102-1--052102-7
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1724
abstract: The coherent states for the quantum mechanics on a torus and their basic properties are discussed.

id: 0712.1774
title: Photon emission by an atom in a lossy cavity
authors: C. Di Fidio, W. Vogel, M. Khanbekyan, D.-G. Welsch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 043822 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1774
abstract: The dynamics of an initially excited two-level atom in a lossy cavity is studied by using the quantum trajectory method. Unwanted losses are included, such as photon absorption and scattering by the cavity mirrors and spontaneous emission of the atom. Based on the obtained analytical solutions, it is shown that the shape of the extracted spatiotemporal radiation mode sensitively depends on the atom-field interaction. In the case of a short-term atom-field interaction we show how different pulse shapes for the field extracted from the cavity can be controlled by the interaction time.

id: 0712.1805
title: Quantum control of EIT dispersion via atomic tunneling in a double-well Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: James Owen Weatherall, Christopher P. Search, Markku Jaaskelainen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1805
abstract: Electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) is an important tool for controlling light propagation and nonlinear wave mixing in atomic gases with potential applications ranging from quantum computing to table top tests of general relativity. Here we consider EIT in an atomic Bose-Einstein Condensate (BEC) trapped in a double well potential. A weak probe laser propagates through one of the wells and interacts with atoms in a three-level $\Lambda$ configuration. The well through which the probe propagates is dressed by a strong control laser with Rabi frequency $\Omega_{\mu}$, as in standard EIT systems. Tunneling between the wells at the frequency $g$ provides a coherent coupling between identical electronic states in the two wells, which leads to the formation of inter-well dressed states. The tunneling in conjunction with the macroscopic interwell coherence of the BEC wave function, results in the formation of two ultra-narrow absorption resonances for the probe field that are inside of the ordinary EIT transparency window. We show that these new resonances can be interpreted in terms of the inter-well dressed states and the formation of a novel type of dark state involving the control laser and the inter-well tunneling. To either side of these ultra-narrow resonances there is normal dispersion with very large slope controlled by $g$. For realistic values of $g$, the large slope of this dispersion yields group velocities for the probe field that are two orders of magnitude slower than standard EIT systems. We discuss prospects for observing these ultra-narrow resonances and the corresponding regions of high dispersion experimentally.

id: 0712.1836
title: Percolation in quantum computation and communication
authors: K. Kieling, J. Eisert
comments: Invited book chapter, "Quantum Percolation and Breakdown", Lecture Notes in Physics (Springer, Heidelberg, 2008). Also contains longer version of proof of main statement of quant-ph/0611140
journal: Quantum and Semi-classical Percolation and Breakdown in Disordered Solids, pages 287-319 (Springer, Berlin, 2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1836
abstract: This article is a draft of a book chapter of the book entitled "Quantum Percolation and Breakdown", to appear 2008.

id: 0712.1856
title: Tunneling phase gate for neutral atoms in a double-well lattice
authors: Frederick W. Strauch, Mark Edwards, Eite Tiesinga, Carl Williams, Charles W. Clark
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1856
abstract: We propose a new two--qubit phase gate for ultra--cold atoms confined in an experimentally realized tilted double--well optical lattice [Sebby--Strabley et al., Phys. Rev. A {\bf 73} 033605 (2006)]. Such a lattice is capable of confining pairs of atoms in a two--dimensional array of double--well potentials where control can be exercised over the barrier height and the energy difference of the minima of the two wells (known as the ``tilt''). The four lowest single--particle motional states consist of two pairs of motional states in which each pair is localized on one side of the central barrier, allowing for two atoms confined in such a lattice to be spatially separated qubits. We present a time--dependent scheme to manipulate the tilt to induce tunneling oscillations which produce a collisional phase gate. Numerical simulations demonstrate that this gate can be performed with high fidelity.

id: 0712.1876
title: SLOCC classification for nine families of four-qubits
authors: D. Li, X. Li, H. Huang, X. Li
comments: 19 pages, no figures
journal: quantum information and computation, Vol. 9, No. 9 & 10 (2009) 0778-0800
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1876
abstract: In Phys. Rev. A 62, 062314 (2000), D\"{u}r, Vidal and Cirac indicated that there are infinitely many SLOCC classes for four qubits. Verstraete, Dehaene, and Verschelde in Phys. Rev. A 65, 052112 (2002) proposed nine families of states corresponding to nine different ways of entangling four qubits. In Phys. Rev. A 75, 022318 (2007), Lamata et al. reported that there are eight true SLOCC entanglement classes of four qubits up to permutations of the qubits. In this paper, we investigate SLOCC classification of the nine families proposed by Verstraete, Dehaene and Verschelde, and distinguish 49 true SLOCC entanglement classes from them.

id: 0712.1889
title: Active one-way quantum computation with 2-photon 4-qubit cluster states
authors: Giuseppe Vallone, Enrico Pomarico, Francesco De Martini, Paolo Mataloni
comments: Revtex4, 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 160502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1889
abstract: By using 2-photon 4-qubit cluster states we demonstrate deterministic one-way quantum computation in single qubit rotation algorithm. In this operation feed-forward measurements are automatically implemented by properly choosing the measurement basis of the qubits, while Pauli error corrections are realized by using two fast driven Pockels cells. We realized also a C-NOT gate for equatorial qubits and a C-Phase gate for a generic target qubit. Our results demonstrate that 2-photon cluster states can be used for rapid and efficient deterministic one-way quantum computing.

id: 0712.1979
title: Quantum Error Correcting Codes Using Qudit Graph States
authors: Shiang Yong Looi, Li Yu, Vlad Gheorghiu, Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Version 4 is almost exactly the same as the published version in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042303 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1979
abstract: Graph states are generalized from qubits to collections of $n$ qudits of arbitrary dimension $D$, and simple graphical methods are used to construct both additive and nonadditive quantum error correcting codes. Codes of distance 2 saturating the quantum Singleton bound for arbitrarily large $n$ and $D$ are constructed using simple graphs, except when $n$ is odd and $D$ is even. Computer searches have produced a number of codes with distances 3 and 4, some previously known and some new. The concept of a stabilizer is extended to general $D$, and shown to provide a dual representation of an additive graph code.

id: 0712.1984
title: Applications of the Characteristic Theory to the Madelung-de Broglie-Bohm System of Partial Differential Equations: The Guiding Equation as the Characteristic Velocity
authors: Javier Gonzalez, Xavier Gimenez, Josep Maria Bofill
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1984
abstract: First, we use the theory of characteristics of first order partial differential equations to derive the guiding equation directly from the Quantum Evolution Equation (QEE). After obtaining the general result, we apply it to a set of evolution equations (Schroedinger, Pauli, Klein-Gordon, Dirac) to show how the guiding equation is, actually, the characteristic velocity of the corresponding matter field equations.

id: 0712.2018
title: The matrix product representations for all valence bond states
authors: Vahid Karimipour, Laleh Memarzadeh
comments: 24 pages, references added, the version which appears in the journal
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 094416 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2018
abstract: We introduce a simple representation for irreducible spherical tensor operators of the rotation group of arbitrary integer or half integer rank and use these tensor operators to construct matrix product states corresponding to all the variety of valence-bond states proposed in the Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki (AKLT) construction. These include the fully dimerized states of arbitrary spins, with uniform or alternating patterns of spins, which are ground states of Hamiltonians with nearest and next-nearest neighbor interactions, and the partially dimerized or AKLT/VBS (Valence Bond Solid) states, which are constructed from them by projection. The latter states are translation-invariant ground states of Hamiltonians with nearest-neighbor interactions.

id: 0712.2023
title: Far-reaching statistical consequences of the zero-point energy for the harmonic oscillator
authors: Luis de la Pena, Andrea Valdes-Hernandez, Ana Maria Cetto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2023
abstract: In a recent thermodynamic analysis of the harmonic oscillator and using an interpolation procedure, Boyer has shown that the existence of a zero-point energy leads to the Planck spectrum. Here we avoid the interpolation by adding a statistical argument to arrive at Planck's law as an inescapable result of the presence of the zero-point energy. No explicit quantum argument is introduced along the derivations. We disclose the connection of our results with the original analysis of Planck and Einstein, which led to the notion of the quantized radiation field. We then inquire into the discrete or continuous behaviour of the energy and pinpoint the discontinuities. Finally, to open the door to the description of the zero-point fluctuations, we briefly discuss the statistical (in contrast to the purely thermodynamic) description of the oscillator, which accounts for both thermal and temperature-independent contributions to the energy dispersion.

id: 0712.2078
title: Algebraic Solution of the Harmonic Oscillator With Minimal Length Uncertainty Relations
authors: K. Gemba, Z. T. Hlousek, Z. Papp
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2078
abstract: In quantum mechanics with minimal length uncertainty relations the Heisenberg-Weyl algebra of the one-dimensional harmonic oscillator is a deformed SU(1,1) algebra. The eigenvalues and eigenstates are constructed algebraically and they form the infinite-dimensional representation of the deformed SU(1,1) algebra. Our construction is independent of prior knowledge of the exact solution of the Schr\"odinger equation of the model. The approach can be generalized to the $D$-dimensional oscillator with non-commuting coordinates.

id: 0712.2084
title: Semi-Clifford operations, structure of $\mathcal{C}_k$ hierarchy, and gate complexity for fault-tolerant quantum computation
authors: Bei Zeng, Xie Chen, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042313 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2084
abstract: Teleportation is a crucial element in fault-tolerant quantum computation and a complete understanding of its capacity is very important for the practical implementation of optimal fault-tolerant architectures. It is known that stabilizer codes support a natural set of gates that can be more easily implemented by teleportation than any other gates. These gates belong to the so called $\mathcal{C}_k$ hierarchy introduced by Gottesman and Chuang (Nature \textbf{402}, 390). Moreover, a subset of $\mathcal{C}_k$ gates, called semi-Clifford operations, can be implemented by an even simpler architecture than the traditional teleportation setup (Phys. Rev. \textbf{A62}, 052316). However, the precise set of gates in $\mathcal{C}_k$ remains unknown, even for a fixed number of qubits $n$, which prevents us from knowing exactly what teleportation is capable of. In this paper we study the structure of $\mathcal{C}_k$ in terms of semi-Clifford operations, which send by conjugation at least one maximal abelian subgroup of the $n$-qubit Pauli group into another one. We show that for $n=1,2$, all the $\mathcal{C}_k$ gates are semi-Clifford, which is also true for $\{n=3,k=3\}$. However, this is no longer true for $\{n>2,k>3\}$. To measure the capability of this teleportation primitive, we introduce a quantity called `teleportation depth', which characterizes how many teleportation steps are necessary, on average, to implement a given gate. We calculate upper bounds for teleportation depth by decomposing gates into both semi-Clifford $\mathcal{C}_k$ gates and those $\mathcal{C}_k$ gates beyond semi-Clifford operations, and compare their efficiency.

id: 0712.2136
title: Quantum homogenization and state randomization in semi-quantal spin systems
authors: Matyas Koniorczyk, Arpad Varga, Peter Rapcan, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures (included)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2136
abstract: We investigate dynamics of semi-quantal spin systems in which quantum bits are attached to classically and possibly stochastically moving classical particles. The interaction between the quantum bits takes place when the respective classical particles get close to each other in space. We find that with Heisenberg XX couplings quantum homogenization takes place after a time long enough, regardless of the details of the underlying classical dynamics. This is accompanied by the development of a stationary bipartite entanglement. If the information on the details of the motion of a stochastic classical system is disregarded, the stationary state of the whole quantum subsystem is found to be a complete mixture in the studied cases, though the transients depend on the properties of the classical motion.

id: 0712.2145
title: Atomic four-wave mixing via condensate collisions
authors: Aur¨¦lien Perrin, Craig M. Savage, D. Boiron, V. Krachmalnicoff, C. I. Westbrook, Karen Kheruntsyan
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 10 (2008) 045021
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2145
abstract: We perform a theoretical analysis of atomic four-wave mixing via a collision of two Bose-Einstein condensates of metastable helium atoms, and compare the results to a recent experiment. We calculate atom-atom pair correlations within the scattering halo produced spontaneously during the collision. We also examine the expected relative number squeezing of atoms on the sphere. The analysis includes first-principles quantum simulations using the positive P-representation method. We develop a unified description of the experimental and simulation results.

id: 0712.2163
title: Generalized Tsirelson Inequalities, Commuting-Operator Provers, and Multi-Prover Interactive Proof Systems
authors: Tsuyoshi Ito, Hirotada Kobayashi, Daniel Preda, Xiaoming Sun, Andrew C.-C. Yao
comments: 20 pages. v2: An incorrect statement in the abstract about the two-party case is corrected. Relation between this work and a preliminary work by Sun, Yao and Preda is clarified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2163
abstract: A central question in quantum information theory and computational complexity is how powerful nonlocal strategies are in cooperative games with imperfect information, such as multi-prover interactive proof systems. This paper develops a new method for proving limits of nonlocal strategies that make use of prior entanglement among players (or, provers, in the terminology of multi-prover interactive proofs). Instead of proving the limits for usual isolated provers who initially share entanglement, this paper proves the limits for "commuting-operator provers", who share private space, but can apply only such operators that are commutative with any operator applied by other provers. Commuting-operator provers are at least as powerful as usual isolated but prior-entangled provers, and thus, limits for commuting-operator provers immediately give limits for usual entangled provers. Using this method, we obtain an n-party generalization of the Tsirelson bound for the Clauser-Horne- Shimony-Holt inequality for every n. Our bounds are tight in the sense that, in every n-party case, the equality is achievable by a usual nonlocal strategy with prior entanglement. We also apply our method to a 3-prover 1-round binary interactive proof for NEXP. Combined with the technique developed by Kempe, Kobayashi, Matsumoto, Toner and Vidick to analyze the soundness of the proof system, it is proved to be NP-hard to distinguish whether the entangled value of a 3-prover 1-round binary-answer game is equal to 1 or at most 1-1/p(n) for some polynomial p, where n is the number of questions. This is in contrast to the 2-prover 1-round binary-answer case, where the corresponding problem is efficiently decidable. Alternatively, NEXP has a 3-prover 1-round binary interactive proof system with perfect completeness and soundness 1-2^{-poly}.

id: 0712.2191
title: f-oscillators deformation for Moyal algebras
authors: V.I.Man'ko, G.Marmo, E.C.G.Sudarshan, F.Zaccaria
comments: 11 pages - to be submitted to Physics Letters A
journal: Phys.Lett.A372:4364-4368,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2191
abstract: Using general construction of star-product the q-deformed Wigner-Weyl-Moyal quantization procedure is elaborated. The q-deformed Groenewold kernel determining the product of quantum observables is given in explicit form for small nonlinearities corresponding to nonlinear vibrations of classical and quantum q-oscillators. The deformations of Groenewold kernel related to general kinds of nonlinear vibrations described by f-oscillators are considered.

id: 0712.2223
title: Entanglement-Assisted Quantum Convolutional Coding
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Todd A. Brun
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 81, 042333 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2223
abstract: We show how to protect a stream of quantum information from decoherence induced by a noisy quantum communication channel. We exploit preshared entanglement and a convolutional coding structure to develop a theory of entanglement-assisted quantum convolutional coding. Our construction produces a Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) entanglement-assisted quantum convolutional code from two arbitrary classical binary convolutional codes. The rate and error-correcting properties of the classical convolutional codes directly determine the corresponding properties of the resulting entanglement-assisted quantum convolutional code. We explain how to encode our CSS entanglement-assisted quantum convolutional codes starting from a stream of information qubits, ancilla qubits, and shared entangled bits.

id: 0712.2265
title: The de Finetti theorem for test spaces
authors: Jonathan Barrett, Matthew Leifer
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, revtex4
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 033024 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2265
abstract: We prove a de Finetti theorem for exchangeable sequences of states on test spaces, where a test space is a generalization of the sample space of classical probability theory and the Hilbert space of quantum theory. The standard classical and quantum de Finetti theorems are obtained as special cases. By working in a test space framework, the common features that are responsible for the existence of these theorems are elucidated. In addition, the test space framework is general enough to imply a de Finetti theorem for classical processes. We conclude by discussing the ways in which our assumptions may fail, leading to probabilistic models that do not have a de Finetti theorem.

id: 0712.2271
title: One- and two-dimensional Coulomb Green's function matrices in parabolic Sturmians basis
authors: S. A. Zaytsev
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2271
abstract: One- and two-dimensional operators which originate from the asymptotic form of the three-body Coulomb wave equation in parabolic coordinates are treated within the context of square integrable basis set. The matrix representations of Green's functions corresponding to these operators are obtained.

id: 0712.2295
title: Efficient One-way Quantum Computations for Quantum Error Correction
authors: Wei Huang, Zhaohui Wei
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2295
abstract: We show how to explicitly construct an $O(nd)$ size and constant quantum depth circuit which encodes any given $n$-qubit stabilizer code with $d$ generators. Our construction is derived using the graphic description for stabilizer codes and the one-way quantum computation model. Our result demonstrates how to use cluster states as scalable resources for many multi-qubit entangled states and how to use the one-way quantum computation model to improve design of quantum algorithms.

id: 0712.2307
title: On the local and non-local content of bipartite qubit and qutrit correlations
authors: Valerio Scarani
comments: Accepted version. Previous title "The Elitzur-Popescu-Rohrlich approach to quantum non-locality" changed for editorial reasons
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042112 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2307
abstract: The local and non-local contents of non-local probability distributions are studied using the approach of Elitzur, Popescu and Rohrlich [Phys. Lett. A \textbf{162}, 25 (1992)]. This work focuses on distributions that can be obtained by single-copy von Neumann measurements on bipartite quantum systems. For pure two-qubit states Psi(theta)=cos(theta)|00>+sin(theta)|11>, with cos(theta)>=sin(theta), the local content of the corresponding probability distribution is found to lie between 1-sin(2*theta) and cos(2*theta). For the family Psi(gamma)= (|00>+|11>+gamma*|22>)/sqrt(2+gamma^2) of two-qutrit states, non-zero local content is found for gamma>2.

id: 0712.2362
title: Quantum Elastic Net and the Traveling Salesman Problem
authors: B.F. Kostenko, J. Pribish, M.Z. Yuriev
comments: Reported at Quantum Physics and Communication, Dubna, October 15-19, 2007
journal: Physics of Particles and Nuclei Lett. 2009, V.6, P. 599
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2362
abstract: Theory of computer calculations strongly depends on the nature of elements the computer is made of. Quantum interference allows to formulate the Shor factorization algorithm turned out to be more effective than any one written for classical computers. Similarly, quantum wave packet reduction allows to devise the Grover search algorithm which outperforms any classical one. In the present paper we argue that the quantum incoherent tunneling can be used for elaboration of new algorithms able to solve some NP-hard problems, such as the Traveling Salesman Problem, considered to be intractable in the classical theory of computer computations.

id: 0712.2400
title: Continuous variable versus EIT-based quantum memories
authors: Z. Kurucz, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 023805 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2400
abstract: We discuss a general model of a quantum memory for a single light mode in a collective mode of atomic oscillators. The model includes interaction Hamiltonians that are of second order in the canonical position and momentum operators of the light- and atomic oscillator modes. We also consider the possibility of measurement and feedback. We identify an interaction Hamiltonian that leads to an ideal mapping by pure unitary evolution and compare several schemes which realize this mapping using a common continuous-variable description. In particular we discuss schemes based on the off-resonant Faraday effect supplemented by measurement and feedback and proper preparation of the atoms in a squeezed state and schemes based on off-resonant Raman coupling as well as electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT).

id: 0712.2404
title: Multipartite Continuous Variable Solution for the Byzantine Agreement Problem
authors: Rodion Neigovzen, C. Rod¨®, Gerardo Adesso, A. Sanpera
comments: This paper supersedes and extends arXiv:quant-ph/0507249, title changed to match the published version, 11 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062307 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2404
abstract: We demonstrate that the Byzantine Agreement (detectable broadcast) is also solvable in the continuous-variable scenario with multipartite entangled Gaussian states and Gaussian operations (homodyne detection). Within this scheme we find that Byzantine Agreement requires a minimum amount of entanglement in the multipartite states used in order to achieve a solution. We discuss realistic implementations of the protocol, which consider the possibility of having inefficient homodyne detectors, not perfectly correlated outcomes, and noise in the preparation of the resource states. The proposed protocol is proven to be robust and efficiently applicable under such non-ideal conditions.

id: 0712.2413
title: Heralded generation of entanglement with coupled cavities
authors: Jaeyoon Cho, Dimitris G. Angelakis, Sougato Bose
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022323 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2413
abstract: We propose a scheme to generate two-photon, two-atom, or atom-photon entangledstates with a coupled system of two cavities. In our scheme, two cavity photonsare exchanged by the direct inter-cavity coupling, while atoms in the cavitiessimply play the role of generating and probing them. By virtue of the highefficiency of atomic state measurement, this method enables the realization ofefficient heralded entanglement generation robust against photon loss, whichgreatly facilitates applications in quantum information processing.

id: 0712.2427
title: Quantum decoherence and classical correlations in open systems
authors: Aurelian Isar
comments: 11 pages, talk at the Workshop on Quantum-Classical Transition and Quantum Information, Benasque, Spain, 2006
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2427
abstract: In the framework of the Lindblad theory for open quantum systems we determine the degree of quantum decoherence and classical correlations of a harmonic oscillator interacting with a thermal bath. The transition from quantum to classical behaviour of the considered system is analyzed and it is shown that the classicality takes place during a finite interval of time. We calculate also the decoherence time and show that it has the same scale as the time after which thermal fluctuations become comparable with quantum fluctuations.

id: 0712.2471
title: Additive Extensions of a Quantum Channel
authors: Graeme Smith, John A. Smolin
comments: 6 pages, one figure
journal: Proceedings of the IEEE Information Theory Workshop 2008. pp 368-372
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2471
abstract: We study extensions of a quantum channel whose one-way capacities are described by a single-letter formula. This provides a simple technique for generating powerful upper bounds on the capacities of a general quantum channel. We apply this technique to two qubit channels of particular interest--the depolarizing channel and the channel with independent phase and amplitude noise. Our study of the latter demonstrates that the key rate of BB84 with one-way post-processing and quantum bit error rate q cannot exceed H(1/2-2q(1-q)) - H(2q(1-q)).

id: 0712.2486
title: Entangling identical bosons in optical tweezers via exchange interaction
authors: Nathan S. Babcock, Rene Stock, Mark G. Raizen, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Can. J. Phys. 86, 549 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2486
abstract: We first devise a scheme to perform a universal entangling gate via controlled collisions between pairs of atomic qubits trapped with optical tweezers. Second, we present a modification to this scheme to allow the preparation of atomic Bell pairs via selective excitation, suitable for quantum information processing applications that do not require universality. Both these schemes are enabled by the inherent symmetries of identical composite particles, as originally proposed by Hayes et al. Our scheme provides a technique for producing weighted graph states, entangled resources for quantum communication, and a promising approach to performing a "loophole free" Bell test in a single laboratory.

id: 0712.2490
title: The standard fair sampling assumption is not necessary to test local realism
authors: Dominic W. Berry, Hyunseok Jeong, Magdalena Stobinska, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 12 pages, includes experimental proposal
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 012109 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2490
abstract: Almost all Bell-inequality experiments to date have used postselection, and therefore relied on the fair sampling assumption for their interpretation. The standard form of the fair sampling assumption is that the loss is independent of the measurement settings, so the ensemble of detected systems provides a fair statistical sample of the total ensemble. This is often assumed to be needed to interpret Bell inequality experiments as ruling out hidden-variable theories. Here we show that it is not necessary; the loss can depend on measurement settings, provided the detection efficiency factorises as a function of the measurement settings and any hidden variable. This condition implies that Tsirelson's bound must be satisfied for entangled states. On the other hand, we show that it is possible for Tsirelson's bound to be violated while the CHSH-Bell inequality still holds for unentangled states, and present an experimentally feasible example.

id: 0712.2508
title: Entanglement sharing in $E\otimes¦Å$ Jahn-Teller model in the presence of a magnetic field
authors: G. Liberti, R. L. Zaffino, F. Piperno, F. Plastina
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 042332 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2508
abstract: We discuss the ground state entanglement of the $E\otimes\epsilon$ Jahn-Teller model in the presence of a strong transverse magnetic field as a function of the vibronic coupling strength. A complete characterization is given of the phenomenon of entanglement sharing in a system composed by a qubit coupled to two bosonic modes. Using the residual $I$-tangle, we find that three-partite entanglement is significantly present in the system in the parameter region near the bifurcation point of the corresponding classical model.

id: 0712.2509
title: Local control of entanglement in a spin chain
authors: F. Plastina, T. J. G. Apollaro
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 177210 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2509
abstract: In a ferromagnetic spin chain, the control of the local effective magnetic field allows to manipulate the static and dynamical properties of entanglement. In particular, the propagation of quantum correlations can be driven to a great extent so as to achieve an entanglement transfer on demand toward a selected site.

id: 0712.2545
title: A Quantum Time-Space Lower Bound for the Counting Hierarchy
authors: Dieter van Melkebeek, Thomas Watson
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2545
abstract: We obtain the first nontrivial time-space lower bound for quantum algorithms solving problems related to satisfiability. Our bound applies to MajSAT and MajMajSAT, which are complete problems for the first and second levels of the counting hierarchy, respectively. We prove that for every real d and every positive real epsilon there exists a real c>1 such that either: MajMajSAT does not have a quantum algorithm with bounded two-sided error that runs in time n^c, or MajSAT does not have a quantum algorithm with bounded two-sided error that runs in time n^d and space n^{1-\epsilon}. In particular, MajMajSAT cannot be solved by a quantum algorithm with bounded two-sided error running in time n^{1+o(1)} and space n^{1-\epsilon} for any epsilon>0. The key technical novelty is a time- and space-efficient simulation of quantum computations with intermediate measurements by probabilistic machines with unbounded error. We also develop a model that is particularly suitable for the study of general quantum computations with simultaneous time and space bounds. However, our arguments hold for any reasonable uniform model of quantum computation.

id: 0712.2558
title: A random-coding based proof for the quantum coding theorem
authors: Rochus Klesse
comments: 25 pages, to appear in Open Systems and Information Dynamics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2558
abstract: We present a proof for the quantum channel coding theorem which relies on the fact that a randomly chosen code space typically is highly suitable for quantum error correction. In this sense, the proof is close to Shannon's original treatment of information transmission via a noisy classical channel.

id: 0712.2563
title: Atom--photon momentum entanglement with quantum interference
authors: Rui Guo, Hong Guo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2563
abstract: With quantum interference of two-path spontaneous emissions, we propose a novel scheme to coherently control the atom--photon momentum entanglement through atomic internal coherence. A novel phenomenon called ``momentum phase entanglement'' is reported, and we found, under certain conditions, that more controllable entangled state can be produced with super--high degree of entanglement.

id: 0712.2565
title: Event-based computer simulation model of Aspect-type experiments strictly satisfying Einstein's locality conditions
authors: Hans De Raedt, Koen De Raedt, Kristel Michielsen, Koenraad Keimpema, Seiji Miyashita
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 76, 104005 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2565
abstract: Inspired by Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm experiments with photons, we construct an event-based simulation model in which every essential element in the ideal experiment has a counterpart. The model satisfies Einstein's criteria of local causality and does not rely on concepts of quantum and probability theory. We consider experiments in which the averages correspond to those of a singlet and product state of a system of two $S=1/2$ particles. The data is analyzed according to the experimental procedure, employing a time window to identify pairs. We study how the time window and the passage time of the photons, which depends on the relative angle between their polarization and the polarizer's direction, influences the correlations, demonstrating that the properties of the optical elements in the observation stations affect the correlations although the stations are separated spatially and temporarily. We show that the model can reproduce results which are considered to be intrinsically quantum mechanical.

id: 0712.2574
title: Event-by-event simulation of quantum phenomena
authors: H. De Raedt
comments: V Brazilian Meeting on Simulational Physics, Ouro Preto, 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2574
abstract: In this talk, I discuss recent progress in the development of simulation algorithms that do not rely on any concept of quantum theory but are nevertheless capable of reproducing the averages computed from quantum theory through an event-by-event simulation. The simulation approach is illustrated by applications to single-photon Mach-Zehnder interferometer experiments and Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm experiments with photons.

id: 0712.2586
title: Nonadditive quantum error correcting codes adapted to the ampltitude damping channel
authors: Ruitian Lang, Peter W. Shor
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2586
abstract: A family of high rate quantum error correcting codes adapted to the amplitude damping channel is presented. These codes are nonadditive and exploit self-complementarity structure to correct all first-order errors. Their rates can be higher than 1/2. The recovery operations of these codes can be generated by a simple algorithm and have a projection nature, which makes them potentially easy to implement.

id: 0712.2595
title: Distinguishing Short Quantum Computations
authors: Bill Rosgen
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, to be published in the proceedings of STACS 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2595
abstract: Distinguishing logarithmic depth quantum circuits on mixed states is shown to be complete for QIP, the class of problems having quantum interactive proof systems. Circuits in this model can represent arbitrary quantum processes, and thus this result has implications for the verification of implementations of quantum algorithms. The distinguishability problem is also complete for QIP on constant depth circuits containing the unbounded fan-out gate. These results are shown by reducing a QIP-complete problem to a logarithmic depth version of itself using a parallelization technique.

id: 0712.2608
title: Decoherence and dissipation of a quantum harmonic oscillator coupled to two-level systems
authors: Maximilian Schlosshauer, Andrew P. Hines, Gerard J. Milburn
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022111 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2608
abstract: We derive and analyze the Born-Markov master equation for a quantum harmonic oscillator interacting with a bath of independent two-level systems. This hitherto virtually unexplored model plays a fundamental role as one of the four "canonical" system-environment models for decoherence and dissipation. To investigate the influence of further couplings of the environmental spins to a dissipative bath, we also derive the master equation for a harmonic oscillator interacting with a single spin coupled to a bosonic bath. Our models are experimentally motivated by quantum-electromechanical systems and micron-scale ion traps. Decoherence and dissipation rates are found to exhibit temperature dependencies significantly different from those in quantum Brownian motion. In particular, the systematic dissipation rate for the central oscillator decreases with increasing temperature and goes to zero at zero temperature, but there also exists a temperature-independent momentum-diffusion (heating) rate.

id: 0712.2649
title: Effect of field quantization on Rabi oscillation of equidistant cascade four-level system
authors: Mihir Ranjan Nath, Tushar Kanti Dey, Surajit Sen, Gautam Gangopadhyay
comments: 14 pages, 4 Figures
journal: Pramana - Journal of Physics, Vol.70, (2008) 141
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2649
abstract: We have exactly solved a model of equidistant cascade four-level system interacting with a single-mode radiation field both semiclassically and quantum mechanically by exploiting its similarity with Jaynes-Cummings model. For the classical field, it is shown that the Rabi oscillation of the system initially in the first level (second level) is similar to that of the system when it is initially in the fourth level (third level). We then proceed to solve the quantized version of the model where the dressed state is constructed by using a six parameter four-dimensional matrix and show that the symmetry exhibited in the Rabi oscillation of the system for the semiclassical model is completely destroyed on the quantization of the cavity field. Finally we have studied the collapse and revival of the system for the cavity field-mode in a coherent state to discuss the restoration of symmetry and its implication is discussed.

id: 0712.2665
title: Binary search trees for generalized measurement
authors: Erika Andersson, Daniel K. L. Oi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2665
abstract: Generalized quantum measurements (POVMs or POMs) are important for optimally extracting information for quantum communication and computation. The standard realization via the Neumark extension requires extensive resources in the form of operations in an extended Hilbert space. For an arbitrary measurement, we show how to construct a binary search tree with a depth logarithmic in the number of possible outcomes. This could be implemented experimentally by coupling the measured quantum system to a probe qubit which is measured, and then iterating.

id: 0712.2694
title: Experimental simulation of fractional statistics of abelian anyons in the Kitaev lattice-spin model
authors: Jiang-Feng Du, Jing Zhu, Ming-Guang Hu, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2694
abstract: In two-dimensions, the laws of physics even permit the existence of anyons which exhibit fractional statistics ranging continuously from bosonic to fermionic behaviour. They have been responsible for the fractional quantum Hall effect and proposed as candidates for naturally fault-tolerant quantum computation. Despite these remarkable properties, the fractional statistics of anyons has never been observed in nature directly. Here we report the demonstration of fractional statistics of anyons by simulation of the first Kitaev lattice-spin model on a nuclear magnetic resonance system. We encode four-body interactions of the lattice-spin model into two-body interactions of an Ising spin chain in molecules. It can thus efficiently prepare and operate the ground state and excitations of the model Hamiltonian. This quantum system with convenience of manipulation and detection of abelian anyons reveals anyonic statistical properties distinctly. Our experiment with interacted Hamiltonian could also prove useful in the long run to the control and application of anyons.

id: 0712.2704
title: On Bargmann Representations of Wigner Function
authors: Fernando Parisio
comments: accepted for publication in J. Phys. A: Math. and Theor
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2704
abstract: By using the localized character of canonical coherent states, we give a straightforward derivation of the Bargmann integral representation of Wigner function (W). A non-integral representation is presented in terms of a quadratic form V*FV, where F is a self-adjoint matrix whose entries are tabulated functions and V is a vector depending in a simple recursive way on the derivatives of the Bargmann function. Such a representation may be of use in numerical computations. We discuss a relation involving the geometry of Wigner function and the spacial uncertainty of the coherent state basis we use to represent it.

id: 0712.2735
title: Temporal Coherence and Indistinguishability in Two-Photon Interference Effects
authors: Anand Kumar Jha, Malcolm N. O'Sullivan, Kam Wai Clifford Chan, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, typos corrected, FIG. 2 slightly edited
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 021801(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2735
abstract: We show that temporal two-photon interference effects involving the signal and idler photons created by parametric down-conversion can be fully characterized in terms of the variations of two length parameters--called the biphoton path-length difference and the biphoton path-asymmetry- length difference--which we construct using the six different length parameters that a general two-photon interference experiment involves. We perform an experiment in which the effects of the variations of these two parameters can be independently controlled and studied. In our experimental setup, which does not involve mixing of signal and idler photons at a beam splitter, we further report observations of Hong-Ou-Mandel- (HOM-)like effects both in coincidence and in one-photon count rates. As an important consequence, we argue that the HOM and the HOM-like effects are best described as observations of how two-photon coherence changes as a function of the biphoton path- asymmetry-length difference.

id: 0712.2740
title: Effective generation of entangled states and realization of quantum gate operations in cavity QED
authors: Pengbo Li
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2740
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to some problems.

id: 0712.2778
title: Unification per the Relational Blockworld
authors: W.M. Stuckey, Michael Silberstein
comments: 33 pages. A discrete renormalization procedure is introduced
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2778
abstract: We use the Relational Blockworld (RBW) interpretation of quantum mechanics to resolve the foundational problems therein. As predicted by Smolin, the resolution of these problems is not independent of the problem of unification and the nature of time. Specifically, RBW requires a theory fundamental to quantum physics in which one must explicitly construct dynamical/diachronic entities (objects obtained via trans-temporal identification) from 'relations'. We use discrete graph theory to propose heuristically the nature of this underlying theory, which is based on a self-consistency criterion for the mutual construct of dynamical/diachronic entities, space and time whence a spatiotemporally discrete action fundamental to the path integral approach to quantum and classical physics. The proposed unification scheme suggests a novel approach to quantum gravity.

id: 0712.2784
title: Generation of indistinguishable and pure heralded single photons with tunable bandwidth
authors: Xiaojuan Shi, Alejandra Valencia, Martin Hendrych, Juan P. Torres
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2784
abstract: We describe a new scheme to fully control the joint spectrum of paired photons generated in spontaneous parametric down-conversion. We show the capability of this method to generate frequency-uncorrelated photon pairs that are pure and indistinguishable, and whose bandwidth can be readily tuned. Importantly, the scheme we propose here can be implemented in any nonlinear crystal and frequency band of interest.

id: 0712.2888
title: Quantum serial turbo-codes
authors: David Poulin, Jean-Pierre Tillich, Harold Ollivier
comments: 24 pages, 15 figures, Published version
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 55, p. 2776 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2888
abstract: We present a theory of quantum serial turbo-codes, describe their iterative decoding algorithm, and study their performances numerically on a depolarization channel. Our construction offers several advantages over quantum LDPC codes. First, the Tanner graph used for decoding is free of 4-cycles that deteriorate the performances of iterative decoding. Secondly, the iterative decoder makes explicit use of the code's degeneracy. Finally, there is complete freedom in the code design in terms of length, rate, memory size, and interleaver choice. We define a quantum analogue of a state diagram that provides an efficient way to verify the properties of a quantum convolutional code, and in particular its recursiveness and the presence of catastrophic error propagation. We prove that all recursive quantum convolutional encoder have catastrophic error propagation. In our constructions, the convolutional codes have thus been chosen to be non-catastrophic and non-recursive. While the resulting families of turbo-codes have bounded minimum distance, from a pragmatic point of view the effective minimum distances of the codes that we have simulated are large enough not to degrade the iterative decoding performance up to reasonable word error rates and block sizes. With well chosen constituent convolutional codes, we observe an important reduction of the word error rate as the code length increases.

id: 0712.2906
title: Local Quantum Pure-state Identification without Classical Knowledge
authors: Y. Ishida, T. Hashimoto, M. Horibe, A. Hayashi
comments: 5 pages, no figures; v2: reference added, representation improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2906
abstract: Suppose we want to distinguish two quantum pure states. We consider the case in which no classical knowledge on the two states is given and only a pair of samples of the two states is available. This problem is called quantum pure-state identification problem. Our task is to optimize the mean identification success probability, which is averaged over an independent unitary invariant distribution of the two reference states. In this paper, the two states are assumed bipartite states which are generally entangled. The question is whether the maximum mean identification success probability can be attained by means of an LOCC (Local Operations and Classical Communication) measurement scheme. We will show that this is possible by constructing a POVM which respects the conditions of LOCC.

id: 0712.2924
title: Dynamical Wave Function Collapse Models in Quantum Measure Theory
authors: Fay Dowker, Yousef Ghazi-Tabatabai
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure. Revised after refereeing
journal: J.Phys.A41:205306,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2924
abstract: The structure of Collapse Models is investigated in the framework of Quantum Measure Theory, a histories-based approach to quantum mechanics. The underlying structure of coupled classical and quantum systems is elucidated in this approach which puts both systems on a spacetime footing. The nature of the coupling is exposed: the classical histories have no dynamics of their own but are simply tied, more or less closely, to the quantum histories.

id: 0712.2935
title: Fidelity of optimally controlled quantum gates with randomly coupled multiparticle environments
authors: Matthew D. Grace, Constantin Brif, Herschel Rabitz, Daniel A. Lidar, Ian A. Walmsley, Robert L. Kosut
comments: tMOP LaTeX, 9 pages, 3 figures; Special issue of the Journal of Modern Optics: 37th Winter Colloquium on the Physics of Quantum Electronics, 2-6 January 2007
journal: J. Mod. Optics, 54 (16-17), 2339 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2935
abstract: This work studies the feasibility of optimal control of high-fidelity quantum gates in a model of interacting two-level particles. One particle (the qubit) serves as the quantum information processor, whose evolution is controlled by a time-dependent external field. The other particles are not directly controlled and serve as an effective environment, coupling to which is the source of decoherence. The control objective is to generate target one-qubit gates in the presence of strong environmentally-induced decoherence and under physically motivated restrictions on the control field. It is found that interactions among the environmental particles have a negligible effect on the gate fidelity and require no additional adjustment of the control field. Another interesting result is that optimally controlled quantum gates are remarkably robust to random variations in qubit-environment and inter-environment coupling strengths. These findings demonstrate the utility of optimal control for management of quantum-information systems in a very precise and specific manner, especially when the dynamics complexity is exacerbated by inherently uncertain environmental coupling.

id: 0712.2956
title: Twin stimulated amplification of light and matter waves in an atom-photon pair laser
authors: Thomas Salzburger, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2956
abstract: We consider ultracold atoms in a far detuned optical lattice orientated across a high-Q optical resonator. Applying an external driving laser to the atoms, which is red detuned from the cavity mode by one vibrational quantum, induces cavity-enhanced sideband cooling. For a dense and cold enough atomic ensemble we predict an oscillation threshold for optical Raman sideband lasing concurrent with coherent matter-wave amplification. Above this oscillation threshold photons and atoms in the lowest band are dominantly created pairwise via stimulated emission with a strong suppression of competing spontaneous processes. In close analogy to a nondegenerate parametric oscillator we find sub-Poissonian photon statistics and almost perfect nonclassical atom-photon number correlations. Injecting atoms in higher vibrational bands via tunneling or incoherent scattering then leads to continuous, simultaneous generation of a coherent atom beam and laser light with nonclassical atom-field correlations.

id: 0712.2963
title: Algebraic Characterization of CNOT-Based Quantum Circuits with its Applications on Logic Synthesis
authors: Mehdi Saeedi, Morteza Saheb Zamani, Mehdi Sedighi
comments: 8 pages, 13 figures, 10Th EUROMICRO Conference on Digital System Design, Architectures, Methods and Tools, Germany, 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2963
abstract: The exponential speed up of quantum algorithms and the fundamental limits of current CMOS process for future design technology have directed attentions toward quantum circuits. In this paper, the matrix specification of a broad category of quantum circuits, i.e. CNOT-based circuits, are investigated. We prove that the matrix elements of CNOT-based circuits can only be zeros or ones. In addition, the columns or rows of such a matrix have exactly one element with the value of 1. Furthermore, we show that these specifications can be used to synthesize CNOT-based quantum circuits. In other words, a new scheme is introduced to convert the matrix representation into its SOP equivalent using a novel quantum-based Karnaugh map extension. We then apply a search-based method to transform the obtained SOP into a CNOT-based circuit. Experimental results prove the correctness of the proposed concept.

id: 0712.3041
title: The Complexity of the Consistency and N-representability Problems for Quantum States
authors: Yi-Kai Liu
comments: PhD thesis. Yay, no more grad school!! (Finished in August, but did not get around to posting it until now.) 91 pages, a few figures, some boring sections. Has detailed proofs of results in quant-ph/0604166 and quant-ph/0609125. Ch.4 is a preliminary sketch of 0712.1388. Ch.5 is quant-ph/0603012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3041
abstract: QMA (Quantum Merlin-Arthur) is the quantum analogue of the class NP. There are a few QMA-complete problems, most notably the ``Local Hamiltonian'' problem introduced by Kitaev. In this dissertation we show some new QMA-complete problems. The first one is ``Consistency of Local Density Matrices'': given several density matrices describing different (constant-size) subsets of an n-qubit system, decide whether these are consistent with a single global state. This problem was first suggested by Aharonov. We show that it is QMA-complete, via an oracle reduction from Local Hamiltonian. This uses algorithms for convex optimization with a membership oracle, due to Yudin and Nemirovskii. Next we show that two problems from quantum chemistry, ``Fermionic Local Hamiltonian'' and ``N-representability,'' are QMA-complete. These problems arise in calculating the ground state energies of molecular systems. N-representability is a key component in recently developed numerical methods using the contracted Schrodinger equation. Although these problems have been studied since the 1960's, it is only recently that the theory of quantum computation has allowed us to properly characterize their complexity. Finally, we study some special cases of the Consistency problem, pertaining to 1-dimensional and ``stoquastic'' systems. We also give an alternative proof of a result due to Jaynes: whenever local density matrices are consistent, they are consistent with a Gibbs state.

id: 0712.3043
title: On the correspondence principle: implications from a study of the chaotic dynamics of a macroscopic quantum device
authors: M.J. Everitt
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures. significantly expanded - to be published in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 013014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3043
abstract: The recovery of classical chaotic dynamics from quantum systems has long been a subject of interest. Furthermore, recent work indicates that quantum chaos may well be significant in quantum information processing. In this paper we discuss the quantum to classical crossover of a superconducting quantum inference device (SQUID) ring. Such devices comprise of thick superconducting loop enclosing a Josephson weak link. These devices are currently strong candidates for many applications in quantum technologies. The weak link brings with it a non-linearity such that semi-classical models of this system can exhibit chaotic dynamics. For many similar systems an application of the correspondence principle together with the inclusion of environmental degrees of freedom through a quantum trajectories approach can be used to effectively recover classical dynamics. Here we show (i) that the standard expression of the correspondence principle is incompatible with the ring Hamiltonian and we present a more pragmatic and general expression which finds application here and (ii) that practical limitations to circuit parameters of the SQUID ring prevent arbitrarily accurate recovery of classical chaotic dynamics.

id: 0712.3045
title: Physics and the measurement of continuous variables
authors: R. N. Sen
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3045
abstract: Wigner had expressed the opinion that the impossibility of exact measurements of single operators like position operators rendered the notion of geometrical points somewhat dubious in physics. Using Sewell's recent resolution of the measurement problem (collapse of the wave packet) in quantum mechanics and extending it to the measurement of operators with continuous spectra, we are able to compare the situation in quantum mechanics with that in quantum mechanics. Our conclusion is that the notion of a geometrical point is as meaningful in quantum mechanics as it is in classical mechanics.

id: 0712.3182
title: Quantum computation with quantum-dot spin qubits inside a cavity
authors: Ping Dong, Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: Four pages and 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3182
abstract: Universal set of quantum gates are realized from the conduction-band electron spin qubits of quantum dots embedded in a microcavity via two-channel Raman interaction. All of the gate operations are independent of the cavity mode states, \emph{i.e.}, insensitive to the thermal cavity field. Individual addressing and effective switch of the cavity mediated interaction are directly possible here. Meanwhile, gate operations also can be carried out in parallel. The simple realization of needed interaction for selective qubits makes current scenario more suitable for scalable quantum computation.

id: 0712.3197
title: An Upper Bound to the Number of Gates on Single Qubit within One Error-Correction Period of Quantum Computation
authors: Li Yang, Yufu Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3197
abstract: Based on the amplitude behavior of quantum Rabi oscillation driven by a coherent field we show that there exists an upper bound to the number of logical operation performed on any single qubit within one error-correction period of a quantum computation. We introduce a parameter to depict the maximum of this number and estimate its decoherence limit. The analysis shows that a generally accepted error-rate threshold of quantum logic gates limits the parameter to so small a number that even a double of fault-tolerant Toffoli gates can hardly be implemented reliably within one error-correction period. This result suggests that the design of feasible fault-tolerant quantum circuits is still an arduous task.

id: 0712.3223
title: Simple fault-tolerant encoding over q-ary CSS quantum codes
authors: Pedro J. Salas
comments: 
journal: Int. Journal of Quantum Information 5 (2007) 705-716
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3223
abstract: CSS codes are a subfamily of stabilizer codes especially appropriate for fault-tolerant quantum computations. A very simple method is proposed to encode a general qudit when a Calderbank-Shor-Steane quantum code, defined over a q-ary alphabet, is used.

id: 0712.3225
title: Fishing for Eavesdroppers
authors: Paul A. Lopata, Thomas B. Bahder
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure. Submitted to Quantum Information & Computation journal
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3225
abstract: A method is given to detect the presence of eavesdroppers when a noisy message is sent to a privileged receiver. A proof of the effectiveness if this method is demonstrated, and a comparison is made to other quantum cryptographic tasks.

id: 0712.3227
title: Quantum CISC Compilation by Optimal Control and Scalable Assembly of Complex Instruction Sets beyond Two-Qubit Gates
authors: T. Schulte-Herbrueggen, A. Spoerl, S.J. Glaser
comments: substantially enlarged update with new sections; 19 pages, 17 figures; comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3227
abstract: We present a quantum CISC compiler and show how to assemble complex instruction sets in a scalable way. Enlarging the toolbox of universal gates by optimised complex multi-qubit instruction sets thus paves the way to fight decoherence for realistic settings. Compiling a quantum module into the machine code for steering a concrete quantum hardware device lends itself to be tackled by means of optimal quantum control. To this end, there are two opposite approaches: (i) one may use a decomposition into the restricted instruction set (RISC) of universal one- and two-qubit gates, which in turn have prefabricated translations into the machine code or (ii) one may prefer to generate the entire target module directly by a complex instruction set (CISC) of available controls. Here we advocate direct compilation up to the limit of system size a classical high-performance parallel computer cluster can reasonably handle. For going beyond these limits, i.e. for large systems we propose a combined way, namely (iii) to make recursive use of medium-sized building blocks generated by optimal control in the sense of a quantum CISC compiler. The advantage of the method over standard RISC compilations into one- and two-qubit universal gates is explored on the parallel cluster HLRB-II (with a total LINPACK performance of 63.3 TFlops/s) for the quantum Fourier transform, the indirect SWAP gate as well as for multiply-controlled CNOT gates. Implications for upper limits to time complexities are also derived.

id: 0712.3249
title: Sideband cooling and coherent dynamics in a microchip multi-segmented ion trap
authors: Stephan Schulz, Ulrich Poschinger, Frank Ziesel, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 17 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3249
abstract: Miniaturized ion trap arrays with many trap segments present a promising architecture for scalable quantum information processing. The miniaturization of segmented linear Paul traps allows partitioning the microtrap in different storage and processing zones. The individual position control of many ions - each of them carrying qubit information in its long-lived electronic levels - by the external trap control voltages is important for the implementation of next generation large-scale quantum algorithms. We present a novel scalable microchip multi-segmented ion trap with two different adjacent zones, one for the storage and another dedicated for the processing of quantum information using single ions and linear ion crystals: A pair of radio-frequency driven electrodes and 62 independently controlled DC electrodes allows shuttling of single ions or linear ion crystals with numerically designed axial potentials at axial and radial trap frequencies of a few MHz. We characterize and optimize the microtrap using sideband spectroscopy on the narrow S1/2 <-> D5/2 qubit transition of the 40Ca+ ion, demonstrate coherent single qubit Rabi rotations and optical cooling methods. We determine the heating rate using sideband cooling measurements to the vibrational ground state which is necessary for subsequent two-qubit quantum logic operations. The applicability for scalable quantum information processing is proven.

id: 0712.3268
title: Necessary and sufficient detection efficiency for the Mermin inequalities
authors: Adan Cabello, David Rodriguez, Ignacio Villanueva
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101 (2008) 120402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3268
abstract: We prove that the threshold detection efficiency for a loophole-free Bell experiment using an $n$-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state and the correlations appearing in the $n$-partite Mermin inequality is $n/(2n-2)$. If the detection efficiency is equal to or lower than this value, there are local hidden variable models that can simulate all the quantum predictions. If the detection efficiency is above this value, there is no local hidden variable model that can simulate all the quantum predictions.

id: 0712.3271
title: Disentanglement of Source and Target and the Laser Quantum State
authors: Changsuk Noh, H. J. Carmichael
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 120405(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3271
abstract: Disentanglement of a laser source from its target qubit is proposed as a criterion establishing the laser quantum state as a coherent state. It is shown that the source-target density operator has a unique factorization in coherent states when the environmental record monitoring laser pump quanta is ignored. The source-target state conditioned upon the complete environmental record is entangled, though, as a state of known total quanta number (source plus target).

id: 0712.3435
title: How to acknowledge hypercomputation?
authors: Alexander Leitsch, Guenter Schachner, Karl Svozil
comments: 17 pages, Contribution to NKS 2007
journal: Complex Systems 18,131-143 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3435
abstract: We discuss the question of how to operationally validate whether or not a "hypercomputer" performs better than the known discrete computational models.

id: 0712.3436
title: Bose-Einstein Condensation from a Rotating Thermal Cloud: Vortex Nucleation and Lattice Formation
authors: A. S. Bradley, C. W. Gardiner, M. J. Davis
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 033616 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3436
abstract: We develop a stochastic Gross-Pitaveskii theory suitable for the study of Bose-Einstein condensation in a {\em rotating} dilute Bose gas. The theory is used to model the dynamical and equilibrium properties of a rapidly rotating Bose gas quenched through the critical point for condensation, as in the experiment of Haljan et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett., 87, 21043 (2001)]. In contrast to stirring a vortex-free condensate, where topological constraints require that vortices enter from the edge of the condensate, we find that phase defects in the initial non-condensed cloud are trapped en masse in the emerging condensate. Bose-stimulated condensate growth proceeds into a disordered vortex configuration. At sufficiently low temperature the vortices then order into a regular Abrikosov lattice in thermal equilibrium with the rotating cloud. We calculate the effect of thermal fluctuations on vortex ordering in the final gas at different temperatures, and find that the BEC transition is accompanied by lattice melting associated with diminishing long range correlations between vortices across the system.

id: 0712.3438
title: Consequences of Zeeman Degeneracy for van der Waals Blockade between Rydberg Atoms
authors: Thad G. Walker, M. Saffman
comments: 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032723 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3438
abstract: We analyze the effects of Zeeman degeneracies on the long-range interactions between like Rydberg atoms, with particular emphasis on applications to quantum information processing using van der Waals blockade. We present a general analysis of how degeneracies affect the primary error sources in blockade experiments, emphasizing that blockade errors are sensitive primarily to the weakest possible atom-atom interactions between the degenerate states, not the mean interaction strength. We present explicit calculations of the van der Waals potentials in the limit where the fine-structure interaction is large compared to the atom-atom interactions. The results are presented for all potential angular momentum channels invoving s, p, and d states. For most channels there are one or more combinations of Zeeman levels that have extremely small dipole-dipole interactions and are therefore poor candidates for effective blockade experiments. Channels with promising properties are identified and discussed. We also present numerical calculations of Rb and Cs dipole matrix elements and relevant energy levels using quantum defect theory, allowing for convenient quantitative estimates of the van der Waals interactions to be made for principal quantum numbers up to 100. Finally, we combine the blockade and van der Waals results to quantitatively analyze the angular distribution of the blockade shift and its consequence for angular momentum channels and geometries of particular interest for blockade experiments with Rb.

id: 0712.3466
title: Interpretation of quantum theory - An overview
authors: Dimitris Lazarou
comments: 11 pages; added mathematical formalism, updated references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3466
abstract: Quantum Mechanics, almost 80 years after its arrival, is a well established and experimentally not falsified theory. It has predicted and explained a whole series of natural phenomena of a very delicate nature. But its interpretation has not gained universal acceptance. Many scientists have considered the conceptual framework of quantum theory to be unsatisfactory. The very foundations of Quantum Mechanics is a matter that needs to be resolved in order to achieve and gain a deep physical understanding of the underlying physical procedures that constitute our world.

id: 0712.3554
title: Unified Theory of Ghost Imaging with Gaussian-State Light
authors: Baris I. Erkmen, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3554
abstract: The theory of ghost imaging is developed in a Gaussian-state framework that both encompasses prior work - on thermal-state and biphoton-state imagers - and provides a complete understanding of the boundary between classical and quantum behavior in such systems. The core of this analysis is the expression derived for the photocurrent-correlation image obtained using a general Gaussian-state source. This image is expressed in terms of the phase-insensitive and phase-sensitive cross-correlations between the two detected fields, plus a background. Because any pair of cross-correlations is obtainable with classical Gaussian states, the image does not carry a quantum signature per se. However, if the image characteristics of classical and nonclassical Gaussian-state sources with identical auto-correlation functions are compared, the nonclassical source provides resolution improvement in its near field and field-of-view improvement in its far field.

id: 0712.3562
title: Triple coalescence singularity in a dynamical atomic process
authors: E. G. Drukarev, A. I. Mikhailov, I. A. Mikhailov, W. Scheid
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3562
abstract: We show that the high energy limit for the amplitude of the double electron capture to the bound state of the Coulomb field of a nucleus with emission of a single photon is determined by behavior of the wave function in the vicinity of the singular triple coalescence point.

id: 0712.3571
title: Mapping photonic entanglement into and out of a quantum memory
authors: K. S. Choi, H. Deng, J. Laurat, H. J. Kimble
comments: 7 pages, and 3 figures
journal: Nature 452, 67-71 (6 March 2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3571
abstract: Recent developments of quantum information science critically rely on entanglement, an intriguing aspect of quantum mechanics where parts of a composite system can exhibit correlations stronger than any classical counterpart. In particular, scalable quantum networks require capabilities to create, store, and distribute entanglement among distant matter nodes via photonic channels. Atomic ensembles can play the role of such nodes. So far, in the photon counting regime, heralded entanglement between atomic ensembles has been successfully demonstrated via probabilistic protocols. However, an inherent drawback of this approach is the compromise between the amount of entanglement and its preparation probability, leading intrinsically to low count rate for high entanglement. Here we report a protocol where entanglement between two atomic ensembles is created by coherent mapping of an entangled state of light. By splitting a single-photon and subsequent state transfer, we separate the generation of entanglement and its storage. After a programmable delay, the stored entanglement is mapped back into photonic modes with overall efficiency of 17 %. Improvements of single-photon sources together with our protocol will enable "on demand" entanglement of atomic ensembles, a powerful resource for quantum networking.

id: 0712.3605
title: Logic Functions and Quantum Error Correcting Codes
authors: Yajie Xu, Zhi Ma, Chunyuan Zhang, Xin L¨¹
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3605
abstract: In this paper, based on the relationship between logic functions and quantum error correcting codes(QECCs), we unify the construction of QECCs via graphs, projectors and logic functions. A construction of QECCs over a prime field GF(p) is given, and one of the results given by Ref[8] can be viewed as a corollary of one theorem in this paper. With the help of Boolean functions, we give a clear proof of the existence of a graphical QECC in mathematical view, and find that the existence of an [[n,k,d]] QECC over GF(p) requires similar conditions with that depicted in Ref[9]. The result that under the correspondence defined in Ref[17], every [[n,0,d]] QECC over GF(2) corresponding to a simple undirected graph has a Boolean basis state, which is closely related to the adjacency matrix of the graph, is given. After a modification of the definition of operators, we find that some QECCs constructed via projectors depicted in Ref[11] can have Boolean basis states. A necessary condition for a Boolean function being used in the construction via projectors is given. We also give some examples to illustrate our results.

id: 0712.3620
title: Rapid Measurement of Quantum Systems using Feedback Control
authors: Joshua Combes, Howard M. Wiseman, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. V2: Minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 160503 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3620
abstract: We introduce a feedback control algorithm that increases the speed at which a measurement extracts information about a $d$-dimensional system by a factor that scales as $d^2$. Generalizing this algorithm, we apply it to a register of $n$ qubits and show an improvement O(n). We derive analytical bounds on the benefit provided by the feedback and perform simulations that confirm that this speedup is achieved.

id: 0712.3628
title: Counterexamples to additivity of minimum output p-Renyi entropy for p close to 0
authors: Toby Cubitt, Aram W. Harrow, Debbie Leung, Ashley Montanaro, Andreas Winter
comments: 7 pages, revtex4; v2 added correct ref. [15]; v3 has more information on the numerical violation as well as 1 figure (2 graphs) - note that the explicit example was changed and the more conservative estimate of the bound up to which violations occur, additionally some other small issues are straightened out
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, volume 284, p281-290 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3628
abstract: Complementing recent progress on the additivity conjecture of quantum information theory, showing that the minimum output p-Renyi entropies of channels are not generally additive for p>1, we demonstrate here by a careful random selection argument that also at p=0, and consequently for sufficiently small p, there exist counterexamples. An explicit construction of two channels from 4 to 3 dimensions is given, which have non-multiplicative minimum output rank; for this pair of channels, numerics strongly suggest that the p-Renyi entropy is non-additive for all p < 0.11. We conjecture however that violations of additivity exist for all p<1.

id: 0712.3653
title: Duality relation and joint measurement in a Mach-Zehnder Interferometer
authors: Nai-Le Liu, Li Li, Sixia Yu, Zeng-Bing Chen
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, title changed, presentation improved, appendix added, references updated, final version as published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052108 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3653
abstract: The Mach-Zehnder interferometric setup quantitatively characterizing the wave-particle duality implements in fact a joint measurement of two unsharp observables. We present a necessary and sufficient condition for such a pair of unsharp observables to be jointly measurable. The condition is shown to be equivalent to a duality inequality, which for the optimal strategy of extracting the which-path information is more stringent than the Jaeger-Shimony-Vaidman-Englert inequality.

id: 0712.3666
title: Extending Bell inequalities to more parties
authors: Yu-Chun Wu, Piotr Badziag, Marcin Wie?niak, Marek ?ukowski
comments: 8 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77 032105, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3666
abstract: We describe a method of extending Bell inequalities from $n$ to $n+1$ parties and formulate sufficient conditions for our method to produce tight inequalities from tight inequalities. The method is non trivial in the sense that the inequalities produced by it, when applied to entangled quantum states may be violated stronger than the original inequalities. In other words, the method is capable of generating inequalities which are more powerfull indicators of non-classical correlations than the original inequalities.

id: 0712.3675
title: Discrimination of quantum observables using limited resources
authors: Mario Ziman, Teiko Heinosaari
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042321 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3675
abstract: We address the problem of unambiguous discrimination and identification among quantum observables. We set a general framework and investigate in details the case of qubit observables. In particular, we show that perfect discrimination with two shots is possible only for sharp qubit observables (e.g. Stern-Gerlach apparatuses) associated with mutually orthogonal directions. We also show that for sharp qubit observables associated to nonorthogonal directions unambiguous discrimination with an inconclusive result is always possible.

id: 0712.3693
title: Event-by-event simulation of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm experiments
authors: Shuang Zhao, Hans De Raedt, Kristel Michielsen
comments: Found. of Phys. (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3693
abstract: We construct an event-based computer simulation model of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm experiments with photons. The algorithm is a one-to-one copy of the data gathering and analysis procedures used in real laboratory experiments. We consider two types of experiments, those with a source emitting photons with opposite but otherwise unpredictable polarization and those with a source emitting photons with fixed polarization. In the simulation, the choice of the direction of polarization measurement for each detection event is arbitrary. We use three different procedures to identify pairs of photons and compute the frequency of coincidences by analyzing experimental data and simulation data. The model strictly satisfies Einstein's criteria of local causality, does not rely on any concept of quantum theory and reproduces the results of quantum theory for both types of experiments. We give a rigorous proof that the probabilistic description of the simulation model yields the quantum theoretical expressions for the single- and two-particle expectation values.

id: 0712.3700
title: Entanglement between Two Uses of a Noisy Multipartite Quantum Channel Enables Perfect Transmission of Classical Information
authors: Runyao Duan, Yaoyun Shi
comments: 5 pages (actually 4 pages and a bit more, in Revtex 4), 1 eps. Comments are welcome. Don't miss a related work arXiv:0712.3628
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 020501(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3700
abstract: Suppose that $m$ senders want to transmit classical information to $n$ receivers with zero probability of error using a noisy multipartite communication channel. The senders are allowed to exchange classical, but not quantum, messages among themselves, and the same holds for the receivers. If the channel is classical, a single use can transmit information if and only if multiple uses can. In sharp contrast, we exhibit, for each $m$ and $n$ with $m\ge 2$ or $n\ge 2$, a quantum channel of which a single use is not able to transmit information yet two uses can. This latter property requires and is enabled by quantum entanglement.

id: 0712.3701
title: Constructing multi-player quantum games from non-factorizable joint probabilities
authors: Azhar Iqbal, Taksu Cheon
comments: Talk presented at SPIE Microelectronics, MEMS, and Nanotechnology 4-7 December 2007, Australian National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia
journal: Proc. SPIE 6802, 68020A (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3701
abstract: We use the standard three-party Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) setting in order to play general three-player non-cooperative symmetric games. We analyze how the peculiar non-factorizable joint probabilities that may emerge in the EPR setting can change outcome of the game. Our setup requires that the quantum game attains classical interpretation for factorizable joint probabilities. We analyze the generalized three-player game of Prisoner's Dilemma (PD) and show that the players can indeed escape from the classical outcome of the game because of non-factorizable joint probabilities. This result for three-player PD contrasts strikingly with our earlier result for two-player PD for which even non-factorizable joint probabilities are not found to be helpful to escape from the classical outcome of the game.

id: 0712.3703
title: Atom Interferometers
authors: Alexander D. Cronin, Joerg Schmiedmayer, David E. Pritchard
comments: submitted to Reviews of Modern Physics
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 81, 1051 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3703
abstract: Interference with atomic and molecular matter waves is a rich branch of atomic physics and quantum optics. It started with atom diffraction from crystal surfaces and the separated oscillatory fields technique used in atomic clocks. Atom interferometry is now reaching maturity as a powerful art with many applications in modern science. In this review we first describe the basic tools for coherent atom optics including diffraction by nanostructures and laser light, three-grating interferometers, and double wells on AtomChips. Then we review scientific advances in a broad range of fields that have resulted from the application of atom interferometers. These are grouped in three categories: (1) fundamental quantum science, (2) precision metrology and (3) atomic and molecular physics. Although some experiments with Bose Einstein condensates are included, the focus of the review is on linear matter wave optics, i.e. phenomena where each single atom interferes with itself.

id: 0712.3714
title: Atomistic and orthoatomistic effect algebras
authors: Josef Tkadlec
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3714
abstract: We characterize atomistic effect algebras, prove that a weakly orthocomplete Archimedean atomic effect algebra is orthoatomistic and present an example of an orthoatomistic orthomodular poset that is not weakly orthocomplete.

id: 0712.3717
title: Effect algebras with the maximality property
authors: Josef Tkadlec
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3717
abstract: The maximality property was introduced in in orthomodular posets as a common generalization of orthomodular lattices and orthocomplete orthomodular posets. We show that various conditions used in the theory of effect algebras are stronger than the maximality property, clear up the connections between them and show some consequences of these conditions. In particular, we prove that a Jauch--Piron effect algebra with a countable unital set of states is an orthomodular lattice and that a unital set of Jauch--Piron states on an effect algebra with the maximality property is strongly order determining.

id: 0712.3722
title: Dynamic method to distinguish between left- and right-handed chiral molecules
authors: Yong Li, C. Bruder
comments: 4 pages, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 015403 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3722
abstract: We study quantum systems with broken symmetry that can be modelled as cyclic three-level atoms with coexisting one- and two-photon transitions. They can be selectively optically excited to any state. As an example, we show that left- and right-handed chiral molecules starting in the same initial states can evolve into different final states by a purely dynamic transfer process. That means, left- and right-handed molecules can be distinguished purely dynamically.

id: 0712.3728
title: Time-separated entangled light pulses from a single-atom emitter
authors: David Vitali, Priscilla Canizares, Juergen Eschner, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures. Modified version, to appear in the New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 033025.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3728
abstract: The controlled interaction between a single, trapped, laser-driven atom and the mode of a high-finesse optical cavity allows for the generation of temporally separated, entangled light pulses. Entanglement between the photon-number fluctuations of the pulses is created and mediated via the atomic center-of-mass motion, which is interfaced with light through the mechanical effect of atom-photon interaction. By means of a quantum noise analysis we determine the correlation matrix which characterizes the entanglement, as a function of the system parameters. The scheme is feasible in experimentally accessible parameter regimes. It may be easily extended to the generation of entangled pulses at different frequencies, even at vastly different wavelengths.

id: 0712.3752
title: Generalized minimum-uncertainty squeezed states
authors: E. Shchukin, W. Vogel, Th. Kiesel
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3752
abstract: Minimum-uncertainty squeezed states, related to a broad class of observables, are analyzed. Methods for characterizing such states are developed, which are based on numerical solutions of ordinary differential equations. As typical examples we deal with nonlinear generalizations of quadrature squeezed states and deformed nonlinear squeezed states. In this manner one may derive those squeezed states which are directly related to given observables. This can be useful for optimized measurements at a reduced level of quantum-noise.

id: 0712.3781
title: Event-by-event simulation of quantum phenomena: Application to Einstein-Podolosky-Rosen-Bohm experiments
authors: H. De Raedt, K. De Raedt, K. Michielsen, K. Keimpema, S. Miyashita
comments: Published paper with minor corrections
journal: J. Comp. Theor. Nanosci. 4, 957 - 991, (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3781
abstract: We review the data gathering and analysis procedure used in real Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm experiments with photons and we illustrate the procedure by analyzing experimental data. Based on this analysis, we construct event-based computer simulation models in which every essential element in the experiment has a counterpart. The data is analyzed by counting single-particle events and two-particle coincidences, using the same procedure as in experiments. The simulation models strictly satisfy Einstein's criteria of local causality, do not rely on any concept of quantum theory or probability theory, and reproduce all results of quantum theory for a quantum system of two $S=1/2$ particles. We present a rigorous analytical treatment of these models and show that they may yield results that are in exact agreement with quantum theory. The apparent conflict with the folklore on Bell's theorem, stating that such models are not supposed to exist, is resolved. Finally, starting from the principles of probable inference, we derive the probability distributions of quantum theory of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm experiment without invoking concepts of quantum theory.

id: 0712.3819
title: Entanglement and density-functional theory: testing approximations on Hooke's atom
authors: J. P. Coe, A. Sudbery, I. D'Amico
comments: 14 pages with 18 figures; corrected typos, corrected expression for first-order energy in section VI and consequently Fig.13, conclusions and other results unaffected
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 205122 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3819
abstract: We present two methods of calculating the spatial entanglement of an interacting electron system within the framework of density-functional theory. These methods are tested on the model system of Hooke's atom for which the spatial entanglement can be calculated exactly. We analyse how the strength of the confining potential affects the spatial entanglement and how accurately the methods that we introduced reproduce the exact trends. We also compare the results with the outcomes of standard first-order perturbation methods. The accuracies of energies and densities when using these methods are also considered.

id: 0712.3823
title: Multidimensional reconciliation for continuous-variable quantum key distribution
authors: Anthony Leverrier, Romain All¨¦aume, Joseph Boutros, Gilles Z¨¦mor, Philippe Grangier
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042325 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3823
abstract: We propose a method for extracting an errorless secret key in a continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocol, which is based on Gaussian modulation of coherent states and homodyne detection. The crucial feature is an eight-dimensional reconciliation method, based on the algebraic properties of octonions. Since the protocol does not use any postselection, it can be proven secure against arbitrary collective attacks, by using well-established theorems on the optimality of Gaussian attacks. By using this new coding scheme with an appropriate signal to noise ratio, the distance for secure continuous-variable quantum key distribution can be significantly extended.

id: 0712.3829
title: Quantum Property Testing of Group Solvability
authors: Yoshifumi Inui, Francois Le Gall
comments: 11 pages; supersedes arXiv:quant-ph/0610013
journal: Algorithmica 59(1): 35-47 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3829
abstract: Testing efficiently whether a finite set with a binary operation over it, given as an oracle, is a group is a well-known open problem in the field of property testing. Recently, Friedl, Ivanyos and Santha have made a significant step in the direction of solving this problem by showing that it it possible to test efficiently whether the input is an Abelian group or is far, with respect to some distance, from any Abelian group. In this paper, we make a step further and construct an efficient quantum algorithm that tests whether the input is a solvable group, or is far from any solvable group. More precisely, the number of queries used by our algorithm is polylogarithmic in the size of the set.

id: 0712.3843
title: Cyclic Evolution on Grassmann Manifold and Berry Phase
authors: Zakaria Giunashvili
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3843
abstract: For a given $k$-dimensional subspace $V_0$ in a Hilbert space $\hilb$ and a unitary transformation $g_0:V_0\To V_0$, we find a path in the Grassmann manifold the monodromy of which coincides with $g_0$.

id: 0712.3849
title: Entangled Photon-Electron States and the Number-Phase Minimum Uncertainty States of the Photon Field
authors: Sandor Varro
comments: 31 pages, 6 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics, Vol. 10, 053028 (35pp) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3849
abstract: The exact analytic solutions of the energy eigenvalue equation of the system consisting of a free electron and one mode of the quantized radiation field are used for studying the physical meaning of a class of number-phase minimum uncertainty states. The states of the mode which minimize the uncertainty product of the photon number and the Susskind and Glogower (1964) cosine operator have been obtained by Jackiw (1968). However, these states have so far been remained mere mathematical constructions without any physical significance. It is proved that the most fundamental interaction in quantum electrodynamics - namely the interaction of a free electron with a mode of the quantized radiation field - leads quite naturally to the generation of the mentioned minimum uncertainty states. It is shown that from the entangled photon-electron states developing from a highly excited number state, due to the interaction with a Gaussian electronic wave packet, the minimum uncertainty states of Jackiw's type can be constructed. In the electron's coordinate representation the physical meaning of the expansion coefficients of these states are the joint probability amplitudes of simultaneous detection of an electron and of a definite number of photons. The joint occupation probabilities in these states preserve their functional form as time elapses, but they vary from point to point in space-time, depending on the location of the detected electron. An analysis of the entanglement entropies derived from the photon number distribution and from the electron's density operator is given.

id: 0712.3864
title: Effective generation of Ising interaction and cluster states in coupled microcavities
authors: Pengbo Li, Qihuang Gong, Guangcan Guo
comments: 11pages, 2 figures, Revtex4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3864
abstract: We propose a scheme for realizing the Ising spin-spin interaction and atomic cluster states utilizing trapped atoms in coupled microcavities. It is shown that the atoms can interact with each other via the exchange of virtual photons of the cavities. Through suitably tuning the parameters, an effective Ising spin-spin interaction can be generated in this optical system, which is used to produce the cluster states. This scheme does not need the preparation of initial states of atoms and cavity modes, and is insensitive to cavity decay.

id: 0712.3867
title: A Separation between Divergence and Holevo Information for Ensembles
authors: Rahul Jain, Ashwin Nayak, Yi Su
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure, version 1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3867
abstract: The notion of divergence information of an ensemble of probability distributions was introduced by Jain, Radhakrishnan, and Sen in the context of the ``substate theorem''. Since then, divergence has been recognized as a more natural measure of information in several situations in quantum and classical communication. We construct ensembles of probability distributions for which divergence information may be significantly smaller than the more standard Holevo information. As a result, we establish that lower bounds previously shown for Holevo information are weaker than similar ones shown for divergence information.

id: 0712.3887
title: QuanTree and QuanLin, Two Special Purpose Quantum Compilers
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 14 pages (files: 1 .tex, 1 .sty, 10 .pdf).Ver2 of paper, for software ver. 1.1 instead of 1.0
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3887
abstract: This paper introduces QuanTree v1.1 and QuanLin v1.1, two Java applications available for free. (Source code included in the distribution.) Each application compiles a different type of input quantum evolution operator. The applications output a quantum circuit that is approximately equal to the input evolution operator. QuanTree compiles an input evolution operator whose Hamiltonian is proportional to the incidence matrix of a balanced, binary tree graph. QuanLin compiles an input evolution operator whose Hamiltonian is proportional to the incidence matrix of a line (open string) graph. Both applications also output an error, defined as the distance in the Frobenius norm between the input evolution operator and the output quantum circuit.

id: 0712.3999
title: On quantum cryptography with bipartite bound entangled states
authors: Pawel Horodecki, Remigiusz Augusiak
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing: From Theory to Experiment, D.G. Angelakis et al. (eds.), NATO Science Series III - vol. 199, pp. 19-29., IOS Press, Amsterdam, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3999
abstract: Recently the explicit applicability of bound entanglement in quantum cryptography has been shown. In this paper some of recent results respecting this topic are reviewed. In particular relevant notions and definitions are reminded. The new construction of bound entangled states containing secure correlations is presented. It provides low dimensional 6\otimes6 bound entangled states with nonzero distillable key.

id: 0712.4003
title: Topos theory and `neo-realist' quantum theory
authors: Andreas Doering
comments: 22 pages, no figures; contribution for Proceedings of workshop "Recent Developments in Quantum Field Theory", MPI MIS Leipzig, July 2007
journal: In Quantum Field Theory, Competitive Models, eds. B. Fauser, J. Tolksdorf, E. Zeidler, 25-47, Birkhaeuser (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4003
abstract: Topos theory, a branch of category theory, has been proposed as mathematical basis for the formulation of physical theories. In this article, we give a brief introduction to this approach, emphasising the logical aspects. Each topos serves as a `mathematical universe' with an internal logic, which is used to assign truth-values to all propositions about a physical system. We show in detail how this works for (algebraic) quantum theory.

id: 0712.4018
title: State determination: an iterative algorithm
authors: Dardo M. Goyeneche, Alberto C. de la Torre
comments: 11 pages 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042116 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4018
abstract: An iterative algorithm for state determination is presented that uses as physical input the probability distributions for the eigenvalues of two or more observables in an unknown state $\Phi$. Starting form an arbitrary state $\Psi_{0}$, a succession of states $\Psi_{n}$ is obtained that converges to $\Phi$ or to a Pauli partner. This algorithm for state reconstruction is efficient and robust as is seen in the numerical tests presented and is a useful tool not only for state determination but also for the study of Pauli partners. Its main ingredient is the Physical Imposition Operator that changes any state to have the same physical properties, with respect to an observable, of another state.

id: 0712.4054
title: Iterative Solution for Generalized Sombrero-shaped Potential in $N$-dimensional Space
authors: W. Q. Zhao
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4054
abstract: An explicit convergent iterative solution for the lowest energy state of the Schroedinger equation with generalized $N$-dimensional Sombrero-shaped potential is presented. The condition for the convergence of the iteration procedure and the dependence of the shape of the groundstate wave function on the parameters are discussed.

id: 0712.4084
title: Distribution of Time-Energy Entanglement over 100 km fiber using superconducting single-photon detectors
authors: Qiang Zhang, Hiroki Takesue, Sae Woo Nam, Carsten Langrock, Xiuping Xie, M. M. Fejer, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Express. 16, 5776 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4084
abstract: In this letter, we report an experimental realization of distributing entangled photon pairs over 100 km of dispersion-shifted fiber. In the experiment, we used a periodically poled lithium niobate waveguide to generate the time-energy entanglement and superconducting single-photon detectors to detect the photon pairs after 100 km. We also demonstrate that the distributed photon pairs can still be useful for quantum key distribution and other quantum communication tasks.

id: 0712.4085
title: Hierarchies of Geometric Entanglement
authors: M. Blasone, F. Dell'Anno, S. De Siena, F. Illuminati
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures. Final version, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062304 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4085
abstract: We introduce a class of generalized geometric measures of entanglement. For pure quantum states of $N$ elementary subsystems, they are defined as the distances from the sets of $K$-separable states ($K=2,...,N$). The entire set of generalized geometric measures provides a quantification and hierarchical ordering of the different bipartite and multipartite components of the global geometric entanglement, and allows to discriminate among the different contributions. The extended measures are applied to the study of entanglement in different classes of $N$-qubit pure states. These classes include $W$ and $GHZ$ states, and their symmetric superpositions; symmetric multi-magnon states; cluster states; and, finally, asymmetric generalized $W$-like superposition states. We discuss in detail a general method for the explicit evaluation of the multipartite components of geometric entanglement, and we show that the entire set of geometric measures establishes an ordering among the different types of bipartite and multipartite entanglement. In particular, it determines a consistent hierarchy between $GHZ$ and $W$ states, clarifying the original result of Wei and Goldbart that $W$ states possess a larger global entanglement than $GHZ$ states. Furthermore, we show that all multipartite components of geometric entanglement in symmetric states obey a property of self-similarity and scale invariance with the total number of qubits and the number of qubits per party.

id: 0712.4093
title: Inflationary dynamics for matrix eigenvalue problems
authors: Eric J. Heller, Lev Kaplan, Frank Pollmann
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 105, 7631 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4093
abstract: Many fields of science and engineering require finding eigenvalues and eigenvectors of large matrices. The solutions can represent oscillatory modes of a bridge, a violin, the disposition of electrons around an atom or molecule, the acoustic modes of a concert hall, or hundreds of other physical quantities. Often only the few eigenpairs with the lowest or highest frequency (extremal solutions) are needed. Methods that have been developed over the past 60 years to solve such problems include the Lanczos [1,2] algorithm, Jacobi-Davidson techniques [3], and the conjugate gradient method [4]. Here we present a way to solve the extremal eigenvalue/eigenvector problem, turning it into a nonlinear classical mechanical system with a modified Lagrangian constraint. The constraint induces exponential inflationary growth of the desired extremal solutions.

id: 0712.4108
title: Spin Entanglement of Two delocalised Fermions and Berry Phase
authors: B. Basu, P. Bandyopadhyay
comments: 6 pages. Journal of Physics A: Math. and Theor. (accepted)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4108
abstract: We have studied the entanglement of identical fermions in two spatial regions in terms of the Berry phase acquired by their spins. The analysis is done from the viewpoint of the geometrical interpretation of entanglement, where a fermion is visualized as a scalar particle attached with a magnetic flux quantum. The quantification of spin entanglement in terms of their Berry phases is novel and generalises the relationship between the entanglement of distinguishable spins and that of delocalised fermions.

id: 0712.4115
title: A Class of Quantum LDPC Codes Constructed From Finite Geometries
authors: Salah A. Aly
comments: 5pages, 2 figures
journal: Proc. of IEEE Globecom 08, New Orleans, LA 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4115
abstract: Low-density parity check (LDPC) codes are a significant class of classical codes with many applications. Several good LDPC codes have been constructed using random, algebraic, and finite geometries approaches, with containing cycles of length at least six in their Tanner graphs. However, it is impossible to design a self-orthogonal parity check matrix of an LDPC code without introducing cycles of length four. In this paper, a new class of quantum LDPC codes based on lines and points of finite geometries is constructed. The parity check matrices of these codes are adapted to be self-orthogonal with containing only one cycle of length four. Also, the column and row weights, and bounds on the minimum distance of these codes are given. As a consequence, the encoding and decoding algorithms of these codes as well as their performance over various quantum depolarizing channels will be investigated.

id: 0712.4141
title: Black hole collapse simulated by vacuum fluctuations with a moving semi-transparent mirror
authors: Jaume Haro, Emilio Elizalde
comments: 13 pages, no figures, version to appear in Physical Review D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4141
abstract: Creation of scalar massless particles in two-dimensional Minkowski space-time--as predicted by the dynamical Casimir effect--is studied for the case of a semitransparent mirror initially at rest, then accelerating for some finite time, along a trajectory that simulates a black hole collapse (defined by Walker, and Carlitz and Willey), and finally moving with constant velocity. When the reflection and transmission coefficients are those in the model proposed by Barton, Calogeracos, and Nicolaevici [$r(w)=-i\alpha/(\w+i\alpha)$ and $s(w)=\w/(\w+i\alpha)$, with $\alpha\geq 0$], the Bogoliubov coefficients on the back side of the mirror can be computed exactly. This allows us to prove that, when $\alpha$ is very large (case of an ideal, perfectly reflecting mirror) a thermal emission of scalar massless particles obeying Bose-Einstein statistics is radiated from the mirror (a black body radiation), in accordance with results previously obtained in the literature. However, when $\alpha$ is finite (semitransparent mirror, a physically realistic situation) the striking result is obtained that the thermal emission of scalar massless particles obeys Fermi-Dirac statistics. We also show here that the reverse change of statistics takes place in a bidimensional fermionic model for massless particles, namely that the Fermi-Dirac statistics for the completely reflecting situation will turn into the Bose-Einstein statistics for a partially reflecting, physical mirror.

id: 0712.4179
title: High-efficiency single photon detector combined with an ultra-small APD module and a self-training discriminator for high-speed quantum cryptosystems
authors: Seigo Takahashi, Akio Tajima, Akihisa Tomita
comments: 2 pages, 5 figures
journal: Tech. Digest of 13th Microoptics Conference (MOC07) Post-deadline papers, PD-1, p.p. 2-3 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4179
abstract: A single-photon avalanche detector (SPAD) for high-speed quantum-key generation has successfully been developed. It has the highest photon detection repetition frequency and the lowest dark count rate in the world, as a board-mountable sub-system. The SPAD consists of an ultra-small dual-avalanche photodiode (APD) module and a novel discriminator. The APD module design is consistent with cooling capability and high-frequency characteristics. The new module has a 3 GHz bandwidth enabling 1 GHz gate-pulse repetition. The bandwidth is extended 15-fold relative to the most wideband peltier cooled APD module. The discriminator has a self-training mechanism to compensate charge pulse. Dark count rare of the SPAD is reduced 1/10th relative to the lowest dark count single photon detector. The SPAD allows 3.2-fold multiplying the quantum key generation rate in theoretical estimation.

id: 0712.4182
title: Spontaneously modulated spin textures in a dipolar spinor Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: M. Vengalattore, S. R. Leslie, J. Guzman, D. M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 170403 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4182
abstract: Helical spin textures in a $^{87}$Rb F=1 spinor Bose-Einstein condensate are found to decay spontaneously toward a spatially modulated structure of spin domains. This evolution is ascribed to magnetic dipolar interactions that energetically favor the short-wavelength domains over the long-wavelength spin helix. This is confirmed by eliminating the dipolar interactions by a sequence of rf pulses and observing a suppression of the formation of the short-range domains. This study confirms the significance of magnetic dipole interactions in degenerate $^{87}$Rb F=1 spinor gases.

id: 0712.4192
title: Bound States of the Klein-Gordon Equation for Woods-Saxon Potential With Position Dependent Mass
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 13 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. C 19, 763(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4192
abstract: The effective mass Klein-Gordon equation in one dimension for the Woods-Saxon potential is solved by using the Nikiforov-Uvarov method. Energy eigenvalues and the corresponding eigenfunctions are computed. Results are also given for the constant mass case.

id: 0712.4194
title: Oscillator model for the relativistic fermion-boson system
authors: D. A. Kulikov, R. S. Tutik
comments: published version, 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008) 7105-7108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4194
abstract: The solvable quantum mechanical model for the relativistic two-body system composed of spin-1/2 and spin-0 particles is constructed. The model includes the oscillator-type interaction through a combination of Lorentz-vector and -tensor potentials. The analytical expressions for the wave functions and the order of the energy levels are discussed.

id: 0712.4213
title: Exact Quantum Algorithms for the Leader Election Problem
authors: Seiichiro Tani, Hirotada Kobayashi, Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 47 pages, preliminary version in Proceedings of STACS 2005
journal: ACM TOCT 4 (2012): Article 1; IEEE TPDS 23 (2012): 255 - 262
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4213
abstract: This paper gives the first separation of quantum and classical pure (i.e., non-cryptographic) computing abilities with no restriction on the amount of available computing resources, by considering the exact solvability of a celebrated unsolvable problem in classical distributed computing, the ``leader election problem'' on anonymous networks. The goal of the leader election problem is to elect a unique leader from among distributed parties. The paper considers this problem for anonymous networks, in which each party has the same identifier. It is well-known that no classical algorithm can solve exactly (i.e., in bounded time without error) the leader election problem in anonymous networks, even if it is given the number of parties. This paper gives two quantum algorithms that, given the number of parties, can exactly solve the problem for any network topology in polynomial rounds and polynomial communication/time complexity with respect to the number of parties, when the parties are connected by quantum communication links.

id: 0712.4225
title: Generalized Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequalities maximally violated by higher dimensional systems
authors: T. V¨¦rtesi, K.F. P¨¢l
comments: 8 pages, no figures, REVTeX; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042106 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4225
abstract: Imagine two parties, Alice and Bob who share an entangled quantum state. A well-established result that if Alice performs two-outcome measurement on the portion of the state in her possession and Bob does likewise, they are able to produce correlations that cannot be reproduced by any classical theory. The allowed classical correlations can be expressed quantitatively by the Bell inequalities. Here we propose new families of Bell inequalities, as a generalization of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality and show that the maximum violation of these Bell inequalities allowed by quantum theory can not be attained by a bipartite quantum system having support on a qubit at each site.

id: 0712.4241
title: Entanglement-Enhanced Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Olli Ahonen, Mikko Mottonen, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, new results
journal: Physical Review A 78, 032314 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4241
abstract: We present and analyze a quantum key distribution protocol based on sending entangled N-qubit states instead of single-qubit ones as in the trail-blazing scheme by Bennett and Brassard (BB84). Since the qubits are sent individually, an eavesdropper is limited to accessing them one by one. In an intercept-resend attack, this fundamental restriction allows one to make the eavesdropper's information on the transmitted key vanish if even one of the qubits is not intercepted. The implied upper bound 1/(2N) for Eve's information is further shown not to be the lowest since in the case N = 2, the information can be reduced to less than 30% of that in BB84. In general, the protocol is at least as secure as BB84.

id: 0712.4247
title: Quantum Cryptography Protocol Based on Sending Entangled Qubit Pairs
authors: Olli Ahonen
comments: 82 pages, Master's Thesis, instructor Mikko Mottonen
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4247
abstract: The quantum key distribution protocol BB84, published by C. H. Bennett and G. Brassard in 1984, describes how two spatially separated parties can generate a random bit string fully known only to them by transmission of single-qubit quantum states. Any attempt to eavesdrop on the protocol introduces disturbance which can be detected by the legitimate parties. In this Master's Thesis a novel modification to the BB84 protocol is analyzed. Instead of sending single particles one-by-one as in BB84, they are grouped and a non-local transformation is applied to each group before transmission. Each particle is sent to the intended receiver, always delaying the transmission until the receiver has acknowledged the previous particle on an authenticated classical channel, restricting eavesdropping to accessing the quantum transmission one particle at a time. Hence, an eavesdropper cannot undo the non-local transformation perfectly. Even if perfect cloning of quantum states was possible the state of the group could not be cloned. We calculate the maximal information on the established key provided by an intercept-resend attack and the induced disturbance for different transformations. We observe that it is possible to significantly reduce the eavesdropper's maximal information on the key--to one eighth of that in BB84 for a fixed, reasonable amount of disturbance. We also show that the individual access to the particles poses a fundamental restriction to the eavesdropper, and discuss a novel attack type against the proposed protocol.

id: 0712.4258
title: Two dogmas about quantum mechanics
authors: Jeffrey Bub, Itamar Pitowsky
comments: 25 pages; for 'Everett @ 50,' S. Saunders, J. Barrett, A. Kent, D. Wallace (eds.), Oxford, 2009. Revised version involves some clarification in the formulation and minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4258
abstract: We argue that the intractable part of the measurement problem -- the 'big' measurement problem -- is a pseudo-problem that depends for its legitimacy on the acceptance of two dogmas. The first dogma is John Bell's assertion that measurement should never be introduced as a primitive process in a fundamental mechanical theory like classical or quantum mechanics, but should always be open to a complete analysis, in principle, of how the individual outcomes come about dynamically. The second dogma is the view that the quantum state has an ontological significance analogous to the significance of the classical state as the 'truthmaker' for propositions about the occurrence and non-occurrence of events, i.e., that the quantum state is a representation of physical reality. We show how both dogmas can be rejected in a realist information-theoretic interpretation of quantum mechanics as an alternative to the Everett interpretation. The Everettian, too, regards the 'big' measurement problem as a pseudo-problem, because the Everettian rejects the assumption that measurements have definite outcomes, in the sense that one particular outcome, as opposed to other possible outcomes, actually occurs in a quantum measurement process. By contrast with the Everettians, we accept that measurements have definite outcomes. By contrast with the Bohmians and the GRW 'collapse' theorists who add structure to the theory and propose dynamical solutions to the 'big' measurement problem, we take the problem to arise from the failure to see the significance of Hilbert space as a new kinematic framework for the physics of an indeterministic universe, in the sense that Hilbert space imposes kinematic (i.e., pre-dynamic) objective probabilistic constraints on correlations between events.

id: 0712.4274
title: Two remarks on the local Hamiltonian problem
authors: Peter C. Richter
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4274
abstract: In this note we present two natural restrictions of the local Hamiltonian problem which are BQP-complete under Karp reduction. Restrictions complete for QCMA, QMA_1, and MA were demonstrated previously.

id: 0712.4291
title: Sampling of min-entropy relative to quantum knowledge
authors: Robert Koenig, Renato Renner
comments: 48 pages, latex
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 57, pp. 4760-4787, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4291
abstract: Let X_1, ..., X_n be a sequence of n classical random variables and consider a sample of r positions selected at random. Then, except with (exponentially in r) small probability, the min-entropy of the sample is not smaller than, roughly, a fraction r/n of the total min-entropy of all positions X_1, ..., X_n, which is optimal. Here, we show that this statement, originally proven by Vadhan [LNCS, vol. 2729, Springer, 2003] for the purely classical case, is still true if the min-entropy is measured relative to a quantum system. Because min-entropy quantifies the amount of randomness that can be extracted from a given random variable, our result can be used to prove the soundness of locally computable extractors in a context where side information might be quantum-mechanical. In particular, it implies that key agreement in the bounded-storage model (using a standard sample-and-hash protocol) is fully secure against quantum adversaries, thus solving a long-standing open problem.

id: 0712.4297
title: On the Nature of Quantum Phenomena
authors: Xiaolei Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4297
abstract: It is shown that a coherent understanding of all quantized phenomena, including those governed by unitary evolution equations as well as those related to irreversible quantum measurements, can be achieved in a scenario of successive nonequilibrium phase transitions, with the lowest hierarchy of these phase transitions occurring in a ``resonant cavity'' formed by the entire matter and energy content of the universe. In this formalism, the physical laws themselves are resonantly-selected and ordered in the universe cavity in a hierarchical manner, and the values of fundamental constants are determined through a Generalized Mach's Principle. The existence of a preferred reference frame in this scenario is shown to be consistent with the relational nature of the origin of physical laws. Covariant unitary evolution is shown to connect smoothly with the reduction of wavefunction in the preferred frame during quantum measurement. The superluminal nature of quantum processes in the lowest hierarchy coexists with the universal speed limit obeyed by processes in higher hierarchies. A natural quantum-to-classical transition is also obtained which is stable against the diffusive tendency of the unitary quantum evolution processes. In this formalism a realistic quasi-classical ontology is established for the foundations of quantum mechanics.

id: 0712.4303
title: Quantum-noise-limited Angular Momentum Measurement for a Micron-sized Dielectric Object
authors: Koji Usami
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4303
abstract: An approach is described for observing quantum features of micron-sized spinning objects. Specifically, we consider a birefringent (uniaxial positive) dielectric object in the shape of an oblate (i.e., frisbee-like) symmetric top. It can be trapped in the air, its extraordinary axis can be aligned, and its angular momentum along the extraordinary axis can be stabilized, all optically. We show that the angular momentum quantum noise of the object perpendicular to the gigantic angular momentum along the extraordinary axis can be measured as a linear birefringent phase shift of a probe laser in an analogous fashion to the spin quantum nondemolition (QND) measurement in atomic physics.

id: 0712.4320
title: Efficiency of higher dimensional Hilbert spaces for the violation of Bell inequalities
authors: K.F. P¨¢l, T. V¨¦rtesi
comments: 8 pages, no figures, REVTeX; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042105 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4320
abstract: We have determined numerically the maximum quantum violation of over 100 tight bipartite Bell inequalities with two-outcome measurements by each party on systems of up to four dimensional Hilbert spaces. We have found several cases, including the ones where each party has only four measurement choices, where two dimensional systems, i.e., qubits are not sufficient to achieve maximum violation. In a significant proportion of those cases when qubits are sufficient, one or both parties have to make trivial, degenerate 'measurements' in order to achieve maximum violation. The quantum state corresponding to the maximum violation in most cases is not the maximally entangled one. We also obtain the result, that bipartite quantum correlations can always be reproduced by measurements and states which require only real numbers if there is no restriction on the size of the local Hilbert spaces. Therefore, in order to achieve maximum quantum violation on any bipartite Bell inequality (with any number of settings and outcomes), there is no need to consider complex Hilbert spaces.

id: 0712.4321
title: Subsystem Code Constructions
authors: Salah A. Aly, Andreas Klappenecker
comments: 5 pages, trading dimensions of subsystem codes, MDS subsystem codes, and propagation rules. All stabilizer codes are converted to subsystem codes. A talk given at QEC07, and submitted to IEEE ISIT 2008
journal: Proc. of IEEE ISIT 08, Toronto, CA, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4321
abstract: Subsystem codes are the most versatile class of quantum error-correcting codes known to date that combine the best features of all known passive and active error-control schemes. The subsystem code is a subspace of the quantum state space that is decomposed into a tensor product of two vector spaces: the subsystem and the co-subsystem. A generic method to derive subsystem codes from existing subsystem codes is given that allows one to trade the dimensions of subsystem and co-subsystem while maintaining or improving the minimum distance. As a consequence, it is shown that all pure MDS subsystem codes are derived from MDS stabilizer codes. The existence of numerous families of MDS subsystem codes is established. Propagation rules are derived that allow one to obtain longer and shorter subsystem codes from given subsystem codes. Furthermore, propagation rules are derived that allow one to construct a new subsystem code by combining two given subsystem codes.

id: 0712.4353
title: Boundary conditions: The path integral approach
authors: M. Asorey, J. Clemente-Gallardo, J.M. Munoz-Castaneda
comments: 8 pages
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.87:012004,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4353
abstract: The path integral approach to quantum mechanics requires a substantial generalisation to describe the dynamics of systems confined to bounded domains. Non-local boundary conditions can be introduced in Feynman's approach by means of boundary amplitude distributions and complex phases to describe the quantum dynamics in terms of the classical trajectories. The different prescriptions involve only trajectories reaching the boundary and correspond to different choices of boundary conditions of selfadjoint extensions of the Hamiltonian. One dimensional particle dynamics is analysed in detail.

id: 0712.4377
title: Quantum Kolmogorov Complexity and the Quantum Turing Machine
authors: Markus Mueller
comments: Ph.D. thesis, Technical University of Berlin, August 2007. 114 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4377
abstract: The purpose of this thesis is to give a formal definition of quantum Kolmogorov complexity (QC), and rigorous mathematical proofs of its basic properties. The definition used here is similar to that by Berthiaume, van Dam, and Laplante. It defines the QC of some indeterminate-length qubit string \rho as the minimum base length of any quantum input which makes a quantum Turing machine (QTM) halt and output \rho, up to some error tolerance. First, we prove that there is a QTM which is universal in the sense of input base length. Furthermore, we show several general properties of QTMs, including a result on mutually orthogonal ``halting spaces'', and a way to transform every almost-halting input into a deterministically-halting input by adding at most a constant number of qubits. Afterwards, we apply these results to QC. In particular, we show that QC is invariant, incompressible, agrees with classical Kolmogorov complexity for classical strings, and is closely related to von Neumann entropy for ergodic quantum information sources.

id: 0712.0045
title: PT-Symmetry Quantum Electrodynamics--PTQED
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Ines Cavero-Pelaez, Prachi Parashar, K. V. Shajesh, Jef Wagner
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, contributed to Proceedings of 6th International Workshop on Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.50:963-973,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0045
abstract: The construction of $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric quantum electrodynamics is reviewed. In particular, the massless version of the theory in 1+1 dimensions (the Schwinger model) is solved. Difficulties with unitarity of the $S$-matrix are discussed.

id: 0712.0099
title: Optical spin-to-orbital angular momentum conversion in inhomogeneous anisotropic media
authors: L. Marrucci, C. Manzo, D. Paparo
comments: 
journal: PRL 96, 163905 (2006)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0099
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally an optical process in which the spin angular momentum carried by a circularly polarized light beam is converted into orbital angular momentum, leading to the generation of helical modes with a wavefront helicity controlled by the input polarization. This phenomenon requires the interaction of light with matter that is both optically inhomogeneous and anisotropic. The underlying physics is also associated with the so-called Pancharatnam-Berry geometrical phases involved in any inhomogeneous transformation of the optical polarization.

id: 0712.0101
title: Pancharatnam-Berry phase optical elements for wavefront shaping in the visible domain: switchable helical modes generation
authors: L. Marrucci, C. Manzo, D. Paparo
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 221102 (2006)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0101
abstract: We report the realization of a Pancharatnam-Berry phase optical element [Z. Bomzon, G. Biener, V. Kleiner, and E. Hasman, Opt. Lett. \textbf{27}, 1141 (2002)] for wavefront shaping working in the visible spectral domain, based on patterned liquid crystal technology. This device generates helical modes of visible light with the possibility of electro-optically switching between opposite helicities by controlling the handedness of the input circular polarization. By cascading this approach, fast switching among multiple wavefront helicities can be achieved, with potential applications to multi-state optical information encoding. The approach demonstrated here can be generalized to other polarization-controlled devices for wavefront shaping, such as switchable lenses, beam-splitters, and holographic elements.

id: 0712.0190
title: A Family of Non-Abelian Kitaev Models on a Lattice: Topological Confinement and Condensation
authors: H. Bombin, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: Additinal figures, minor corrections
journal: Phys.Rev.B78:115421,2008
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0190
abstract: We study a family of non-Abelian topological models in a lattice that arise by modifying the Kitaev model through the introduction of single-qudit terms. The effect of these terms amounts to a reduction of the discrete gauge symmetry with respect to the original systems, which corresponds to a generalized mechanism of explicit symmetry breaking. The topological order is either partially lost or completely destroyed throughout the various models. The new systems display condensation and confinement of the topological charges present in the standard non-Abelian Kitaev models, which we study in terms of ribbon operator algebras.

id: 0712.0205
title: The virial equation of state for unitary fermion thermodynamics with non-Gaussian correlations
authors: Ji-sheng Chen, Jia-rong Li, Yan-ping Wang, Xiang-jun Xia
comments: Final published version revised according to comments; with more figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. 12 (2008) P12008
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0205
abstract: We study the roles of the dynamical high order perturbation and statistically non-linear infrared fluctuation/correlation in the virial equation of state for the Fermi gas in the unitary limit. Incorporating the quantum level crossing rearrangement effects, the spontaneously generated entropy departing from the mean-field theory formalism leads to concise thermodynamical expressions. The dimensionless virial coefficients with complex non-local correlations are calculated up to the fourth order for the first time. The virial coefficients of unitary Fermi gas are found to be proportional to those of the ideal quantum gas with integer ratios through a general term formula. Counterintuitively, contrary to those of the ideal bosons ($a^{(0)}_2=-\frac{1}{4 \sqrt{2}}$) or fermions($a^{(0)}_2=\frac{1}{4 \sqrt{2}}$), the second virial coefficient $a_2$ of Fermi gas at unitarity is found to be equal to zero. With the vanishing leading order quantum correction, the BCS-BEC crossover thermodynamics manifests the famous pure classical Boyle's law in the Boltzmann regime. The non-Gaussian correlation phenomena can be validated by studying the Joule-Thomson effect.

id: 0712.0313
title: Hiatus perturbation for a singular Schr?dinger operator with an interaction supported by a curve in \mathbb{R}^3
authors: Pavel Exner, Sylwia Kondej
comments: LaTeX, 29 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0313
abstract: We consider Schr\"odinger operators in $L^2(\mathbb{R}^3)$ with a singular interaction supported by a finite curve $\Gamma$. We present a proper definition of the operators and study their properties, in particular, we show that the discrete spectrum can be empty if $\Gamma$ is short enough. If it is not the case, we investigate properties of the eigenvalues in the situation when the curve has a hiatus of length $2\epsilon$. We derive an asymptotic expansion with the leading term which a multiple of $\epsilon \ln\epsilon$.

id: 0712.0348
title: Entanglement renormalization and topological order
authors: Miguel Aguado, Guifre Vidal
comments: 6 pages, 17 eps files. v2: References updated, typos corrected. Includes appendix not in published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 070404 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0348
abstract: The multi-scale entanglement renormalisation ansatz (MERA) is argued to provide a natural description for topological states of matter. The case of Kitaev's toric code is analyzed in detail and shown to possess a remarkably simple MERA description leading to distillation of the topological degrees of freedom at the top of the tensor network. Kitaev states on an infinite lattice are also shown to be a fixed point of the RG flow associated with entanglement renormalization. All these results generalize to arbitrary quantum double models.

id: 0712.0439
title: The mesoscopic conductance of disordered rings, its random matrix theory, and the generalized variable range hopping picture
authors: Alexander Stotland, Rangga Budoyo, Tal Peer, Tsampikos Kottos, Doron Cohen
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, improved version to be published as JPA/FTC
journal: J. Phys. A 41, 262001 (FTC) (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0439
abstract: The calculation of the conductance of disordered rings requires a theory that goes beyond the Kubo-Drude formulation. Assuming "mesoscopic" circumstances the analysis of the electro-driven transitions show similarities with a percolation problem in energy space. We argue that the texture and the sparsity of the perturbation matrix dictate the value of the conductance, and study its dependence on the disorder strength, ranging from the ballistic to the Anderson localization regime. An improved sparse random matrix model is introduced to captures the essential ingredients of the problem, and leads to a generalized variable range hopping picture.

id: 0712.0623
title: Statistics of orbital entanglement production in quantum-chaotic dots
authors: Victor A. Gopar, Diego Frustaglia
comments: Added a reference and minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 153403 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0623
abstract: The production of orbitally entangled electrons in quantum-chaotic dots is investigated from a statistical point of view. The degree of entanglement is quantified through the concurrence and the entanglement of formation. We calculate the complete statistical distributions of the entanglement measures by using random matrix theory. Simple analytical expressions are provided for the concurrence distributions. We identify clear signatures of time-reversal invariance in the production of entanglement at the level of the entanglement-measure distributions, such as the ability of producing maximally entangled (Bell) states, which passed unnoticed in previous works where only the first two moments of the distributions were studied.

id: 0712.0705
title: A quantum mechanical model of the Riemann zeros
authors: German Sierra
comments: 42 pages, 12 figures
journal: NewJ.Phys.10:033016,2008
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Number Theory (math.NT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.0705
abstract: In 1999 Berry and Keating showed that a regularization of the 1D classical Hamiltonian H = xp gives semiclassically the smooth counting function of the Riemann zeros. In this paper we first generalize this result by considering a phase space delimited by two boundary functions in position and momenta, which induce a fluctuation term in the counting of energy levels. We next quantize the xp Hamiltonian, adding an interaction term that depends on two wave functions associated to the classical boundaries in phase space. The general model is solved exactly, obtaining a continuum spectrum with discrete bound states embbeded in it. We find the boundary wave functions, associated to the Berry-Keating regularization, for which the average Riemann zeros become resonances. A spectral realization of the Riemann zeros is achieved exploiting the symmetry of the model under the exchange of position and momenta which is related to the duality symmetry of the zeta function. The boundary wave functions, giving rise to the Riemann zeros, are found using the Riemann-Siegel formula of the zeta function. Other Dirichlet L-functions are shown to find a natural realization in the model.

id: 0712.1164
title: Spectrum of the non-abelian phase in Kitaev's honeycomb lattice model
authors: Ville Lahtinen, Graham Kells, Angelo Carollo, Tim Stitt, Jiri Vala, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 32 pages, 13 figures; corrected typos and changed SU(2)_2 to Ising
journal: Ann. Phys. 323, 2286 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1164
abstract: The spectral properties of Kitaev's honeycomb lattice model are investigated both analytically and numerically with the focus on the non-abelian phase of the model. After summarizing the fermionization technique which maps spins into free Majorana fermions, we evaluate the spectrum of sparse vortex configurations and derive the interaction between two vortices as a function of their separation. We consider the effect vortices can have on the fermionic spectrum as well as on the phase transition between the abelian and non-abelian phases. We explicitly demonstrate the $2^n$-fold ground state degeneracy in the presence of $2n$ well separated vortices and the lifting of the degeneracy due to their short-range interactions. The calculations are performed on an infinite lattice. In addition to the analytic treatment, a numerical study of finite size systems is performed which is in exact agreement with the theoretical considerations. The general spectral properties of the non-abelian phase are considered for various finite toroidal systems.

id: 0712.1346
title: Zeta Function Methods and Quantum Fluctuations
authors: Emilio Elizalde
comments: 17 pages, Talk given at the Conference ``Quantum Theory and Symmetries - 5'', Valladolid (Spain), July 22 - 28, 2007
journal: J.Phys.A41:304040,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1346
abstract: A review of some recent advances in zeta function techniques is given, in problems of pure mathematical nature but also as applied to the computation of quantum vacuum fluctuations in different field theories, and specially with a view to cosmological applications.

id: 0712.1347
title: Dynamical Casimir Effect with Semi-Transparent Mirrors, and Cosmology
authors: Emilio Elizalde
comments: 11 pages, Talk given in the Workshop ``Quantum Field Theory under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT07)'', Leipzig (Germany), September 17 - 21, 2007
journal: J.Phys.A41:164061,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1347
abstract: After reviewing some essential features of the Casimir effect and, specifically, of its regularization by zeta function and Hadamard methods, we consider the dynamical Casimir effect (or Fulling-Davis theory), where related regularization problems appear, with a view to an experimental verification of this theory. We finish with a discussion of the possible contribution of vacuum fluctuations to dark energy, in a Casimir like fashion, that might involve the dynamical version.

id: 0712.1485
title: The parafermion Fock space and explicit so(2n+1) representations
authors: N.I. Stoilova, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 075202
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1485
abstract: The defining relations (triple relations) of n pairs of parafermion operators f_j^\pm (j=1,...,n) are known to coincide with a set of defining relations for the Lie algebra so(2n+1) in terms of 2n generators. With the common Hermiticity conditions, this means that the ``parafermions of order p'' correspond to a finite-dimensional unitary irreducible representation W(p) of so(2n+1), with highest weight (p/2, p/2,..., p/2). Although the dimension and character of W(p) is known by classical formulas, there is no explicit basis of W(p) available in which the parafermion operators have a natural action. In this paper we construct an orthogonal basis for W(p), and we present the explicit actions of the parafermion generators on these basis vectors. We use group theoretical techniques, in which the u(n) subalgebra of so(2n+1) plays a crucial role: a set of Gelfand-Zetlin patterns of u(n) will be used to label the basis vectors of W(p), and also in the explicit action (matrix elements) certain u(n) Clebsch-Gordan coefficients are essential.

id: 0712.1677
title: Quasi-relativistic behavior of cold atoms in light fields
authors: G. Juzeliunas, J. Ruseckas, M. Lindberg, L. Santos, P. Ohberg
comments: 4 pages, updated version, Phys. Rev. A 77, (R)011802 (2008)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1677
abstract: We study the influence of three laser beams on the center of mass motion of cold atoms with internal energy levels in a tripod configuration. We show that similar to electrons in graphene the atomic motion can be equivalent to the dynamics of ultra-relativistic two-component Dirac fermions. We propose and analyze an experimental setup for observing such a quasi-relativistic motion of ultracold atoms. We demonstrate that the atoms can experience negative refraction and focussing by Veselago-type lenses. We also show how the chiral nature of the atomic motion manifests itself as an oscillation of the atomic internal state population which depends strongly on the direction of the center of mass motion. For certain directions an atom remains in its initial state, whereas for other directions the populations undergo oscillations between a pair of internal states.

id: 0712.1806
title: The Quantum Transverse Field Ising Model on an Infinite Tree from Matrix Product States
authors: Daniel Nagaj, Edward Farhi, Jeffrey Goldstone, Peter Shor, Igor Sylvester
comments: 28 pages, 23 figures, PDFlatex
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 214431 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1806
abstract: We give a generalization to an infinite tree geometry of Vidal's infinite time-evolving block decimation (iTEBD) algorithm for simulating an infinite line of quantum spins. We numerically investigate the quantum Ising model in a transverse field on the Bethe lattice using the Matrix Product State ansatz. We observe a second order phase transition, with certain key differences from the transverse field Ising model on an infinite spin chain. We also investigate a transverse field Ising model with a specific longitudinal field. When the transverse field is turned off, this model has a highly degenerate ground state as opposed to the pure Ising model whose ground state is only doubly degenerate.

id: 0712.1823
title: Valley interference effects on a donor electron close to a Si/SiO2 interface
authors: M.J. Calderon, Belita Koiller, S. Das Sarma
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 155302 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1823
abstract: We analyze the effects of valley interference on the quantum control and manipulation of an electron bound to a donor close to a Si/SiO2 interface as a function of the valley-orbit coupling at the interface. We find that, for finite valley-orbit coupling, the tunneling times involved in shuttling the electron between the donor and the interface oscillate with the interface/donor distance in much the same way as the exchange coupling oscillates with the interdonor distance. These oscillations disappear when the ground state at the interface is degenerate (corresponding to zero valley-orbit coupling).

id: 0712.1860
title: Integrability, stability, and adiabaticity in nonlinear stimulated Raman adiabatic passage
authors: A.P.Itin, S.Watanabe
comments: Presented on QUAMP-4 conference (UCL, London); 4 pages; bibliography is slightly extended as compared to a version published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 223903 (2007)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1860
abstract: We study dynamics of a two-color photoassociation of atoms into diatomic molecules via nonlinear Stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) process. This system has a famous counterpart in (linear) quantum mechanics, and been discussed recently in the context of generalizing quantum adiabatic theorem to nonlinear systems. Here we use another approach to study adiabaticity and stability in the system: we apply methods of classical Hamiltonian dynamics. We found nonlinear dynamical instabilities, cases of complete integrability, and improved conditions of adiabaticity.

id: 0712.1875
title: Critique du rapport signal ¨¤ bruit en th¨¦orie de l'information -- A critical appraisal of the signal to noise ratio in information theory
authors: Michel Fliess
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Logic (math.LO); Probability (math.PR); Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1875
abstract: The signal to noise ratio, which plays such an important role in information theory, is shown to become pointless in digital communications where - symbols are modulating carriers, which are solutions of linear differential equations with polynomial coefficients, - demodulations is achieved thanks to new algebraic estimation techniques. Operational calculus, differential algebra and nonstandard analysis are the main mathematical tools.

id: 0712.1908
title: Quantum Zeno Effect in the Quantum Non-Demolition Detection of Itinerant Photons
authors: Ferdinand Helmer, Matteo Mariantoni, Enrique Solano, Florian Marquardt
comments: 4.5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052115 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1908
abstract: We analyze the detection of itinerant photons using a quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement. We show that the backaction due to the continuous measurement imposes a limit on the detector efficiency in such a scheme. We illustrate this using a setup where signal photons have to enter a cavity in order to be detected dispersively. In this approach, the measurement signal is the phase shift imparted to an intense beam passing through a second cavity mode. The restrictions on the fidelity are a consequence of the Quantum Zeno effect, and we discuss both analytical results and quantum trajectory simulations of the measurement process.

id: 0712.1965
title: Oscillator-Morse-Coulomb mappings and algebras for constant or position-dependent mass
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 24 pages, no figure, small change in introduction, one more reference, published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49 (2008) 022106, 15 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1965
abstract: The bound-state solutions and the su(1,1) description of the $d$-dimensional radial harmonic oscillator, the Morse and the $D$-dimensional radial Coulomb Schr\"odinger equations are reviewed in a unified way using the point canonical transformation method. It is established that the spectrum generating su(1,1) algebra for the first problem is converted into a potential algebra for the remaining two. This analysis is then extended to Schr\"odinger equations containing some position-dependent mass. The deformed su(1,1) construction recently achieved for a $d$-dimensional radial harmonic oscillator is easily extended to the Morse and Coulomb potentials. In the last two cases, the equivalence between the resulting deformed su(1,1) potential algebra approach and a previous deformed shape invariance one generalizes to a position-dependent mass background a well-known relationship in the context of constant mass.

id: 0712.1971
title: Quadratic algebras and position-dependent mass Schr?dinger equations
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 6 pages, no figure, communication at the 5th Int. Symp. on Quantum Theory and Symmetries (QTS5), Valladolid, Spain, July 22-28, 2007
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1971
abstract: During recent years, exact solutions of position-dependent mass Schr\"odinger equations have inspired intense research activities, based on the use of point canonical transformations, Lie algebraic methods or supersymmetric quantum mechanical techniques. Here we highlight the interest of another approach to such problems, relying on quadratic algebras. We illustrate this point by constructing spectrum generating algebras for a class of $d$-dimensional radial harmonic oscillators with $d\ge2$ (including the one-dimensional oscillator on the line via some minor changes) and a specific mass choice. This provides us with a counterpart of the well-known su(1,1) Lie algebraic approach to the constant-mass oscillators.

id: 0712.1974
title: On the calculation of the Casimir forces
authors: Eugene B. Kolomeisky, Joseph P. Straley
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1974
abstract: Casimir forces are a manifestation of the change in the zero-point energy of the vacuum caused by the insertion of boundaries. We show how the Casimir force can be computed by consideration of the vacuum fluctuations that are suppressed by the boundaries, and rederive the scalar Casimir effects for a series of geometries. For the planar case a finite universal force is automatically found. For curved geometries formally divergent expressions are encountered which we argue are largely due to the divergent self-energy of the boundary contributing to the force. This idea is supported by computing the effect for a fixed perimeter wedge-arc geometry in two dimensions.

id: 0712.1976
title: Scaling of entanglement support for Matrix Product States
authors: L. Tagliacozzo, Thiago. R. de Oliveira, S. Iblisdir, J. I. Latorre
comments: A new section comparing with previous results. Published version (small differences due to proof corrections)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 024410 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.1976
abstract: The power of matrix product states to describe infinite-size translational-invariant critical spin chains is investigated. At criticality, the accuracy with which they describe ground state properties of a system is limited by the size $\chi$ of the matrices that form the approximation. This limitation is quantified in terms of the scaling of the half-chain entanglement entropy. In the case of the quantum Ising model, we find $S \sim {1/6}\log \chi$ with high precision. This result can be understood as the emergence of an effective finite correlation length $\xi_\chi$ ruling of all the scaling properties in the system. We produce five extra pieces of evidence for this finite-$\chi$ scaling, namely, the scaling of the correlation length, the scaling of magnetization, the shift of the critical point, and the scaling of the entanglement entropy for a finite block of spins. All our computations are consistent with a scaling relation of the form $\xi_\chi\sim \chi^{\kappa}$, with $\kappa=2$ for the Ising model. In the case of the Heisenberg model, we find similar results with the value $\kappa\sim 1.37$. We also show how finite-$\chi$ scaling allow to extract critical exponents. These results are obtained using the infinite time evolved block decimation algorithm which works in the thermodynamical limit and are verified to agree with density matrix renormalization group results.

id: 0712.2010
title: On the ODE/IM correspondence for minimal models
authors: Patrick Dorey, Clare Dunning, Ferdinando Gliozzi, Roberto Tateo
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures; typos corrected and reference added
journal: J.Phys.A41:132001,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2010
abstract: Within the framework of the ODE/IM correspondence, we show that the minimal conformal field theories with c<1 emerge naturally from the monodromy properties of certain families of ordinary differential equations.

id: 0712.2045
title: Quantum Criticality in Heavy Fermion Metals
authors: Philipp Gegenwart, Qimiao Si, Frank Steglich
comments: (v2) 39 pages, 8 figures; shortened per the editorial mandate; to appear in Nature Physics. (v1) 43 pages, 8 figures; Non-technical review article, intended for general readers; the discussion part contains more specialized topics
journal: Nature Physics 4, 186 - 197 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2045
abstract: Quantum criticality describes the collective fluctuations of matter undergoing a second-order phase transition at zero temperature. Heavy fermion metals have in recent years emerged as prototypical systems to study quantum critical points. There have been considerable efforts, both experimental and theoretical, which use these magnetic systems to address problems that are central to the broad understanding of strongly correlated quantum matter. Here, we summarize some of the basic issues, including i) the extent to which the quantum criticality in heavy fermion metals goes beyond the standard theory of order-parameter fluctuations, ii) the nature of the Kondo effect in the quantum critical regime, iii) the non-Fermi liquid phenomena that accompany quantum criticality, and iv) the interplay between quantum criticality and unconventional superconductivity.

id: 0712.2070
title: Analytic models of ultra-cold atomic collisions at negative energies for application to confinement-induced resonances
authors: S. G. Bhongale, S. J. J. M. F. Kokkelmans, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052702 (2008)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2070
abstract: We construct simple analytic models of the $S$-matrix, accounting for both scattering resonances and smooth background contributions for collisions that occur below the s-wave threshold. Such models are important for studying confinement-induced resonances such as those occurring in cold collisions of $^{133}$Cs atoms in separated sites of a polarization-gradient optical lattice. Because these resonances occur at negative energy with respect to the s-wave threshold, they cannot be studied easily using direct numerical solutions of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation. Using our analytic model, we extend previous studies of negative-energy scattering to the multichannel case, accounting for the interplay of Feshbach resonances, large background scattering lengths, and inelastic processes.

id: 0712.2276
title: Approximation and limit theorems for quantum stochastic models with unbounded coefficients
authors: Luc Bouten, Ramon van Handel, Andrew Silberfarb
comments: 23 pages
journal: Journal of Functional Analysis 254 (2008) 3123-3147
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2276
abstract: We prove a limit theorem for quantum stochastic differential equations with unbounded coefficients which extends the Trotter-Kato theorem for contraction semigroups. From this theorem, general results on the convergence of approximations and singular perturbations are obtained. The results are illustrated in several examples of physical interest.

id: 0712.2439
title: Electron fractionalization for two-dimensional Dirac fermions
authors: Claudio Chamon, Chang-Yu Hou, Roman Jackiw, Christopher Mudry, So-Young Pi, Gordon Semenoff
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.B77:235431,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2439
abstract: Fermion-number fractionalization without breaking of time-reversal symmetry was recently demonstrated for a field theory in $(2+1)$-dimensional space and time that describes the couplings between massive Dirac fermions, a complex-valued Higgs field carrying an axial gauge charge of 2, and a U(1) axial gauge field. Charge fractionalization occurs whenever the Higgs field either supports vortices by itself, or when these vortices are accompanied by half-vortices in the axial gauge field. The fractional charge is computed by three different techniques. A formula for the fractional charge is given as a function of a parameter in the Dirac Hamiltonian that breaks the spectral energy-reflection symmetry. In the presence of a charge $\pm1$ vortex in the Higgs field only, the fractional charge varies continuously and thus can take irrational values. The simultaneous presence of a half-vortex in the axial gauge field and a charge $\pm1$ vortex in the Higgs field re-rationalizes the fractional charge to the value 1/2.

id: 0712.2481
title: A Higher Order Non--Linear Differential Equation and a Generalization of the Airy Function
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex ; 6 pages ; no figure. This is my mathematical note
journal: Far East Journal of Mathematical Education, 13(2014) 57-63
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2481
abstract: In this paper a higher order non-linear differential equation is given and it becomes a higher order Airy equation (in our terminology) under the Cole-Hopf transformation. For the even case a solution is explicitly constructed, which is a generalization of the Airy function.

id: 0712.2522
title: Two-resonator circuit QED: A superconducting quantum switch
authors: Matteo Mariantoni, Frank Deppe, A. Marx, R. Gross, F. K. Wilhelm, E. Solano
comments: Published in Phys. Rev. B, major changes, 24 pages, 8 figures, REVTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 104508 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2522
abstract: We introduce a systematic formalism for two-resonator circuit QED, where two on-chip microwave resonators are simultaneously coupled to one superconducting qubit. Within this framework, we demonstrate that the qubit can function as a quantum switch between the two resonators, which are assumed to be originally independent. In this three-circuit network, the qubit mediates a geometric second-order circuit interaction between the otherwise decoupled resonators. In the dispersive regime, it also gives rise to a dynamic second-order perturbative interaction. The geometric and dynamic coupling strengths can be tuned to be equal, thus permitting to switch on and off the interaction between the two resonators via a qubit population inversion or a shifting of the qubit operation point. We also show that our quantum switch represents a flexible architecture for the manipulation and generation of nonclassical microwave field states as well as the creation of controlled multipartite entanglement in circuit QED. In addition, we clarify the role played by the geometric interaction, which constitutes a fundamental property characteristic of superconducting quantum circuits without counterpart in quantum-optical systems. We develop a detailed theory of the geometric second-order coupling by means of circuit transformations for superconducting charge and flux qubits. Furthermore, we show the robustness of the quantum switch operation with respect to decoherence mechanisms. Finally, we propose a realistic design for a two-resonator circuit QED setup based on a flux qubit and estimate all the related parameters. In this manner, we show that this setup can be used to implement a superconducting quantum switch with available technology.

id: 0712.2736
title: A Note on the Statistics of Hardcore Fermions
authors: T.D. Palev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2736
abstract: It is shown that the statistics of the hardcore fermions is A-superstatistics of order one [see T.D.P. J. Math. Phys. 21, 1293 (1980)]. The Pauli principle for these particles is formulated. The Hubbard operators, which constitute a basis in the Lie superalgebra gl(1|n), are expressed via the creation and the annihilation operators of the hardcore fermions.

id: 0712.3008
title: Classical and Quantum Features of the Mixmaster Singularity
authors: Giovanni Montani, Marco Valerio Battisti, Riccardo Benini, Giovanni Imponente
comments: 170 pages, 14 figures, ~500 references. Invited review paper to appear on Int. J. Mod. Phys. A. v2: minor changes, references added. v3: Conclusions added
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A23:2353-2503,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3008
abstract: This review article is devoted to analyze the main properties characterizing the cosmological singularity associated to the homogeneous and inhomogeneous Mixmaster model. After the introduction of the main tools required to treat the cosmological issue, we review in details the main results got along the last forty years on the Mixmaster topic. We firstly assess the classical picture of the homogeneous chaotic cosmologies and, after a presentation of the canonical method for the quantization, we develop the quantum Mixmaster behavior. Finally, we extend both the classical and quantum features to the fully inhomogeneous case. Our survey analyzes the fundamental framework of the Mixmaster picture and completes it by accounting for recent and peculiar outstanding results.

id: 0712.3258
title: Systematic Numerical Study of the Propagation of Monochromatic Radiation through a Stationary Atmosphere in a Model of Plane Plane-Parallel Layers
authors: N. Antonietti, M. Mondin, G. Catastini, G. Brida, M. Genovese
comments: 
journal: Laser Physics, 2007, Vol. 17, No. 12, pp. 1389-1397
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3258
abstract: In this paper, the authors compare the security bounds for different quantum communication protocols with the numerically evaluated losses in the transmission channel, due to the interaction between the atmosphere and the photon, which is the information carrier. The analysis is carried out using a free-source library, which can solve the radiative transfer equation for a parallel-plane atmosphere.

id: 0712.3318
title: Locality Estimates for Quantum Spin Systems
authors: Bruno Nachtergaele, Robert Sims
comments: Contribution for the proceedings of ICMP XV, Rio de Janeiro, 2006
journal: in: Sidoravicius, Vladas (Ed.), New Trends in Mathematical Physics. Selected contributions of the XVth International Congress on Mathematical Physics, Springer Verlag, 2009, pp 591--614.
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3318
abstract: We review some recent results that express or rely on the locality properties of the dynamics of quantum spin systems. In particular, we present a slightly sharper version of the recently obtained Lieb-Robinson bound on the group velocity for such systems on a large class of metric graphs. Using this bound we provide expressions of the quasi-locality of the dynamics in various forms, present a proof of the Exponential Clustering Theorem, and discuss a multi-dimensional Lieb-Schultz-Mattis Theorem.

id: 0712.3566
title: Coherent oscillations in superconducting cold Fermi atoms and their applications
authors: Razvan Teodorescu
comments: Invited chapter in "Leading-edge Superconductivity Research Developments", Nova
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3566
abstract: Recent achievements in experiments with cold fermionic atoms indicate the potential for developing novel superconducting devices which may be operated in a wide range of regimes, at a level of precision previously not available. Unlike traditional, solid-state superconducting devices, the cold-atom systems allow the fast switching on of the BCS phase, and the observation of non-equilibrium, coherent oscillations of the order parameter. The integrable and non-linear nature of the equations of motions makes this operating regime particularly rich in potential applications, such as quantum modulation and encoding, or nonlinear mixing of quantum coherent oscillations, to name only two. From a mathematical point of view, such systems can be described using the Knizhnik-Zamolodchikov-Bernard equation, or more generally, by the matrix Kadomtsev-Petviashvilii integrable hierarchy. This identification is particularly useful, since it allows a direct application of the known non-linear phenomena described by particular solutions of these equations. Other important features of this formulation, such as the relation to the spin Calogero-Sutherland model, also have relevant physical interpretations. In this work, a complete description of these relationships is presented, along with their potential practical consequences.

id: 0712.3609
title: Postcorrection and mathematical model of life in Extended Everett's Concept
authors: Michael B. Mensky
comments: Comments: 24 pages, 1 figure, LaTeX, Journal URL: this http URL
journal: NeuroQuantology Vol 5, No 4, 363-376 (2007)
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3609
abstract: Extended Everett's Concept (EEC) recently developed by the author to explain the phenomenon of consciousness is considered. A mathematical model is proposed for the principal feature of consciousness assumed in EEC, namely its ability (in the state of sleep, trance or meditation, when the explicit consciousness is disabled) to obtain information from all alternative classical realities (Everett's worlds) and select the favorable realities. To represent this ability, a mathematical operation called postcorrection is introduced, which corrects the present state to guarantee certain characteristics of the future state. Evolution of living matter is thus determined by goals (first of all by the goal of survival) as well as by causes. The resulting theory, in a way symmetrical in time direction, follows from a sort of antropic principle. Possible criteria for postcorrection and corresponding phenomena in the sphere of life are classified. Both individual and collective criteria of survival are considered as well as the criteria providing certain quality of life and those which are irrelevant to the life quality. The phenomena of free will and direct sighting of truth (e.g. scientific insight) are explained in these terms. The problem of artificial intellect and the role of brain look differently in the framework of this theory. Automats may perform intellectual operations, but not postcorrection, therefore artificial intellect but not an artificial life can be created. The brain serves as an interface between the body and consciousness, but the most profound level of consciousness is not a function of brain.

id: 0712.3682
title: Two-Dimensional Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics: Two Fixed Centers of Force
authors: M.A. Gonzalez Leon, J. Mateos Guilarte, M. de la Torre Mayado
comments: This is a contribution to the Proc. of the Seventh International Conference ''Symmetry in Nonlinear Mathematical Physics'' (June 24-30, 2007, Kyiv, Ukraine), published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 3:124,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3682
abstract: The problem of building supersymmetry in the quantum mechanics of two Coulombian centers of force is analyzed. It is shown that there are essentially two ways of proceeding. The spectral problems of the SUSY (scalar) Hamiltonians are quite similar and become tantamount to solving entangled families of Razavy and Whittaker-Hill equations in the first approach. When the two centers have the same strength, the Whittaker-Hill equations reduce to Mathieu equations. In the second approach, the spectral problems are much more difficult to solve but one can still find the zero-energy ground states.

id: 0712.3811
title: Multiple Scattering Methods in Casimir Calculations
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Jef Wagner
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures, ReVTEX. Introduction shortened, Appendix A expanded, references added
journal: J.Phys.A41:155402,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3811
abstract: Multiple scattering formulations have been employed for more than 30 years as a method of studying the quantum vacuum or Casimir interactions between distinct bodies. Here we review the method in the simple context of $\delta$-function potentials, so-called semitransparent bodies. (In the limit of strong coupling, a semitransparent boundary becomes a Dirichlet one.) After applying the method to rederive the Casimir force between two semitransparent plates and the Casimir self-stress on a semitransparent sphere, we obtain expressions for the Casimir energies between disjoint parallel semitransparent cylinders and between disjoint semitransparent spheres. Simplifications occur for weak and strong coupling. In particular, after performing a power series expansion in the ratio of the radii of the objects to the separation between them, we are able to sum the weak-coupling expansions exactly to obtain explicit closed forms for the Casimir interaction energy. The same can be done for the interaction of a weak-coupling sphere or cylinder with a Dirichlet plane. We show that the proximity force approximation (PFA), which becomes the proximity force theorem when the objects are almost touching, is very poor for finite separations.

id: 0712.3820
title: Lieb-Robinson Bounds for Harmonic and Anharmonic Lattice Systems
authors: Bruno Nachtergaele, Hillel Raz, Benjamin Schlein, Robert Sims
comments: 
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 286 (2009) 1073--1098
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3820
abstract: We prove Lieb-Robinson bounds for the dynamics of systems with an infinite dimensional Hilbert space and generated by unbounded Hamiltonians. In particular, we consider quantum harmonic and certain anharmonic lattice systems.

id: 0712.3925
title: QIS-XML: A metadata specification for Quantum Information Science
authors: Pascal Heus, Richard Gomez
comments: 26 pages, 22 figures
journal: 
subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Databases (cs.DB); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3925
abstract: While Quantum Information Science (QIS) is still in its infancy, the ability for quantum based hardware or computers to communicate and integrate with their classical counterparts will be a major requirement towards their success. Little attention however has been paid to this aspect of QIS. To manage and exchange information between systems, today's classic Information Technology (IT) commonly uses the eXtensible Markup Language (XML) and its related tools. XML is composed of numerous specifications related to various fields of expertise. No such global specification however has been defined for quantum computers. QIS-XML is a proposed XML metadata specification for the description of fundamental components of QIS (gates & circuits) and a platform for the development of a hardware independent low level pseudo-code for quantum algorithms. This paper lays out the general characteristics of the QIS-XML specification and outlines practical applications through prototype use cases.

id: 0712.3955
title: Build-up of coherence between initially-independent subsystems: The case of Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: O. E. Alon, A. I. Streltsov, L. S. Cederbaum
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373, 301 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3955
abstract: When initially-independent subsystems are made to contact, {\it coherence} can develop due to interaction between them. We exemplify and demonstrate this paradigm through several scenarios of two initially-independent Bose-Einstein condensates which are allowed to collide. The build-up of coherence depends strongly on time, interaction strength and other parameters of each condensate. Implications are discussed.

id: 0712.3989
title: Shot noise in a quantum dot coupled to non-magnetic leads: Effects of Coulomb interaction
authors: Shi-Hua Ouyang, Chi-Hang Lam, J. Q. You
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 64, 67 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3989
abstract: We study electron transport through a quantum dot, connected to non-magnetic leads, in a magnetic field. A super-Poissonian electron noise due to the effects of both interacting localized states and dynamic channel blockade is found when the Coulomb blockade is partially lifted. This is sharp contrast to the sub-Poissonian shot noise found in the previous studies for a large bias voltage, where the Coulomb blockade is completely lifted. Moreover, we show that the super-Poissonian shot noise can be suppressed by applying an electron spin resonance (ESR) driving field. For a sufficiently strong ESR driving field strength, the super-Poissonian shot noise will change to be sub-Poissonian.

id: 0712.4163
title: The probability of entanglement
authors: William Arveson
comments: Significant revisions and clarifications, more references. 33 pages
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4163
abstract: We show that states on tensor products of matrix algebras whose ranks are relatively small are {\em almost surely} entangled, but that states of maximum rank are not. More precisely, let $M=M_m(\mathbb C)$ and $N=M_n(\mathbb C)$ be full matrix algebras with $m\geq n$, fix an arbitrary state $\omega$ of $N$, and let $E(\omega)$ be the set of all states of $M\otimes N$ that extend $\omega$. The space $E(\omega)$ contains states of rank $r$ for every $r=1,2,...,m\cdot\rank\omega$, and it has a filtration into compact subspaces $$ E^1(\omega)\subseteq E^2(\omega)\subseteq ...\subseteq E^{m\cdot\rank\omega}=E(\omega), $$ where $E^r(\omega)$ is the set of all states of $E(\omega)$ having rank $\leq r$. We show first that for every $r$, there is a real-analytic manifold $V^r$, homogeneous under a transitive action of a compact group $G^r$, which parameterizes $E^r(\omega)$. The unique $G^r$-invariant probability measure on $V^r$ promotes to a probability measure $P^{r,\omega}$ on $E^r(\omega)$, and $P^{r,\omega}$ assigns probability 1 to states of rank $r$. The resulting probability space $(E^r(\omega),P^{r,\omega})$ represents ``choosing a rank $r$ extension of $\omega$ at random". Main result: For every $r=1,2,...,[\rank \omega/2]$, states of $(E^r(\omega),P^{r,\omega})$ are almost surely entangled.

id: 0712.4262
title: Two-dimensional Schr?dinger Hamiltonians with Effective Mass in SUSY Approach
authors: F. Cannata, M. V. Ioffe, D. N. Nishnianidze
comments: 16 pages
journal: Annals Phys.323:2624-2632,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4262
abstract: The general solution of SUSY intertwining relations of first order for two-dimensional Schr\"odinger operators with position-dependent (effective) mass is built in terms of four arbitrary functions. The procedure of separation of variables for the constructed potentials is demonstrated in general form. The generalization for intertwining of second order is also considered. The general solution for a particular form of intertwining operator is found, its properties - symmetry, irreducibility, separation of variables - are investigated.

id: 0712.4349
title: Entanglement propagation through spin chains in the presence of a staggered magnetic field
authors: R. H. Crooks, D. V. Khveshchenko
comments: Latex, 4+ pages
journal: Phy. Rev. A77, 062305 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4349
abstract: We study the dynamics of entanglement in the XY spin chain subject to a staggered magnetic field and contrast it to the previously studied uniform field case. We find that, depending on parameter values, a staggered field can provide better conditions for a perfect entanglement transfer, while even a modest amount of exchange anisotropy appears to have a strong detrimental effect. We also study interactions between different waves of entanglement and assess the possibility of simultaneous transmission of multiple bits of quantum information.

id: 0712.4403
title: Localization-Entropy from Holography on Null-Surfaces and the Split Property
authors: Bert Schroer
comments: 35 pages, removal of misprints, bibliographical shortcomings repaired, added paragraph in section 6
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.4403
abstract: Using the conformal equivalence of translational KMS states on chiral theories with dilational KMS states obtained from restricting the vacuum state to an interval (the chiral inversion of the Unruh-effect) it was shown in a previous publications that the diverging volume (length) factor of the thermodynamic limit corresponds to the logarithmic increase in the attenuation length of the localization-caused vacuum polarization cloud near the causal boundary. This is not a coincidence but rather a structural consequence of the fact that both operator algebras are of the same unique von Neumann type which is completely different from that met in quantum mechanical algebras. Together with the technique of holographic projection this leads to the universal area proportionality. The main aim in this paper is to present a derivation which is more in the spirit of recent work on entanglement entropy in condensed matter physics, especially to that of the replica trick as used by Cardy and collaborators. The essential new ingredient is the use of the split property which already has shown its constructive power in securing the existence of models of factorizing theories.

id: 0712.3685
title: The Scalar Field Kernel in Cosmological Spaces
authors: Jurjen F. Koksma, Tomislav Prokopec, Gerasimos I. Rigopoulos
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.25:125009,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3685
abstract: We construct the quantum mechanical evolution operator in the Functional Schrodinger picture - the kernel - for a scalar field in spatially homogeneous FLRW spacetimes when the field is a) free and b) coupled to a spacetime dependent source term. The essential element in the construction is the causal propagator, linked to the commutator of two Heisenberg picture scalar fields. We show that the kernels can be expressed solely in terms of the causal propagator and derivatives of the causal propagator. Furthermore, we show that our kernel reveals the standard light cone structure in FLRW spacetimes. We finally apply the result to Minkowski spacetime, to de Sitter spacetime and calculate the forward time evolution of the vacuum in a general FLRW spacetime.

id: 0712.2225
title: How to Enhance Dephasing Time in Superconducting Qubits
authors: L. Cywinski, R.M. Lutchyn, C.P. Nave, S. Das Sarma
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, extended version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 174509 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2225
abstract: We theoretically investigate the influence of designed pulse sequences in restoring quantum coherence lost due to background noise in superconducting qubits. We consider both 1/f noise and Random Telegraph Noise, and show that the qubit coherence time can be substantially enhanced by carefully engineered pulse sequences. Conversely, the time dependence of qubit coherence under external pulse sequences could be used as a spectroscopic tool for extracting the noise mechanisms in superconducting qubits, i.e. by using Uhrig's pulse sequence one can obtain information about moments of the spectral density of noise. We also study the effect of pulse sequences on the evolution of the qubit affected by a strongly coupled fluctuator, and show that the non-Gaussian features in decoherence are suppressed by the application of pulses.

id: 0712.2256
title: Spin-orbit coupled Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Tudor Stanescu, Brandon Anderson, Victor Galitski
comments: published version, 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 023616 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2256
abstract: We consider a many-body system of pseudo-spin-1/2 bosons with spin-orbit interactions, which couple the momentum and the internal pseudo-spin degree of freedom created by spatially varying laser fields. The corresponding single- particle spectrum is generally anisotropic and contains two degenerate minima at finite momenta. At low temperatures, the many-body system condenses into these minima generating a new type of entangled Bose-Einstein condensate. We show that in the presence of weak density-density interactions the many-body ground state is characterized by a twofold degeneracy. The corresponding many-body wave function describes a condensate of ``left-'' and ``right-moving'' bosons. By fine-tuning the parameters of the laser field, one can obtain a bosonic version of the spin-orbit coupled Rashba model. In this symmetric case, the degeneracy of the ground state is very large, which may lead to phases with nontrivial topological properties. We argue that the predicted new type of Bose-Einstein condensates can be observed experimentally via time-of-flight imaging, which will show characteristic multipeak structures in momentum distribution.

id: 0712.2288
title: CP Measurement in Quantum Teleportation of Neutral Mesons
authors: Yu Shi, Yue-Liang Wu
comments: 7 pages
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C55:477-482,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.2288
abstract: Quantum teleportation using neutral pseudoscalar mesons shows novel connections between particle physics and quantum information. The projection basis, which is crucial in the teleportation process, is determined by the conservation laws of particle physics, and is different from the Bell basis, as in the usual case. Here we show that one can verify the teleportation process by CP measurement. This method significantly simplifies the high energy quantum teleportation protocol. Especially, it is rigorous, and is independent of whether CP is violated in weak decays. This method can also be applied to general verification of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations in particle physics.

id: 0712.3581
title: Suppressing Charge Noise Decoherence in Superconducting Charge Qubits
authors: J. A. Schreier, A. A. Houck, Jens Koch, D. I. Schuster, B. R. Johnson, J. M. Chow, J. M. Gambetta, J. Majer, L. Frunzio, M. H. Devoret, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 4+ pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 180502(R) (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0712.3581
abstract: We present an experimental realization of the transmon qubit, an improved superconducting charge qubit derived from the Cooper pair box. We experimentally verify the predicted exponential suppression of sensitivity to 1/f charge noise [J. Koch et al., Phys. Rev. A 76, 042319 (2007)]. This removes the leading source of dephasing in charge qubits, resulting in homogenously broadened transitions with relaxation and dephasing times in the microsecond range. Our systematic characterization of the qubit spectrum, anharmonicity, and charge dispersion shows excellent agreement with theory, rendering the transmon a promising qubit for future steps towards solid-state quantum information processing.

