id: 0801.0012
title: Semiclassical Coulomb field
authors: Janos Polonyi
comments: Final version to appear in Physical Review D, 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D77:125018,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0012
abstract: The contribution of different modes of the Coulomb field to decoherence and to the dynamical breakdown of the time reversal invariance is calculated in the one-loop approximation for non-relativistic electron gas. The dominant contribution was found to come from the usual collective modes in the plasma, namely the zero-sound and the plasmon oscillations. The length scale of the quantum-classical transition is found to be close to the Thomas-Fermi screening length. It is argued that the extension of these modes to the whole Fock-space yield optimal pointer states.

id: 0801.0078
title: Individual addressing of trapped ions and coupling of motional and spin states using rf radiation
authors: M. Johanning, A. Braun, N. Timoney, V. Elman, W. Neuhauser, Chr. Wunderlich
comments: Replaced with published version
journal: Physical Review Letters 102, 073004 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0078
abstract: Individual electrodynamically trapped and laser cooled ions are addressed in frequency space using radio-frequency radiation in the presence of a static magnetic field gradient. In addition, an interaction between motional and spin states induced by an rf field is demonstrated employing rf-optical double resonance spectroscopy. These are two essential experimental steps towards realizing a novel concept for implementing quantum simulations and quantum computing with trapped ions.

id: 0801.0094
title: An analytical error model for quantum computer simulation
authors: Eric Chi, Stephen A. Lyon, Margaret Martonosi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0094
abstract: Quantum computers (QCs) must implement quantum error correcting codes (QECCs) to protect their logical qubits from errors, and modeling the effectiveness of QECCs on QCs is an important problem for evaluating the QC architecture. The previously developed Monte Carlo (MC) error models may take days or weeks of execution to produce an accurate result due to their random sampling approach. We present an alternative analytical error model that generates, over the course of executing the quantum program, a probability tree of the QC's error states. By calculating the fidelity of the quantum program directly, this error model has the potential for enormous speedups over the MC model when applied to small yet useful problem sizes. We observe a speedup on the order of 1,000X when accuracy is required, and we evaluate the scaling properties of this new analytical error model.

id: 0801.0096
title: Can Classical Noise Enhance Quantum Transmission?
authors: Mark M. Wilde
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, replaced with published version that includes new section on imperfect entanglement and references to J. J. Ting's earlier work
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 42, 325301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0096
abstract: A modified quantum teleportation protocol broadens the scope of the classical forbidden-interval theorems for stochastic resonance. The fidelity measures performance of quantum communication. The sender encodes the two classical bits for quantum teleportation as weak bipolar subthreshold signals and sends them over a noisy classical channel. Two forbidden-interval theorems provide a necessary and sufficient condition for the occurrence of the nonmonotone stochastic resonance effect in the fidelity of quantum teleportation. The condition is that the noise mean must fall outside a forbidden interval related to the detection threshold and signal value. An optimal amount of classical noise benefits quantum communication when the sender transmits weak signals, the receiver detects with a high threshold, and the noise mean lies outside the forbidden interval. Theorems and simulations demonstrate that both finite-variance and infinite-variance noise benefit the fidelity of quantum teleportation.

id: 0801.0119
title: Spectrum of coherently backscattered light from two atoms
authors: Vyacheslav Shatokhin, Thomas Wellens, Beno?t Gr¨¦maud, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 043832 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0119
abstract: We present a detailed analytical and numerical analysis of the inelastic coherent backscattering spectrum of laser light incident on cold atoms. We identify frequency domains where the interference contribution can be positive \emph{as well as} negative -- or exhibits dispersive character. These distinctive features are explained by reciprocity arguments and dressed state two-photon scattering amplitudes.

id: 0801.0128
title: Nonlocality in unambiguous pure-state identification without classical knowledge
authors: A. Hayashi, Y. Ishida, T. Hashimoto, M. Horibe
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0128
abstract: For two bipartite pure states, we consider the problem of unambiguous identification without classical knowledge on the states. The optimal success probability by means of local operations and classical communication is shown to be less than the maximum attainable by the global measuring scheme.

id: 0801.0177
title: Three-party d-level quantum secret sharing protocol
authors: Dong Pyo Chi, Jeong Woon Choi, Jeong San Kim, Taewan Kim, Soojoon Lee
comments: 4 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 255309 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0177
abstract: We develop a three-party quantum secret sharing protocol based on arbitrary dimensional quantum states. In contrast to the previous quantum secret sharing protocols, the sender can always control the state, just using local operations, for adjusting the correlation of measurement directions of three parties and thus there is no waste of resource due to the discord between the directions. Moreover, our protocol contains the hidden value which enables the sender to leak no information of secret key to the dishonest receiver until the last steps of the procedure.

id: 0801.0183
title: The large nonlinearity scale limit of an information-theoretically motivated nonlinear Schrodinger equation
authors: Le-Huy Nguyen, Hai-Siong Tan, Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: Presented at the Quantum Theory and Symmetries-5 conference held at Valladolid, Spain; July 2007. 11pages, inclusive of 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0183
abstract: A nonlinear Schrodinger equation, that had been obtained within the context of the maximum uncertainty principle, has the form of a difference-differential equation and exhibits some interesting properties. Here we discuss that equation in the regime where the nonlinearity length scale is large compared to the deBroglie wavelength; just as in the perturbative regime, the equation again displays some universality. We also briefly discuss stationary solutions to a naturally induced discretisation of that equation.

id: 0801.0188
title: The evolution of free wave packets
authors: Mark Andrews
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, didactic paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0188
abstract: We discuss four general features of force-free evolution: (1) The spatial spread of any packet changes with time in a very simple way. (2) Over sufficiently short periods of time (whose duration is related to the spread in momentum of the packet) the probability distribution moves but there is little change in shape. (3) After a sufficiently long period (related to the initial spatial spread) the packet settles into a simple form simply related to the momentum distribution in the packet. In this asymptotic regime, the shape of the probability distribution no longer changes except for its scale, which increases linearly with the time. (4) There is an infinite denumerable set of simple wave packets (the Hermite-Gauss packets) that do not change shape as they evolve.

id: 0801.0230
title: Local basis-dependent noise-induced Bell-nonlocality sudden death in tripartite systems
authors: Gregg Jaeger, Kevin Ann
comments: 8 pages, Physics Letters A (accepted 11/19/07)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0230
abstract: We demonstrate that multipartite Bell-inequality violations can be fully destroyed in finite time in three-qubit systems subject only to the mechanism of local external asymptotic dephasing noise. This broadens the study of local-noise-induced sudden death of nonlocal behavior, extending it beyond the realm of bipartite systems, to which it had previously been restricted.

id: 0801.0256
title: Passively self-error-rejecting qubit transmission over a collective-noise channel
authors: Fu-Guo Deng, Xi-Han Li, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. The finial version of arXiv:0801.0256 after it is originally submitted online on 1 Jan 2008
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, 11 (2011) 0913 - 0924
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0256
abstract: We propose a passively self-error-rejecting single-qubit transmission scheme for an arbitrary polarization state of a single qubit over a collective-noise channel, without resorting to additional qubits and entanglement. By splitting a single qubit into some wavepackets with some Mach-Zehnder interferometers, we can obtain an uncorrupted state with a success probability approaching 100% via postselection in different time bins, independent of the parameters of collective noise. It is simpler and more flexible than the schemes utilizing decoherence-free subspace and those with additional qubits. One can directly apply this scheme to almost all quantum communication protocols based on single photons or entangled photon systems against a collective noise.

id: 0801.0259
title: Stable and deterministic quantum key distribution based on differential phase shift
authors: Bao-Kui Zhao, Yu-Bo Sheng, Fu-Guo Deng, Feng-Shou Zhang, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inform. 7 (2009) 739-745
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0259
abstract: We present a stable and deterministic quantum key distribution (QKD) system based on differential phase shift. With three cascaded Mach-Zehnder interferometers with different arm-length differences for creating key, its key creation efficiency can be improved to be 7/8, more than other systems. Any birefringence effects and polarization-dependent losses in the long-distance fiber are automatically compensated with a Faraday mirror. Added an eavesdropping check, this system is more secure than some other phase-coding-based QKD systems. Moreover, the classical information exchanged is reduces largely and the modulation of phase shifts is simplified. All these features make this QKD system more convenient than others in a practical application.

id: 0801.0282
title: Smooth Renyi Entropies and the Quantum Information Spectrum
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Renato Renner
comments: 
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 55, pp. 2807-2815, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0282
abstract: Many of the traditional results in information theory, such as the channel coding theorem or the source coding theorem, are restricted to scenarios where the underlying resources are independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) over a large number of uses. To overcome this limitation, two different techniques, the information spectrum method and the smooth entropy framework, have been developed independently. They are based on new entropy measures, called spectral entropy rates and smooth entropies, respectively, that generalize Shannon entropy (in the classical case) and von Neumann entropy (in the more general quantum case). Here, we show that the two techniques are closely related. More precisely, the spectral entropy rate can be seen as the asymptotic limit of the smooth entropy. Our results apply to the quantum setting and thus include the classical setting as a special case.

id: 0801.0310
title: Entanglement between a Two-level System and a Quantum Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Kwan-yuet Ho
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0310
abstract: The entanglement between a Pauli-like two-level system and a quantum harmonic oscillator enhanced by an interaction between them and a $\delta$-pulse sequence is studied, with the decoherence due to their coupling with a Markovian bath. Without the Markovian bath, the entanglement is enhanced to maximum possible values. With the Markovian bath, the entanglement is enhanced up to some time and then dissipated, with the system in thermal equilibrium with the Markovian bath after a very long time. The time for achieving the maximum entanglement shows discontinuous jumps over the parameters of decoherence.

id: 0801.0328
title: Fiber based source of photon pairs at telecom band with high temporal coherence and brightness for quantum information processing
authors: Xiaoying Li, Lei Yang, Liang Cui, Zhe Yu Ou, Daoyin Yu
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0328
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a bright pulsed source of correlated photon pairs at 1550 nm telecom band by pumping 300 m dispersion shifted fiber with a 4 ps pulse train. We investigate the coherence property of the source by measuring the second order intensity correlation function $g^{(2)}$ of individual signal (idler) photons. A preliminary Hong-Ou-Mandel type two-photon interference experiment with two such sources confirms the high temporal and spatial coherence of the source. The source is suitable for multi-photon quantum interference of independent sources, required in quantum information processing.

id: 0801.0342
title: Wavefunction preparation and resampling using a quantum computer
authors: Alexei Kitaev, William A. Webb
comments: version 2: a shorter, more focused introduction
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0342
abstract: We present an algorithm that prepares multidimensional Gaussian wavefunctions on qubit arrays and an application of such wavefunctions to multidimensional resampling, a technique useful in quantum digital simulation.

id: 0801.0361
title: Is the quantum adiabatic theorem consistent?
authors: Jiangfeng Du, Lingzhi Hu, Ya Wang, Jianda Wu, Meisheng Zhao, Dieter Suter
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0361
abstract: The quantum adiabatic theorem states that if a quantum system starts in an eigenstate of the Hamiltonian, and this Hamiltonian varies sufficiently slowly, the system stays in this eigenstate. We investigate experimentally the conditions that must be fulfilled for this theorem to hold. We show that the traditional adiabatic condition as well as some conditions that were recently suggested are either not sufficient or not necessary. Experimental evidence is presented by a simple experiment using nuclear spins.

id: 0801.0392
title: Spinning Particle with Anomalous Magnetic Moment in an External Plane Wave Field
authors: A. Barducci, R. Giachetti
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0392
abstract: In this paper we study the interaction of a Dirac-Pauli particle with an electromagnetic plane wave, by using a previously given generalization of the pseudo-classical Lagrangian for a spinning particle with an anomalous magnetic moment. We derive the explicit expressions for the eigenfunctions and the Green's functions of the theory. We discuss the validity of the semi-classical approach by comparing the wavefunctions with the (pseudo)-classical solutions of the Hamilton-Jacobi equation.

id: 0801.0403
title: The non-conditional nature of the Cerf-Adami inequalities and implications for thermodynamics
authors: Ian T. Durham
comments: Major revision after most recent review; 8 pages; consolidates, condenses, and improves upon arXiv:quant-ph/0612015 and arXiv:quant-ph/0703027
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0403
abstract: We show that the Cerf-Adami inequalities do not necessarily depend on conditional entropies nor any reference to Markov chains. While the latter are not explicit in the original form, they are often implied in certain derivations. We also show that these inequalities are intimately related to at least one interpretation of the second law of thermodynamics. The combination of these results provides added insight into why some quantum systems violate the Cerf-Adami inequalities thereby improving our understanding of the quantum-classical boundary. As a result we suggest that the second law may serve as some type of boundary condition on classical knowledge.

id: 0801.0405
title: Atoms in a radiofrequency-dressed optical lattice
authors: N. Lundblad, P. J. Lee, I. B. Spielman, B. L. Brown, W. D. Phillips, J. V. Porto
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0405
abstract: We load cold atoms into an optical lattice dramatically reshaped by radiofrequency (rf) coupling of state-dependent lattice potentials. This rf dressing changes the unit cell of the lattice at a subwavelength scale, such that its curvature and topology departs strongly from that of a simple sinusoidal lattice potential. Radiofrequency dressing has previously been performed at length scales from mm to tens of microns, but not at the single-optical-wavelength scale. At this length scale significant coupling between adiabatic potentials leads to nonadiabatic transitions, which we measure as a function of lattice depth and dressing frequency and amplitude. We also investigate the dressing by measuring changes in the momentum distribution of the dressed states.

id: 0801.0419
title: The role of von Neumann and L¨¹ders postulates in the EPR-Bohm-Bell considerations: Did EPR make a mistake?
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: Coupling to recent preprints: arXiv:0804.2006 (detailed analysis of EPR-paper) and arXiv:0805.3258 (demonstration that quantum teleportation is an artifact of the misuse of von Neumann's postulate)
journal: Int. J. Quantum Information (IJQI), 7, N 1, 71 - 81 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0419
abstract: We show that the projection postulate plays a crucial role in the discussion on the so called "quantum nonlocality", in particular in the EPR-argument. We stress that the original von Neumann projection postulate was crucially modified by extending it to observables with degenerate spectra (the L\"uders postulate) and we show that this modification is highly questionable from a physical point of view, and it is the real source of "quantum nonlocality". The use of the original von Neumann postulate eliminates this problem: instead of "action at the distance"-nonlocality, we obtain a classical measurement nonlocality. It seems that EPR did mistake in their 1935-paper: if one uses correctly von Neumann projection postulate, no ``elements of reality'' can be assigned to entangled systems. Our analysis of the EPR and projection postulate makes clearer Bohr's considerations in his reply to Einstein.

id: 0801.0458
title: A paradigm for entanglement theory based on quantum communication
authors: Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: 6 pages, 1 color figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0458
abstract: Here it is shown that the squashed entanglement has an operational meaning -- it is the fastest rate at which a quantum state can be sent between two parties who share arbitrary side-information. Likewise, the entanglement of formation and entanglement cost is shown to be the fastest rate at which a quantum state can be sent when the parties have access to side-information which is maximally correlated. A further restriction on the type of side-information implies that the rate of state transmission is given by the quantum mutual information. This suggests a new paradigm for understanding entanglement and other correlations. Different types of side-information correspond to different types of correlations with the squashed entanglement being one extreme. The paradigm also allows one to classify states not only in terms of how much quantum communication is needed to transfer half of it, but also in terms of how much entanglement is needed. Furthermore, there is a dual paradigm: if one distributes the side-information as maliciously as possible so as to make the sending of the state as difficult as possible, one finds maximum rates which give interpretations to known quantities (such as the entanglement of assistance), as well as new ones. The infamous additivity questions can also be recast and receive an operational interpretation in terms of maximally correlated states.

id: 0801.0464
title: Dynamics of the entanglement between two oscillators in the same environment
authors: Juan Pablo Paz, Augusto J. Roncaglia
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 220401 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0464
abstract: We provide a complete characterization of the evolution of entanglement between two oscillators coupled to a common environment. For initial Gaussian states we identify three phases with different qualitative long time behavior: There is a phase where entanglement undergoes a sudden death (SD). Another phase (SDR) is characterized by an infinite sequence of events of sudden death and revival of entanglement. In the third phase (NSD) there is no sudden death of entanglement, which persist for long time. The phase diagram is described and analytic expressions for the boundary between phases are obtained. Numerical simulations show the accuracy of the analytic expressions. These results are applicable to a large variety of non--Markovian environments. The case of non--resonant oscillators is also numerically investigated.

id: 0801.0469
title: Four qubits Hamiltonian of the Rs. molischianum light-harvesting complex II ring
authors: Samir Lipovaca
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0469
abstract: We will construct a simple four qubits Hamiltonian of the Rs. molischianum purple bacteria light harvesting complex II (LH-II) ring which yields energy levels that carry the ring's oscillator strength. In an excitonic representation, these levels are associated with the second and the third lowest electronic excitations of the ring. We will assume that qubits form a closed loop lattice and the interaction between qubits is only due to the exchange effect. As we will show, eigenstates are constructed in a such way that as we subsequently divide qubits of the Rs. molischianum LH-II ring into the subsystem A consisting of only one qubit and the subsystem B consisting of the remaining qubits, respective entropies of entanglement increase until the value of 1 for the maximally entangled state (bipartite system) is reached. Since the Hamiltonian in essence introduces a two-level approximation for the LH-II ring, we will go one step further and assume that interactions between qubits closed loop lattices and an electromagnetic field are described by the Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian. This assumption is interesting by itself, since it leads to behavior where the qubits lattice and field oscillate back and fourth exchanging a quantum of energy, at the Rabbi frequency. This opens a challenging opportunity to experimentally study the Rs. molischianum LH-II ring in the regime of cavity QED.

id: 0801.0494
title: Atomic teleportation via cavity QED and position measurements: efficiency analysis
authors: Michele Tumminello, Francesco Ciccarello
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 160, 411-419 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0494
abstract: We have recently presented a novel protocol to teleport an unknown atomic state via cavity QED and position measurements. Here, after a brief review of our scheme, we provide a quantitative study of its efficiency. This is accomplished by an explicit description of the measurement process that allows us to derive the fidelity with respect to the atomic internal state to be teleported.

id: 0801.0497
title: Faster quantum walk algorithm for the two dimensional spatial search
authors: Avatar Tulsi
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. Accepted for publication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0497
abstract: We consider the problem of finding a desired item out of $N$ items arranged on the sites of a two-dimensional lattice of size $\sqrt{N} \times \sqrt{N}$. The previous quantum walk based algorithms take $O(\sqrt{N}\log N)$ steps to solve this problem, and it is an open question whether the performance can be improved. We present a new algorithm which solves the problem in $O(\sqrt{N\log N})$ steps, thus giving an $O(\sqrt{\log N})$ improvement over the known algorithms. The improvement is achieved by controlling the quantum walk on the lattice using an ancilla qubit.

id: 0801.0517
title: PT-symmetric knotting of coordinates: a new, topological mechanism of quantum confinement
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 16 pp incl 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0517
abstract: We construct an exactly solvable PT-symmetric example of Sturmian bound states which exist in the absence of any confining potential. Their origin is purely topological -- these states live on certain nontrivial contours of complex coordinates.

id: 0801.0521
title: Two kinds of quantum adiabatic approximation
authors: Ming-Yong Ye, Xiang-Fa Zhou, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 10 pages
journal: Physics Letters A Volume 368, Issues 1-2, 13 August 2007, Pages 18-24
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0521
abstract: A simple proof of quantum adiabatic theorem is provided. Quantum adiabatic approximation is divided into two kinds. For Hamiltonian H(t/T), a relation between the size of the error caused by quantum adiabatic approximation and the parameter T is given.

id: 0801.0550
title: Is there a measurement-only version of quantum mechanics?
authors: George Svetlichny
comments: 10 pages. Based on a talk given at the XXVth Workshop on Geometric Methods in Physics (Bialowieza, 2006) and at the Biannual conference of the International Quantum Structures Association (Malta 2006) under the title "Quantum Information and the Problem of Time". V2 added one reference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0550
abstract: Tensor universality often implies that multi-partite quantum-state processing is determined by what happens in totally disentangled cases. In independent systems relative time direction for the parts is arbitrary. This hints that time may be linked to entanglement and measurements and that there may be a measurement-only version of quantum mechanics. One-way quantum computation suggests that this may be possible.

id: 0801.0576
title: Electron transmission and phase time in semiconductor superlattices
authors: D. W. L. Sprung, W. van Dijk, C. N. Veenstra, J. Martorell
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures, based on a talk at Theory-Canada 3 in Edmonton AB, June 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0576
abstract: We discuss the time spent by an electron propagating through a finite periodic system such as a semiconductor superlattice. The relation between dwell-time and phase-time is outlined. The envelopes of phase-time at maximum and minimum transmission are derived, and it is shown that the peaks and valleys of phase-time can be well described by parameters fitted at the extrema. For a many-period system this covers most of the allowed band. Comparison is made to direct numerical solutions of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation by Veenstra et al. [cond-mat/0411118] who compared systems with and without addition of an anti-reflection coating (ARC). With an ARC, the time delay is consistent with propagation at the Bloch velocity of the periodic system, which significantly reduces the time delay, in addition to increasing the transmissivity.

id: 0801.0577
title: Magnetically-controlled velocity selection in a cold atom sample using stimulated Raman transitions
authors: Matthew L. Terraciano, Spencer E. Olson, Mark Bashkansky, Zachary Dutton, Fredrik K. Fatemi
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 76, 053421 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0577
abstract: We observe velocity-selective two-photon resonances in a cold atom cloud in the presence of a magnetic field. We use these resonances to demonstrate a simple magnetometer with sub-mG resolution. The technique is particularly useful for zeroing the magnetic field and does not require any additional laser frequencies than are already used for standard magneto-optical traps. We verify the effects using Faraday rotation spectroscopy.

id: 0801.0610
title: Bounding the Bogoliubov coefficients
authors: Petarpa Boonserm, Matt Visser
comments: 25 pages, plain LaTeX
journal: AnnalsPhys.323:2779-2798,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0610
abstract: While over the last century or more considerable effort has been put into the problem of finding approximate solutions for wave equations in general, and quantum mechanical problems in particular, it appears that as yet relatively little work seems to have been put into the complementary problem of establishing rigourous bounds on the exact solutions. We have in mind either bounds on parametric amplification and the related quantum phenomenon of particle production (as encoded in the Bogoliubov coefficients), or bounds on transmission and reflection coefficients. Modifying and streamlining an approach developed by one of the present authors [Phys. Rev. A 59 (1999) 427-438], we investigate this question by developing a formal but exact solution for the appropriate second-order linear ODE in terms of a time-ordered exponential of 2x2 matrices, then relating the Bogoliubov coefficients to certain invariants of this matrix. By bounding the matrix in an appropriate manner, we can thereby bound the Bogoliubov coefficients.

id: 0801.0623
title: Double wells, scalar fields and quantum phase transitions in ions traps
authors: A. Retzker, R. Thompson, D. Segal, M.B. Plenio
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 260504 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0623
abstract: Since Hund's work on the ammonia molecule, the double well potential has formed a key paradigm in physics. Its importance is further underlined by the central role it plays in the Landau theory of phase transitions. Recently, the study of entanglement properties of many-body systems has added a new angle to the study of quantum phase transitions of discrete and continuous degrees of freedom, i.e., spin and harmonic chains. Here we show that control of the radial degree of freedom of trapped ion chains allows for the simulation of linear and non-linear Klein-Gordon fields on a lattice, in which the parameters of the lattice, the non-linearity and mass can be controlled at will. The system may be driven through a phase transition creating a double well potential between different configurations of the ion crystal. The dynamics of the system are controllable, local properties are measurable and tunnelling in the double well potential would be observable.

id: 0801.0688
title: Quantum Mechanics with Extended Probabilities
authors: James B. Hartle
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures, revtex4, minor corrections, add'l references
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 78, 012108 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0688
abstract: The quantum mechanics of closed systems such as the universe is formulated using an extension of familiar probability theory that incorporates negative probabilities. Probabilities must be positive for sets of alternative histories that are the basis of fair settleable bets. However, in quantum mechanics there are sets of alternative histories that can be described but which cannot be the basis for fair settleable bets. Members of such sets can be assigned extended probabilities that are sometimes negative. A prescription for extended probabilities is introduced that assigns extended probabilities to all histories that can be described, fine grained or coarse grained, members of decoherent sets or not. All probability sum rules are satisfied exactly. Sets of histories that are recorded to sufficient precision are the basis of settleable bets. This formulation is compared with the decoherent (consistent) histories formulation of quantum theory. Prospects are discussed for using this formulation to provide testable alternatives to quantum theory or further generalizations of it.

id: 0801.0689
title: Frequency and temporal entanglement of biphoton states in spontaneous parametric down conversion with a short-pulse pump
authors: Yu.M. Mikhailova, P.A. Volkov, M.V. Fedorov
comments: Contents is extended
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0689
abstract: Spectral and temporal coincidence and single-particle photon wave packets are described and their widths and durations are found. The degree of entanglement is characterized by the experimentally measurable parameter R defined as the ratio of the coincidence and single-particle spectral widths. In the frequency representation, this parameter is found as a function of the pump-pulse duration. This function is shown to have a minimum and even in the minimum, at rather natural conditions, the parameter R is found to be very high (R=73>>1). The Schmidt number K is found for both short and long pump pulses and interpolated for arbitrary pulse durations. All functional dependences of R and K are found to be identical and numerical difference between them is shown to be not exceeding 20%. Two-time temporal wave function of a biphoton state is investigated in details, and a rather significant difference between the cases of short and long pump pulses is found to occur. In the case of long pulses, the temporal parameter R is defined as the ratio of durations of the single-particle and coincidence signals, and the defined in such a way parameter R is shown to be very close to the Schmidt number K.

id: 0801.0690
title: Quantum bit commitment protocol without quantum memory
authors: Rubens Viana Ramos, Fabio Alencar Mendonca
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0690
abstract: Quantum protocols for bit commitment have been proposed and it is largely accepted that unconditionally secure quantum bit commitment is not possible; however, it can be more secure than classical bit commitment. In despite of its usefulness, quantum bit commitment protocols have not been experimentally implemented. The main reason is the fact that all proposed quantum bit commitment protocols require quantum memory. In this work, we show a quantum bit commitment protocol that does not require quantum memory and can be implemented with present technology.

id: 0801.0696
title: Quantum Zero-Knowledge Protocol Using Quantum Bit Commitment without Quantum Memory
authors: Rubens Viana Ramos, Jose Claudio do Nascimento
comments: 4 pages and 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0696
abstract: Zero-knowledge proof system is an important protocol that can be used as a basic block for construction of other more complex cryptographic protocols. Quantum zero-knowledge protocols have been proposed but, since their implementation requires advanced quantum technology devices, experimental implementation of zero-knowledge protocols have not being reported. In this work, we present a quantum zero-knowledge protocol based on a quantum bit commitment protocol that can be implemented with today technology. Hence, our quantum zero-knowledge protocol can be readily implemented.

id: 0801.0702
title: Analysis of Lyapunov Method for Control of Quantum Systems
authors: Xiaoting Wang, Sonia G. Schirmer
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure, draft version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0702
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of the convergence properties of Lyapunov control for finite-dimensional quantum systems based on the application of the LaSalle invariance principle and stability analysis from dynamical systems and control theory. For a certain class of ideal Hamiltonians, convergence results are derived both pure-state and mixed-state control, and the effectiveness of the method for more realistic Hamiltonians is discussed.

id: 0801.0717
title: Reduction of Quantum Phase Fluctuations in Intermediate States
authors: Amit Verma, Anirban Pathak
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0717
abstract: Recently we have shown that the reduction of the Carruthers-Nieto symmetric quantum phase fluctuation parameter (U) with respect to its coherent state value corresponds to an antibunched state, but the converse is not true. Consequently reduction of U is a stronger criterion of nonclassicality than the lowest order antibunching. Here we have studied the possibilities of reduction of $U$ in intermediate states by using the Barnett Pegg formalism. We have shown that the reduction of phase fluctuation parameter U can be seen in different intermediate states, such as binomial state, generalized binomial state, hypergeometric state, negative binomial state, and photon added coherent state. It is also shown that the depth of nonclassicality can be controlled by various parameters related to intermediate states. Further, we have provided specific examples of antibunched states, for which $U$ is greater than its poissonian state value.

id: 0801.0721
title: Global controllability with a single local actuator
authors: Sonia G. Schirmer, Ivan C. H. Pullen, Peter J. Pemberton-Ross
comments: 7 pages, 1 table, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062339 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0721
abstract: We show that we can achieve global density-operator controllability for most N-dimensional bilinear Hamiltonian control systems with general fixed couplings using a single, locally-acting actuator that modulates one energy-level transition. Controllability depends upon the position of the actuator and relies on the absence of either decompositions into non-interacting subgroups or symmetries restricting the dynamics to a subgroup of SU(N). These results are applied to spin-chain systems and used to explicitly construct control sequences for a single binary-valued switch actuator.

id: 0801.0746
title: Comparative Analysis of Control Strategies
authors: Sonia G Schirmer, Peter J Pemberton-Ross, Xiaoting Wang
comments: This work is part of a more comprehensive analysis of control strategies, which has prompted further work such as our recent analysis of the Lyapunov method. It was originally presented at PhysCon2007 and has appeared in the Proceedings. Some figures are poor quality but the arXiv robot wouldn't accept the original figures. Online at: this http URL
journal: Proceedings of PhysCon2007, IPACS Electronic Library
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0746
abstract: Different ways of modelling quantum control systems, formulating control problems and solving the resulting problems are considered and compared. In particular, we compare the performance of geometric and optimal control, as well as iterative techniques for optimal control design versus local gradient optimization using a Lyapunov-type potential function for two problems of general interest: global control of qubits and entanglement generation in the form of Bell state preparation.

id: 0801.0758
title: Selective Efficient Quantum Process Tomography
authors: Ariel Bendersky, Fernando Pastawski, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0758
abstract: We present a new method for quantum process tomography. The method enables us to efficiently estimate, with fixed precision, any of the parameters characterizing a quantum channel. It is selective since one can choose to estimate the value of any specific set of matrix elements of the super-operator describing the channel. Also, we show how to efficiently estimate all the average survival probabilities associated with the channel (i.e., all the diagonal elements of its $\chi$--matrix.

id: 0801.0761
title: High-fidelity quantum operations on superconducting qubits in the presence of noise
authors: Andrew J. Kerman, William D. Oliver
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 070501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0761
abstract: We present a scheme for implementing quantum operations with superconducting qubits. Our approach uses a "coupler" qubit to mediate a controllable, secular interaction between "data" qubits, pulse sequences which strongly mitigate the effects of 1/f flux noise, and a high-Q resonator-based local memory. We develop a Monte-Carlo simulation technique capable of describing arbitrary noise-induced dephasing and decay, and demonstrate in this system a set of universal gate operations with O(10^-5) error probabilities in the presence of experimentally measured levels of 1/f noise. We then add relaxation and quantify the decay times required to maintain this error level.

id: 0801.0789
title: Frequency-up conversion and quantum swap gate in an optical cavity with atomic cloud
authors: Gong-Wei Lin, Xu-Bo Zou, Ming-Yong Ye, Xiu-Min Lin, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 5 pages,3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 064301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0789
abstract: A scheme is presented for realizing frequency-up conversion and a two-qubit quantum swap gate for intracavity fields. In the scheme, a V-type atomic ensemble prepared in their ground states collectively mediates the interaction between the two cavity modes. Under certain conditions, the cavity-field degree of freedom is decoupled from the atomic degrees of freedom, and the effective coupling strength between the two cavity modes scales up with $\sqrt{N}$ ($N$ is the number of atoms). The numerical simulation shows that the quantum swap gate still has a high fidelity under the influence of the atomic spontaneous emission and the decay of the cavity modes.

id: 0801.0799
title: The Aharonov-Bohm effect: the role of tunneling and associated forces
authors: G. C. Hegerfeldt, J.T. Neumann
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures; minor changes, references added, typo corrected in eq. (16). Accepted for publication in Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 155305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0799
abstract: Through tunneling, or barrier penetration, small wavefunction tails can enter a finitely shielded cylinder with a magnetic field inside. When the shielding increases to infinity the Lorentz force goes to zero together with these tails. However, it is shown, by considering the radial derivative of the wavefunction on the cylinder surface, that a flux dependent force remains. This force explains in a natural way the Aharonov-Bohm effect in the idealized case of infinite shielding.

id: 0801.0802
title: A Novel Synthesis Algorithm for Reversible Circuits
authors: Mehdi Saeedi, Mehdi Sedighi, Morteza Saheb Zamani
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, 1 table Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE/ACM international conference on Computer-aided design
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0802
abstract: In this paper, a new non-search based synthesis algorithm for reversible circuits is proposed. Compared with the widely used search-based methods, our algorithm is guarantied to produce a result and can lead to a solution with much fewer steps. To evaluate the proposed method, several circuits taken from the literature are used. The experimental results corroborate the expected findings.

id: 0801.0821
title: Unified Quantum Convolutional Coding
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Todd A. Brun
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, Accepted for publication in the Proceedings of the 2008 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2008)
journal: Proceedings of the 2008 International Symposium on Information Theory, pp. 359-363, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, July 2008.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0821
abstract: We outline a quantum convolutional coding technique for protecting a stream of classical bits and qubits. Our goal is to provide a framework for designing codes that approach the ``grandfather'' capacity of an entanglement-assisted quantum channel for sending classical and quantum information simultaneously. Our method incorporates several resources for quantum redundancy: fresh ancilla qubits, entangled bits, and gauge qubits. The use of these diverse resources gives our technique the benefits of both active and passive quantum error correction. We can encode a classical-quantum bit stream with periodic quantum gates because our codes possess a convolutional structure. We end with an example of a ``grandfather'' quantum convolutional code that protects one qubit and one classical bit per frame by encoding them with one fresh ancilla qubit, one entangled bit, and one gauge qubit per frame. We explicitly provide the encoding and decoding circuits for this example.

id: 0801.0828
title: Quantum mechanics as a consequence of discrete interactions
authors: Gabriele Carcassi
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, submitted to the American Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0828
abstract: Quantum mechanics is usually presented starting from a series of postulates about the mathematical framework. In this work we show that those same postulates can be derived by assuming that measurements are discrete interactions: that is, that we measure at specific moments in time (as opposed to a continuous measurement that spans a long time interval) and that the system is in general affected by our measurement. We believe that this way of presenting quantum mechanics would make it easier to understand by laying out a more cohesive view of the theory and making it resonate more with our physics intuition.

id: 0801.0831
title: Graphical Nonbinary Quantum Error-Correcting Codes
authors: Dan Hu, Weidong Tang, Meisheng Zhao, Qing Chen, Sixia Yu, C.H. Oh
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures (pdf)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0831
abstract: In this paper, based on the nonbinary graph state, we present a systematic way of constructing good non-binary quantum codes, both additive and nonadditive, for systems with integer dimensions. With the help of computer search, which results in many interesting codes including some nonadditive codes meeting the Singleton bounds, we are able to construct explicitly four families of optimal codes, namely, $[[6,2,3]]_p$, $[[7,3,3]]_p$, $[[8,2,4]]_p$ and $[[8,4,3]]_p$ for any odd dimension $p$ and a family of nonadditive code $((5,p,3))_p$ for arbitrary $p>3$. In the case of composite numbers as dimensions, we also construct a family of stabilizer codes $((6,2\cdot p^2,3))_{2p}$ for odd $p$, whose coding subspace is {\em not} of a dimension that is a power of the dimension of the physical subsystem.

id: 0801.0841
title: Capacity of the Bosonic Wiretap Channel and the Entropy Photon-Number Inequality
authors: Saikat Guha, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Baris I. Erkmen
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, submitted to ISIT 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0841
abstract: Determining the ultimate classical information carrying capacity of electromagnetic waves requires quantum-mechanical analysis to properly account for the bosonic nature of these waves. Recent work has established capacity theorems for bosonic single-user and broadcast channels, under the presumption of two minimum output entropy conjectures. Despite considerable accumulated evidence that supports the validity of these conjectures, they have yet to be proven. In this paper, it is shown that the second conjecture suffices to prove the classical capacity of the bosonic wiretap channel, which in turn would also prove the quantum capacity of the lossy bosonic channel. The preceding minimum output entropy conjectures are then shown to be simple consequences of an Entropy Photon-Number Inequality (EPnI), which is a conjectured quantum-mechanical analog of the Entropy Power Inequality (EPI) form classical information theory.

id: 0801.0881
title: High-visibility multi-photon interference of Hanbury Brown - Twiss type for classical light
authors: I. N. Agafonov, M. V. Chekhova, T. Sh. Iskhakov, A. N. Penin
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0881
abstract: Difference-phase (or Hanbury Brown - Twiss type) intensity interference of classical light is considered in higher orders in the intensity. It is shown that, while the visibility of sum-phase (NOON-type) interference for classical sources drops with the order of interference, the visibility of difference-phase interference has opposite behavior. For three-photon and four-photon interference of two coherent sources, the visibility can be as high as 81.8% and 94.4%, respectively. High-visibility three-photon and four-photon interference of space-time and polarization types has been observed in experiment, for both coherent and pseudo-thermal light.

id: 0801.0908
title: A genuine four-partite entangled state
authors: Ming-Yong Ye, Xiu-Min Lin
comments: submitted
journal: Physics Letters A 372 (2008) 4157-4159
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0908
abstract: In a recent paper, a genuine four-partite entangled state is proposed [Y. Yeo and W. K. Chua, Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 060502 (2006)], which has been found to have many interesting entanglement properties. We show this state is locally equivalent to some graph states.

id: 0801.0932
title: Optimum spin-squeezing in Bose-Einstein condensates with particle losses
authors: Yun Li, Yvan Castin, Alice Sinatra
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physical Review Letters 100, 21 (2008) 210401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0932
abstract: The problem of spin squeezing with a bimodal condensate in presence of particle losses is solved analytically by the Monte Carlo wavefunction method. We find the largest obtainable spin squeezing as a function of the one-body loss rate, the two-body and three-body rate constants, and the s-wave scattering length.

id: 0801.0936
title: Pure decoherence in quantum systems
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 11 pages
journal: Open Sys.& Information Dyn. 11: 53-61 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0936
abstract: A popular model of decoherence based on the linear coupling to harmonic oscillator heat baths is analized and shown to be inappropriate in the regime where decoherence dominates over energy dissipation, called pure decoherence regime. The similar mechanism essentially related to the energy conservation implies that, on the contrary to the recent conjectures, chaotic environments can be less efficient decoherers than regular ones. Finally, the elastic scattering mechanism is advocated as the simplest source of pure decoherence.

id: 0801.0946
title: Benford's law and complex atomic spectra
authors: Jean-Christophe Pain
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. submitted to Physical Review E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0946
abstract: We found that in transition arrays of complex atomic spectra, the strengths of electric-dipolar lines obey Benford's law, which means that their significant digits follow a logarithmic distribution favoring the smallest values. This indicates that atomic processes result from the superposition of uncorrelated probability laws and that the occurrence of digits reflects the constraints induced by the selection rules. Furthermore, Benford's law can be a useful test of theoretical spectroscopic models. Its applicability to the statistics of electric-dipolar lines can be understood in the framework of random matrix theory and is consistent with the Porter-Thomas law.

id: 0801.0947
title: A scheme for tunable quantum phase gate and effective preparation of graph-state entanglement
authors: Gong-Wei Lin, Xu-Bo Zou, Ming-Yong Ye, Xiu-Min Lin, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032308 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0947
abstract: A scheme is presented for realizing a quantum phase gate with three-level atoms, solid-state qubits--often called artificial atoms, or ions that share a quantum data bus such as a single mode field in cavity QED system or a collective vibrational state of trapped ions. In this scheme, the conditional phase shift is tunable and controllable via the total effective interaction time. Furthermore, we show that the method can be used for effective preparation of graph-state entanglement, which are important resources for quantum computation, quantum error correction, studies of multiparticle entanglement, fundamental tests of non-locality and decoherence.

id: 0801.0979
title: Delayed-choice test of complementarity with single photons
authors: Vincent Jacques, E. Wu, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Grosshans, Fran?ois Treussart, Philippe Grangier, Alain Aspect, Jean-Fran?ois Roch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0979
abstract: We report an experimental test of complementarity using clock-triggered single-photon pulses emitted by an individual N-V color center in a diamond nanocrystal. The single photons are sent into a Mach-Zehnder interferometer with an output beamsplitter of adjustable reflection coefficient R. In addition, the choice of introducing or removing this beamsplitter is random and relativistically space-like separated from the entering of the photon inside the interferometer, as required for the Wheeler's delayed-choice regime. Each set value of R allows us to observe interference with visibility V and to obtain incomplete which-path information characterized by the distinguishability D. The measured values of V and D are found to obey the complementarity relation V^2 + D^2 =< 1.

id: 0801.1057
title: On completely positive non-Markovian evolution of a d-level system
authors: Andrzej Kossakowski, Rolando Rebolledo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1057
abstract: A sufficient condition for non-Markovian master equation which ensures the complete positivity of the resulting time evolution is presented.

id: 0801.1104
title: Continuous-Variable Telecloning with Phase-Conjugate Inputs
authors: Jing Zhang, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng, Peter van Loock
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022316 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1104
abstract: We propose a scheme for continuous-variable telecloning with phase-conjugate inputs (PCI). Two cases of PCI telecloning are considered. The first case is where PCI telecloning produces $M$ clones nonlocally and $M$ anticlones locally, or vice versa. This kind of PCI telecloning requires only one EPR (Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen) entangled, two-mode squeezed state as a resource for building the appropriate multi-mode, multipartite entangled state via linear optics. The other case is a PCI telecloning protocol in which both clones and anticlones are created nonlocally. Such a scheme requires two EPR entangled states for the generation of a suitable multipartite entangled state. As our schemes are reversible, optimal cloning fidelities are achieved in the limit of infinite squeezing.

id: 0801.1154
title: Teleportation fidelity as a probe of sub-Planck phase-space structure
authors: A. J. Scott, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. 323, 2685 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1154
abstract: We investigate the connection between sub-Planck structure in the Wigner function and the output fidelity of continuous-variable teleportation protocols. When the teleporting parties share a two-mode squeezed state as an entangled resource, high fidelity in the output state requires a squeezing large enough that the smallest sub-Planck structures in an input pure state are teleported faithfully. We formulate this relationship, which leads to an explicit relation between the fine-scale structure in the Wigner function and large-scale extent of the Wigner function, and we treat specific examples, including coherent, number, and random states and states produced by chaotic dynamics. We generalize the pure-state results to teleportation of mixed states.

id: 0801.1161
title: Detecting maximally entangled states without making the Schmidt decomposition
authors: M. Bhattacharya
comments: 4 pages, no figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1161
abstract: The bipartite entanglement of a pure quantum state is known to be characterized by its Schmidt decomposition. In particular the state is maximally entangled when all the Schmidt coefficients are equal. We point out a convenient method which always yields a single analytical condition for the state to be maximally entangled, in terms of its expansion coefficients in any basis. The method works even when the Schmidt coefficients cannot be calculated analytically, and does not require their calculation. As an example this technique is used to derive the Bell basis for a system of two qubits. In a second example the technique shows a particular state to \textit{never} be maximally entangled, a general conclusion that cannot be reached using the Schmidt decomposition.

id: 0801.1163
title: On the possible wave-packet collapse induced by topological disconnectivity and experimental suggestions
authors: Hongwei Xiong
comments: 5 figures. Any comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1163
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to explore the possibility of a wave-packet collapse induced by topological disconnectivity, based on the discussions of the wave-corpuscle duality. Several experimental suggestions are proposed to test this sort of wave-packet collapse based on quantum interference.

id: 0801.1241
title: On the iterative decoding of sparse quantum codes
authors: David Poulin, Yeojin Chung
comments: To appear in QIC
journal: QIC Vol.8 No.10 p.987 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1241
abstract: We address the problem of decoding sparse quantum error correction codes. For Pauli channels, this task can be accomplished by a version of the belief propagation algorithm used for decoding sparse classical codes. Quantum codes pose two new challenges however. Firstly, their Tanner graph unavoidably contain small loops which typically undermines the performance of belief propagation. Secondly, sparse quantum codes are by definition highly degenerate. The standard belief propagation algorithm does not exploit this feature, but rather it is impaired by it. We propose heuristic methods to improve belief propagation decoding, specifically targeted at these two problems. While our results exhibit a clear improvement due to the proposed heuristic methods, they also indicate that the main source of errors in the quantum coding scheme remains in the decoding.

id: 0801.1249
title: Quantum algorithm for the longest common subsequence problem
authors: Wenxu Xu, Minghong Liao
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1249
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author(s), due a crucial error on the entanglement of $\Gamma$ registers.

id: 0801.1257
title: Third quantization: a general method to solve master equations for quadratic open Fermi systems
authors: Tomaz Prosen
comments: 24 pages, with 8 eps figures - few minor corrections to the published version, e.g. anti-symmetrizing the matrix given by eq. (27)
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 043026 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1257
abstract: The Lindblad master equation for an arbitrary quadratic system of n fermions is solved explicitly in terms of diagonalization of a 4n x 4n matrix, provided that all Lindblad bath operators are linear in the fermionic variables. The method is applied to the explicit construction of non-equilibrium steady states and the calculation of asymptotic relaxation rates in the far from equilibrium problem of heat and spin transport in a nearest neighbor Heisenberg XY spin 1/2 chain in a transverse magnetic field.

id: 0801.1261
title: Noise effect on Grover algorithm
authors: Pedro J. Salas
comments: Accepted to be published in Eur. Phys. J. D (2008)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1261
abstract: The decoherence effect on Grover algorithm has been studied numerically through a noise modelled by a depolarizing channel. Two types of error are introduced characterizing the qubit time evolution and gate application, so the noise is directly related to the quantum network construction. The numerical simulation concludes an exponential damping law for the successive probability of the maxima as time increases. We have obtained an allowed-error law for the algorithm: the error threshold for the allowed noise behaves as Eth(N) ~ 1/N1.1 (N being the size of the data set). As the power of N is almost one, we consider the Grover algorithm as robust to a certain extent against decoherence. This law also provides an absolute threshold: if the free evolution error is greater than 0.043, Grover algorithm does not work for any number of qubits affected by the present error model. The improvement in the probability of success, in the case of two qubits has been illustrated by using a fault-tolerant encoding of the initial state by means of the [[7,1,3]] quantum code.

id: 0801.1263
title: Experimental Test
authors: Richard A. Mould
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1263
abstract: An experiment is described that empirically distinguishes the previously proposed q-rules governing the collapse of a wave function, and contrasts it with the conventional idea of a collapse as well as the current leading theory of collapse advanced by Ghirardi and Pearle. Keywords: foundation theory, measurement, qRules, state reduction, wave collapse.

id: 0801.1283
title: Possible resolution of the Casimir force finite temperature correction "controversies"
authors: Steve K. Lamoreaux
comments: 2 figures, four pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1283
abstract: By considering the effect of diffusion on the external electric field response of charge carriers in metals and semiconductors, it is shown that the finite temperature correction proposed Bostrom and Sernelius requires substantial modification, and there is no large correction as suggested for good conductors. The apparent violation of the Third Law of Thermodynamics of the various proposed temperature corrections to the Casimir force is also resolved. Finally, the effect of Debye screening on electrostatic calibrations between pure germanium surfaces is calculated

id: 0801.1292
title: Geometric information in eight dimensions vs. quantum information
authors: Victor I. Tarkhanov, Michael M. Nesterov
comments: 14 pages, presented at International Symposium "Quantum Informatics 2007", October 3rd - 5th, 2007, Moscow Zvenigorod, Russia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1292
abstract: Complementary idempotent paravectors and their ordered compositions, are used to represent multivector basis elements of geometric Clifford algebra for 3D Euclidean space as the states of a geometric byte in a given frame of reference. Two layers of information, available in real numbers, are distinguished. The first layer is a continuous one. It is used to identify spatial orientations of similar geometric objects in the same computational basis. The second layer is a binary one. It is used to manipulate with 8D structure elements inside the computational basis itself. An oriented unit cube representation, rather than a matrix one, is used to visualize an inner structure of basis multivectors. Both layers of information are used to describe unitary operations -- reflections and rotations -- in Euclidian and Hilbert spaces. The results are compared with ones for quantum gates. Some consequences for quantum and classical information technologies are discussed.

id: 0801.1305
title: Scaling laws for the decay of multiqubit entanglement
authors: L. Aolita, R. Chaves, D. Cavalcanti, A. Ac¨ªn, L. Davidovich
comments: Minor mistakes corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 080501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1305
abstract: We investigate the decay of entanglement of generalized N-particle Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states interacting with independent reservoirs. Scaling laws for the decay of entanglement and for its finite-time extinction (sudden death) are derived for different types of reservoirs. The latter is found to increase with the number of particles. However, entanglement becomes arbitrarily small, and therefore useless as a resource, much before it completely disappears, around a time which is inversely proportional to the number of particles. We also show that the decay of multi-particle GHZ states can generate bound entangled states.

id: 0801.1359
title: Non-standard Schwinger fermionic representation of unitary group
authors: Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 4 pages
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics 48, 414-421 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1359
abstract: The non-standard Schwinger fermionic representation of the unitary group is studied by using $n$-fermion operators. One finds that the Schwinger fermionic representation of the U(n) group is not unique when $n\ge 3$. In general, based on $n$-fermion operators, the non-standard Schwinger fermionic representation of the U(n) group can be established in a uniform approach, where all the generators commute with the total number operators. The Schwinger fermionic representation of $U(C^{m}_{n})$ group is also discussed.

id: 0801.1361
title: On the non-existence for quantum LDPC codes of type IEEE802.16e with rates 1/2 and 2/3B
authors: Manabu Hagiwara, Hideki Imai
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1361
abstract: In this paper, we discuss a construction of CSS codes derived from pairs of practical irregular LDPC codes. Our design of irregular LDPC codes is based the design written in the standardization of IEEE802.16e. Our research has tried to make a CSS code with a pair of LDPC codes of type IEEE802.16e. To our regret, we proved that it was impossible to construct a CSS code if one of classical codes was of type IEEE802.16e with rate 1/2 and 2/3B. We would like to report the discussion on its impossibility in this paper. This is the first paper to analyze the possibility of a CSS code construction by using two irregular LDPC codes which are practically useful.

id: 0801.1379
title: Quantum Error-Correcting Codes with Preexisting Protected Qubits
authors: Ying Dong, Xiuhao Deng, Mingming Jiang, Qing Chen, Sixia Yu
comments: 4 pages 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1379
abstract: We provide a systematic way of constructing entanglement-assisted quantum error-correcting codes via graph states in the scenario of preexisting perfectly protected qubits. It turns out that the preexisting entanglement can help beat the quantum Hamming bound and can enhance (not only behave as an assistance) the performance of the quantum error correction. Furthermore we generalize the error models to the case of not-so-perfectly-protected qubits and introduce the quantity infidelity as a figure of merit and show that our code outperforms also the ordinary quantum error-correcting codes.

id: 0801.1394
title: XX model on the circle
authors: A. De Pasquale, G. Costantini, P. Facchi, G. Florio, S. Pascazio, K. Yuasa
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 160, 127 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1394
abstract: We diagonalize the XX model with a finite number of spins and periodic boundary conditions. We solve for the ground state, focus on the rapidity of the convergence to the thermodynamic limit and study the features of multipartite entanglement.

id: 0801.1400
title: Topology Changes and Quantum Phase Transition in Spin-Chain System
authors: Zhe Chang, Ping Wang
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1400
abstract: The standard Landau-Ginzburg scenario of phase transition is broken down for quantum phase transition. It is difficult to find an order parameter to indicate different phases for quantum fluctuations. Here, we suggest a topological description of the quantum phase transition for the XY model. The ground states are identified as a specialized U(1) principal bundle on the base manifold $S^2$. And then different first Chern numbers of U(1) principal bundle on the base manifold $S^2$ are associated to each phase of quantum fluctuations. The particle-hole picture is used to parameterized the ground states of the XY system. We show that a singularity of the Chern number of the ground states occurs simultaneously with a quantum phase transition. The Chern number is a suitable topological order of the quantum phase transition.

id: 0801.1411
title: Exact solution of Effective mass Schrodinger Equation for the Hulthen potential
authors: Ramazan Sever, Cevdet Tezcan, Ozlem Yesiltas, Mahmut Bucurgat
comments: 9 pages
journal: Int. J. Theo. Phys. 47, 2243(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1411
abstract: A general form of the effective mass Schrodinger equation is solved exactly for Hulthen potential. Nikiforov-Uvarov method is used to obtain energy eigenvalues and the corresponding wave functions. A free parameter is used in the transformation of the wave function.

id: 0801.1414
title: Entanglement dynamics and relaxation in a few qubit system interacting with random collisions
authors: Giuseppe Gennaro, Giuliano Benenti, Massimo Palma
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 82, 20006 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1414
abstract: The dynamics of a single qubit interacting by a sequence of pairwise collisions with an environment consisting of just two more qubits is analyzed. Each collision is modeled in terms of a random unitary operator with a uniform probability distribution described by the uniform Haar measure. We show that the purity of the system qubit as well as the bipartite and the tripartite entanglement reach time averaged equilibrium values characterized by large instantaneous fluctuations.These equilibrium values are independent of the order of collision among the qubits. The relaxation to equilibrium is analyzed also in terms of an ensemble average of random collision histories. Such average allows for a quantitative evaluation and interpretation of the decay constants. Furthermore a dependence of the transient dynamics on the initial degree of entanglement between the environment qubits is shown to exist. Finally the statistical properties of bipartite and tripartite entanglement are analyzed.

id: 0801.1433
title: GHZ versus W : Quantum Teleportation through Noisy Channels
authors: Eylee Jung, Mi-Ra Hwang, You Hwan Ju, Min-Soo Kim, Sahng-Kyoon Yoo, Hungsoo Kim, D. K. Park, Jin-Woo Son, S. Tamaryan, Seong-Keuck Cha
comments: 19 pages, 7 figure are included, 4 figures are not included due to file size, These 4 figures can be downloaded from this http URL V2: 23 pages, will appear in PRA
journal: Physical Review A 78, (2008) 012312
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1433
abstract: Which state does lose less quantum information between GHZ and W states when they are prepared for two-party quantum teleportation through noisy channel? We address this issue by solving analytically a master equation in the Lindbald form with introducing the noisy channels which makes the quantum channels to be mixed states. It is found that the answer of the question is dependent on the type of the noisy channel. If, for example, the noisy channel is ($L_{2,x}$, $L_{3,x}$, $L_{4,x}$)-type where $L's$ denote the Lindbald operators, GHZ state is always more robust than W state, i.e. GHZ state preserves more quantum information. In, however, ($L_{2,y}$, $L_{3,y}$, $L_{4,y}$)-type channel the situation becomes completely reversed. In ($L_{2,z}$, $L_{3,z}$, $L_{4,z}$)-type channel W state is more robust than GHZ state when the noisy paramter ($\kappa$) is comparatively small while GHZ state becomes more robust when $\kappa$ is large. In isotropic noisy channel we found that both states preserve equal amount of quantum information. A relation between the average fidelity and entanglement for the mixed state quantum channels are discussed.

id: 0801.1458
title: Decoherence versus disentanglement for two qubits in a squeezed bath
authors: Maritza Hernandez, Miguel Orszag
comments: 9 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1458
abstract: We study the relation between the sudden death and revival of the entanglement of two qubits in a common squeezed reservoir, and the normal decoherence, by getting closer to the Decoherence Free Subspace and calculating the effect on the death and revival times.

id: 0801.1489
title: Relativistic echo dynamics and the stability of a beam of Landau electrons
authors: Emerson Sadurni, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: J.Phys.A41:102002,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1489
abstract: We extend the concepts of echo dynamics and fidelity decay to relativistic quantum mechanics, specifically in the context of Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations under external electromagnetic fields. In both cases we define similar expressions for the fidelity amplitude under perturbations of these fields, and a covariant version of the echo operator. Transformation properties under the Lorentz group are established. An alternate expression for fidelity is given in the Dirac case in terms of a 4-current. As an application we study a beam of Landau electrons perturbed by field inhomogeneities.

id: 0801.1544
title: Secure Multiparty Quantum Computation with (Only) a Strict Honest Majority
authors: Michael Ben-Or, Claude Cr¨¦peau, Daniel Gottesman, Avinatan Hassidim, Adam Smith
comments: 10 pages, preliminary version in FOCS'06
journal: Proc. 47th Annual IEEE Symposium on the Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS '06), pp. 249-260. IEEE Press, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1544
abstract: Secret sharing and multiparty computation (also called "secure function evaluation") are fundamental primitives in modern cryptography, allowing a group of mutually distrustful players to perform correct, distributed computations under the sole assumption that some number of them will follow the protocol honestly. This paper investigates how much trust is necessary -- that is, how many players must remain honest -- in order for distributed quantum computations to be possible. We present a verifiable quantum secret sharing (VQSS) protocol, and a general secure multiparty quantum computation (MPQC) protocol, which can tolerate any (n-1)/2 (rounded down) cheaters among n players. Previous protocols for these tasks tolerated (n-1)/4 (rounded down) and (n-1)/6 (rounded down) cheaters, respectively. The threshold we achieve is tight - even in the classical case, ``fair'' multiparty computation is not possible if any set of n/2 players can cheat. Our protocols rely on approximate quantum error-correcting codes, which can tolerate a larger fraction of errors than traditional, exact codes. We introduce new families of authentication schemes and approximate codes tailored to the needs of our protocols, as well as new state purification techniques along the lines of those used in fault-tolerant quantum circuits.

id: 0801.1545
title: Characteristics and benchmarks of entanglement of mixed states -- the two qubit case
authors: Shanthanu Bhardwaj, V. Ravishankar
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures. Enlarged version of quant-phy/0703017
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1545
abstract: We propose that the entanglement of mixed states is characterised properly in terms of a probability density function $\mathcal{P}_{\rho}(\mathcal{E})$. There is a need for such a measure since the prevalent measures (such as \textit{concurrence} and \textit{negativity}) for two qubit systems are rough benchmarks, and not monotones of each other. Focussing on the two qubit states, we provide an explicit construction of $\mathcal{P}_{\rho}(\mathcal{E})$ and show that it is characterised by a set of parameters, of which concurrence is but one particular combination. $\mathcal{P}_{\rho}(\mathcal{E})$ is manifestly invariant under $SU(2) \times SU(2)$ transformations. It can, in fact, reconstruct the state up to local operations - with the specification of at most four additional parameters. Finally the new measure resolves the controversy regarding the role of entanglement in quantum computation in NMR systems.

id: 0801.1549
title: Non-Hermitian Hamiltonian versus E=0 localized states
authors: S. Habib Mazharimousavi
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 244016 (13pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1549
abstract: We analyze the zero energy solutions, of a two dimensional system which undergoes a non-radial symmetric, complex potential V(r,$\phi$). By virtue of the coherent states concept, the localized states are constructed, and the consequences of the imaginary part of the potential are found both analytically and schematically.

id: 0801.1572
title: Preliminary analysis of a recent experiment by F. A. Bovino
authors: Emilio Santos
comments: 10 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1572
abstract: An analysis is made of the results of a recent polarization correlation experiment by Bovino (unpublished) where about 60,000 data have been obtained. I assume that the state of the photon pairs produced in the source (a non-linear crystal) are in a (slightly)non-maximally entangled state and the most relevant non-idealities of the set-up are taken into account. A comparison is made between the predictions of quantum mechanics and a simple family of local hidden varaibles models with the result that the former is violated by more than 4 standard deviations whislt the data are compatible with the family of local models.

id: 0801.1576
title: Measurable Concurrence of Mixed States
authors: Chang-shui Yu, C. Li, He-shan Song
comments: 3 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012305 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1576
abstract: We show that bipartite concurrence for rank-2 mixed states of qubits is written by an observable which can be exactly and directly measurable in experiment by local projective measurements, provided that four copies of the composite quantum system are available. In addition, for a tripartite quantum pure state of qubits, the 3-tangle is also shown to be measurable only by projective measurements on the reduced density matrices of a pair of qubits conditioned on four copies of the state.

id: 0801.1586
title: On the metric character of the quantum Jensen-Shannon divergence
authors: P.W. Lamberti, A.P. Majtey, A. Borras, M. Casas, A. Plastino
comments: 8 pages, 1 figures, numerical results substantially improved in Sec. III. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1586
abstract: In a recent paper, the generalization of the Jensen Shannon divergence (JSD) in the context of quantum theory has been studied (Phys. Rev. A 72, 052310 (2005)). This distance between quantum states has shown to verify several of the properties required for a good distinguishability measure. Here we investigate the metric character of this distance. More precisely we show, formally for pure states and by means of simulations for mixed states, that its square root verifies the triangle inequality.

id: 0801.1588
title: Robust control of quantized motional states of a chain of trapped ions by collective adiabatic passage
authors: I. E. Linington, P. A. Ivanov, N. V. Vitanov, M. B. Plenio
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures. Discussion of performance outside Lamb-Dicke regime added. Some refs added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1588
abstract: A simple technique for robust generation of vibrational Fock states in a chain of trapped ions is proposed. The method is fast and easy to implement, since only a single chirped laser pulse, simultaneously addressing all of the ions, is required. Furthermore, because the approach uses collective adiabatic passage, significant fluctuations in the intensity or frequency of the laser pulse can be tolerated, and the technique performs well even on the border of the Lamb-Dicke regime. We also demonstrate how this technique may be extended in order to create non-classical superposition states of the ions' collective motion and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states of their internal states. Because only a single laser pulse is required, heating effects arising under realistic experimental conditions are negligibly small.

id: 0801.1593
title: Evaluation of the semiclassical coherent state propagator in the presence of phase space caustics
authors: A D Ribeiro, M A M de Aguiar
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1593
abstract: A uniform approximation for the coherent state propagator, valid in the vicinity of phase space caustics, was recently obtained using the Maslov method combined with a dual representation for coherent states. In this paper we review the derivation of this formula and apply it to two model systems: the one-dimensional quartic oscillator and a two-dimensional chaotic system.

id: 0801.1595
title: Entangling single photons on a beamsplitter
authors: Matthieu Larqu¨¦, Alexios Beveratos, Isabelle Robert-Philip
comments: Accepted EPJD
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1595
abstract: We report on a scheme for the creation of time-bin entangled states out of two subsequent single photons. Both photons arrive on the same input port of a beamsplitter and the situation in which the photons leave the beamsplitter on different output ports is post-selected. We derive a full quantum mechanical analysis of such time-bin entanglement for emitters subject to uncorrelated dephasing processes and apply this model to sequential single photons emerging from a single semiconductor quantum dot. Our results indicate that the visibility of entanglement is degraded by decoherence effects in the quantum dot, but can be restored by use of CQED effects, namely the Purcell effect.

id: 0801.1642
title: Vibrational Bloch-Siegert effect in trapped ions
authors: I. Lizuain, J. G. Muga, J. Eschner
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 053817 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1642
abstract: When trapped atoms are illuminated by weak lasers, off-resonant transitions cause shifts in the frequencies of the vibrational-sideband resonances. These frequency shifts may be understood in terms of Stark-shifts of the individual levels or, as proposed here, as a vibrational Bloch-Siegert shift, an effect closely related to the usual (radio-frequency or optical) Bloch-Siegert shift and associated with rapidly oscillating terms when the Rotating Wave Approximation is not made. Explicit analytic expressions are derived and compared to numerical results, and the similarities and differences between the usual and the vibrational Bloch-Siegert shifts are also spelled out.

id: 0801.1664
title: Entangled coherent states under dissipation
authors: F. Lastra, G. Romero, C.E. Lopez, N. Zagury, J.C. Retamal
comments: 13 pages and 4 figures, published version
journal: Optics Communications 283 (2010) 3825-3829
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1664
abstract: We study the evolution of entangled coherent states of the two quantized electromagnetic fields under dissipation. Characteristic time scales for the decay of the negativity are found in the case of large values of the phase space distance among the states of each mode. We also study how the entanglement emerges among the reservoirs.

id: 0801.1704
title: Representation Class and Geometrical Invariants of Quantum States under Local Unitary Transformations
authors: Zu-Huan Yu, Xian-Qing Li-Jost, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 11 pages
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inform. 5(2007)795-803
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1704
abstract: We investigate the equivalence of bipartite quantum mixed states under local unitary transformations by introducing representation classes from a geometrical approach. It is shown that two bipartite mixed states are equivalent under local unitary transformations if and only if they have the same representation class. Detailed examples are given on calculating representation classes.

id: 0801.1706
title: A Complete Set of Local Invariants for a Family of Multipartite Mixed States
authors: Xiao-Hong Wang, Shao-Ming Fei, Ke Wu
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 41, Math. Theor. (2008) 025305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1706
abstract: We study the equivalence of quantum states under local unitary transformations by using the singular value decomposition. A complete set of invariants under local unitary transformations is presented for several classes of tripartite mixed states in KxMxN composite systems. Two density matrices in the same class are equivalent under local unitary transformations if and only if all these invariants have equal values for these density matrices.

id: 0801.1752
title: Q-deformation, discrete time and quantum information as fiber space
authors: Jaroslav Hruby
comments: QIP 2008. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap (pp 5-10) with arXiv:quant-ph/0503198 by different author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1752
abstract: In this paper we show the connection between the q-deformation and discrete time, starting from the q-deformed Heisenberg uncertainty relation and q-deformation calculus. We show that time has discrete nature and for this case we construct the connection between quantum information and spacetime via fiber space structure.

id: 0801.1757
title: Master equation - tutorial approach
authors: Stanislaw Kryszewski, Justyna Czechowska-Kryszk
comments: 38 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1757
abstract: We do not present any original or new material. This is a tutorial addressed to students who need to study the microscopic derivation of the quantum-mechanical master equation encountered in many practical physical situations.

id: 0801.1776
title: Violation of Bell inequalities through the coincidence-time loophole
authors: Peter Morgan
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1776
abstract: The coincidence-time loophole was identified by Larsson & Gill (Europhys. Lett. 67, 707 (2004)); a concrete model that exploits this loophole has recently been described by De Raedt et al. (Found. Phys., to appear). It is emphasized here that De Raedt et al.'s model is experimentally testable. De Raedt et al.'s model also introduces contextuality in a novel and classically more natural way than the use of contextual particle properties, by introducing a probabilistic model of a limited set of degrees of freedom of the measurement apparatus, so that it can also be seen as a random field model. Even though De Raedt et al.'s model may well contradict detailed Physics, it nonetheless provides a way to simulate the logical operation of elements of a quantum computer, and may provide a way forward for more detailed random field models.

id: 0801.1793
title: Realizzazione di un esperimento innovativo con doppia fenditura utilizzando coppie correlate di fotoni
authors: Giuseppe Falzetta
comments: My master thesis in italian
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1793
abstract: In this Thesis I present a double slit experiment where two undistinguishable photons produced by type I PDC are sent each to a well defined slit. Data about the diffraction and interference patterns for coincidences are presented and discussed. An analysis of these data allows a first test of standard quantum mechanics against de Broglie-Bohm theory.

id: 0801.1805
title: Conditional probabilities and collapse in quantum measurements
authors: R. Laura, L. Vanni
comments: 15 pages
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, Volume 47, Issue 9, (2008), pp. 2382-2392
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1805
abstract: We show that including both the system and the apparatus in the quantum description of the measurement process, and using the concept of conditional probabilities, it is possible to deduce the statistical operator of the system after a measurement with a given result, which gives the probability distribution for all possible consecutive measurements on the system. This statistical operator, representing the state of the system after the first measurement, is in general not the same that would be obtained using the postulate of collapse.

id: 0801.1814
title: Weak measurement: Effect of the detector dynamics
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo, J. Carlos Egues
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. References added. Minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042108 (2008) (5 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1814
abstract: A general approach to the measurement of an observable with pre- and post-selection is presented. The limit of weak measurement is studied in detail, and it is shown that the phase of the probe, including a Hamiltonian contribution to it, gives rise to observable effects, since the coherence of the probe is essential for the concept of complex weak value to be meaningful. As a particular example, the measurement of a spin component is considered. We find that the contribution of the imaginary part of the weak value is sizeable in this case.

id: 0801.1824
title: Tunnelling of plane waves through a square barrier
authors: J. Julve, F. J. de Urries
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1824
abstract: The time evolution of plane waves in the presence of a 1-dimensional square quantum barrier is considered. Comparison is made between the cases of an infinite and a cut-off (shutter) initial plane wave. The difference is relevant when the results are applied to the analysis of the tunnelling regime. This work is focused on the analytical calculation of the time-evolved solution and highlights the contribution of the resonant (Gamow) states. PACS numbers: 11.10.Ef, 11.10.Lm, 04.60

id: 0801.1827
title: Measuring nanomechanical motion with a microwave cavity interferometer
authors: C. A. Regal, J. D. Teufel, K. W. Lehnert
comments: Minor changes and corrections to text and figures; 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nature Physics 4, 555 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1827
abstract: In recent years microfabricated microwave cavities have been extremely successful in a wide variety of detector applications. In this article we focus this technology on the challenge of quantum-limited displacement detection of a macroscopic object. We measure the displacement of a nanomechanical beam by capacitively coupling its position to the resonant frequency of a superconducting transmission-line microwave cavity. With our device we realize near state-of-the-art mechanical force sensitivity (3 $\rm{aN/\sqrt{Hz}}$) and thus add to only a handful of techniques able to measure thermomechanical motion at 10's of milliKelvin temperatures. Our measurement imprecision reaches a promising 30 times the expected imprecision at the standard quantum limit, and we quantify our ability to extract measurement backaction from our results as well as elucidate the important steps that will be required to progress towards the full quantum limit with this new detector.

id: 0801.1834
title: Non-dispersive wavepacket solutions of the Schrodinger equation
authors: Shaun N. Mosley
comments: 12 pages, parameters amended to yield correct dimension and new section added on relativistic extension
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1834
abstract: The free Schrodinger equation has constant velocity wavepacket solutions \psi_{\bf v} of the form \psi= f({\bf r} - {\bf v}t) e^{- i m c^2 t / 2}. These solutions are eigenvectors of a momentum operator {\bf \tilde p} which is symmetric in a positive definite scalar product space. We discuss whether these \psi_{\bf v} can act as basis states rather than the usual plane wave solutions.

id: 0801.1893
title: Infra-Mecanique Quantique
authors: Mioara Mugur-Schachter
comments: 67 pages double spaced
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1893
abstract: A qualitative representation of what is called 'microstates' is constructed quite independently from the mathematical formalism of fundamental Quantum Mechanics, by taking into accont exclusively the constraints imposed by (a) the cognitive situation in which a human being places himself if he decides to construct knowledge concerning microstates; (b) the general requirements of human conceptualisation. The result, called infra quantum mechanics, offers a semantic structure of reference that will permit to develop a unified coherent treatment of all the interpretation problems raised by the formalism of fundamental Quantum Mechanics.

id: 0801.1897
title: The effect of spin-orbit interaction on entanglement of two-qubit Heisenberg XYZ systems in an inhomogeneous magnetic field
authors: Fardin Kheirandish, S. Javad Akhtarshenas, Hamidreza Mohammadi
comments: Two columns, 9 pages, 8 Figs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 042309 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1897
abstract: The role of spin-orbit interaction on the ground state and thermal entanglement of a Heisenberg XYZ two-qubit system in the presence of an inhomogeneous magnetic field is investigated. For a certain value of spin-orbit parameter $D$, the ground state entanglement tends to vanish suddenly and when $D$ crosses its critical value $D_c$, the entanglement undergoes a revival. The maximum value of the entanglement occurs in the revival region. In finite temperatures there are revival regions in $D-T$ plane. In these regions, entanglement first increases with increasing temperature and then decreases and ultimately vanishes for temperatures above a critical value. This critical temperature is an increasing function of $D$, thus the nonzero entanglement can exist for larger temperatures. In addition, the amount of entanglement in the revival region depends on the spin-orbit parameter. Also, the entanglement teleportation via the quantum channel constructed by the above system is investigated and finally the influence of the spin-orbit interaction on the fidelity of teleportation and entanglement of replica state is studied.

id: 0801.1900
title: Equivalent approaches to electromagnetic field quantization in a linear dielectric
authors: Fardin Kheirandish, Morteza Soltani
comments: 28 pages,
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1900
abstract: It is shown that the minimal coupling method is equivalent to the Huttner-Barnet and phenomenological approaches up to a canonical transformation.

id: 0801.1902
title: Extension of the Huttner-Barnett model to a magnetodielectric medium
authors: Fardin Kheirandish, Morteza Soltani
comments: 25 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012102 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1902
abstract: The Huttner$-$Barnett model is extended to a magnetodielectric medium by adding a new matter field to this model. The eigenoperators for the coupled system are calculated and electromagnetic field is written in terms of these operators. The electric and magnetic susceptibility of the medium are explicitly derived and shown to satisfy the Kramers$-$Kronig relations. It is shown that the results obtained in this model are equivalent to the results obtained from the phenomenological methods.

id: 0801.1940
title: Relation between quantum tomography and optical Fresnel transform
authors: Hong-yi Fan, Li-yun Hu
comments: 7 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1940
abstract: Corresponding to optical Fresnel transformation characteristic of ray transfer matrix elements (A;B;C;D); AD-BC = 1, there exists Fresnel operator F(A;B;C;D) in quantum optics, we show that under the Fresnel transformation the pure position density |x><x| becomes the tomographic density |x>_rs,rs_<x|, which is just the Radon transform of the Wigner operator, i.e., F|x><x|F^(+) = |x>_rs,rs_<x|= \int dx'dp'delta[x-(Dx'-Bp')]*Wigner operator where s, r are the complex-value expression of (A;B;C;D). So the probability distribution for the Fresnel quadrature phase is the tomography (Radon transform of Wigner function), and the tomogram of a state |phi> is just the wave function of its Fresnel transformed state F|phi>, i.e. rs_<x||phi>= <x|F^(+)|phi>. Similarly, we find F|p><p|F^(+) = |p>_rs,rs_<p|= \int dx'dp'delta[x-(Ap'-Cx')]*Wigner operator.

id: 0801.1941
title: Active Quantum Memory Using Oscillating Dark States
authors: Jun He, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Xiang-Fa Zhou, Qun-Feng Chen, Guang-Can Guo
comments: The authors declare that the paper should be withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1941
abstract: An active method for long time storage of quantum superposition state in atomic system using the Oscillating Dark States (ODS) is presented. Quantum state of a three-level $\Lambda$ configuration atomic system oscillates periodically between two ground levels, when two pairs of classical detuning laser fields driving the system into the ODS under evolving adiabatic conditions. When considering another uploading/unloading adiabatic conditions and applying the oscillation of the ODS to quantum state storage, surprisingly, we can obtain the greatly suppressed decoherence of the system and high fidelity of the retrieved state, even if decay factor of coherence term of the system density matrix $\gamma_{21}$$\cdot$ $t$$ \gg$1. The storage time is not limited by coherence decay time of the atomic system any longer, and can be thousands of times longer than that in those passive schemes without additional laser fields.

id: 0801.1944
title: Additional information decreases the estimated entanglement using the Jaynes principle
authors: Koji Nagata
comments: To appear in Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory and Experiment
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2008) P03020
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1944
abstract: We study a particular example considered in {[Phys. Rev. A {\bf 59,} 1799 (1999)]}, concerning the statistical inference of quantum entanglement using the Jaynes principle. Assume a Clauser-Horne-Simony-Holt (CHSH) Bell operator, a sum of two operators $\sqrt{2}(X+Z)$. Given only an average of the Bell-CHSH operator, we may overestimate entanglement. However, the estimated entanglement is decreased (never increases) when we use the expectation value of the operator $X$ as additional information. A minimum entanglement state is obtained by minimizing the variance of the observable $X$.

id: 0801.1945
title: Unconditional no-hidden-variables theorem
authors: Koji Nagata
comments: Foundations of Physics, (2008), (accepted for publication)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1945
abstract: Recently, [{arXiv:0810.3134}] is accepted and published. We present ultimate version of no-hidden-variables theorem. We derive a proposition concerning the quantum theory under the existence of the Bloch sphere in a single spin-1/2 system. The existence of a single classical probability space for measurement outcome within the formalism of von Neumann's projective measurement does not coexist with the proposition concerning the quantum theory. We have to give up the existence of such a classical probability space for measurement outcome in the two-dimensional Hilbert space formalism of the quantum theory. The quantum theory does not accept a hidden-variable interpretation in the two-dimensional space.

id: 0801.1959
title: Quantum Information Processing with Quantum Zeno Many-Body Dynamics
authors: Alex Monras, Oriol Romero-Isart
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures. Significantly extended, including two-qubit gates and parity measurements. To appear in Quantum Information & Computation
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 10, 201 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1959
abstract: We show how the quantum Zeno effect can be exploited to control quantum many-body dynamics for quantum information and computation purposes. In particular, we consider a one dimensional array of three level systems interacting via a nearest-neighbour interaction. By encoding the qubit on two levels and using simple projective frequent measurements yielding the quantum Zeno effect, we demonstrate how to implement a well defined quantum register, quantum state transfer on demand, universal two-qubit gates and two-qubit parity measurements. Thus, we argue that the main ingredients for universal quantum computation can be achieved in a spin chain with an always-on and constant many-body Hamiltonian. We also show some possible modifications of the initially assumed dynamics in order to create maximally entangled qubit pairs and single qubit gates.

id: 0801.1971
title: Comment on "Direct space-time observation of pulse tunneling in an electromagnetic band gap"
authors: G. Nimtz, A.A. Stahlhofen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1971
abstract: The investigation presented by Doiron, Hache, and Winful [Phys. Rev. A 76, 023823 (2007)] is not valid for the tunneling process as claimed in the paper.

id: 0801.1978
title: Conductivity of dielectric and thermal atom-wall interaction
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; page size is corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. v.41, 312002(F), 2008.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1978
abstract: We compare the experimental data of the first measurement of a temperature dependence of the Casimir-Polder force by Obrecht et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 98}, 063201 (2007)] with the theory taking into account small, but physically real, static conductivity of the dielectric substrate. The theory is found to be inconsistent with the data. The conclusion is drawn that the conductivity of dielectric materials should not be included in the model of the dielectric response in the Lifshitz theory. This conclusion obtained from the long separation measurement is consistent with related but different results obtained for semiconductors and metals at short separations.

id: 0801.2026
title: Quantum Mechanics from Focusing and Symmetry
authors: Inge S. Helland
comments: 26 pages
journal: Found.Phys.38:818-842,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2026
abstract: A foundation of quantum mechanics based on the concepts of focusing and symmetry is proposed. Focusing is connected to c-variables - inaccessible conceptually derived variables; several examples of such variables are given. The focus is then on a maximal accessible parameter, a function of the common c-variable. Symmetry is introduced via a group acting on the c-variable. From this, the Hilbert space is constructed and state vectors and operators are given a clear interpretation. The Born formula is proved from weak assumptions, and from this the usual rules of quantum mechanics are derived. Several paradoxes and other issues of quantum theory are discussed.

id: 0801.2073
title: Time translation of quantum properties
authors: L. Vanni, R. Laura
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2073
abstract: Based on the notion of time translation, we develop a formalism to deal with the logic of quantum properties at different times. In our formalism it is possible to enlarge the usual notion of context to include composed properties involving properties at different times. We compare our results with the theory of consistent histories.

id: 0801.2078
title: On entropy growth and the hardness of simulating time evolution
authors: Norbert Schuch, Michael M. Wolf, Karl Gerd H. Vollbrecht, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 15 pages. v2: Published version, Journal-Ref. added
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 033032 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2078
abstract: The simulation of quantum systems is a task for which quantum computers are believed to give an exponential speedup as compared to classical ones. While ground states of one-dimensional systems can be efficiently approximated using Matrix Product States (MPS), their time evolution can encode quantum computations, so that simulating the latter should be hard classically. However, one might believe that for systems with high enough symmetry, and thus insufficient parameters to encode a quantum computation, efficient classical simulation is possible. We discuss supporting evidence to the contrary: We provide a rigorous proof of the observation that a time independent local Hamiltonian can yield a linear increase of the entropy when acting on a product state in a translational invariant framework. This criterion has to be met by any classical simulation method, which in particular implies that every global approximation of the evolution requires exponential resources for any MPS based method.

id: 0801.2091
title: Geometric phases and Bloch sphere constructions for SU(N), with a complete description of SU(4)
authors: D. Uskov, A. R. P. Rau
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2091
abstract: A two-sphere ("Bloch" or "Poincare") is familiar for describing the dynamics of a spin-1/2 particle or light polarization. Analogous objects are derived for unitary groups larger than SU(2) through an iterative procedure that constructs evolution operators for higher-dimensional SU in terms of lower-dimensional ones. We focus, in particular, on the SU(4) of two qubits which describes all possible logic gates in quantum computation. For a general Hamiltonian of SU(4) with 15 parameters, and for Hamiltonians of its various sub-groups so that fewer parameters suffice, we derive Bloch-like rotation of unit vectors analogous to the one familiar for a single spin in a magnetic field. The unitary evolution of a quantal spin pair is thereby expressed as rotations of real vectors. Correspondingly, the manifolds involved are Bloch two-spheres along with higher dimensional manifolds such as a four-sphere for the SO(5) sub-group and an eight-dimensional Grassmannian manifold for the general SU(4). This latter may also be viewed as two, mutually orthogonal, real six-dimensional unit vectors moving on a five-sphere with an additional phase constraint.

id: 0801.2144
title: Non-Additive Quantum Codes from Goethals and Preparata Codes
authors: Markus Grassl, Martin Roetteler
comments: submitted to the 2008 IEEE Information Theory Workshop (ITW 2008)
journal: Proceedings IEEE Information Theory Workshop 2008 (ITW 2008), Porto, Portugal, May 2008, pp. 396-400
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2144
abstract: We extend the stabilizer formalism to a class of non-additive quantum codes which are constructed from non-linear classical codes. As an example, we present infinite families of non-additive codes which are derived from Goethals and Preparata codes.

id: 0801.2150
title: Quantum Goethals-Preparata Codes
authors: Markus Grassl, Martin Roetteler
comments: Submitted to the 2008 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory
journal: Proceedings 2008 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2008), Toronto, Canada, July 2008, pp. 300-304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2150
abstract: We present a family of non-additive quantum codes based on Goethals and Preparata codes with parameters ((2^m,2^{2^m-5m+1},8)). The dimension of these codes is eight times higher than the dimension of the best known additive quantum codes of equal length and minimum distance.

id: 0801.2161
title: Observations Outside the Light-Cone: Algorithms for Non-Equilibrium and Thermal States
authors: M. B. Hastings
comments: 19 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 144302 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2161
abstract: We apply algorithms based on Lieb-Robinson bounds to simulate time-dependent and thermal quantities in quantum systems. For time-dependent systems, we modify a previous mapping to quantum circuits to significantly reduce the computer resources required. This modification is based on a principle of "observing" the system outside the light-cone. We apply this method to study spin relaxation in systems started out of equilibrium with initial conditions that give rise to very rapid entanglement growth. We also show that it is possible to approximate time evolution under a local Hamiltonian by a quantum circuit whose light-cone naturally matches the Lieb-Robinson velocity. Asymptotically, these modified methods allow a doubling of the system size that one can obtain compared to direct simulation. We then consider a different problem of thermal properties of disordered spin chains and use quantum belief propagation to average over different configurations. We test this algorithm on one dimensional systems with mixed ferromagnetic and anti-ferromagnetic bonds, where we can compare to quantum Monte Carlo, and then we apply it to the study of disordered, frustrated spin systems.

id: 0801.2167
title: Electron scattering by a solenoid
authors: I.V. Tyutin
comments: 19 pages, added information: preprint of P.N. Lebedev Physical Institute, No 27, 1974
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2167
abstract: The quantum-mechanical problems of electron scattering by an infinitely thin solenoid and by a half of an infinitely thin solenoid are examined from the viewpoint of constructing a self-adjoint Hamiltonian. It is demonstrated that in both problems there exist unique self-adjoint operators with a ``non-singular'' domain, that, due to physical reasons, are identified with the corresponding Hamiltonians. In the case of quantized values of magnetic flow along the solenoid, the electron does not experience any scattering by the string. It is shown that the scattering amplitude and wave function of an electron in the problem of scattering by an infinitely long solenoid of radius a in the limit a->0 turn into the corresponding expressions for the problem of an infinitely thin solenoid. In particular, at a quantized value of magnetic flow along the solenoid, scattering disappears at a->0.

id: 0801.2184
title: Bell inequality violation with two remote atomic qubits
authors: D. N. Matsukevich, P. Maunz, D. L. Moehring, S. Olmschenk, C. Monroe
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 150404 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2184
abstract: We observe violation of a Bell inequality between the quantum states of two remote Yb ions separated by a distance of about one meter with the detection loophole closed. The heralded entanglement of two ions is established via interference and joint detection of two emitted photons, whose polarization is entangled with each ion. The entanglement of remote qubits is also characterized by full quantum state tomography.

id: 0801.2193
title: Quantum Annealing and Analog Quantum Computation
authors: Arnab Das, Bikas K. Chakrabarti
comments: 22 pages, 7 figs (color online); new References Added. Reviews of Modern Physics (in press)
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys., 80, 1061 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2193
abstract: We review here the recent success in quantum annealing, i.e., optimization of the cost or energy functions of complex systems utilizing quantum fluctuations. The concept is introduced in successive steps through the studies of mapping of such computationally hard problems to the classical spin glass problems. The quantum spin glass problems arise with the introduction of quantum fluctuations, and the annealing behavior of the systems as these fluctuations are reduced slowly to zero. This provides a general framework for realizing analog quantum computation.

id: 0801.2215
title: The Utility of Time-Symmetric Quantum Counterfactuals: A Response to Kastner
authors: U. Mohrhoff
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2215
abstract: Kastner's (Philosophy of Science 70, 2003, pp. 145--163) recent objections to the counterfactual usage of the time-symmetric Aharonov-Bergmann-Lebowitz rule by the author, especially her claims that the resulting time-symmetric quantum counterfactuals are vacuous or invalid, are examined and shown to be unfounded or beside the point.

id: 0801.2218
title: Hidden variable models for quantum theory cannot have any local part
authors: Roger Colbeck, Renato Renner
comments: latex, 5 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.101:050403,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2218
abstract: It was shown by Bell that no local hidden variable model is compatible with quantum mechanics. If, instead, one permits the hidden variables to be entirely non-local, then any quantum mechanical predictions can be recovered. In this paper, we consider general hidden variable models which can have both local and non-local parts. We then show the existence of (experimentally verifiable) quantum correlations that are incompatible with any hidden variable model having a non-trivial local part, such as the model proposed by Leggett.

id: 0801.2220
title: Absolute emission rates of Spontaneous Parametric Down Conversion into single transverse Gaussian modes
authors: Alexander Ling, Antia Lamas-Linares, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: RevTeX, 7 pages, 4 figures; this version has a short section discussing ratios between pump and target waists
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 043834 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2220
abstract: We provide an estimate on the absolute values of the emission rate of photon pairs produced by spontaneous parametric down conversion in a bulk crystal when all interacting fields are in single transverse Gaussian modes. Both collinear and non-collinear configurations are covered, and we arrive at a fully analytical expression for the collinear case. Our results agree reasonably well with values found in typical experiments, which allows this model to be used for understanding the dependency on the relevant experimental parameters.

id: 0801.2240
title: High momentum entanglement of cold atoms generated by a single photon scattering
authors: Rui Guo, Xiaoji Zhou, Xuzong Chen
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2240
abstract: With the mechanism of pairwise scattering of photons between two atoms, we propose a novel scheme to highly entangle the motional state between two ultracold neutral atoms by a single photon scattering and detection. Under certain conditions, it is shown that an arbitrary amount of entanglement can be obtained with this scheme.

id: 0801.2241
title: Testing quantum correlations versus single-particle properties within Leggett's model and beyond
authors: Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Brunner, Nicolas Gisin, Christian Kurtsiefer, Antia Lamas-Linares, Alexander Ling, Valerio Scarani
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Physics 4, 681 - 685 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2241
abstract: Quantum theory predicts and experiments confirm that nature can produce correlations between distant events that are nonlocal in the sense of violating a Bell inequality. Nevertheless, Bell's strong sentence {\it Correlations cry out for explanations} remains relevant. The maturing of quantum information science and the discovery of the power of nonlocal correlations, e.g. for cryptographic key distribution beyond the standard Quantum Key Distribution schemes, strengthen Bell's wish and make it even more timely. In 2003, Leggett proposed an alternative model for nonlocal correlations [Found. Phys. 33, 1469 (2003)], that he proved to be incompatible with quantum predictions. We present here a new approach to this model, along with new inequalities for testing it. Remarkably these inequalities can be derived in a very simple way, assuming only the non-negativity of probability distributions; they are also stronger than previously published Leggett-type inequalities. The simplest of these inequalities is experimentally violated. Then we go beyond Leggett's model, and show that one cannot ascribe even partially defined individual properties to the components of a maximally entangled pair.

id: 0801.2266
title: Emergence of atom-light-mirror entanglement inside an optical cavity
authors: C. Genes, D. Vitali, P. Tombesi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 050307 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2266
abstract: We propose a scheme for the realization of a hybrid, strongly quantum-correlated system formed of an atomic ensemble surrounded by a high-finesse optical cavity with a vibrating mirror. We show that the steady state of the system shows tripartite and bipartite continuous variable entanglement in experimentally accessible parameter regimes, which is robust against temperature.

id: 0801.2267
title: Identifying wave packet fractional revivals by means of information entropy
authors: E. Romera, F. de los Santos
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 99, 263601 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2267
abstract: Wave packet fractional revivals is a relevant feature in the long time scale evolution of a wide range of physical systems, including atoms, molecules and nonlinear systems. We show that the sum of information entropies in both position and momentum conjugate spaces is an indicator of fractional revivals by analyzing three different model systems: $(i)$ the infinite square well, $(ii)$ a particle bouncing vertically against a wall in a gravitational field, and $(iii)$ the vibrational dynamics of hydrogen iodide molecules. This description in terms of information entropies complements the usual one in terms of the autocorrelation function.

id: 0801.2301
title: Consistency of shared reference frames should be reexamined
authors: Fei Gao, Fen-Zhuo Guo, Qiao-Yan Wen, Fu-Chen Zhu
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure, comments are welcome
journal: Physical Review A 77, 014302, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2301
abstract: In a recent Letter [G. Chiribella et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 120501 (2007)], four protocols were proposed to secretly transmit a reference frame. Here We point out that in these protocols an eavesdropper can change the transmitted reference frame without being detected, which means the consistency of the shared reference frames should be reexamined. The way to check the above consistency is discussed. It is shown that this problem is quite different from that in previous protocols of quantum cryptography.

id: 0801.2358
title: Spontaneous emission of an atom near a wedge
authors: F.S.S. Rosa, T.N.C. Mendes, A. Tenorio, C. Farina
comments: 10 pages, version replaced to match the published one
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78 012105 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2358
abstract: It is a well known fact that non-trivial boundary conditions affect the interaction between atoms and the always present quantized electromagnetic field. In this paper, we focus on how the spontaneous emission rate of a given excited atom is altered when placed inside a perfectly conducting wedge. We begin by briefly presenting the formalism on which our calculations are founded, proceeding then to a long but straightforward calculation of the transition rate. We present results for a general atom but, for the sake of simplicity, we narrow them down to an effective two-level system in our numerical investigations. From these we conclude that the results are physically sound.

id: 0801.2360
title: Subsystem stabilizer codes cannot have a universal set of transversal gates for even one encoded qudit
authors: Xie Chen, Hyeyoun Chung, Andrew W. Cross, Bei Zeng, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012353 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2360
abstract: A long-standing open problem in fault-tolerant quantum computation has been to find a universal set of transversal gates. As three of us proved in arXiv: 0706.1382, such a set does not exist for binary stabilizer codes. Here we generalize our work to show that for subsystem stabilizer codes in $d$ dimensional Hilbert space, such a universal set of transversal gates cannot exist for even one encoded qudit, for any dimension $d$, prime or nonprime. This result strongly supports the idea that other primitives, such as quantum teleportation, are necessary for universal fault-tolerant quantum computation, and may be an important factor for fault tolerance noise thresholds.

id: 0801.2396
title: Many-body dynamics of Rydberg excitation using the $¦¸$-expansion
authors: J. Stanojevic, R. C?t¨¦
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2396
abstract: We investigate the excitation dynamics of Rydberg atoms in ultracold atomic samples by expanding the excitation probability and the correlation function between excited atoms in powers of the isolated atom Rabi frequency $\Omega$. In the Heisenberg picture, we give recurrence relations to calculate any order of the expansions, which ere expected to be well-behaved for arbitrarily strong interactions. For homogeneous large samples, we give the explicit form of the expansions, up to $\Omega^4$, averaged over all possible random spatial distributions of atoms, for the most important cases of excitation pulses and interactions.

id: 0801.2406
title: Many-body Rabi oscillations of Rydberg excitation in small mesoscopic samples
authors: J. Stanojevic, R. C?t¨¦
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2406
abstract: We investigate the collective aspects of Rydberg excitation in ultracold mesoscopic systems. Strong interactions between Rydberg atoms influence the excitation process and impose correlations between excited atoms. The manifestations of the collective behavior of Rydberg excitation are the many-body Rabi oscillations, spatial correlations between atoms as well as the fluctuations of the number of excited atoms. We study these phenomena in detail by numerically solving the many-body Schr\"edinger equation.

id: 0801.2416
title: Dispersion forces between an atom and a perfectly conducting wedge
authors: T. N. C. Mendes, F. S. S. Rosa, A. Tenorio, C. Farina
comments: Work presented at the conference QFEXT07, held in Leipzig
journal: J. Phys. A 41, 164029 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2416
abstract: We consider the interaction between an electrically polarizable atom in its fundamental state and a wedge constituted by two semi-infinite perfectly conducting plates. Using a formalism based on a master equation, we compute the dispersion force on the atom for both retarded and non-retarded regimes.

id: 0801.2418
title: Cryptanalysis of the Hillery-Buzek-Berthiaume quantum secret-sharing protocol
authors: Su-Juan Qin, Fei Gao, Qiao-Yan Wen, Fu-Chen Zhu
comments: Revtex, 7 pages, 3 figures; Introduction modified
journal: Physical Review A 76,062324,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2418
abstract: The participant attack is the most serious threat for quantum secret-sharing protocols. We present a method to analyze the security of quantum secret-sharing protocols against this kind of attack taking the scheme of Hillery, Buzek, and Berthiaume (HBB) [Phys. Rev. A 59 1829 (1999)] as an example. By distinguishing between two mixed states, we derive the necessary and sufficient conditions under which a dishonest participant can attain all the information without introducing any error, which shows that the HBB protocol is insecure against dishonest participants. It is easy to verify that the attack scheme of Karlsson, Koashi, and Imoto [Phys. Rev. A 59, 162 (1999)] is a special example of our results. To demonstrate our results further, we construct an explicit attack scheme according to the necessary and sufficient conditions. Our work completes the security analysis of the HBB protocol, and the method presented may be useful for the analysis of other similar protocols.

id: 0801.2420
title: Revisiting the security of quantum dialogue and bidirectional quantum secure direct communication
authors: Fei Gao, Fen-Zhuo Guo, Qiao-Yan Wen, Fu-Chen Zhu
comments: An authors' note was added. That is, when this study was completed, we found that the insecurity of quantum dialogue was independently pointed out by Tan and Cai (see arXiv:0802.0358)
journal: Science in China Series G: Physics, Mechanics & Astronomy, Vol.51, No.5, pp.559-566, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2420
abstract: From the perspective of information theory and cryptography, we analyze the security of two quantum dialogue protocols and a bidirectional quantum secure direct communication (QSDC) protocol, and point out that the transmitted information would be partly leaked out in them. That is, any eavesdropper can elicit some information about the secrets from the public annunciations of the legal users. This phenomenon should have been strictly forbidden in a quantum secure communication. In fact, this problem exists in quite a few recent proposals and, therefore, it deserves more research attention in the following related study.

id: 0801.2429
title: Helicity Entanglement of Moving Bodies
authors: Shuxin Shao, Song He, Hongbao Zhang
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure, version to appear in Int. J. Quant. Inf
journal: IJQI7, 539-545(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2429
abstract: We investigate the Lorentz transformation of the reduced helicity density matrix for a pair of massive spin 1/2 particles. The corresponding Wootters concurrence shows no invariant meaning, which implies that we can generate helicity entanglement simply by the transformation from one reference frame to another. The difference between the helicity and spin case is also discussed.

id: 0801.2440
title: Subluminal to superluminal propagation of an optical pulse in an f-deformed Bose- Einstein condensate
authors: Z. Haghshenasfard, M. H. Naderi, M. Soltanolkotabi
comments: 37 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2440
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the propagation of a weak optical probe pulse in an f-deformed Bose- Einstein condensate (BEC) of a gas with the -type three- level atoms in the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) regime. We use an f- deformed generalization of an effective two- level quantum model of the three- level configuration in which the Gardiner phonon operators for BEC are deformed by an operator- valued function, f(n), of the particle- number operator n. With making use of the quantum approach of the angular momentum theory we obtain the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the system up to first order approximation. We consider the collisions between the atoms as a special kind of f- deformation. The collision rate k is regarded as the deformation parameter and light propagation in the deformed BEC is analyzed. In particular, we show that the absorptive and dispersive properties of the deformed condensate can be controlled effectively by changing the deformation parameter k and the total number of atoms. We find that by increasing the value of k the group velocity of the probe pulse changes, through deformed condensate, from subluminal to superluminal.

id: 0801.2448
title: Atom cooling with an atom-optical diode on a ring
authors: A. Ruschhaupt, J. G. Muga
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2448
abstract: We propose a method to cool atoms on a ring by combining an atom diode -a laser valve for one-way atomic motion which induces robust internal state excitation- and a trap. We demonstrate numerically that the atom is efficiently slowed down at each diode crossing, and it is finally trapped when its velocity is below the trap threshold.

id: 0801.2449
title: Entanglement renormalization in free bosonic systems: real-space versus momentum-space renormalization group transforms
authors: G. Evenbly, G. Vidal
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures, substantial revisions
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 025007 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2449
abstract: The ability of entanglement renormalization (ER) to generate a proper real-space renormalization group (RG) flow in extended quantum systems is analysed in the setting of harmonic lattice systems in D=1 and D=2 spatial dimensions. A conceptual overview of the steps involved in momentum-space RG is provided and contrasted against the equivalent steps in the real-space setting. The real-space RG flow, as generated by ER, is compared against the exact results from momentum-space RG, including an investigation of a critical fixed point and the effect of relevant and irrelevant perturbations.

id: 0801.2461
title: Quadratic Form Expansions for Unitaries
authors: Niel de Beaudrap, Vincent Danos, Elham Kashefi, Martin Roetteler
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures; (extended version of) accepted submission to TQC 2008
journal: Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication, and Cryptography (TQC 2008), Springer LNCS, pp. 29-46, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2461
abstract: We introduce techniques to analyze unitary operations in terms of quadratic form expansions, a form similar to a sum over paths in the computational basis when the phase contributed by each path is described by a quadratic form over $\mathbb R$. We show how to relate such a form to an entangled resource akin to that of the one-way measurement model of quantum computing. Using this, we describe various conditions under which it is possible to efficiently implement a unitary operation U, either when provided a quadratic form expansion for U as input, or by finding a quadratic form expansion for U from other input data.

id: 0801.2463
title: Assisted Tunneling of a metastable state between barriers
authors: German K?lbermann
comments: Physical Review C (RC) in press
journal: Phys.Rev.C77:041601,2008; Phys.Rev.C79:024613,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2463
abstract: The assisted tunneling of a metastable state between barriers is investigated analytically by means of a simplified one dimensional model. A time dependent perturbation changes the pole spectrum of the wave function introducing a larger decay constant. New insights about the decay of a metastable state are found. The scheme is exemplified for parameters corresponding to the nuclear process of $\alpha$ decay.

id: 0801.2483
title: Missing experiments in quantum mechanics
authors: Miroslav Pardy
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2483
abstract: We discuss the two-slit experiment and the Aharonov-Bohm (AB) experiment in the magnetic field. In such a case the electron moving in the magnetic field produces so called synchrotron radiation. In other words the photons are emitted from the points of the electron trajectory and it means that the trajectory of electron is visible in the synchrotron radiation spectrum. The axiomatic system of quantum mechanics does not enable to define the trajectory of the elementary particle. The two-slit experiment and AB experiment in a magnetic field was never performed and it means that they are the missing experiments of quantum mechanics. The extension of the discussion to the cosmical rays moving in the magnetic field of the Saturn magnetosphere and its rings is mentioned. It is related to the probe CASSINI. The solution of the problem in the framework of the hydrodynamical model of quantum mechanics and the nonlinear quantum mechanics is also mentioned.

id: 0801.2488
title: Generating entangled light with atomic ensembles
authors: Peng Li
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2488
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to some problems.

id: 0801.2506
title: Comment on "Quantum Key Distribution in the Holevo Limit"
authors: A. Fahmi, M. Golshani
comments: REVTeX4, 1 page, no figure, A. Cabello Reply, Physical Review Letters 100, 018902 (2008)
journal: Physical Review Letters 100, 018901 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2506
abstract: In a Letter, Cabello proposed a quantum key distribution (QKD) Protocol which attended to Holevo limit. In this comment, we show that Eve could use a simple plan to distinguish among quantum keys, without being detected by Alice and Bob. In following, we show that our approach is not restricted to Cabello Protocol. With attention to our Eavesdropping approach, it seems that Mor's arguments for no-cloning principal for orthogonal states is not general enough to avoid eavesdropping.

id: 0801.2508
title: Reply to Fahmi and Golshani's comment on "Quantum key distribution in the Holevo limit"
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 1 page
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100 (2008) 018902
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2508
abstract: As Fahmi and Golshani correctly point out, a protocol introduced in A. Cabello, Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 5635 (2000), to show that a quantum key distribution protocol can have efficiency one (i.e., can achieve the Holevo limit), does indeed not have efficiency one. The corrected protocol, introduced in A. Cabello, Recent. Res. Devel. Physics 2, 249 (2001), is reproduced here.

id: 0801.2514
title: Trapping cold Atoms by Quantum Reflection
authors: Alexander Jurisch, Jan-Michael Rost
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2514
abstract: We examine the properties of a quantum reflection trap when particle-interaction is included. We explore the influence of the particle-interaction on the trapping for different regimes: repulsive particle-interaction and attractive particle-interaction in its stable and unstable limit. With variational techniques, we calculate the phase-diagram of the quatum reflection trap and determine the stable and unstable regimes of the system.

id: 0801.2561
title: Quantum Error Correction Code in the Hamiltonian Formulation
authors: Yong Zhang
comments: v2, v3: latex, 19 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2561
abstract: The Hamiltonian model of quantum error correction code in the literature is often constructed with the help of its stabilizer formalism. But there have been many known examples of nonadditive codes which are beyond the standard quantum error correction theory using the stabilizer formalism. In this paper, we suggest the other type of Hamiltonian formalism for quantum error correction code without involving the stabilizer formalism, and explain it by studying the Shor nine-qubit code and its generalization. In this Hamiltonian formulation, the unitary evolution operator at a specific time is a unitary basis transformation matrix from the product basis to the quantum error correction code. This basis transformation matrix acts as an entangling quantum operator transforming a separate state to an entangled one, and hence the entanglement nature of the quantum error correction code can be explicitly shown up. Furthermore, as it forms a unitary representation of the Artin braid group, the quantum error correction code can be described by a braiding operator. Moreover, as the unitary evolution operator is a solution of the quantum Yang--Baxter equation, the corresponding Hamiltonian model can be explained as an integrable model in the Yang--Baxter theory. On the other hand, we generalize the Shor nine-qubit code and articulate a topic called quantum error correction codes using Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states to yield new nonadditive codes and channel-adapted codes.

id: 0801.2576
title: Control of atomic decay rates via manipulation of reservoir mode frequencies
authors: I.E. Linington, B.M. Garraway
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At, 39 pp. 3383--3401 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2576
abstract: We analyse the problem of a two-level atom interacting with a time-dependent dissipative environment modelled by a bath of reservoir modes. In the model of this paper the principal features of the reservoir structure remain constant in time, but the microscopic structure does not. In the context of an atom in a leaky cavity this corresponds to a fixed cavity and a time-dependent external bath. In this situation we show that by chirping the reservoir modes sufficiently fast it is possible to inhibit, or dramatically enhance the decay of the atomic system, even though the gross reservoir structure is fixed. Thus it is possible to extract energy from a cavity-atom system faster than the empty cavity rate. Similar, but less dramatic effects are possible for moderate chirps where partial trapping of atomic population is also possible.

id: 0801.2606
title: Telecom-Band Entanglement Generation for Chipscale Quantum Processing
authors: Kim Fook Lee, Prem Kumar, Jay E. Sharping, Mark A. Foster, Alexander L. Gaeta, Amy C. Turner, Michal Lipson
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2606
abstract: We demonstrate polarization-entanglement for non-degenerate and degenerate photon-pairs generated through Kerr-nonlinearity in a nano-scale silicon-on-insulator(SOI) waveguide. We use a compact counter propagating configuration to create two-photon polarization-entangled state, |H>|H> + |V>|V>. We observe two-photon interference with visibility > 91% and > 80% for non-degenerate and degenerate photon-pairs, respectively. The experimental structure can be implemented on optical chips as an integrated source of entangled photons for future quantum computer and communication applications.

id: 0801.2608
title: An upper bound on quantum fault tolerant thresholds
authors: Jesse Fern
comments: 16 pages, REVTex4, 8 QCircuit figures, 1 other figure, minor revisions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2608
abstract: In this paper we calculate upper bounds on fault tolerance, without restrictions on the overhead involved. Optimally adaptive recovery operators are used, and the Shannon entropy is used to estimate the thresholds. By allowing for unrealistically high levels of overhead, we find a quantum fault tolerant threshold of 6.88% for the depolarizing noise used by Knill, which compares well to "above 3%" evidenced by Knill. We conjecture that the optimal threshold is 6.90%, based upon the hashing rate. We also perform threshold calculations for types of noise other than that discussed by Knill.

id: 0801.2653
title: Quantum Noise in the Collective Abstraction Reaction A+B $_2\to$ AB+B
authors: H. Jing, J. Cheng, P. Meystre
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 073603 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2653
abstract: We demonstrate theoretically that the collective abstraction reaction A+B$_2 \to$ AB+B can be realized efficiently with degenerate bosonic or fermionic matter waves. We show that this is dominated by quantum fluctuations, which are critical in triggering its initial stages with the appearance of macroscopic non-classical correlations of the atomic and molecular fields as a result. This study opens up a promising new regime of quantum degenerate matter-wave chemistry.

id: 0801.2654
title: On a Crucial Problem in Probabilities and Solution
authors: Mioara Mugur-Schachter
comments: 22 pages. Accepted for publication in Information And Computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2654
abstract: First the crucial but very confidential fact is brought into evidence that, as Kolmogorov himself repeatedly claimed, there exists no abstract theory of probabilities, simply because the factual concept of probability is itself unachieved: it is nowhere specified how to construct the factual probability law to be asserted on a given physical random phenomenon. Then an algorithm of semantic integration is built that permits to identify this factual probability law.

id: 0801.2669
title: Transport in anisotropic model systems analyzed by a correlated projection superoperator technique
authors: Hendrik Weimer, Mathias Michel, Jochen Gemmer, G¨¹nter Mahler
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 011118 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2669
abstract: By using a correlated projection operator, the time-convolutionless (TCL) method to derive a quantum master equation can be utilized to investigate the transport behavior of quantum systems as well. Here, we analyze a three-dimensional anisotropic quantum model system according to this technique. The system consists of Heisenberg coupled two-level systems in one direction and weak random interactions in all other ones. Depending on the partition chosen, we obtain ballistic behavior along the chains and normal transport in the perpendicular direction. These results are perfectly confirmed by the numerical solution of the full time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation.

id: 0801.2706
title: Scalable continuous-variable entanglement of light beams produced by optical parametric oscillators
authors: Katiuscia N. Cassemiro, Alessandro S. Villar
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022311 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2706
abstract: We show that scalable multipartite entanglement among light fields may be generated by optical parametric oscillators (OPO). The tripartite entanglement existent among the three bright beams produced by a single OPO -- pump, signal, and idler -- is scalable to a system of many OPOs by pumping them in cascade with the same optical field. This latter serves as an entanglement distributor. The special case of two OPOs is studied, as it is shown that the resulting five bright beams share genuine multipartite entanglement. In addition, the structure of entanglement distribution among the fields can be manipulated to some degree by tuning the incident pump power. The scalability to many fields is straightforward, allowing an alternative implementation of a multipartite quantum information network with continuous variables.

id: 0801.2712
title: Approximate Joint Measurability of Spin Along Two Directions
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Peter Stano, Daniel Reitzner
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 6 (2008) 975-980
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2712
abstract: We study the existence of jointly measurable POVM approximations to two non-commuting sharp spin observables. We compare two different ways to specify optimal approximations.

id: 0801.2725
title: Probability sum rules and consistent quantum histories
authors: Thomas F. Jordan, Eric D. Chisolm
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, added discussion of tensor-product histories in response to Physics Letters A referee, corrected typo
journal: Physics Letters A 373, 3016 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2725
abstract: An example shows that weak decoherence is more restrictive than the minimal logical decoherence structure that allows probabilities to be used consistently for quantum histories. The probabilities in the sum rules that define minimal decoherence are all calculated by using a projection operator to describe each possibility for the state at each time. Weak decoherence requires more sum rules. They bring in additional variables, that require different measurements and a different way to calculate probabilities, and raise questions of operational meaning. The example shows that extending the linearly positive probability formula from weak to minimal decoherence gives probabilities that are different from those calculated in the usual way using the Born and von Neumann rules and a projection operator at each time.

id: 0801.2752
title: The Equation of a Light Leptonic Magnetic Monopole and its Experimental Aspects
authors: Georges Lochak
comments: 
journal: Z.Naturforsch..A62:231-246,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2752
abstract: The present theory is closely related to Dirac's equation of the electron, but not to his magnetic monopole theory, except for his relation between electric and magnetic charge. The theory is based on the fact, that the massless Dirac equation admits a second electromagnetic coupling, deduced from a pseudo-scalar gauge invariance. The equation thus obtained has the symmetry laws of a massless leptonic, magnetic monopole, able to interact weakly. We give a more precise form of the Dirac relation between electric and magnetic charges and a quantum form of the Poincare first integral. In the Weyl representation our equation splits into P-conjugated monopole and antimonopole equations with the correct electromagnetic coupling and opposite chiralities, predicted by P. Curie. Charge-conjugated monopoles are symmetric in space and not in time (contrary to the electric particles), an important fact for the vacuum polarization. Our monopoles are magnetically excited neutrinos, which leads to experimental consequences. These monopoles are assumed to be produced by electromagnetic pulses or arcs, leading to nuclear transmutations and, for beta radioactive elements, a shortening of the life time and the emission of monopoles instead of neutrinos in a magnetic field. A corresponding discussion is given.

id: 0801.2761
title: Protective Measurements
authors: L. Vaidman
comments: An entry in the Compendium of Quantum Physics: Concepts, Experiments, History and Philosophy, ed. F. Weinert, K. Hentschel, D. Greenberger and B. Falkenburg
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2761
abstract: A review of protective measurements. Protective measurement is a method for measuring an expectation value of an observable on a single quantum system. The quantum state of the system can be protected by a potential, when the state is a nondegenerate energy eigenstate with a known gap to neighboring states, or via Zeno effect by frequent projection measurements.

id: 0801.2777
title: The Elitzur-Vaidman Interaction-Free Measurements
authors: L.Vaidman
comments: An entry in the Compendium of Quantum Physics: Concepts, Experiments, History and Philosophy, ed. F. Weinert, K. Hentschel, D. Greenberger and B. Falkenburg
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2777
abstract: The interaction-free measurements proposed by Elitzur and Vaidman (EV IFM) is a quantum mechanical method to find an object that interacts with other systems solely via its explosion without exploding it. In this method, an object can be found without ``touching it'', i.e. without any particle being at its vicinity.

id: 0801.2801
title: An application of the Deutsch-Josza algorithm to formal languages and the word problem in groups
authors: Michael Batty, Andrea Casaccino, Andrew J. Duncan, Sarah Rees, Simone Severini
comments: 14 pages, 2 EPS figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2801
abstract: We adapt the Deutsch-Josza algorithm to the context of formal language theory. Specifically, we use the algorithm to distinguish between trivial and nontrivial words in groups given by finite presentations, under the promise that a word is of a certain type. This is done by extending the original algorithm to functions of arbitrary length binary output, with the introduction of a more general concept of parity. We provide examples in which properties of the algorithm allow to reduce the number of oracle queries with respect to the deterministic classical case. This has some consequences for the word problem in groups with a particular kind of presentation.

id: 0801.2832
title: Johnson-Nyquist noise and the Casimir force between real metals at nonzero temperature
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte
comments: 9 pages, 1 encapsulated figure. Contributed to 8th Workshop on Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT07), Leipzig, Germany, 17-21 Sep 2007
journal: J.Phys.A41:164013,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2832
abstract: It is well known since a long time that all lossy conductors at finite temperature display an electronic noise, the Johnson-Nyquist noise, arising from the thermal agitation of electric charges inside the conductor. The existence of this noise implies that two nearby discharged conductors at finite temperature should repel each other, as a result of the electrodynamic interaction between the Johnson-Nyquist currents in either conductor and the eddy currents they induce in the other. It is suggested that this force is at the origin of the recently discovered large repulsive correction to the thermal Casimir force between two lossy metallic plates. Further support for this physical picture is obtained by studying a simple system of two linear noisy antennas. Using elementary concepts from circuit theory, we show that the repulsive force engendered by the Johnson-Nyquist noise results in the same kind of thermodynamic inconsistencies found in the Casimir problem. We show that all inconsistencies are however resolved if account is taken of capacitive effects associated with the end points of the antennas. Our findings therefore suggest that capacitive effects resulting from the finite size of the plates, may be essential for a resolution of the analogous problems met in the thermal Casimir effect.

id: 0801.2839
title: Toward the unification of the postulates of Quantum Mechanics
authors: O. Diego
comments: 31 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2839
abstract: In this paper we are going to introduce a new dynamical postulate in Quantum Mechanics. This new principle is defined using path integrals over the set of normalized wave functions. We will show in a qualitative way that this postulate is equivalent to the Schrodinger equation and to the measurement postulates. Then we propose a new set of fundamental postulates for Quantum Mechanics. In this approach to Quantum Mechanics we separate the fundamental postulates and the physical interpretation. The fundamental postulates are abstract mathematical principles. Their physical interpretation depend on the physical system under study. These postulates do not use the concepts of measurement device and observer.

id: 0801.2840
title: Applications of single-qubit rotations in quantum public-key cryptography
authors: Georgios M. Nikolopoulos
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032348 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2840
abstract: We discuss cryptographic applications of single-qubit rotations from the perspective of trapdoor one-way functions and public-key encryption. In particular, we present an asymmetric cryptosystem whose security relies on fundamental principles of quantum physics. A quantum public key is used for the encryption of messages while decryption is possible by means of a classical private key only. The trapdoor one-way function underlying the proposed cryptosystem maps integer numbers to quantum states of a qubit and its inversion can be infeasible by virtue of the Holevo's theorem.

id: 0801.2860
title: Geometrical approach to SU(2) navigation with Fibonacci anyons
authors: Remy Mosseri
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Geometric Topology (math.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2860
abstract: Topological quantum computation with Fibonacci anyons relies on the possibility of efficiently generating unitary transformations upon pseudoparticles braiding. The crucial fact that such set of braids has a dense image in the unitary operations space is well known; in addition, the Solovay-Kitaev algorithm allows to approach a given unitary operation to any desired accuracy. In this paper, the latter task is fulfilled with an alternative method, in the SU(2) case, based on a generalization of the geodesic dome construction to higher dimension.

id: 0801.2873
title: Measurement-based approach to entanglement generation in coupled quantum dots
authors: Avinash Kolli, Simon C. Benjamin, Brendon W. Lovett, Thomas M. Stace
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 035315 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2873
abstract: Measurements provide a novel mechanism for generating the entanglement resource necessary for performing scalable quantum computation. Recently, we proposed a method for performing parity measurements in a coupled quantum dot system. In this paper we generalise this scheme and perform a comprehensive analytic and numerical study of environmental factors. We calculate the effects of possible error sources including non-ideal photon detectors, ineffective spin-selective excitation and dot distinguishability (both spatial and spectral). Furthermore, we present an experimental approach for verifying the success of the parity measurement.

id: 0801.2879
title: Quantum Teleportation and Hidden Variables
authors: Amir Kalev, Sergio Rivera, Pier A. Mello
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2879
abstract: In this paper we address the question as to what extent the quantum-mechanical nature of the process is relevant for teleportation of A spin-1/2 state. For this purpose we analyze the possibility of underpinning teleportation with a local-hidden-variable model. The nature of the models, which we consider as legitimate candidates, guarantees the classical character of all the probabilities which can be deduced from them. When we try to describe the teleportation process following two different mathematical routes, we find two different hidden-variable densities, which thus end up having a doubtful physical significance within the "reality" that a hidden-variable model tries to restore. This result we consider as a "no-go theorem" for the hidden-variable description of the teleportation process. We also show that this kind of conflict arises when considering successive measurements (one of which is selective projective) for one spin-1/2 particle.

id: 0801.2882
title: Quantum Mechanical Model for Information Transfer from DNA to Protein
authors: Ioannis G. Karafyllidis
comments: 22 pages, 2figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2882
abstract: A model for the information transfer from DNA to protein using quantum information and computation techniques is presented. DNA is modeled as the sender and proteins are modeled as the receiver of this information. On the DNA side, a 64-dimensional Hilbert space is used to describe the information stored in DNA triplets (codons). A Hamiltonian matrix is constructed for this space, using the 64 possible codons as base states. The eigenvalues of this matrix are not degenerate. The genetic code is degenerate and proteins comprise only 20 different amino acids. Since information is conserved, the information on the protein side is also described by a 64-dimensional Hilbert space, but the eigenvalues of the corresponding Hamiltonian matrix are degenerate. Each amino acid is described by a Hilbert subspace. This change in Hilbert space structure reflects the nature of the processes involved in information transfer from DNA to protein.

id: 0801.2894
title: Light-induced nuclear quadrupolar relaxation in semiconductors
authors: Daniel Paget, Thierry Amand, J.P. Korb
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2894
abstract: Light excitation of a semiconductor, known to dynamically-polarize the nuclear spins by hyperfine contact interaction with the photoelectrons, also generates an intrinsic nuclear depolarization mechanism. This novel relaxation process arises from the modulation of the nuclear quadrupolar Hamiltonian by photoelectron trapping and recombination at nearby localized states. For nuclei near shallow donors, the usual diffusion radius is replaced by a smaller, quadrupolar, radius. If the light excitation conditions correspond to partial donor occupation by photoelectrons, the nuclear magnetization and the nuclear field can be decreased by more than one order of magnitude.

id: 0801.2905
title: A qualitative perspective on the dynamics of a single-Cooper-pair box with a phase-damped cavity
authors: Mahmoud Abdel-Aty
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, some modifications have been done
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 185304 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2905
abstract: In a recent paper Dajka, et.al., [J. Phys. A \textbf{40}, F879 (2007)] predicted that some composite systems can be entangled forever even if coupled with a thermal bath. We analyze the transient entanglement of a single-Cooper-pair box biased by a classical voltage and irradiated by a quantized field and find the unusual feature that the phase-damped cavity can lead to a long-lived entanglement. The results show an asymptotic value of the idempotency defect (concurrence) which embodies coherence loss (entanglement survival), independent of the interaction development by dependent critically on environment.

id: 0801.2912
title: Reply to "Comment on 'Analytic and Numerical Verification of the Nernst Theorem for Metals'"
authors: Johan S. H\oye, Iver Brevik, Simen A. Ellingsen, Jan B. Aarseth
comments: 4 pages, no figures; to appear in Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2912
abstract: In this Reply to the preceding Comment of Klimchitskaya and Mostepanenko (cf. also quant-ph/0703214), we summarize and maintain our position that the Drude dispersion relation when inserted in the Lifshitz formula gives a thermodynamically satisfactory description of the Casimir force, also in the limiting case when the relaxation frequency goes to zero (perfect crystals).

id: 0801.2956
title: Multi-phase matching in the Grover algorithm
authors: F.M. Toyama, W. van Dijk, Y. Nogami, M. Tabuchi, Y. Kimura
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2956
abstract: Phase matching has been studied for the Grover algorithm as a way of enhancing the efficiency of the quantum search. Recently Li and Li found that a particular form of phase matching yields, with a single Grover operation, a success probability greater than 25/27 for finding the equal-amplitude superposition of marked states when the fraction of the marked states stored in a database state is greater than 1/3. Although this single operation eliminates the oscillations of the success probability that occur with multiple Grover operations, the latter oscillations reappear with multiple iterations of Li and Li's phase matching. In this paper we introduce a multi-phase matching subject to a certain matching rule by which we can obtain a multiple Grover operation that with only a few iterations yields a success probability that is almost constant and unity over a wide range of the fraction of marked items. As an example we show that a multi-phase operation with six iterations yields a success probability between 99.8% and 100% for a fraction of marked states of 1/10 or larger.

id: 0801.2984
title: Casimir energy in spherical cavities
authors: W. Luis Mochan, Carlos Villarreal-Lujan
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, Proceedings of QFEXT07. To be published in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A 41 (2008) 164006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2984
abstract: We calculate the Casimir energy at spherical cavities within a host made up of an arbitrary material described by a possibly dispersive and lossy dielectric response. To that end, we add to the coherent optical response a contribution that takes account of the incoherent radiation emitted by the host in order to guarantee the detailed balance required to keep the system at thermodynamic equilibrium in the presence of dissipation. The resulting boundary conditions allow a conventional quantum mechanical treatment of the radiation within the cavity from which we obtain the contribution of the cavity walls to the density of states, and from it, the thermodynamic properties of the system. The contribution of the cavity to the energy diverges as it incorporates the interaction energy between neighbor atoms in a continuum description. The change in the energy of an atom situated at the center of the cavity due to its interaction with the fluctuating cavity field is however finite. We evaluate the latter for a simple case.

id: 0801.2986
title: Polynomial-time quantum algorithm for the simulation of chemical dynamics
authors: Ivan Kassal, Stephen P. Jordan, Peter J. Love, Masoud Mohseni, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. Updated version as appears in PNAS
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 105, 18681(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2986
abstract: The computational cost of exact methods for quantum simulation using classical computers grows exponentially with system size. As a consequence, these techniques can only be applied to small systems. By contrast, we demonstrate that quantum computers could exactly simulate chemical reactions in polynomial time. Our algorithm uses the split-operator approach and explicitly simulates all electron-nuclear and inter-electronic interactions in quadratic time. Surprisingly, this treatment is not only more accurate than the Born-Oppenheimer approximation, but faster and more efficient as well, for all reactions with more than about four atoms. This is the case even though the entire electronic wavefunction is propagated on a grid with appropriately short timesteps. Although the preparation and measurement of arbitrary states on a quantum computer is inefficient, here we demonstrate how to prepare states of chemical interest efficiently. We also show how to efficiently obtain chemically relevant observables, such as state-to-state transition probabilities and thermal reaction rates. Quantum computers using these techniques could outperform current classical computers with one hundred qubits.

id: 0801.2989
title: Contraction of matchgate tensor networks on non-planar graphs
authors: Sergey Bravyi
comments: 32 pages, 7 figures
journal: Contemporary Mathematics, Vol. 482, pp. 179-211 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2989
abstract: A tensor network is a product of tensors associated with vertices of some graph $G$ such that every edge of $G$ represents a summation (contraction) over a matching pair of indexes. It was shown recently by Valiant, Cai, and Choudhary that tensor networks can be efficiently contracted on planar graphs if components of every tensor obey a system of quadratic equations known as matchgate identities. Such tensors are referred to as matchgate tensors. The present paper provides an alternative approach to contraction of matchgate tensor networks that easily extends to non-planar graphs. Specifically, it is shown that a matchgate tensor network on a graph $G$ of genus $g$ with $n$ vertices can be contracted in time $T=poly(n) + 2^{2g} O(m^3)$ where $m$ is the minimum number of edges one has to remove from $G$ in order to make it planar. Our approach makes use of anticommuting (Grassmann) variables and Gaussian integrals.

id: 0801.3003
title: Quantum-classical correspondence in entanglement production: Entropy and classical tori
authors: Shi-hui Zhang, Quan-lin Jie
comments: 9 pages, 2 tables, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012312(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3003
abstract: We analyze the connections between entanglement dynamics and classical trajectories in a semiclassi-cal regime for two systems: A pair of coupled oscillators and the Jaynes-Cummings model. We find that entanglement production depends on classical invariant tori and such phenomenon is closely related to the power spectra of classical trajectories. Classical power spectrum with a larger number of frequency com-ponents corresponds to larger entanglement. We introduce a frequency entropy to describe the classical frequency distribution, and find that there is good correspondence between the classical frequency entro-pies and the maximum von Neumann entropies.

id: 0801.3050
title: Leggett's inequality, the before-before experiment, and free will on the part of Nature
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3050
abstract: The before-before experiment demonstrates free will acting from outside space-time. The experimental violation of the Leggett's inequality supports the view that it is not appropriate to attempt to limit this freedom in Nature by forcing it to mimic classical features.

id: 0801.3100
title: Detecting three-qubit bound MUB diagonal entangled states via Nonlinear optimal entanglement witnesses
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, M. Mahdian, A. Heshmati, K. Aghayari
comments: 34 pages 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3100
abstract: One of the important approaches to detect quantum entanglement is using linear entanglement witnesses EWs. In this paper, by determining the envelope of the boundary hyper-planes defined by a family of linear EWs, a set of powerful nonlinear optimal EWs is manipulated. These EWs enable us to detect some three qubits bound MUB (mutually unbiased bases) diagonal entangled states, i.e., the PPT (positive partial transpose) entangled states. Also, in some particular cases, the introduced nonlinear optimal EWs are powerful enough to separate the bound entangled regions from the separable ones. Finally, we present numerical examples to demonstrate the practical accessibility of this approach. Keywords :nonlinear optimal entanglement witnesses, mutually unbiased bases, MUB diagonal states

id: 0801.3136
title: Manifold algorithmic errors in quantum computers with static internal imperfections
authors: Murat Cetinbas, Joshua Wilkie
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 065302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3136
abstract: The inevitable existence of static internal imperfections and residual interactions in some quantum computer architectures result in internal decoherence, dissipation, and destructive unitary shifts of active algorithms. By exact numerical simulations we determine the relative importance and origin of these errors for a Josephson charge qubit quantum computer. In particular we determine that the dynamics of a CNOT gate interacting with its idle neighboring qubits via native residual coupling behaves much like a perturbed kicked top in the exponential decay regime, where fidelity decay is only weakly dependent on perturbation strength. This means that retroactive removal of gate errors (whether unitary or non-unitary) may not be possible, and that effective error correction schemes must operate concurrently with the implementation of subcomponents of the gate.

id: 0801.3141
title: Quantum Forbidden-Interval Theorems for Stochastic Resonance
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Bart Kosko
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 42, 465309 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3141
abstract: We extend the classical forbidden-interval theorems for a stochastic-resonance noise benefit in a nonlinear system to a quantum-optical communication model and a continuous-variable quantum key distribution model. Each quantum forbidden-interval theorem gives a necessary and sufficient condition that determines whether stochastic resonance occurs in quantum communication of classical messages. The quantum theorems apply to any quantum noise source that has finite variance or that comes from the family of infinite-variance alpha-stable probability densities. Simulations show the noise benefits for the basic quantum communication model and the continuous-variable quantum key distribution model.

id: 0801.3189
title: A classical interpretation of quantum mechanics and the measurement problem
authors: Christian Jansson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3189
abstract: In this paper a didactic approach is described which immediately leads to an understanding of those postulates of quantum mechanics used most frequently in quantum computation. Moreover, an interpretation of quantum mechanics is presented which is motivated by retaining the point of view of classical mechanics as much as possible, and which is consistent with relativity theory. Everything can be written down in terms of well-known mathematical formulations that can be found in every textbook about quantum mechanics. Therefore, in this version, almost no formulas are used.

id: 0801.3200
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations of vector bosons
authors: Pawe? Caban, Jakub Rembieli¨½ski, Marta W?odarczyk
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012103 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3200
abstract: We calculate the joint probabilities and the correlation function in Einstein--Podolsky--Rosen type experiments with a massive vector boson in the framework of quantum field theory. We report on the strange behavior of the correlation function (and the probabilities) -- the correlation function, which in the relativistic case still depends on the particle momenta, for some fixed configurations has local extrema. We also show that relativistic spin-1 particles violate some Bell inequalities more than nonrelativistic ones and that the degree of violation of the Bell inequality is momentum dependent.

id: 0801.3201
title: Quantum gates and quantum algorithms with Clifford algebra technique
authors: M. Gregoric, N.S. Mankoc Borstnik
comments: 9 pages, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3201
abstract: We use our Clifford algebra technique, that is nilpotents and projectors which are binomials of the Clifford algebra objects $\gamma^a$ with the property $\{\gamma^a,\gamma^b\}_+ = 2 \eta^{ab}$, for representing quantum gates and quantum algorithms needed in quantum computers in an elegant way. We identify $n$-qubits with spinor representations of the group SO(1,3) for a system of $n$ spinors. Representations are expressed in terms of products of projectors and nilpotents. An algorithm for extracting a particular information out of a general superposition of $2^n$ qubit states is presented. It reproduces for a particular choice of the initial state the Grover's algorithm.

id: 0801.3223
title: Casimir repulsion and metamaterials
authors: I. G. Pirozhenko, A. Lambrecht
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, contributed to 8th Workshop on Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT07), Leipzig, Germany, 17-21 Sep 2007, v2, typos corrected
journal: J.Phys.A41:164015,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3223
abstract: We analyze the conditions for getting the Casimir repulsion between two nonequal plates. The force between plates with magnetic permeability defined by Drude or Lorentz models is calculated. The short and long distance limits of the force are derived. The Casimir set-up with the hypothetical perfect matching metamaterial is discussed. We put into question the possibility of getting repulsion within the design of metamaterials based on metallic inclusions.

id: 0801.3228
title: The Computational Power of Symmetric Hamiltonians
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures v3: much clearer presentation of main construction. Results extended to rotationally invariant Hamiltonians
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012346 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3228
abstract: The presence of symmetries, be they discrete or continuous, in a physical system typically leads to a reduction in the problem to be solved. Here we report that neither translational invariance nor rotational invariance reduce the computational complexity of simulating Hamiltonian dynamics; the problem is still BQP complete, and is believed to be hard on a classical computer. This is achieved by designing a system to implement a Universal Quantum Interface, a device which enables control of an entire computation through the control of a fixed number of spins, and using it as a building-block to entirely remove the need for control, except in the system initialisation. Finally, it is shown that cooling such Hamiltonians to their ground states in the presence of random magnetic fields solves a QMA-complete problem.

id: 0801.3242
title: Inhomogeneous Light Shift Effects on Atomic Quantum State Evolution in Non-Destructive Measurements
authors: Patrick Windpassinger, Daniel Oblak, Ulrich Busk Hoff, Juergen Appel, Niels Kjaergaard, Eugene S. Polzik
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, updated introduction and reference list
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 053032
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3242
abstract: Various parameters of a trapped collection of cold and ultracold atoms can be determined non--destructively by measuring the phase shift of an off--resonant probe beam, caused by the state dependent index of refraction of the atoms. The dispersive light--atom interaction, however, gives rise to a differential light shift (AC Stark shift) between the atomic states which, for a nonuniform probe intensity distribution, causes an inhomogeneous dephasing between the atoms. In this paper, we investigate the effects of this inhomogeneous light shift in non--destructive measurement schemes. We interpret our experimental data on dispersively probed Rabi oscillations and Ramsey fringes in terms of a simple light shift model which is shown to describe the observed behavior well. Furthermore, we show that by using spin echo techniques, the inhomogeneous phase shift distribution between the two clock levels can be reversed.

id: 0801.3311
title: Straightforward Derivation of the Schr{?}dinger Equation from Classical Mechanics and the Planck Postulate
authors: Alex Granik
comments: 18 pages, 2 appendices, the title is changed, introduction and conclusions are revised for making more clear the purpose and the results of the paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3311
abstract: According to the widely accepted notion, the Schr{\"o}dinger equation (SE) is not derivable in principle. Contrary to this belief, we present here a straightforward derivation of SE. It is based on only two fundamentals of mechanics: the classical Hamilton-Jacobi equation(HJE) and the Planck postulate about the discrete transfer of energy at micro-scales. Our approach is drastically different from the other published derivations of SE which either employ an ad hoc underlying assumption about the probabilistic or the statistical nature of the micro-scale phenomena, or rely on the prior knowledge of SE and arrive at it by introducing a new postulate - neither present in classical mechanics nor following from experiments - with a suitable but physically unjustifiable choice of a key arbitrary constant.

id: 0801.3320
title: Noise induced current in a double-well trap
authors: S. Anderloni, F. Benatti, R. Floreanini
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3320
abstract: We study the behavior of cold atoms trapped in optical double well potentials in presence of noise, either generated by an external environment or by the trap itself. We show that quite in general the noise can induce a current between the two wells even when tunneling between the two wells is highly suppressed (Mott insulator phase). An engineered environment could provide a test ground for the behavior of such a current.

id: 0801.3391
title: W-like states of N uncoupled spins 1/2
authors: E. Ferraro, A. Napoli, M. A. Jivulescu, A. Messina
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in European Physical Journal Special Topics
journal: The European Physical Journal Special Topics 160,157-164 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3391
abstract: The exact dynamics of a disordered spin star system, describing a central spin coupled to N distinguishable and non interacting spins 1/2, is reported. Exploiting their interaction with the central single spin system, we present possible conditional schemes for the generation of W-like states, as well as of well-defined angular momentum states, of the N uncoupled spins. We provide in addition a way to estimate the coupling intensity between each of the N spins and the central one. Finally the feasibility of our procedure is briefly discussed.

id: 0801.3392
title: Influence of slab thickness on the Casimir force
authors: I. G. Pirozhenko, A. Lambrecht
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures, 2 tables, v2, typos corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.A77:013811,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3392
abstract: We calculate the Casimir force between slabs of finite thickness made of intrinsic and doped silicon with different concentration of carriers and compare the results to those obtained for gold slabs. We use the Drude and the plasma models to describe the dielectric function for the carriers in doped Si. We discuss the possibility of experimentally testing the appropriateness of these models. We also investigate the influence of finite thickness on $VO_2$, which has recently been proposed for Casimir effect measurements testing the metal-insulator transition.

id: 0801.3393
title: Entanglement and the Quantum Brachistochrone Problem
authors: A. Borras, C. Zander, A.R. Plastino, M. Casas, A. Plastino
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Corrected typos in Eqs. 1 and 2
journal: Europhys. Lett. 81, 30007 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3393
abstract: Entanglement is closely related to some fundamental features of the dynamics of composite quantum systems: quantum entanglement enhances the "speed" of evolution of certain quantum states, as measured by the time required to reach an orthogonal state. The concept of "speed" of quantum evolution constitutes an important ingredient in any attempt to determine the fundamental limits that basic physical laws impose on how fast a physical system can process or transmit information. Here we explore the relationship between entanglement and the speed of quantum evolution in the context of the quantum brachistochrone problem. Given an initial and a final state of a composite system we consider the amount of entanglement associated with the brachistochrone evolution between those states, showing that entanglement is an essential resource to achieve the alluded time-optimal quantum evolution.

id: 0801.3395
title: Vector Matrices Realization of Hurwitz Algebras
authors: Daniel Sepunaru
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3395
abstract: We present the realization of Hurwitz algebras in terms of 2x2 vector matrices, which maintain the correspondence between the geometry of the vector spaces used in the classical physics and the underlined algebraic foundation of the quantum theory. The multiplication rule used is modification of the one originally introduced by M.Zorn. We demonstrate that our multiplication is not intrinsically non-associative; the realization of the real and complex numbers is commutative and associative, the real quaternions maintain associativity and the real octonion matrices form an alternative algebra. The extension to the calculus of the matrices (with Hurwitz algebra valued matrix elements) of the arbitrary dimensions is straightforward. We discuss briefly the applications of the obtained results to the extensions of the standard Hilbert space formulation of the quantum physics and to the alternative wave mechanical formulation of the classical field theory.

id: 0801.3436
title: Model for Diffusion-Induced Ramsey Narrowing
authors: Alexander Romanenko, Leonid Yatsenko
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3436
abstract: Diffusion-induced Ramsey narrowing that appears when atoms can leave the interaction region and repeatedly return without lost of coherence is investigated using strong collisions approximation. The effective diffusion equation is obtained and solved for low-dimensional model configurations and three-dimensional real one.

id: 0801.3445
title: New approach to the thermal Casimir force between real metals
authors: V. M. Mostepanenko, B. Geyer
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures. Proceedings of QFEXT07, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A41:164014,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3445
abstract: The new approach to the theoretical description of the thermal Casimir force between real metals is presented. It uses the plasma-like dielectric permittivity that takes into account the interband transitions of core electrons. This permittivity precisely satisfies the Kramers-Kronig relations. The respective Casimir entropy is positive and vanishes at zero temperature in accordance with the Nernst heat theorem. The physical reasons why the Drude dielectric function, when substituted in the Lifshitz formula, is inconsistent with electrodynamics are elucidated. The proposed approach is the single one consistent with all measurements of the Casimir force performed up to date. The application of this approach to metal-type semiconductors is considered.

id: 0801.3457
title: Two-photon detuning and decoherence in cavity electromagnetically induced transparency for quantized fields
authors: Pablo Barberis-Blostein
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 013821 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3457
abstract: The interaction of a quantized field with three-level atoms in $\Lambda$ configuration inside a two-mode cavity is analyzed in the small noise approximation. The atoms are in a two-photon detuning with respect to the carriers of the field. We calculate the stationary quadrature noise spectrum of the field outside the cavity in the case where the input probe field is a squeezed state and the input pump field is a coherent state. The mean value of the field is unaltered in all the analysis: the atoms shows electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). The effect of the atoms' base level decoherence in the cavity output field is also studied. It is found that the output field is very sensitive to two-photon detuning.

id: 0801.3467
title: Incoherent Quantum Control
authors: Alexander Pechen, Herschel Rabitz
comments: Contribution to the 28-th Conference on Quantum Probability and Related Topics, CIMAT-Guanajuato, MEXICO, 2-8 September 2007 (final version, minor editing)
journal: Quantum Probability. Series QP-PQ: Quantum Probability and White Noise Analysis. World Scientific, Singapore. Vol. 23, 197-211 (2008). Edited by J. C. Garcia, R. Quezada, and S. B. Sontz
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3467
abstract: Conventional approaches for controlling open quantum systems use coherent control which affects the system's evolution through the Hamiltonian part of the dynamics. Such control, although being extremely efficient for a large variety of problems, has limited capabilities, e.g., if the initial and desired target states have density matrices with different spectra or if a control field needs to be designed to optimally transfer different initial states to the same target state. Recent research works suggest extending coherent control by including active manipulation of the non-unitary (i.e., incoherent) part of the evolution. This paper summarizes recent results specifically for incoherent control by the environment (e.g., incoherent radiation or a gaseous medium) with a kinematic description of controllability and landscape analysis.

id: 0801.3493
title: Linear-Optical Implementation of Perfect Discrimination between Single-bit Unitary Operations
authors: Pei Zhang, Liang Peng, Zhi-Wei Wang, Xi-Feng Ren, Bi-Heng Liu, Yun-Feng Huang, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41 195501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3493
abstract: Discrimination of unitary operations is a fundamental quantum information processing task. Assisted with linear optical elements, we experimentally demonstrate perfect discrimination between single-bit unitary operations using two methods--sequential scheme and parallel scheme. The complexity and resource consumed in these two schemes are analyzed and compared.

id: 0801.3501
title: Observations of time delayed all-optical routing in a slow light regime
authors: B. S. Ham
comments: 5 pages with 3 figures included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3501
abstract: We report an observation of a delayed all-optical routing/switching phenomenon based on ultraslow group velocity of light via nondegenerate four-wave mixing processes in a defected solid medium. Unlike previous demonstrations of enhanced four-wave mixing processes using the slow light effects, the present observation demonstrates a direct retrieval of the resonant Raman-pulse excited spin coherence into photon coherence through coherence conversion processes.

id: 0801.3510
title: Polarization and frequency disentanglement of photons via stochastic polarization mode dispersion
authors: Phoenix S. Y. Poon, C. K. Law
comments: 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3510
abstract: We investigate the quantum decoherence of frequency and polarization variables of photons via polarization mode dispersion in optical fibers. By observing the analogy between the propagation equation of the field and the Schr\"odinger equation, we develop a master equation under Markovian approximation and analytically solve for the field density matrix. We identify distinct decay behaviors for the polarization and frequency variables for single-photon and two-photon states. For the single photon case, purity functions indicate that complete decoherence for each variable is possible only for infinite fiber length. For entangled two-photon states passing through separate fibers, entanglement associated with each variable can be completely destroyed after characteristic finite propagation distances. In particular, we show that frequency disentanglement is independent of the initial polarization status. For propagation of two photons in a common fiber, the evolution of a polarization singlet state is addressed. We show that while complete polarization disentanglement occurs at a finite propagation distance, frequency entanglement could survive at any finite distance for gaussian states.

id: 0801.3518
title: Approximate l-state solutions of the D-dimensional Schrodinger equation for Manning-Rosen potential
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3518
abstract: The Schr\"{o}dinger equation in $D$-dimensions for the Manning-Rosen potential with the centrifugal term is solved approximately to obtain bound states eigensolutions (eigenvalues and eigenfunctions). The Nikiforov-Uvarov(NU) method is used in the calculations. We present numerical calculations of energy eigenvalues to two- and four-dimensional systems for arbitrary quantum numbers $n$ and $l$ with three different values of the potential parameter $\alpha .$ It is shown that because of the interdimensional degeneracy of eigenvalues, we can also reproduce eigenvalues of a upper/lower dimensional sytem from the well-known eigenvalues of a lower/upper dimensional system by means of the transformation $(n,l,D)\to (n,l\pm 1,D\mp 2)$. This solution reduces to the Hulth\'{e}n potential case.

id: 0801.3531
title: Experimental sub-Rayleigh resolution by an unseeded high-gain optical parametric amplifier for quantum lithography
authors: Fabio Sciarrino, Chiara Vitelli, Francesco De Martini, Ryan Glasser, Hugo Cable, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 012324 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3531
abstract: Quantum lithography proposes to adopt entangled quantum states in order to increase resolution in interferometry. In the present paper we experimentally demonstrate that the output of a high-gain optical parametric amplifier can be intense yet exhibits quantum features, namely, sub-Rayleigh fringes, as proposed by Agarwal et al. (Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 1389 (2001)). We investigate multiphoton states generated by a high-gain optical parametric amplifier operating with a quantum vacuum input for a gain values up to 2.5. The visibility has then been increased by means of three-photon absorption. The present article opens interesting perspectives for the implementation of such an advanced interferometrical setup.

id: 0801.3572
title: Spherical-separablility of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians and pseudo-PT-symmetry
authors: Omar Mustafa, S.Habib Mazharimousavi
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures. This article is a combination of arXiv:0711.3887 and arXiv:0710.5814
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 48, 183 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3572
abstract: Non-Hermitian but P(phi)T(phi)-symmetrized spherically-separable Dirac and Schrodinger Hamiltonians are considered. It is observed that the descendant Hamiltonians H(r), H(theta), and H(phi) play essential roles and offer some "user-feriendly" options as to which one (or ones) of them is (or are) non-Hermitian. Considering a P(phi)T(phi)-symmetrized H(phi), we have shown that the conventional Dirac (relativistic) and Schrodinger (non-relativistic) energy eigenvalues are recoverable. We have also witnessed an unavoidable change in the azimuthal part of the general wavefunction. Moreover, setting a possible interaction V(theta) in the descendant Hamiltonian H(theta) would manifest a change in the angular theta-dependent part of the general solution too. Whilst some P(phi)T(phi)-symmetrized H(phi) Hamiltonians are considered, a recipe to keep the regular magnetic quantum number m, as defined in the regular traditional Hermitian settings, is suggested. Hamiltonians possess properties similar to the PT-symmetric ones (here the non-Hermitian P(phi)T(phi)-symmetric Hamiltonians) are nicknamed as pseudo-PT-symmetric.

id: 0801.3604
title: Characterization of strong light-matter coupling in semiconductor quantum-dot microcavities via photon-statistics spectroscopy
authors: L. Schneebeli, M. Kira, S.W. Koch
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 097401 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3604
abstract: It is shown that spectrally resolved photon-statistics measurements of the resonance fluorescence from realistic semiconductor quantum-dot systems allow for high contrast identification of the two-photon strong-coupling states. Using a microscopic theory, the second-rung resonance is analyzed and optimum excitation conditions are determined. The computed photon-statistics spectrum displays gigantic, experimentally robust resonances at the energetic positions of the second-rung emission.

id: 0801.3620
title: High-fidelity transmission of polarization encoded qubits from an entangled source over 100 km of fiber
authors: Hannes H¨¹bel, Michael R. Vanner, Thomas Lederer, Bibiane Blauensteiner, Thomas Lor¨¹nser, Andreas Poppe, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 15, Issue 12, pp. 7853-7862 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3620
abstract: We demonstrate non-degenerate down-conversion at 810 and 1550 nm for long-distance fiber based quantum communication using polarization entangled photon pairs. Measurements of the two-photon visibility, without dark count subtraction, have shown that the quantum correlations (raw visibility 89%) allow secure quantum cryptography after 100 km of non-zero dispersion shifted fiber using commercially available single photon detectors. In addition, quantum state tomography has revealed little degradation of state negativity, decreasing from 0.99 at the source to 0.93 after 100 km, indicating minimal loss in fidelity during the transmission.

id: 0801.3625
title: On the construction of model Hamiltonians for adiabatic quantum computation and its application to finding low energy conformations of lattice protein models
authors: Alejandro Perdomo, Colin Truncik, Ivan Tubert-Brohman, Geordie Rose, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 35 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3625
abstract: In this report, we explore the use of a quantum optimization algorithm for obtaining low energy conformations of protein models. We discuss mappings between protein models and optimization variables, which are in turn mapped to a system of coupled quantum bits. General strategies are given for constructing Hamiltonians to be used to solve optimization problems of physical/chemical/biological interest via quantum computation by adiabatic evolution. As an example, we implement the Hamiltonian corresponding to the Hydrophobic-Polar (HP) model for protein folding. Furthermore, we present an approach to reduce the resulting Hamiltonian to two-body terms gearing towards an experimental realization.

id: 0801.3660
title: Theory of Thermal Motion in Electromagnetically Induced Transparency: Diffusion, Doppler, Dicke and Ramsey
authors: O. Firstenberg, M. Shuker, R. Pugatch, D. R. Fredkin, N. Davidson, A. Ron
comments: Reference added, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 043830 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3660
abstract: We present a theoretical model for electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in vapor, that incorporates atomic motion and velocity-changing collisions into the dynamics of the density-matrix distribution. Within a unified formalism we demonstrate various motional effects, known for EIT in vapor: Doppler-broadening of the absorption spectrum; Dicke-narrowing and time-of-flight broadening of the transmission window for a finite-sized probe; Diffusion of atomic coherence during storage of light and diffusion of the light-matter excitation during slow-light propagation; and Ramsey-narrowing of the spectrum for a probe and pump beams of finite-size.

id: 0801.3673
title: Variational Functionals for Excited States
authors: Naoum C. Bacalis
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3673
abstract: Functionals that have local minima at the excited states of a non degenerate Hamiltonian are presented. Then, improved mutually orthogonal approximants of the ground and the first excited state are reported.

id: 0801.3681
title: Single-copy entanglement in a gapped quantum spin chain
authors: Christopher Hadley
comments: Typos corrected; accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett.; comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 170001 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3681
abstract: The single-copy entanglement of a given many-body system is defined [J. Eisert and M. Cramer, Phys. Rev. A. 72, 042112 (2005)] as the maximal entanglement deterministically distillable from a bipartition of a single specimen of that system. For critical (gapless) spin chains, it was recently shown that this is exactly half the von Neumann entropy [R. Orus, J. I. Latorre, J. Eisert, and M. Cramer, Phys. Rev. A 73, 060303(R) (2006)], itself defined as the entanglement distillable in the asymptotic limit: i.e. given an infinite number of copies of the system. It is an open question as to what the equivalent behaviour for gapped systems is. In this paper, I show that for the paradigmatic spin-S Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki chain (the archetypal gapped chain), the single-copy entanglement is equal to the von Neumann entropy: i.e. all the entanglement present may be distilled from a single specimen.

id: 0801.3746
title: Geometrization of Classical Wave Fields
authors: Oleg A. Olkhov
comments: 7 pages, Int.Conf.,Quantum Theory: Reconsideration of Foundations-4, Vaxjo, Sweden. 11-16 June 2007
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.962:316-321,2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3746
abstract: Geometrical model for material Dirac wave field and for Maxwell electromagnetic field is suggested where above fields are considered as propagating regions of the space itself with distorted euclidean geometry. It is shown that equations for these fields can be considered as relations describing the space topological defects. These defects, being closed topological manifolds, are embedded in the outer five-dimensional space, and observable objects appear to be intersections of above defects with the physical space. This interpretation explains irrational properties of quantum objects such as wave-corpuscular duality, stochastic behavior, instantaneous nonlocal correlation in EPR-paradox, the light velocity invariance and so on. Wave-corpuscular properties arise as a result of the defect periodical movement in the outer space relative to its intersection with the physical space, and just this periodical movement attributes phase to the propagating object. Appearance of probabilities within the formalism is a consequence of uncertainty of the closed topological manifold shape, and ensemble of all possible shapes for the same object can be considered as an ensemble of hidden variables that leads to probabilistic description. Embedded in the outer space topological defects provide channels for nonlocal correlations between their intersections-- noninteracting particles in EPR-experiments, and this means that the proposed approach can be considered as a nonlocal model with hidden variables.

id: 0801.3793
title: Second order contributions to the absorption of massive particles
authors: Pedro Sancho
comments: Corrected typos. Annals of Physics, in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3793
abstract: Recently, in analogy with multiphoton ionization, it has been suggested that multiparticle ionization can also be induced by massive systems. We explore in this paper the possibility that multiparticle absorption processes can also take place for massive particles. To study it we consider, in a perturbative way, a model of absorption which illustrates the analogies with Glauber's scheme for photons and previous analysis on matter-waves coherence. A major advantage of this approach is that the dependence of the absorption rates on the wavefunction of the incident system can be analyzed in an explicit way. The calculations confirm the form of the second order (two-particle) contributions.

id: 0801.3796
title: A Quantum Optical Spring
authors: Amit Rai, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 5 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 78, 013831 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3796
abstract: We study the dynamics of the quantum optical spring, i.e., a spring whose spring constant undergoes discreet jumps depending on the quantum state of another system. We show the existence of revivals and fractional revivals in the quantum dynamics reminiscent of similar dynamical features in cavity QED. We recover in the semi classical limit the results for an oscillator whose frequency undergoes a sudden change. The quantum optical spring is conceivable for example by a micromirror under the influence of radiation pressure by a field which is strictly quantum. Our work suggests that driven systems would in general exhibit a very different dynamics if the drive is replaced by a quantum source.

id: 0801.3800
title: Non-perturbative k-body to two-body commuting conversion Hamiltonians and embedding problem instances into Ising spins
authors: J.D. Biamonte
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052331 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3800
abstract: An algebraic method has been developed which allows one to engineer several energy levels including the low-energy subspace of interacting spin systems. By introducing ancillary qubits, this approach allows k-body interactions to be captured exactly using 2-body Hamiltonians. Our method works when all terms in the Hamiltonian share the same basis and has no dependence on perturbation theory or the associated large spectral gap. Our methods allow problem instance solutions to be embedded into the ground energy state of Ising spin systems. Adiabatic evolution might then be used to place a computational system into it's ground state.

id: 0801.3806
title: Minimum requirements for laser-induced symmetry breaking in quantum and classical mechanics
authors: Ignacio Franco, Paul Brumer
comments: 12 pages, to appear in J. Phys. B. (Special issue on Coherent Control, March 2008)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3806
abstract: Necessary conditions for generating phase controllable asymmetry in spatially symmetric systems using lasers are identified and are shown to be identical in quantum and classical mechanics. First, by studying the exact dynamics of harmonic systems in the presence of an arbitrary radiation field, it is demonstrated that anharmonicities in the system's potential are a necessary requirement for phase controllability. Then, by analyzing the space-time symmetries of the laser-driven Liouville dynamics for classical and quantum systems, a common set of temporal symmetries for the driving field that need to be violated to induce transport are identified. The conditions apply to continuous wave lasers and to symmetry breaking effects that do not rely on the control of the absolute phase of the field. Known examples of laser fields that can induce transport in symmetric systems are seen to be particular cases of these symmetry constraints.

id: 0801.3810
title: Electron mass shift in nonthermal systems
authors: Peter L Hagelstein, Irfan U Chaudhary
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3810
abstract: The electron mass is known to be sensitive to local fluctuations in the electromagnetic field, and undergoes a small shift in a thermal field. It was claimed recently that a very large electron mass shift should be expected near the surface of a metal hydride [{\it Eur. Phys. J. C}, {\bf 46} 107 (2006)]. We examine the shift using a formulation based on the Coulomb gauge, which leads to a much smaller shift. The maximization of the electron mass shift under nonequilibrium conditions seems nonetheless to be an interesting problem. We consider a scheme in which a current in a hollow wire produces a large vector potential in the wire center. Fluctuations in an LC circuit with nearly matched loss and gain can produce large current fluctuations; and these can increase the electron mass shift by orders of magnitude over its room temperature value.

id: 0801.3820
title: Time evolution of a superposition of dressed oscillator states in a cavity
authors: G. Flores-Hidalgo, C.A. Linhares, A.P.C. Malbouisson, J.M.C. Malbouisson
comments: 15 pages, LATEX, 3 figures; version to appear in J. Phys. A - Math. Theor
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3820
abstract: Using the formalism of {\it renormalized} coordinates and \textit{dressed} states introduced in previous publications, we perform a nonperturbative study of the time evolution of a superposition of two states, the ground state and the first excited level of a harmonic oscillator, the system being confined in a perfectly reflecting cavity of radius $R$. For $R\to\infty$, we find dissipation with dominance of the interference terms of the density matrix, in both weak- and strong-coupling regimes. For small values of $R$ all elements of the density matrix present an oscillatory behavior as times goes on and the system is not dissipative. In both cases, we obtain improved theoretical results with respect to those coming from perturbation theory.

id: 0801.3831
title: Experimental Quantum Process Discrimination
authors: Anthony Laing, Terry Rudolph, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, comments welcome. Revised version includes multi-partite QPD
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 160502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3831
abstract: Discrimination between unknown processes chosen from a finite set is experimentally shown to be possible even in the case of non-orthogonal processes. We demonstrate unambiguous deterministic quantum process discrimination (QPD) of non-orthogonal processes using properties of entanglement, additional known unitaries, or higher dimensional systems. Single qubit measurement and unitary processes and multipartite unitaries (where the unitary acts non-separably across two distant locations) acting on photons are discriminated with a confidence of $\geq97%$ in all cases.

id: 0801.3844
title: Quantum decoherence reduction by increasing the thermal bath temperature
authors: A. Montina, F. T. Arecchi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 120401 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3844
abstract: The well-known increase of the decoherence rate with the temperature, for a quantum system coupled to a linear thermal bath, holds no longer for a different bath dynamics. This is shown by means of a simple classical non-linear bath, as well as a quantum spin-boson model. The anomalous effect is due to the temperature dependence of the bath spectral profile. The decoherence reduction via the temperature increase can be relevant for the design of quantum computers.

id: 0801.3860
title: Multi-Modal Properties and Dynamics of the Gradient Echo Quantum Memory
authors: G. H¨¦tet, J. J. Longdell, M. J. Sellars, P. K. Lam, B. C. Buchler
comments: 4 pages 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 203601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3860
abstract: We investigate the properties of a recently proposed Gradient Echo Memory (GEM) scheme for information mapping between optical and atomic systems. We show that GEM can be described by the dynamic formation of polaritons in k-space. This picture highlights the flexibility and robustness with regards to the external control of the storage process. Our results also show that, as GEM is a frequency-encoding memory, it can accurately preserve the shape of signals that have large time-bandwidth products, even at moderate optical depths. At higher optical depths, we show that GEM is a high fidelity multi-mode quantum memory.

id: 0801.3872
title: The adiabatic theorem in the presence of noise
authors: Michael J. O'Hara, Dianne P. O'Leary
comments: 40 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3872
abstract: We provide rigorous bounds for the error of the adiabatic approximation of quantum mechanics under four sources of experimental error: perturbations in the initial condition, systematic time-dependent perturbations in the Hamiltonian, coupling to low-energy quantum systems, and decoherent time-dependent perturbations in the Hamiltonian. For decoherent perturbations, we find both upper and lower bounds on the evolution time to guarantee the adiabatic approximation performs within a prescribed tolerance. Our new results include explicit definitions of constants, and we apply them to the spin-1/2 particle in a rotating magnetic field, and to the superconducting flux qubit. We compare the theoretical bounds on the superconducting flux qubit to simulation results.

id: 0801.3899
title: Free-running InGaAs/InP Avalanche Photodiode with Active Quenching for Single Photon Counting at Telecom Wavelengths
authors: R. T. Thew, D. Stucki, J-D. Gautier, A. Rochas, H. Zbinden
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 91, 201114 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3899
abstract: We present an InGaAs/InP avalanche photodiode with an active quenching circuit on an ASIC (application specific integrated circuit) that is capable of operating in both gated and free-running modes. The 1.6mm2 ASIC chip is fabricated using CMOS (complementary metal oxide semiconductor) technology guaranteeing long-term stability, reliability and compactness. In the free-running mode we find a single photon detection efficiency of 10% with <2kHz of noise.

id: 0801.3935
title: Montonic convergent optimal control theory to modulate bandwidth limited laser pulses in linear and non-linear optical processes
authors: Caroline Gollub, Markus Kowalewski, Regina de Vivie-Riedle
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 073002 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3935
abstract: We present a modified optimal control scheme based on the Krotov method, which allows for strict limitations on the spectrum of the optimized laser fields, without losing monotonic convergence of the algorithm. The method guarantees a close link to learning loop control experiments and is demonstrated for the challenging control of non-resonant Raman transitions, which are used to implement a set of global quantum gates for molecular vibrational qubits.

id: 0801.3993
title: Almost every set of $N\ge d+1$ orthogonal states on $d^{\otimes n}$ is locally indistinguishable
authors: Scott M. Cohen
comments: 5 pages, no figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3993
abstract: I consider the problem of deterministically distinguishing the state of a multipartite system, from a set of $N\ge d+1$ orthogonal states, where $d$ is the dimension of each party's subsystem. It is shown that if the set of orthogonal states is chosen at random, then there is a vanishing probability that this set will be perfectly distinguishable under the restriction that the parties use only local operations on their subsystems and classical communication amongst themselves.

id: 0801.4000
title: Self-trapping of impurities in Bose-Einstein condensates: Strong attractive and repulsive coupling
authors: M. Bruderer, W. Bao, D. Jaksch
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: EuroPhys. Lett. 82, 30004 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4000
abstract: We study the interaction-induced localization -- the so-called self-trapping -- of a neutral impurity atom immersed in a homogeneous Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). Based on a Hartree description of the BEC we show that -- unlike repulsive impurities -- attractive impurities have a singular ground state in 3d and shrink to a point-like state in 2d as the coupling approaches a critical value. Moreover, we find that the density of the BEC increases markedly in the vicinity of attractive impurities in 1d and 2d, which strongly enhances inelastic collisions between atoms in the BEC. These collisions result in a loss of BEC atoms and possibly of the localized impurity itself.

id: 0801.4008
title: Quantum tomography with wavelet transform in Banach space on Homogeneous space
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, M.Mirzaee, M.Rezaee
comments: 25 pages
journal: Eeuopean Physical Journal B, 60, 193-201(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4008
abstract: The intimate connection between the Banach space wavelet reconstruction method on homogeneous spaces with both singular and nonsingular vacuum vectors, and some of well known quantum tomographies, such as: Moyal-representation for a spin, discrete phase space tomography, tomography of a free particle, Homodyne tomography, phase space tomography and SU(1,1) tomography is explained. Also both the atomic decomposition and banach frame nature of these quantum tomographic examples is explained in details. Finally the connection between the wavelet formalism on Banach space and Q-function is discussed.

id: 0801.4014
title: Quantum computation in continuous time using dynamic invariants
authors: M. S. Sarandy, E. I. Duzzioni, R. M. Serra
comments: v3: 7 pages, 1 figure. Published version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375, 3343 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4014
abstract: We introduce an approach for quantum computing in continuous time based on the Lewis-Riesenfeld dynamic invariants. This approach allows, under certain conditions, for the design of quantum algorithms running on a nonadiabatic regime. We show that the relaxation of adiabaticity can be achieved by processing information in the eigenlevels of a time dependent observable, namely, the dynamic invariant operator. Moreover, we derive the conditions for which the computation can be implemented by time independent as well as by adiabatically varying Hamiltonians. We illustrate our results by providing the implementation of both Deutsch-Jozsa and Grover algorithms via dynamic invariants.

id: 0801.4052
title: Quantum secret sharing protocol between multiparty and multiparty with single photons and unitary transformations
authors: Feng-Li Yan, Ting Gao, You-Cheng Li
comments: 4 pages
journal: Chinese Physics Letters, 25 (2008) 1187.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4052
abstract: We propose a scheme of quantum secret sharing between Alices' group and Bobs' group with single photons and unitary transformations. In the protocol, one member in Alices' group prepares a sequence of single photons in one of four different states, while other members directly encode their information on the sequence of single photons via unitary operations, after that the last member sends the sequence of single photons to Bobs' group. Then Bobs except for the last one do work similarly. Finally last member in Bobs' group measures the qubits. If Alices and Bobs guarnnted the security of quantum channel by some tests, then the qubit states sent by last member of Alices' group can be used as key bits for secret sharing. It is shown that this scheme is safe.

id: 0801.4053
title: Two avowable quantum communication schemes
authors: Feng-Li Yan, Dong Ding
comments: 4 pages
journal: Communications in Theoretical Physics, 50 (2008) 1109
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4053
abstract: Two avowable quantum communication schemes are proposed. One is an avowable teleportation protocol based on the quantum cryptography. In this protocol one teleports a set of one-particle states based on the availability of an honest arbitrator, the keys and the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs shared by the communication parties and the arbitrator. The key point is that the fact of the teleportation can neither be disavowed by the sender nor be denied by the receiver. Another is an avowable quantum secure direct communication scheme. A one-way Hash function chosen by the communication parties helps the receiver to validate the truth of the information and to avoid disavowing for the sender.

id: 0801.4098
title: Experimental Implementation of Projective Measurement in Bell Basis
authors: Jae-Seung Lee, A. K. Khitrin
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, submitted
journal: J. Magn. Reson. 198, 248-251 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4098
abstract: A scheme for direct projection of a quantum state on Bell states is described. The method is based on constructing an average Hamiltonian with Bell eigenstates and then, projecting the state on these eigenstates. The projection is performed by adding the results of a direct and time-reversed evolution. Experimental demonstration is shown for pairs of dipolar-coupled nuclear spins.

id: 0801.4100
title: Finding the Kraus decomposition from a master equation and vice versa
authors: Erika Andersson, Jim D. Cresser, Michael J. W. Hall
comments: 16 pages, no figures. Appeared in special issue for conference QEP-16, Manchester 4-7 Sep 2006
journal: J Mod. Opt. 54, 1695 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4100
abstract: For any master equation which is local in time, whether Markovian, non-Markovian, of Lindblad form or not, a general procedure is reviewed for constructing the corresponding linear map from the initial state to the state at time t, including its Kraus-type representations. Formally, this is equivalent to solving the master equation. For an N-dimensional Hilbert space it requires (i) solving a first order N^2 x N^2 matrix time evolution (to obtain the completely positive map), and (ii) diagonalising a related N^2 x N^2 matrix (to obtain a Kraus-type representation). Conversely, for a given time-dependent linear map, a necessary and sufficient condition is given for the existence of a corresponding master equation, where the (not necessarily unique) form of this equation is explicitly determined. It is shown that a `best possible' master equation may always be defined, for approximating the evolution in the case that no exact master equation exists. Examples involving qubits are given.

id: 0801.4115
title: Quantum walks on Erdos-Renyi networks
authors: X.-P. Xu, F. Liu
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures. A working manuscript, comments and suggestions are welcome
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372, 6727 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4115
abstract: We study the coherent exciton transport of continuous-time quantum walks (CTQWs) on Erdos-Renyi networks. The Erdos-Renyi network of N nodes is constructed by connecting every pair of nodes with probability $p$. We numerically calculate the ensemble averaged transition probability of quantum transport between two nodes of the networks. For finite networks, we find that the limiting transition probability is reached very quickly. For infinite networks whose spectral density follows the semicircle law, the efficiencies of the classical and quantum-mechanical transport are compared on networks of different average degree. In the long time limiting, we consider the distribution of the ensemble averaged transition probabilities, and show that there is a high probability to find the exciton at the initial node. Such high return probability almost do not alter in a wide range of connection probability p but increases rapidly when the network approaches to be fully connected. For networks whose topology is not extremely connected, the return probability is inversely proportional to the network size N. Furthermore, the transport dynamics are compared with that on a random graph model in which the degree of each node equals to the average degree of the Erdos-Renyi networks.

id: 0801.4126
title: Non-Destructive Probing of Rabi Oscillations on the Cesium Clock Transition near the Standard Quantum Limit
authors: P. J. Windpassinger, D. Oblak, P. G. Petrov, M. Kubasik, M. Saffman, C. L. Garrido Alzar, J. Appel, J. H. Mueller, N. Kjaergaard, E. S. Polzik
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 103601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4126
abstract: We report on non-destructive observation of Rabi oscillations on the Cs clock transition. The internal atomic state evolution of a dipole-trapped ensemble of cold atoms is inferred from the phase shift of a probe laser beam as measured using a Mach-Zehnder interferometer. We describe a single color as well as a two-color probing scheme. Using the latter, measurements of the collective pseudo-spin projection of atoms in a superposition of the clock states are performed and the observed spin fluctuations are shown to be close to the standard quantum limit.

id: 0801.4140
title: Dirac's hole theory and the Pauli principle: clearing up the confusion
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: Paper accepted by Advanced Studies in Theoretical Physics. Minor changes in Appendix
journal: Adv. Studies Theor. Phys., Vol. 3, 2009, no. 9-12, 323-332
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4140
abstract: In Dirac's hole theory (HT) the vacuum state is generally believed to be the state of minimum energy due to the assumption that the Pauli Exclusion Principle prevents the decay of positive energy electrons into occupied negative energy states. However recently papers have appeared that claim to show that there exist states with less energy than that of the vacuum[4][5][6]. Here we will consider a simple model of HT consisting of zero mass electrons in 1-1D space-time. It will be shown that for this model there are states with less energy than the HT vacuum state and that the Pauli Principle is obeyed. Therefore the conjecture that the Pauli Principle prevents the existence of states with less energy than the vacuum state is not correct.

id: 0801.4180
title: Continuous-time quantum walks on one-dimension regular networks
authors: Xinping Xu, Feng Liu
comments: Typos corrected and Phys. ReV. E comments considered in this version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 061127 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4180
abstract: In this paper, we consider continuous-time quantum walks (CTQWs) on one-dimension ring lattice of N nodes in which every node is connected to its 2m nearest neighbors (m on either side). In the framework of the Bloch function ansatz, we calculate the spacetime transition probabilities between two nodes of the lattice. We find that the transport of CTQWs between two different nodes is faster than that of the classical continuous-time random walk (CTRWs). The transport speed, which is defined by the ratio of the shortest path length and propagating time, increases with the connectivity parameter m for both the CTQWs and CTRWs. For fixed parameter m, the transport of CTRWs gets slow with the increase of the shortest distance while the transport (speed) of CTQWs turns out to be a constant value. In the long time limit, depending on the network size N and connectivity parameter m, the limiting probability distributions of CTQWs show various paterns. When the network size N is an even number, the probability of being at the original node differs from that of being at the opposite node, which also depends on the precise value of parameter m.

id: 0801.4247
title: On the microscopic basis of Newton's law of cooling and beyond
authors: Mihir Ranjan Nath, Surajit Sen, Gautam Gangopadhyay
comments: 16 pages, 1 Figure, Typos corrected
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics, Vol.127, 094505 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4247
abstract: The microscopic basis of Newton's law of cooling and its modification when the difference in temperature between the system and the surroundings is very large is discussed. When the system of interest is interacting with a small bath, the effect of the dynamical evolution of the bath variables is important to find out its dynamical feedback on the system. As in the usual system-bath approach, however, the bath is finally considered to be in thermal equilibrium and thereby provides an effective generalization of the Born-Markov master equation. It is shown that the cooling at early time is faster than that predicted by Newton's law due to the dynamical feedback of the bath.

id: 0801.4271
title: Approximate l-state solutions of the Manning-Rosen potential by the Nikiforov-Uvarov method
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4271
abstract: The Schrodinger equation for the Manning-Rosen potential with the centrifugal term is solved approximately to obtain bound states energies. Additionally, the corresponding wave functions are expressed by the Jacobi polynomials. The Nikiforov-Uvarov (${\rm NU}$) method is used in the calculations. To show the accuracy of our results, we calculate the eigenvalues numerically for arbitrary quantum numbers $n$ and $l$ with two different values of the potential parameter $\alpha .$ It is shown that the results are in good agreement with the those obtained by other methods for short potential range, small $l$ and $\alpha .$ This solution reduces to two cases $l=0$ and Hulthen potential case.

id: 0801.4308
title: Path Integral Analysis of Arrival Times with a Complex Potential
authors: J.J.Halliwell
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4308
abstract: A number of approaches to the arrival time problem employ a complex potential of a simple step function type and the arrival time distribution may then be calculated using the stationary scattering wave functions. Here, it is shown that in the Zeno limit (in which the potential becomes very large), the arrival time distribution may be obtained in a clear and simple way using a path integral representation of the propagator together with the path decomposition expansion (in which the propagator is factored across a surface of constant time). This method also shows that the same result is obtained for a wide class of complex potentials.

id: 0801.4311
title: Performance of two decoy-state quantum cryptography protocols in earth-satellite links
authors: L. Moli, A. Rodriguez, G. Seco-Granados
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4311
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. It will be published again after submission to a journal.

id: 0801.4322
title: Pure-state transformations and catalysis under operations that completely preserve positivity of partial transpose
authors: William Matthews, Andreas Winter
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures. v2: Journal version; Typos fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012317 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4322
abstract: Motivated by the desire to better understand the class of quantum operations on bipartite systems that preserve positivity of partial transpose (PPT operations) and its relation to the class LOCC (local operations and classical communication), we present some results on deterministic bipartite pure state transformations by PPT operations. Restricting our attention to the case where we start with a rank K maximally entangled state, we give a necessary condition for transforming it into a given pure state, which we show is also sufficient when K is two and the final state has Schmidt rank three. We show that it is sufficient for all K and all final states provided a conjecture about a certain family of semidefinite programs is true. We also demonstrate that the phenomenon of catalysis can occur under PPT operations and that, unlike LOCC catalysis, a maximally entangled state can be a catalyst. Finally, we give a necessary and sufficient condition for the possibility of transforming a rank K maximally entangled state to an arbitrary pure state by PPT operations assisted by some maximally entangled catalyst.

id: 0801.4385
title: Numerical studies of Casimir interactions
authors: S. Pasquali, A. C. Maggs
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4385
abstract: We study numerically the Casimir interaction between dielectrics in both two and three dimensions. We demonstrate how sparse matrix factorizations enable one to study torsional interactions in three dimensions. In two dimensions we study the full cross-over between non-retarded and retarded interactions as a function of separation. We use constrained factorizations in order to measure the interaction of a particle with a rough dielectric surface and compare with a scaling argument.

id: 0801.4411
title: Large Spin Entangled Current from a Passive Device
authors: Avinash Kolli, Simon C. Benjamin, Jose Garcia Coello, Sougato Bose, Brendon W. Lovett
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures; Minor corrections made to text and now submitted to New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 013018.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4411
abstract: We show that a large entangled current can be produced from a very simple passive device: a cluster of three resonant quantum dots, tunnel coupled to one input lead and two output leads. The device can function in a `clean' mode, when almost all emitted electrons are paired in Bell states, or a `dirty' mode with a far higher emission rate but a significant portion of non-entangled electrons. Subsequent charge detection can enhance performance by identifying the pairs that are most likely to be entangled. The device is robust to specific choice of system parameters and therefore lends itself to immediate experimental demonstration. Applications include quantum repeaters and unconditionally secure interfaces.

id: 0801.4417
title: Controllable coherent population transfers in superconducting qubits for quantum computing
authors: L.F. Wei, J.R. Johansson, L.X. Cen, S. Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures. to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 113601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4417
abstract: We propose an approach to coherently transfer populations between selected quantum states in one- and two-qubit systems by using controllable Stark-chirped rapid adiabatic passages (SCRAPs). These {\it evolution-time insensitive} transfers, assisted by easily implementable single-qubit phase-shift operations, could serve as elementary logic gates for quantum computing. Specifically, this proposal could be conveniently demonstrated with existing Josephson phase qubits. Our proposal can find an immediate application in the readout of these qubits. Indeed, the broken parity symmetries of the bound states in these artificial "atoms" provide an efficient approach to design the required adiabatic pulses.

id: 0801.4431
title: Phase space patterns of quantum transport on ordered and disordered networks
authors: Xinping Xu, Feng Liu
comments: Syntax corrected and more discussion added. Accepted for publication in Phys. ReV. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062318 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4431
abstract: In this paper, we consider the quantum-mechanical phase space patterns on ordered and disordered networks. For ordered networks in which each node is connected to its 2m nearest neighbors (m on either side), the phase space quasi-probability of Wigner function shows various patterns. In the long time limit, on even-numbered networks, we find an asymmetric quasi-probability between the node and its opposite node. This asymmetry depends on the network parameters and specific phase space positions. For disordered networks in which each edge is rewired with probability p>0, the phase space displays regional localization on the initial node.

id: 0801.4437
title: Self-Adjoint Extensions of the Hamiltonian Operator with Symmetric Potentials which are Unbounded from Below
authors: Hing-Tong Cho, Choon-Lin Ho
comments: RevTex, 16 pages; title changed, extension scheme clarified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4437
abstract: We study the self-adjoint extensions of the Hamiltonian operator with symmetric potentials which go to $-\infty$ faster than $-|x|^{2p}$ with $p>1$ as $x\to\pm\infty$. In this extension procedure, one requires the Wronskian between any states in the spectrum to approach to the same limit as $x\to\pm\infty$. Then the boundary terms cancel and the Hamiltonian operator can be shown to be hermitian. Discrete bound states with even and odd parities are obtained. Since the Wronskian is not required to vanish asymptotically, the energy eigenstates could be degenerate. Some explicit examples are given and analyzed.

id: 0801.4487
title: Universal quantum dynamics from two 2-local Hamiltonians
authors: Charles D. Hill, Henry L. Haselgrove
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4487
abstract: In this paper, we show that the ability to switch globally between two 2-local Hamiltonians on n qubits is sufficient for achieving universal unitary dynamics on those n qubits. Of the two Hamiltonians used in the construction, one is comprised of nearest-neighbour two-qubit interactions on a one-dimensional chain, the other is comprised of single-qubit interactions. We describe a scheme for choosing the switching times in order to generate arbitrary one- and two-qubit gates on the n qubits. However the switching scheme is inefficient, and we leave as an open problem the question of whether the universality of the Hamiltonians can be exploited in an efficient way.

id: 0801.4490
title: Fidelity decay in trapped Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: G. Manfredi, P.-A. Hervieux
comments: 4 pages, to appear in Physical Review Letters, February 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4490
abstract: The quantum coherence of a Bose-Einstein condensate is studied using the concept of quantum fidelity (Loschmidt echo). The condensate is confined in an elongated anharmonic trap and subjected to a small random potential such as that created by a laser speckle. Numerical experiments show that the quantum fidelity stays constant until a critical time, after which it drops abruptly over a single trap oscillation period. The critical time depends logarithmically on the number of condensed atoms and on the perturbation amplitude. This behavior may be observable by measuring the interference fringes of two condensates evolving in slightly different potentials.

id: 0801.4497
title: Controlled decoherence in a quantum L¨¦vy kicked rotator
authors: Henning Schomerus, Eric Lutz
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062113 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4497
abstract: We develop a theory describing the dynamics of quantum kicked rotators (modelling cold atoms in a pulsed optical field) which are subjected to combined amplitude and timing noise generated by a renewal process (acting as an engineered reservoir). For waiting-time distributions of variable exponent (L\'evy noise), we demonstrate the existence of a regime of nonexponential loss of phase coherence. In this regime, the momentum dynamics is subdiffusive, which also manifests itself in a non-Gaussian limiting distribution and a fractional power-law decay of the inverse participation ratio. The purity initially decays with a stretched exponential which is followed by two regimes of power-law decay with different exponents. The averaged logarithm of the fidelity probes the sprinkling distribution of the renewal process. These analytical results are confirmed by numerical computations on quantum kicked rotators subjected to noise events generated by a Yule-Simon distribution.

id: 0801.4515
title: Quantum walks: a Markovian perspective
authors: Diego de Falco, Dario Tamascelli
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: V. Geffert et al. (Eds.): SOFSEM 2008, LNCS 4910, pp. 519-530, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4515
abstract: For a continuous-time quantum walk on a line the variance of the position observable grows quadratically in time, whereas, for its classical counterpart on the same graph, it exhibits a linear, diffusive, behaviour. A quantum walk, thus, propagates at a rate which is linear in time, as compared to the square root rate for a classical random walk. Indeed, it has been suggested that there are graphs that can be traversed by a quantum walker exponentially faster than by the classical random analogue. In this note we adopt the approach of exploring the conditions to impose on a Markov process in order to emulate its quantum counterpart: the central issue that emerges is the problem of taking into account, in the numerical generation of each sample path, the causative effect of the ensemble of trajectories to which it belongs. How to deal numerically with this problem is shown in a paradigmatic example.

id: 0801.4549
title: Simplified measurement of the Bell parameter within quantum mechanics
authors: Haruka Tanji, Jonathan Simon, Saikat Ghosh, Vladan Vuleti?
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4549
abstract: We point out that, if one accepts the validity of quantum mechanics, the Bell parameter for the polarization state of two photons can be measured in a simpler way than by the standard procedure [Clauser, Horne, Shimony, and Holt, Phys. Rev. Lett. 23, 880 (1969)]. The proposed method requires only two measurements with parallel linear-polarizer settings for Alice and Bob at 0 and 45 degrees, and yields a significantly smaller statistical error for a large Bell parameter.

id: 0801.4551
title: Exploring the quantum vacuum with cylinders
authors: F.C. Lombardo, F. D. Mazzitelli, P.I. Villar
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, Proceedings of QFEXT07. To be published in J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4551
abstract: We review recent work on the Casimir interaction energy between cylindrical shells. We include proposals for future experiments involving cylinders, such us a null experiment using quasi-concentric cylinders, a cylinder in front a conducting plate, and a cylindrical version of the rack and pinion powered by Casimir lateral force. We also present an exact formula for the theoretical evaluation of the vacuum interaction energy between eccentric cylindrical shells, and describe improved analytical and numerical evaluations for the particular case of concentric cylinders.

id: 0801.4604
title: Quantum information with Gaussian states
authors: X.-B. Wang, T. Hiroshima, A. Tomita, M. Hayashi
comments: 170 pages. Minors of the published version are corrected and listed in the Acknowledgement part of this version
journal: Physics Reports, 448, 1(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4604
abstract: Quantum optical Gaussian states are a type of important robust quantum states which are manipulatable by the existing technologies. So far, most of the important quantum information experiments are done with such states, including bright Gaussian light and weak Gaussian light. Extending the existing results of quantum information with discrete quantum states to the case of continuous variable quantum states is an interesting theoretical job. The quantum Gaussian states play a central role in such a case. We review the properties and applications of Gaussian states in quantum information with emphasis on the fundamental concepts, the calculation techniques and the effects of imperfections of the real-life experimental setups. Topics here include the elementary properties of Gaussian states and relevant quantum information device, entanglement-based quantum tasks such as quantum teleportation, quantum cryptography with weak and strong Gaussian states and the quantum channel capacity, mathematical theory of quantum entanglement and state estimation for Gaussian states.

id: 0801.4617
title: Universal quantum computation with quantum-dot cellular automata in dephasing-free subspace
authors: Z. Y. Xu, M. Feng, W. M. Zhang
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Vol.8, No.10 (2008) 0977-0986
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4617
abstract: We investigate the possibility to have electron-pairs in dephasing-free subspace (DFS), by means of the quantum-dot cellular automata (QCA) and single-spin rotations, to carry out a high-fidelity and deterministic universal quantum computation. We show that our QCA device with electrons tunneling two dimensionally is very suitable for DFS encoding, and argue that our design favors a scalable quantum computation robust to collective dephasing errors.

id: 0801.4635
title: (2+3) dimensional geometrical dual of the complex Klein-Gordon equation
authors: Benjamin Koch
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4635
abstract: In this paper it is shown that an equivalent to the complex Klein-Gordon equation can be obtained from the (2+3) dimensional Einstein equations coupled to a conserved energy momentum tensor. In an explicit toy model we give matching conditions for what corresponds to the phase, the amplitude, and the mass of the complex wave function.

id: 0801.4660
title: Quantum computing of semiclassical formulas
authors: B. Georgeot, O. Giraud
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 046218 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4660
abstract: We show that semiclassical formulas such as the Gutzwiller trace formula can be implemented on a quantum computer more efficiently than on a classical device. We give explicit quantum algorithms which yield quantum observables from classical trajectories, and which alternatively test the semiclassical approximation by computing classical actions from quantum evolution. The gain over classical computation is in general quadratic, and can be larger in some specific cases.

id: 0801.4663
title: Energy Spectrum of a 2D Dirac Oscillator in the Presence of the Aharonov-Bohm Effect
authors: N. Ferkous, A. Bounames
comments: Latex, 12 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 325 (2004) 21-29
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4663
abstract: We determine the energy spectrum and the corresponding eigenfunctions of a 2D Dirac oscillator in the presence of Aharonov-Bohm (AB) effect . It is shown that the energy spectrum depends on the spin of particle and the AB magnetic flux parameter. Finally, when the irregular solution occurs it is shown that the energy takes particular values. The nonrelativistic limit is also considered.

id: 0801.4680
title: Intrinsic metrological resolution as a distance measure and nonclassical light
authors: ?ngel Rivas, Alfredo Luis
comments: 8 pages, some remarks added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 063813 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4680
abstract: We elaborate on a Hilbert-Schmidt distance measure assessing the intrinsic metrological accuracy in the detection of signals imprinted on quantum probe states by signal-dependent transformations. For small signals this leads to a probe-transformation measure $\Lambda$ fully symmetric on the probe $\rho$ and the generator $G$ of the transformation $\Lambda (\rho, G) = \Lambda (G, \rho)$. Although $\Lambda$ can be regarded as a generalization of variance we show that no uncertainty relation holds for the product of measures corresponding to complementary generators. We show that all states with resolution larger than coherent states are nonclassical. We apply this formalism to feasible probes and transformations.

id: 0801.4689
title: Quantum phase transitions in an effective Hamiltonian: fast and slow systems
authors: Isabel Sainz, Andrei B. Klimov, Luis Roa
comments: 
journal: J. Phys.A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 355301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4689
abstract: An effective Hamiltonian describing interaction between generic "fast" and a "slow" systems is obtained in the strong interaction limit. The result is applied for studying the effect of quantum phase transition as a bifurcation of the ground state of the "slow subsystem" in the thermodynamic limit. Examples as atom-field and atom-atom interactions are analyzed in detail.

id: 0801.4710
title: Quantum trajectories, feedback and squeezing
authors: A. Barchielli, M. gregoratti, M. Licciardo
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, "Noise Information & Complexity @ Quantum Scale" Proceedings
journal: IJQI 6 (2008) 581-587
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4710
abstract: Quantum trajectory theory is the best mathematical set up to model continual observations of a quantum system and feedback based on the observed output. Inside this framework, we study how to enhance the squeezing of the fluorescence light emitted by a two-level atom, stimulated by a coherent monochromatic laser. In the presence of a Wiseman-Milburn feedback scheme, based on the homodyne detection of a fraction of the emitted light, we analyze the squeezing dependence on the various control parameters.

id: 0801.4754
title: From Graph States to Two-Graph States
authors: Constanza Riera, Stephane Jacob, Matthew G. Parker
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4754
abstract: The name graph state is used to describe a certain class of pure quantum state which models a physical structure on which one can perform measurement-based quantum computing, and which has a natural graphical description. We present the two-graph state, this being a generalisation of the graph state and a two-graph representation of a stabilizer state. Mathematically, the two-graph state can be viewed as a simultaneous generalisation of a binary linear code and quadratic Boolean function. It describes precisely the coefficients of the pure quantum state vector resulting from the action of a member of the local Clifford group on a graph state, and comprises a graph which encodes the magnitude properties of the state, and a graph encoding its phase properties. This description facilitates a computationally efficient spectral analysis of the graph state with respect to operations from the local Clifford group on the state, as all operations can be realised graphically. By focusing on the so-called local transform group, which is a size 3 cyclic subgroup of the local Clifford group over one qubit, and over $n$ qubits is of size $3^n$, we can efficiently compute spectral properties of the graph state.

id: 0801.4757
title: On Visibility in the Afshar Two-Slit Experiment
authors: R. E. Kastner
comments: Final version; to appear in Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4757
abstract: A modified version of Young's experiment by Shahriar Afshar indirectly reveals the presence of a fully articulated interference pattern prior to the post-selection of a particle in a "which-slit" basis. While this experiment does not constitute a violation of Bohr's Complementarity Principle as claimed by Afshar, both he and many of his critics incorrectly assume that a commonly used relationship between visibility parameter V and "which-way" parameter K has crucial relevance to his experiment. It is argued here that this relationship does not apply to this experimental situation and that it is wrong to make any use of it in support of claims for or against the bearing of this experiment on Complementarity.

id: 0801.4771
title: Self-organization of a Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical cavity
authors: D. Nagy, G. Szirmai, P. Domokos
comments: 11 pages, final version. Accepted for publication in EPJD
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 48, 127 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4771
abstract: The spatial self-organization of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in a high-finesse linear optical cavity is discussed. The condensate atoms are laser-driven from the side and scatter photons into the cavity. Above a critical pump intensity the homogeneous condensate evolves into a stable pattern bound by the cavity field. The transition point is determined analytically from a mean-field theory. We calculate the lowest lying Bogoliubov excitations of the coupled BEC-cavity system and the quantum depletion due to the atom-field coupling.

id: 0801.4796
title: Control of Four-Level Quantum Coherence via Discrete Spectral Shaping of an Optical Frequency Comb
authors: Matthew C. Stowe, Avi Pe'er, Jun Ye
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 203001 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4796
abstract: We present an experiment demonstrating high-resolution coherent control of a four-level atomic system in a closed (diamond) type configuration. A femtosecond frequency comb is used to establish phase coherence between a pair of two-photon transitions in cold Rb atoms. By controlling the spectral phase of the frequency comb we demonstrate the optical phase sensitive response of the diamond system. The high-resolution state selectivity of the comb is used to demonstrate the importance of the signs of dipole moment matrix elements in this type of closed-loop excitation. Finally, the pulse shape is optimized resulting in a 256% increase in the two-photon transition rate by forcing constructive interference between the mode pairs detuned from an intermediate resonance.

id: 0801.4833
title: A BQP-complete problem related to the Ising model partition function via a new connection between quantum circuits and graphs
authors: Joseph Geraci
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4833
abstract: We present a simple construction that maps quantum circuits to graphs and vice-versa. Inspired by the results of D.A. Lidar linking the Ising partition function with quadratically signed weight enumerators (QWGTs), we also present a BQP-complete problem for the additive approximation of a function over hypergraphs related to the generating function of Eulerian subgraphs for ordinary graphs. We discuss connections with the Ising partition function.

id: 0801.4848
title: Noise Effects in Quantum Magic Squares Game
authors: P. Gawron, J.A. Miszczak, J. Sladkowski
comments: 5 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf, Vol. 6, No. 1 (2008), pp. 667 - 673
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4848
abstract: In the article we analyse how noisiness of quantum channels can influence the magic squares quantum pseudo-telepathy game. We show that the probability of success can be used to determine characteristics of quantum channels. Therefore the game deserves more careful study aiming at its implementation.

id: 0801.4857
title: Solution of the D-dimensional Klein-Gordon equation with equal scalar and vector ring-shaped pseudoharmonic potential
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 25 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. C 19, 1425(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4857
abstract: We present the exact solution of the Klein-Gordon equation in D-dimensions in the presence of the noncentral equal scalar and vector pseudoharmonic potential plus the new ring-shaped potential using the Nikiforov-Uvarov method. We obtain the exact bound-state energy levels and the corresponding eigen functions for a spin-zero particles. We also find that the solution for this noncentral ring-shaped pseudoharmonic potential can be reduced to the three-dimensional pseudoharmonic solution once the coupling constant of the noncentral part of the potential becomes zero.

id: 0801.4867
title: Quantum communication beyond the localization length in disordered spin chains
authors: Jonathan Allcock, Noah Linden
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4867
abstract: We study the effects of localization on quantum state transfer in spin chains. We show how to use quantum error correction and multiple parallel spin chains to send a qubit with high fidelity over arbitrary distances; in particular distances much greater than the localization length of the chain.

id: 0801.4930
title: Control-limited perfect state transfer, quantum stochastic resonance and many-body entangling gate in imperfect qubit registers
authors: C. Di Franco, M. Paternostro, D. I. Tsomokos, S. F. Huelga
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062337 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4930
abstract: We propose a protocol for perfect quantum state transfer that is resilient to a broad class of realistic experimental imperfections, including noise sources that could be modelled either as independent Markovian baths or as certain forms of spatially correlated environments. We highlight interesting connections between the fidelity of state transfer and quantum stochastic resonance effects. The scheme is flexible enough to act as an effective entangling gate for the generation of genuine multipartite entanglement in a control-limited setting. Possible experimental implementations using superconducting qubits are also briefly discussed.

id: 0801.4931
title: A Simple Proof of the Kochen-Specker Theorem on the Problem of Hidden Variables
authors: Norbert Straumann
comments: 9 pages, invited talk (birthday contribution for Ruth Durrer, Geneva, January 25, 2008)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4931
abstract: In this talk I present a simple derivation of an old result of Kochen and Specker, which is apparently unrelated to the famous work of Bell on hidden variables, but is presumably equally important. Kochen and Specker showed in 1967 that quantum mechanics cannot be embedded into a classical stochastic theory, provided the quantum theoretical probability distributions are reproduced and one additional highly desirable property is satisfied. This showed in a striking manner what were the difficulties in implementing the Einstein programme of a `complete' version of quantum mechanics.

id: 0801.4953
title: Investigating a Class of $2\otimes2\otimes d$ Chessboard Density Matrices via Linear and Non-linear Entanglement Witnesses Constructed by Exact Convex Optimization
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, Y. Akbari, K. Aghayar, A. Heshmati, M. Mahdian
comments: 35 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4953
abstract: Here we consider a class of $2\otimes2\otimes d$ chessboard density matrices starting with three-qubit ones which have positive partial transposes with respect to all subsystems. To investigate the entanglement of these density matrices, we use the entanglement witness approach. For constructing entanglement witnesses (EWs) detecting these density matrices, we attempt to convert the problem to an exact convex optimization problem. To this aim, we map the convex set of separable states into a convex region, named feasible region, and consider cases that the exact geometrical shape of feasible region can be obtained. In this way, various linear and non-linear EWs are constructed. The optimality and decomposability of some of introduced EWs are also considered. Furthermore, the detection of the density matrices by introduced EWs are discussed analytically and numerically. {\bf Keywords: chessboard density matrices, optimal non-linear entanglement witnesses, convex optimization} {\bf PACs Index: 03.65.Ud}

id: 0801.0099
title: Reply to `On a recent proposal of faster than light quantum communication'
authors: A.Y. Shiekh
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Electr. Jour. of Theor. Phys., 18, 109, 2008
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0099
abstract: In a recent paper the author proposed the possibility of an experiment to perform faster-than-light communication via the collapse of the quantum wave-function. This was analyzed by Bassi and Ghirardi, and it is believed that this analysis itself merits a detailed examination.

id: 0801.0291
title: Asymptotic freedom in low-energy quantum gravity
authors: Michael A. Ivanov
comments: 3 pages, no figure, Latex; v2, v3 - correction of numerical errors
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0291
abstract: It is suggested in the model of low-energy quantum gravity by the author, that the background of super-strong interacting gravitons exists. It is shown here that micro-particles at very small distances should be almost free if the gravitational attraction is caused by a pressure of these gravitons.

id: 0801.0356
title: Localization at threshold in noncommutative space
authors: Pulak Ranjan Giri
comments: 4 pages, no figure, Refs. added
journal: Phys.Lett.A372:5123-5125,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0356
abstract: The ground state energy of a scale symmetric system usually does not possess any lower bound, thus making the system quantum mechanically unstable. Self-adjointness and renormalization techniques usually provide the system a scale and thus making the ground state bounded from below. We on the other hand use noncommutative quantum mechanics and exploit the noncommutative parameter \Theta as a scale for a scale symmetric system. The resulting Hamiltonian for the system then allows an unusual bound state at the threshold of the energy, E=0. Apart from the Hamiltonian \hat{H} we also compute the other two generators of the so(2,1) algebra, the dilation \hat{D} and the conformal generator \hat{K} in the noncommutative space. The so(2,1) algebra is not closed in the noncommutative space, but the limit \Theta\to 0 smoothly goes to the so(2,1) algebra restoring the conformal symmetry. We also discuss the system for large noncommutative parameter.

id: 0801.0471
title: The black hole final state for the Dirac fields In Schwarzschild spacetime
authors: D. Ahn, Y. H. Moon, R. B. Mann, I. Fuentes-Schuller
comments: 
journal: JHEP 0806:062,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0471
abstract: We show that the internal stationary state of a black hole for massless Dirac fields can be represented by an entangled state of collapsing matter and infalling Hawking radiation. This implies that the Horowitz-Maldacena conjecture for the black hole final state originally proposed for the massless scalar fields is also applicable to fermionic fields as well. For an initially mixed state we find that the measure of mixedness is expected to decrease under evaporation.

id: 0801.0656
title: Thermal Lifshitz Force between Atom and Conductor with Small Density of Carriers
authors: L. P. Pitaevskii
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, small corrections, new references added
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0656
abstract: A new theory describing the interaction between atoms and a conductor with small densities of current carriers is presented. The theory takes into account the penetration of the static component of the thermally fluctuating field in the conductor and generalizes the Lifshitz theory in the presence of a spatial dispersion. The equation obtained for the force describes the continuous crossover between the Lifshitz results for dielectrics and metals.

id: 0801.0713
title: Subarea law of entanglement in nodal fermionic systems
authors: Letian Ding, Noah Bray-Ali, Rong Yu, Stephan Haas
comments: 4 pages,4 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 215701 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0713
abstract: We investigate the subarea law scaling properties of the block entropy in bipartite fermionic systems which do not have a finite Fermi surface. It is found that in gapped regimes the leading subarea term is a negative constant, whereas in critical regimes with point nodes the leading subarea law is a logarithmic additive term. At the phase boundary that separates the critical and non-critical regimes, the subarea scaling shows power-law behavior.

id: 0801.0760
title: Casimir energies with finite-width mirrors
authors: C. D. Fosco, F. C. Lombardo, F. D. Mazzitelli
comments: 18 pages, no figures. Version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D77:085018,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0760
abstract: We use a functional approach to the Casimir effect in order to evaluate the exact vacuum energy for a real scalar field in $d+1$ dimensions, in the presence of backgrounds that, in a particular limit, impose Dirichlet boundary conditions on one or two parallel surfaces. Outside of that limit, the background may be thought of as describing finite-width mirrors with frequency-dependent transmission and reflection coefficients. We provide new explicit results for the Casimir energy in some particular backgrounds

id: 0801.0861
title: Quantum Graphity: a model of emergent locality
authors: Tomasz Konopka, Fotini Markopoulou, Simone Severini
comments: 25 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.D77:104029,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0861
abstract: Quantum graphity is a background independent model for emergent locality, spatial geometry and matter. The states of the system correspond to dynamical graphs on N vertices. At high energy, the graph describing the system is highly connected and the physics is invariant under the full symmetric group acting on the vertices. We present evidence that the model also has a low-energy phase in which the graph describing the system breaks permutation symmetry and appears to be ordered, low-dimensional and local. Consideration of the free energy associated with the dominant terms in the dynamics shows that this low-energy state is thermodynamically stable under local perturbations. The model can also give rise to an emergent U(1) gauge theory in the ground state by the string-net condensation mechanism of Levin and Wen. We also reformulate the model in graph-theoretic terms and compare its dynamics to some common graph processes.

id: 0801.0940
title: Diagonal Representation for a Generic Matrix Valued Quantum Hamiltonian
authors: Pierre Gosselin, Herve Mohrbach
comments: Significant revision, typos corrected and references added
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C64:495-527,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0940
abstract: A general method to derive the diagonal representation for a generic matrix valued quantum Hamiltonian is proposed. In this approach new mathematical objects like non-commuting operators evolving with the Planck constant promoted as a running variable are introduced. This method leads to a formal compact expression for the diagonal Hamiltonian which can be expanded in a power series of the Planck constant. In particular, we provide an explicit expression for the diagonal representation of a generic Hamiltonian to the second order in the Planck constant. This last result is applied, as a physical illustration, to Dirac electrons and neutrinos in external fields.

id: 0801.0942
title: Entangling distant quantum dots using classical interference
authors: Jonathan Busch, Elica S. Kyoseva, Michael Trupke, Almut Beige
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, revised version, new title
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 040301(R) (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0942
abstract: We show that it is possible to employ reservoir engineering to turn two distant and relatively bad cavities into one good cavity with a tunable spontaneous decay rate. As a result, quantum computing schemes, that would otherwise require the shuttling of atomic qubits in and out of an optical resonator, can now be applied to distant quantum dots. To illustrate this we transform a recent proposal to entangle two qubits via the observation of macroscopic fluorescence signals [Metz et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 040503 (2006)] to the electron-spin states of two semiconductor quantum dots. Our scheme requires neither the coherent control of qubit-qubit interactions nor the detection of single photons. Moreover, the scheme is relatively robust against spin-bath couplings, parameter fluctuations, and the spontaneous emission of photons.

id: 0801.0944
title: Prepotential approach to exact and quasi-exact solvabilities of Hermitian and non-Hermitian Hamiltonians
authors: Choon-Lin Ho
comments: 12 pages, no figures. Based on talk presented at "Conference in Honor of CN Yang's 85th Birthday", 31 oct - 3 Nov 2007, Singapore
journal: AnnalsPhys.323:2241-2252,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0944
abstract: In this talk I present a simple and unified approach to both exact and quasi-exact solvabilities of the one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation. It is based on the prepotential together with Bethe ansatz equations. This approach gives the potential as well as the eigenfunctions and eigenvalues simultaneously. In this approach the system is completely defined by the choice of the change of variables, and the so-called zero-th order prepotential. We illustrate the approach by several examples of Hermitian and non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with real energies. The method can be easily extended to the constructions of exactly and quasi-exactly solvable Dirac, Pauli, and Fokker-Planck equations, and to quasinormal modes.

id: 0801.0992
title: Long-time electron spin storage via dynamical suppression of hyperfine-induced decoherence in a quantum dot
authors: Wenxian Zhang, N. P. Konstantinidis, V. V. Dobrovitski, B. N. Harmon, Lea F. Santos, Lorenza Viola
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 125336 (2008).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.0992
abstract: The coherence time of an electron spin decohered by the nuclear spin environment in a quantum dot can be substantially increased by subjecting the electron to suitable dynamical decoupling sequences. We analyze the performance of high-level decoupling protocols by using a combination of analytical and exact numerical methods, and by paying special attention to the regimes of large inter-pulse delays and long-time dynamics, which are outside the reach of standard average Hamiltonian theory descriptions. We demonstrate that dynamical decoupling can remain efficient far beyond its formal domain of applicability, and find that a protocol exploiting concatenated design provides best performance for this system in the relevant parameter range. In situations where the initial electron state is known, protocols able to completely freeze decoherence at long times are constructed and characterized. The impact of system and control non-idealities is also assessed, including the effect of intra-bath dipolar interaction, magnetic field bias and bath polarization, as well as systematic pulse imperfections. While small bias field and small bath polarization degrade the decoupling fidelity, enhanced performance and temporal modulation result from strong applied fields and high polarizations. Overall, we find that if the relative errors of the control parameters do not exceed 5%, decoupling protocols can still prolong the coherence time by up to two orders of magnitude.

id: 0801.1119
title: On the geometry of quantum constrained systems
authors: Alejandro Corichi
comments: 14 pages, no figures. Discussion expanded. Version published in CQG
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.25:135013,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1119
abstract: The use of geometric methods has proved useful in the hamiltonian description of classical constrained systems. In this note we provide the first steps toward the description of the geometry of quantum constrained systems. We make use of the geometric formulation of quantum theory in which unitary transformations (including time evolution) can be seen, just as in the classical case, as finite canonical transformations on the quantum state space. We compare from this perspective the classical and quantum formalisms and argue that there is an important difference between them, that suggests that the condition on observables to become physical is through the double commutator with the square of the constraint operator. This provides a bridge between the standard Dirac procedure --through its geometric implementation-- and the Master Constraint program.

id: 0801.1197
title: Random Wave Functions with boundary and normalization constraints: Quantum statistical physics meets quantum chaos
authors: Juan Diego Urbina, Klaus Richter
comments: Contribution to the Chladni meeting, Wittemberg 24-28 June 2006. Slightly improved version of published paper
journal: Eur. Phys. J. ST. 145 (2007) 255-269
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1197
abstract: We present an improved version of Berry's ansatz able to incorporate exactly the existence of boundaries and the correct normalization of the eigenfunction into an ensemble of random waves. We then reformulate the Random Wave conjecture showing that in its new version it is a statement about the universal nature of eigenfunction fluctuations in systems with chaotic classical dynamics. The emergence of the universal results requires the use of both semiclassical methods and a new expansion for a very old problem in quantum statistical physics

id: 0801.1247
title: Exact symmetry breaking ground states for quantum spin chains
authors: S. Alipour, S. Baghbanzadeh, V. Karimipour
comments: 4 pages, RevTex. 4 figures, minor changes, new references
journal: Europhysics Letters (EPL), 84 (2008) 67006.
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1247
abstract: We introduce a family of spin-1/2 quantum chains, and show that their exact ground states break the rotational and translational symmetries of the original Hamiltonian. We also show how one can use projection to construct a spin-3/2 quantum chain with nearest neighbor interaction, whose exact ground states break the rotational symmetry of the Hamiltonian. Correlation functions of both models are determined in closed form. Although we confine ourselves to examples, the method can easily be adapted to encompass more general models.

id: 0801.1384
title: Optical properties of gold films and the Casimir force
authors: V. B. Svetovoy, P. J. van Zwol, G. Palasantzas, J. Th. M. De Hosson
comments: 18 pages, 14 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 035439 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1384
abstract: Precise optical properties of metals are very important for accurate prediction of the Casimir force acting between two metallic plates. Therefore we measured ellipsometrically the optical responses of Au films in a wide range of wavelengths from 0.14 mum to 33 mum. The films at various thickness were deposited at different conditions on silicon or mica substrates. Considerable variation of the frequency dependent dielectric function from sample to sample was found. Detailed analysis of the dielectric functions was performed to check the Kramers-Kronig consistency, and extract the Drude parameters of the films. It was found that the plasma frequency varies in the range from 6.8 eV to 8.4 eV. It is suggested that this variation is related with the film density. X-ray reflectivity measurements support qualitatively this conclusion. The Casimir force is evaluated for the dielectric functions corresponding to our samples, and for that typically used in the precise prediction of the force. The force for our films was found to be 5-14% smaller at a distance of 100 nm between the plates. Noise in the optical data is responsible for the force variation within 1%. It is concluded that prediction of the Casimir force between metals with a precision better than 10% must be based on the material optical response measured from visible to mid-infrared range.

id: 0801.1571
title: Classical and quantum constraints in spin physics
authors: X. Artru
comments: 
journal: Dans Proceeding of the XII Workshop on High-Energy Spin Physics - XII Workshop on High Energy Spin Physics, Dubna (2007)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1571
abstract: Constraints on spin observables coming from discrete symmetries such as P, C, T and identical particles may be divided in two types: 1) classical ones, which insure the invariance of the cross sections under the symmetry operation; 2) non-classical ones, which can only be obtained at the level of amplitudes. Similarly, positivity constraints can be divided into classical and non-classical constraints. The former insure the positivity of the cross section for arbitrary individual polarisations of the external particles, the latter extend this requirement to the case of entangled external spins. The domain of classical positivity is shown to be dual to the domain of separability

id: 0801.1615
title: A Lorentz Invariant Pairing Mechanism: Relativistic Cooper Pairs
authors: A. Bermudez, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: Revtex4 file, color figures with less resolution to comply with arxiv restrictions
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 485302 (2008). Published version with additional material about relativistic hyper-entanglement
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1615
abstract: We study a Lorentz invariant pairing mechanism that arises when two relativistic spin-1/2 fermions are subjected to a Dirac string coupling. In the weak coupling regime, we find remarkable analogies between this relativistic bound system and the well known superconducting Cooper pair. As the coupling strength is raised, quenched phonons become unfrozen and dynamically contribute to the gluing mechanism, which translates into novel features of this relativistic superconducting pair.

id: 0801.1671
title: Self-isospectrality, special supersymmetry, and their effect on the band structure
authors: Francisco Correa, Vit Jakubsky, Luis-Miguel Nieto, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: Title changed by the Editor of Phys. Rev. Lett., published version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.101:030403,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1671
abstract: We study a planar model of a non-relativistic electron in periodic magnetic and electric fields that produce a 1D crystal for two spin components separated by a half-period spacing. We fit the fields to create a self-isospectral pair of finite-gap associated Lame equations shifted for a half-period, and show that the system obtained is characterized by a new type of supersymmetry. It is a special nonlinear supersymmetry generated by three commuting integrals of motion, related to the parity-odd operator of the associated Lax pair, that coherently reflects the band structure and all its peculiarities. In the infinite period limit it provides an unusual picture of supersymmetry breaking.

id: 0801.1947
title: Efficient Matrix Product State Method for periodic boundary conditions
authors: Peter Pippan, Steven R. White, Hans Gerd Evertz
comments: Final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 081103(R) (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1947
abstract: We introduce an efficient method to calculate the ground state of one-dimensional lattice models with periodic boundary conditions. The method works in the representation of Matrix Product States (MPS), related to the Density Matrix Renormalization Group (DMRG) method. It improves on a previous approach by Verstraete et al. We introduce a factorization procedure for long products of MPS matrices, which reduces the computational effort from m^5 to m^3, where m is the matrix dimension, and m ~ 100 - 1000 in typical cases. We test the method on the S=1/2 and S=1 Heisenberg chains. It is also applicable to non-translationally invariant cases. The new method makes ground state calculations with periodic boundary conditions about as efficient as traditional DMRG calculations for systems with open boundaries.

id: 0801.1973
title: A non-universal transition to asymptotic freedom in low-energy quantum gravity
authors: Michael A. Ivanov
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, Latex
journal: Journal of Gravitational Physics, 2008, vol.2, No.2, pp. 26-31
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.1973
abstract: The model of low-energy quantum gravity by the author has the property of asymptotic freedom at very short distances. The character of transition to asymptotic freedom is studied here. It is shown that this transition is not universal, but the one obeys the scaling rule: the range of this transition in units of $r/E^{1/2}$, where $r$ is a distance between particles and $E$ is an energy of the screening particle, is the same for any micro-particle. This range for a proton is between $10^{-11} - 10^{-13}$ meter, while for an electron it is approximately between $10^{-13} - 10^{-15}$ meter.

id: 0801.2056
title: Double and negative reflection of cold atoms in non-Abelian gauge potentials
authors: Gediminas Juzeliunas, Julius Ruseckas, Andreas Jacob, Luis Santos, Patrik Ohberg
comments: 5 figures corrected references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 200405 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2056
abstract: Atom reflection is studied in the presence of a non-Abelian vector potential proportional to a spin-1/2 operator. The potential is produced by a relatively simple laser configuration for atoms with a tripod level scheme. We show that the atomic motion is described by two different dispersion branches with positive or negative chirality. As a consequence of that, atom reflection shows unusual features, since an incident wave may split into two reflected ones at a barrier, an ordinary specular reflection, and an additional non-specular one. Remarkably, the latter wave can exhibit negative reflection and may become evanescent if the angle of incidence exceeds a critical value. These reflection properties are crucial for future designs in non-Abelian atom optics.

id: 0801.2062
title: On the vacuum energy of a spherical plasma shell
authors: M. Bordag, N. Khusnutdinov
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys.Rev.D
journal: Phys.Rev.D77:085026,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2062
abstract: We consider the vacuum energy of the electromagnetic field interacting with a spherical plasma shell together with a model for the classical motion of the shell. We calculate the heat kernel coefficients, especially that for the TM mode, and carry out the renormalization by redefining the parameters of the classical model. It turns out that this is possible and results in a model, which in the limit of the plasma shell becoming an ideal conductor reproduces the vacuum energy found by Boyer in 1968.

id: 0801.2473
title: The fidelity approach to the Hubbard model
authors: L. Campos Venuti, M. Cozzini, P. Buonsante, F. Massel, N. Bray-Ali, P. Zanardi
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, added results on the hyper-scaling form of the fidelity metric
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 115410 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2473
abstract: We use the fidelity approach to quantum critical points to study the zero temperature phase diagram of the one-dimensional Hubbard model. Using a variety of analytical and numerical techniques, we analyze the fidelity metric in various regions of the phase diagram, with particular care to the critical points. Specifically we show that close to the Mott transition, taking place at on-site repulsion U=0 and electron density n=1, the fidelity metric satisfies an hyper-scaling form which we calculate. This implies that in general, as one approaches the critical point U=0, n=1, the fidelity metric tends to a limit which depends on the path of approach. At half filling, the fidelity metric is expected to diverge as U^{-4} when U is sent to zero.

id: 0801.2531
title: Quantum channels that preserve entanglement
authors: William Arveson
comments: 14 pages, links to references are now fixed
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2531
abstract: Let M and N be full matrix algebras. A unital completely positive (UCP) map \phi:M\to N is said to preserve entanglement if its inflation \phi\otimes \id_N : M\otimes N\to N\otimes N has the following property: for every maximally entangled pure state \rho of N\otimes N, \rho\circ(\phi\otimes \id_N) is an entangled state of M\otimes N. We show that there is a dichotomy in that every UCP map that is not entanglement breaking in the sense of Horodecki-Shor-Ruskai must preserve entanglement, and that entanglement preserving maps of every possible rank exist in abundance. We also show that with probability 1, {\em all} UCP maps of relatively small rank preserve entanglement, but that this is not so for UCP maps of maximum rank.

id: 0801.2564
title: Modern space-time and undecidability
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Jorge Pullin
comments: 8 pages, no figures, Revtex, contribution to the volume "Minkowski spacetime: a hundred years later", edited by Vesselin Petkov
journal: Fundamental theories of physics 165, 149 (2010)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2564
abstract: The picture of space-time that Minkowski created in 1907 has been followed by two important developments in physics not contained in the original picture: general relativity and quantum mechanics. We will argue that the use of concepts of those theories to construct space-time implies conceptual modifications in quantum mechanics. In particular one can construct a viable picture of quantum mechanics without a reduction process that has outcomes equivalent to a picture with a reduction process. One therefore has two theories that are entirely equivalent experimentally but profoundly different in the description of reality they give. This introduces a fundamental level of undecidability in physics of a kind that has not been present before. We discuss some of the implications.

id: 0801.2826
title: Non-Commutative Geometry, Categories and Quantum Physics
authors: Paolo Bertozzini, Roberto Conti, Wicharn Lewkeeratiyutkul
comments: Survey paper, 70 pages, AMS-LaTeX2e, results unchanged, considerably expanded version of the published paper (only for the arXiv repository), bibliography updated to October 2009, significant improvements and expansions in several sections, added appendix with selected recent references
journal: East-West Journal of Mathematics "Contributions in Mathematics and Applications II" Special Volume 2007, 213-259 (2008)
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2826
abstract: After an introduction to some basic issues in non-commutative geometry (Gel'fand duality, spectral triples), we present a "panoramic view" of the status of our current research program on the use of categorical methods in the setting of A.Connes' non-commutative geometry: morphisms/categories of spectral triples, categorification of Gel'fand duality. We conclude with a summary of the expected applications of "categorical non-commutative geometry" to structural questions in relativistic quantum physics: (hyper)covariance, quantum space-time, (algebraic) quantum gravity.

id: 0801.2836
title: Casimir effect in the boundary state formalism
authors: Z. Bajnok, L. Palla, G. Takacs
comments: 11 pages. Proceedings contribution of talk given at the Workshop on Quantum Field Theory under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT07), University of Leipzig, September 16-21, 2007. To appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A41:164011,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2836
abstract: Casimir effect in the planar setting is described using the boundary state formalism, for general partially reflecting boundaries. It is expressed in terms of the low-energy degrees of freedom, which provides a large distance expansion valid for general interacting field theories provided there is a non-vanishing mass gap. The expansion is written in terms of the scattering amplitudes, and needs no ultraviolet renormalization. We also discuss the case when the quantum field has a nontrivial vacuum configuration.

id: 0801.2848
title: Models for Quadratic Algebras Associated with Second Order Superintegrable Systems in 2D
authors: Ernest G. Kalnins, Willard Miller Jr, Sarah Post
comments: This is a contribution to the Proc. of the Seventh International Conference ''Symmetry in Nonlinear Mathematical Physics'' (June 24-30, 2007, Kyiv, Ukraine), published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 4 (2008), 008, 21 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2848
abstract: There are 13 equivalence classes of 2D second order quantum and classical superintegrable systems with nontrivial potential, each associated with a quadratic algebra of hidden symmetries. We study the finite and infinite irreducible representations of the quantum quadratic algebras though the construction of models in which the symmetries act on spaces of functions of a single complex variable via either differential operators or difference operators. In another paper we have already carried out parts of this analysis for the generic nondegenerate superintegrable system on the complex 2-sphere. Here we carry it out for a degenerate superintegrable system on the 2-sphere. We point out the connection between our results and a position dependent mass Hamiltonian studied by Quesne. We also show how to derive simple models of the classical quadratic algebras for superintegrable systems and then obtain the quantum models from the classical models, even though the classical and quantum quadratic algebras are distinct.

id: 0801.2896
title: Bounds on gravitational wave backgrounds from large distance clock comparisons
authors: Serge Reynaud, Brahim Lamine, Loic Duchayne, Peter Wolf, Marc-Thierry Jaekel
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, minor amendments
journal: Phys.Rev.D77:122003,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2896
abstract: Our spacetime is filled with gravitational wave backgrounds that constitute a fluctuating environment created by astrophysical and cosmological sources. Bounds on these backgrounds are obtained from cosmological and astrophysical data but also by analysis of ranging and Doppler signals from distant spacecraft. We propose here a new way to set bounds on those backgrounds by performing clock comparisons between a ground clock and a remote spacecraft equipped with an ultra-stable clock, rather than only ranging to an onboard transponder. This technique can then be optimized as a function of the signal to be measured and the dominant noise sources, leading to significant improvements on present bounds in a promising frequency range where different theoretical models are competing. We illustrate our approach using the SAGAS project which aims to fly an ultra stable optical clock in the outer solar system.

id: 0801.2962
title: Spacetime foam: from entropy and holography to infinite statistics and nonlocality
authors: Y. Jack Ng
comments: 28 pages, LaTeX; added references, minor changes; invited review article for the special issue in Entropy (this http URL) on "Quantum spaces: where locality is not necessary, causality might not be, but entropy certainly is," edited by P.A. Zizzi
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2962
abstract: Due to quantum fluctuations, spacetime is foamy on small scales. The degree of foaminess is found to be consistent with holography, a principle prefigured in the physics of black hole entropy. It has bearing on the ultimate accuracies of clocks and measurements and the physics of quantum computation. Consistent with existing archived data on active galactic nuclei from the Hubble Space Telescope, the application of the holographic spacetime foam model to cosmology requires the existence of dark energy which, we argue, is composed of an enormous number of inert "particles" of extremely long wavelength. We suggest that these "particles" obey infinite statistics in which all representations of the particle permutation group can occur, and that the nonlocality present in systems obeying infinite statistics may be related to the nonlocality present in holographic theories. We also propose to detect spacetime foam by looking for halos in the images of distant quasars, and argue that it does not modify the GZK cutoff in the ultra-high energy cosmic ray spectrum and its contributions to time-of-flight differences of high energy gamma rays from distant GRB are too small to be detectable.

id: 0801.3069
title: Is there a Jordan geometry underlying quantum physics?
authors: Wolfgang Bertram
comments: 30 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3069
abstract: There have been several propositions for a geometric and essentially non-linear formulation of quantum mechanics. From a purely mathematical point of view, the point of view of Jordan algebra theory might give new strength to such approaches: there is a ``Jordan geometry'' belonging to the Jordan part of the algebra of observables, in the same way as Lie groups belong to the Lie part. Both the Lie geometry and the Jordan geometry are well-adapted to describe certain features of quantum theory. We concentrate here on the mathematical description of the Jordan geometry and raise some questions concerning possible relations with foundational issues of quantum theory.

id: 0801.3134
title: Comment on Magnetic Monopole Excitations in Spin Ice
authors: Subir Ghosh
comments: 4 pages, laTex
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3134
abstract: It has been proposed recently \cite{son} that excitations in Spin Ice can be of the form of magnetic monopoles that does not obey the Dirac Quantization Condition. It is also well known \cite{rj} that the above scenario leads to non-associativity among translation generators. It will be interesting to see how the monopole picture in Spin Ice survives in the light of the latter observation.

id: 0801.3238
title: Rapidly-converging methods for the location of quantum critical points from finite-size data
authors: M. Roncaglia, L. Campos Venuti, C. Degli Esposti Boschi
comments: 9 pages, 2 EPS figures, RevTeX style. Updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 155413 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3238
abstract: We analyze in detail, beyond the usual scaling hypothesis, the finite-size convergence of static quantities toward the thermodynamic limit. In this way we are able to obtain sequences of pseudo-critical points which display a faster convergence rate as compared to currently used methods. The approaches are valid in any spatial dimension and for any value of the dynamic exponent. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our methods both analytically on the basis of the one dimensional XY model, and numerically considering c = 1 transitions occurring in non integrable spin models. In particular, we show that these general methods are able to locate precisely the onset of the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless transition making only use of ground-state properties on relatively small systems.

id: 0801.3407
title: Tests of general relativity in the solar system
authors: Serge Reynaud, Marc-Thierry Jaekel
comments: Notes of a lecture given during the International School of Physics Enrico Fermi on Atom Optics and Space Physics (Varenna, July 2007)
journal: Atom Optics and Space Physics, p. 203-217 (Societa Italiana de Fisica & IOS Press, 2009)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3407
abstract: Tests of gravity performed in the solar system show a good agreement with general relativity. The latter is however challenged by observations at larger, galactic and cosmic, scales which are presently cured by introducing "dark matter" or "dark energy". A few measurements in the solar system, particularly the so-called "Pioneer anomaly", might also be pointing at a modification of gravity law at ranges of the order of the size of the solar system. The present lecture notes discuss the current status of tests of general relativity in the solar system. They describe metric extensions of general relativity which have the capability to preserve compatibility with existing gravity tests while opening free space for new phenomena. They present arguments for new mission designs and new space technologies as well as for having a new look on data of existing or future experiments.

id: 0801.3411
title: Gravitational waves, diffusion and decoherence
authors: Serge Reynaud, Brahim Lamine, Marc-Thierry Jaekel
comments: Notes for two lectures given at the International School of Physics Enrico Fermi on Atom Optics and Space Physics (Varenna, July 2007)
journal: Atom Optics and Space Physics, p. 219-239 (Societa Italiana di Fisica & IOS Press, 2009)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3411
abstract: The quite different behaviors exhibited by microscopic and macroscopic systems with respect to quantum interferences suggest that there may exist a naturally frontier between quantum and classical worlds. The value of the Planck mass (22$\mu$g) may lead to the idea of a connection between this borderline and intrinsic fluctuations of spacetime. We show that it is possible to obtain quantitative answers to these questions by studying the diffusion and decoherence mechanisms induced on quantum systems by gravitational waves generated at the galactic or cosmic scales. We prove that this universal fluctuating environment strongly affects quantum interferences on macroscopic systems, while leaving essentially untouched those on microscopic systems. We obtain the relevant parameters which, besides the ratio of the system's mass to Planck mass, characterize the diffusion constant and decoherence time. We discuss the feasibility of experiments aiming at observing these effects in the context of ongoing progress towards more and more sensitive matter-wave interferometry.

id: 0801.3465
title: Mixtures of strongly interacting bosons in optical lattices
authors: P. Buonsante, S.M. Giampaolo, F. Illuminati, V. Penna, A. Vezzani
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures; some changes in the text and abstract have been introduced; coherence now given in terms of visibility; a couple of new reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 240402 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3465
abstract: We investigate the properties of strongly interacting heteronuclear boson-boson mixtures loaded in realistic optical lattices, with particular emphasis on the physics of interfaces. In particular, we numerically reproduce the recent experimental observation that the addition of a small fraction of K induces a significant loss of coherence in Rb, providing a simple explanation. We then investigate the robustness against the inhomogeneity typical of realistic experimental realizations of the glassy quantum emulsions recently predicted to occur in strongly interacting boson-boson mixtures on ideal homogeneous lattices.

id: 0801.3574
title: Bell inequalities and density matrix for polarization entangled photons out of a two-photon cascade in a single quantum dot
authors: Matthieu Larqu¨¦, Isabelle Robert-Philip, Alexios Beveratos
comments: Accepted Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3574
abstract: We theoretically investigate the joint photodetection probabilities of the biexciton-exciton cascade in single semiconductor quantum dots and analytically derive the density matrix and the Bell's inequalities of the entangled state. Our model includes different mechanisms that may spoil or even destroy entanglement such as dephasing, energy splitting of the relay excitonic states and incoherent population exchange between these relay levels. We explicitly relate the fidelity of entanglement to the dynamics of these processes and derive a threshold for violation of Bell's inequalities. Applied to standard InAs/GaAs self-assembled quantum dots, our model indicates that spontaneous emission enhancement of the excitonic states by cavity effects increases the fidelity of entanglement to a value allowing for violation of Bell's inequalities.

id: 0801.3773
title: Graph-Based Classification of Self-Dual Additive Codes over Finite Fields
authors: Lars Eirik Danielsen
comments: 20 pages, 13 figures
journal: Adv. Math. Commun. 3(4), pp. 329-348, 2009
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3773
abstract: Quantum stabilizer states over GF(m) can be represented as self-dual additive codes over GF(m^2). These codes can be represented as weighted graphs, and orbits of graphs under the generalized local complementation operation correspond to equivalence classes of codes. We have previously used this fact to classify self-dual additive codes over GF(4). In this paper we classify self-dual additive codes over GF(9), GF(16), and GF(25). Assuming that the classical MDS conjecture holds, we are able to classify all self-dual additive MDS codes over GF(9) by using an extension technique. We prove that the minimum distance of a self-dual additive code is related to the minimum vertex degree in the associated graph orbit. Circulant graph codes are introduced, and a computer search reveals that this set contains many strong codes. We show that some of these codes have highly regular graph representations.

id: 0801.3909
title: Parafermions, parabosons and representations of so(\infty) and osp(1|\infty)
authors: N.I. Stoilova, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: Int.J.Math.20:693-715,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3909
abstract: The goal of this paper is to give an explicit construction of the Fock spaces of the parafermion and the paraboson algebra, for an infinite set of generators. This is equivalent to constructing certain unitary irreducible lowest weight representations of the (infinite rank) Lie algebra so(\infty) and of the Lie superalgebra osp(1|\infty). A complete solution to the problem is presented, in which the Fock spaces have basis vectors labelled by certain infinite but stable Gelfand-Zetlin patterns, and the transformation of the basis is given explicitly. We also present expressions for the character of the Fock space representations.

id: 0801.4306
title: Interlaced dense point and absolutely continuous spectra for Hamiltonians with concentric-shell singular interactions
authors: P. Exner, M. Fraas
comments: LaTeX, 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4306
abstract: We analyze the spectrum of the generalized Schrodinger operator in $L^2(R^\nu) \nu \geq 2$, with a general local, rotationally invariant singular interaction supported by an infinite family of concentric, equidistantly spaced spheres. It is shown that the essential spectrum consists of interlaced segments of the dense point and absolutely continuous character, and that the relation of their lengths at high energies depends on the choice of the interaction parameters; generically the p.p. component is asymptotically dominant. We also show that for $\nu=2$ there is an infinite family of eigenvalues below the lowest band.

id: 0801.4721
title: Extremal covariant positive operator valued measures: the case of a compact symmetry group
authors: Claudio Carmeli, Teiko Heinosaari, Juha-Pekka Pellonp??, Alessandro Toigo
comments: minor corrections in version 2
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 063504 (2008)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4721
abstract: Given a unitary representation U of a compact group G and a transitive G-space $\Omega$, we characterize the extremal elements of the convex set of all U-covariant positive operator valued measures.

id: 0801.4893
title: Controllability of the discrete-spectrum Schrodinger equation driven by an external field
authors: Thomas Chambrion, Paolo Mason, Mario Sigalotti, Ugo Boscain
comments: 
journal: Annales de l'Institut Henri Poincar\'e Analyse non lin\'eaire (2009) vol. 26, pp. 329-349
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4893
abstract: We prove approximate controllability of the bilinear Schr\"odinger equation in the case in which the uncontrolled Hamiltonian has discrete non-resonant spectrum. The results that are obtained apply both to bounded or unbounded domains and to the case in which the control potential is bounded or unbounded. The method relies on finite-dimensional techniques applied to the Galerkin approximations and permits, in addition, to get some controllability properties for the density matrix. Two examples are presented: the harmonic oscillator and the 3D well of potential, both controlled by suitable potentials.

id: 0801.4230
title: Quantum entanglement analysis based on abstract interpretation
authors: Simon Perdrix
comments: 13 pages
journal: Proc. of 15th International Static Analysis Symposium (SAS 2008). LNCS 5079, pp 270-282
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Programming Languages (cs.PL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4230
abstract: Entanglement is a non local property of quantum states which has no classical counterpart and plays a decisive role in quantum information theory. Several protocols, like the teleportation, are based on quantum entangled states. Moreover, any quantum algorithm which does not create entanglement can be efficiently simulated on a classical computer. The exact role of the entanglement is nevertheless not well understood. Since an exact analysis of entanglement evolution induces an exponential slowdown, we consider approximative analysis based on the framework of abstract interpretation. In this paper, a concrete quantum semantics based on superoperators is associated with a simple quantum programming language. The representation of entanglement, i.e. the design of the abstract domain is a key issue. A representation of entanglement as a partition of the memory is chosen. An abstract semantics is introduced, and the soundness of the approximation is proven.

id: 0801.4620
title: Comment on "Anyonic braiding in optical lattices"
authors: J. Vidal, S. Dusuel, K. P. Schmidt
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4620
abstract: We point out some major technical and conceptual mistakes which invalidate the conclusion drawn in "Anyonic braiding in optical lattices" by C. Zhang, V. W. Scarola, S. Tewari, and S. Das Sarma published in PNAS 104, 18415 (2007).

id: 0801.4194
title: A statistical mechanical interpretation of algorithmic information theory
authors: Kohtaro Tadaki
comments: 31 pages, LaTeX2e, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4194
abstract: We develop a statistical mechanical interpretation of algorithmic information theory by introducing the notion of thermodynamic quantities, such as free energy, energy, statistical mechanical entropy, and specific heat, into algorithmic information theory. We investigate the properties of these quantities by means of program-size complexity from the point of view of algorithmic randomness. It is then discovered that, in the interpretation, the temperature plays a role as the compression rate of the values of all these thermodynamic quantities, which include the temperature itself. Reflecting this self-referential nature of the compression rate of the temperature, we obtain fixed point theorems on compression rate.

id: 0801.2675
title: Angular Momentum of a Photon and Phase Conjugation
authors: A.Yu.Okulov
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: J.Phys.B, v.41, 101001(2008).
subjects: Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2675
abstract: Using the concept of an ideal phase-conjugating mirror we demonstrate that regardless of internal physical mechanism the phase-conjugation of a singular laser beam is accompanied by excitation within the mirror of internal waves which carry doubled angular momentum in order to match angular momentum conservation. For a Brillouin hypersound wavefront-reversal mirror this means that each elementary optical vortex belonging to a speckle pattern emits an acoustical vortex wave with doubled topological charge. The exact spatial profiles of light intensity and the intensity of hypersound in the vicinity of the phase singularity are obtained. These spiral profiles have a form of double helix which rotates with the frequency of sound. An optoacoustic experiment is proposed for visualization of the wavefront reversal of twisted optical beams and tunable twisted sound generation.

id: 0801.4397
title: One-Dimensional Impenetrable Anyons in Thermal Equilibrium. I. Anyonic Generalization of Lenard's Formula
authors: Ovidiu I. Patu, Vladimir E. Korepin, Dmitri V. Averin
comments: 13 pages, RevTeX 4
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 145006
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4397
abstract: We have obtained an expansion of the reduced density matrices (or, equivalently, correlation functions of the fields) of impenetrable one-dimensional anyons in terms of the reduced density matrices of fermions using the mapping between anyon and fermion wavefunctions. This is the generalization to anyonic statistics of the result obtained by A. Lenard for bosons. In the case of impenetrable but otherwise free anyons with statistical parameter $\kappa$, the anyonic reduced density matrices in the grand canonical ensemble is expressed as Fredholm minors of the integral operator ($1-\gamma \hat \theta_T$) with complex statistics-dependent coefficient $\gamma=(1+e^{\pm i\pi\kappa})/ \pi$. For $\kappa=0$ we recover the bosonic case of Lenard $\gamma=2/\pi$. Due to nonconservation of parity, the anyonic field correlators $\la \fad(x')\fa(x)\ra$ are different depending on the sign of $x'-x$.

id: 0801.4541
title: Microwave-induced coupling of superconducting qubits
authors: G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 74, 140504(R) (2006)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4541
abstract: We investigate the quantum dynamics of a system of two coupled superconducting qubits under microwave irradiation. We find that, with the qubits operated at the charge co-degeneracy point, the quantum evolution of the system can be described by a new effective Hamiltonian which has the form of two coupled qubits with tunable coupling between them. This Hamiltonian can be used for experimental tests on macroscopic entanglement and for implementing quantum gates.

id: 0801.3994
title: The mystical formula and the mystery of Khronos
authors: Orfeu Bertolami
comments: 27 pages. Contribution to appear the volume "Minkowski Spacetime: A Hundred Years Later" to be published by Springer in the series "Fundamental Theories of Physics", V. Petkov, Ed. Typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.3994
abstract: In 1908, Minkowski put forward the idea that invariance under what we call today the Lorentz group, $GL(1,3, {\bf R})$, would be more meaningful in a four-dimensional space-time continuum. This suggestion implies that space and time are intertwined entities so that, kinematic and dynamical quantities can be expressed as vectors, or more generally by tensors, in the four-dimensional space-time. Minkowski also showed how causality should be structured in the four-dimensional vector space. The mathematical formulation proposed by Minkowski made its generalization to curved spaces quite natural, leaving the doors to the General Theory of Relativity and many other developments ajar. Nevertheless, it is remarkable that this deceptively simple formulation eluded many researchers of space and time, and goes against our every day experience and perception, according to which space and time are distinct entities. In this contribution, we discuss these contradictory views, analyze how they are seen in contemporary physics and comment on the challenges that space-time explorers face.

id: 0801.4553
title: Metric fluctuations and the Weak Equivalence Principle
authors: Ertan G?kl¨¹, Claus L?mmerzahl
comments: 10 pages, to appear in Class. Quantum Grav. (2008)
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.25:105012,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.4553
abstract: We describe space--time fluctuations by means of small fluctuations of the metric on a given background metric. From a minimally coupled Klein--Gordon equation we obtain within a weak-field approximation up to second order and an averaging procedure over a finite space--time scale given by the quantum particle in the non--relativistic limit a modified Schr\"odinger equation. The dominant modification consists in an anomalous inertial mass tensor which depends on the type of particle and on the fluctuation scenario. The scenario considered in this paper is a most simple picture of spacetime fluctuations and gives an existence proof for an apparent violation of the weak equivalence principle and, in general, for a violation of Lorentz invariance.

id: 0801.2999
title: Nonlinear intraband tunneling of BEC in a cubic three-dimensional lattice
authors: V. S. Shchesnovich, V. V. Konotop
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures, accepted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2999
abstract: The intra-band tunneling of a Bose-Einstein condensate between three degenerate high-symmetry X-points of the Brillouin zone of a cubic optical lattice is studied in the quantum regime by reduction to a three-mode model. The mean-field approximation of the deduced model is described. Compared to the previously reported two-dimensional (2D) case [Phys. Rev. A 75, 063628 (2007)], which is reducible to the two-mode model, in the case under consideration there exist a number of new stable stationary atomic distributions between the X-points and a new critical lattice parameter. The quantum collapses and revivals of the atomic population dynamics are absent for the experimentally realizable time span. The 2D stationary configurations, embedded into the 3D lattice, turn out to be always unstable, while existence of a stable 1D distribution, where all atoms populate only one X-state, may serve as a starting point in the experimental study of the nonlinear tunneling in the 3D lattice.

