id: 0802.0079
title: Photon-like flying qubit in the coupled cavity array
authors: Ying Li, M.X. Huo, Z. Song, C.P. Sun
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0079
abstract: We propose a feasible scheme to realize a spin network via a coupled cavity array with the appropriate arrangement of external multi-driving lasers. It is demonstrated that the linear photon-like dispersion is achievable and this property opens up the possibility of realizing the pre-engineered spin network which is beneficial to quantum information processing.

id: 0802.0125
title: Gisin's theorem for two d-dimensional systems based on the Collins-Gisin-Linden-Masser-Popescu inequality
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Dong-Ling Deng, Ming-Guang Hu
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, accepted for publication as a Rapid Communication in Physical Review A
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 77, 060306(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0125
abstract: In this Rapid Communication, we show analytically that all pure entangled states of two d-dimensional systems (qudits) violate the Collins-Gisin-Linden-Masser-Popoescu (CGLMP) inequality. Thus one has the Gisin's theorem for two qudits.

id: 0802.0126
title: Interatomic van der Waals potential in the presence of a magneto-electric sphere
authors: Hassan Safari, Dirk-Gunnar Welsch, Ho Trung Dung, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A 77 (5), 053824 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0126
abstract: On the basis of a general formula obtained earlier via fourth-order erturbation theory within the framework of macroscopic quantum electrodynamics, the van der Waals potential between two neutral, unpolarized, ground-state atoms in the presence of a homogeneous, dispersing and absorbing magnetoelectric sphere is studied. When the radius of the sphere becomes sufficiently large, the result asymptotically agrees with that for two atoms near a planar interface. In the opposite limit of a very small sphere, the sphere can effectively be regarded as being a third ground-state atom, and the nonadditive three-atom van der Waals potential is recovered. To illustrate the effect of a sphere of arbitrary radius, numerical results are presented for the triangular arrangement where the atoms are at equidistance from the sphere, and for the linear arrangement where the atoms and the sphere are aligned along a straight line. As demonstrated, the enhancement or reduction of the interaction potential in the presence of purely electric or magnetic spheres can be physically understood in terms of image charges.

id: 0802.0136
title: Silica-on-Silicon Waveguide Quantum Circuits
authors: Alberto Politi, Martin J. Cryan, John G. Rarity, Siyuan Yu, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome
journal: Science 27 March (2008) (10.1126/science.1155441)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0136
abstract: Quantum technologies based on photons are anticipated in the areas of information processing, communication, metrology, and lithography. While there have been impressive proof-of-principle demonstrations in all of these areas, future technologies will likely require an integrated optics architecture for improved performance, miniaturization and scalability. We demonstrated high- fidelity silica-on-silicon integrated optical realizations of key quantum photonic circuits, including two-photon quantum interference with a visibility of 94.8(5)%; a controlled-NOT gate with logical basis fidelity of 94.3(2)%; and a path entangled state of two photons with fidelity >92%.

id: 0802.0150
title: Paraconsistent Machines and their Relation to Quantum Computing
authors: Juan C. Agudelo, Walter Carnielli
comments: We chage the title of the paper (to be more appropriate) and add some lines clarifying our points
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0150
abstract: We describe a method to axiomatize computations in deterministic Turing machines. When applied to computations in non-deterministic Turing machines, this method may produce contradictory (and therefore trivial) theories, considering classical logic as the underlying logic. By substituting in such theories the underlying logic by a paraconsistent logic we define a new computation model, the paraconsistent Turing machine. This model allows a partial simulation of superposed states of quantum computing. Such a feature allows the definition of paraconsistent algorithms which solve (with some restrictions) the well-known Deutsch's and Deutsch-Jozsa problems. This first model of computation, however, does not adequately represent the notions of entangled states and relative phase, which are key features in quantum computing. In this way, a more sharpened model of paraconsistent Turing machines is defined, which better approaches quantum computing features. Finally, we define complexity classes for such models, and establish some relationships with classical complexity classes.

id: 0802.0169
title: Quantum plasma effects in the classical regime
authors: G. Brodin, M. Marklund, G. Manfredi
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0169
abstract: For quantum effects to be significant in plasmas it is often assumed that the temperature over density ratio must be small. In this paper we challenge this assumption by considering the contribution to the dynamics from the electron spin properties. As a starting point we consider a multicomponent plasma model, where electrons with spin up and spin down are regarded as different fluids. By studying the propagation of Alfv\'{e}n wave solitons we demonstrate that quantum effects can survive in a relatively high-temperature plasma. The consequences of our results are discussed.

id: 0802.0190
title: Automated and robust population transfer method for three-level system using oscillating dark states
authors: Jun He, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Xiang-Fa Zhou, Qun-Feng Chen, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0190
abstract: An automated and robust method for adiabatic population transfer and the preparation of an arbitrary quantum superposition state in atomic system using the oscillating dark states (ODS) is presented. Quantum state of a three-level $\Lambda$ configuration atomic system oscillates periodically between two ground levels, when two pairs of classical detuning laser fields driving the system into the ODS under evolving adiabatic conditions. The decoherence of the ODS evolution is greatly suppressed, and the oscillation is very stable, therefore adiabatic population transfer and the preparation of an arbitrary quantum superposition state of atomic system can be completed accurately and conveniently.

id: 0802.0197
title: Extended Studies of Separability Functions and Probabilities and the Relevance of Dyson Indices
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 45 pages, 23 figures
journal: J. Geom. Phys. 58 (2008), 1101-1123
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0197
abstract: We report substantial progress in the study of separability functions and their application to the computation of separability probabilities for the real, complex and quaternionic qubit-qubit and qubit-qutrit systems. We expand our recent work (arXiv:0704.3723), in which the Dyson indices of random matrix theory played an essential role, to include the use of not only the volume element of the Hilbert-Schmidt (HS) metric, but also that of the Bures (minimal monotone) metric as measures over these finite-dimensional quantum systems. Further, we now employ the Euler-angle parameterization of density matrices (rho), in addition to the Bloore parameterization. The Euler-angle separability function for the minimally degenerate complex two-qubit states is well-fitted by the sixth-power of the participation ratio, R(rho)=1/Tr(rho)^2. Additionally, replacing R(rho) by a simple linear transformation of the Verstraete-Audenaert-De Moor function (arXiv:quant-oh/0011111), we find close adherence to Dyson-index behavior for the real and complex (nondegenerate) two-qubit scenarios. Several of the analyses reported help to fortify our conjectures that the HS and Bures separability probabilities of the complex two-qubit states are 8/33 = 0.242424 and 1680 (sqrt{2}-1)/pi^8 = 0.733389, respectively. Employing certain regularized beta functions in the role of Euler-angle separability functions, we closely reproduce--consistently with the Dyson-index ansatz--several HS two-qubit separability probability conjectures.

id: 0802.0232
title: Quantum mechanical NMR implementation of DNA algorithm for satisfiability problem
authors: T.T. Ren, M. Feng, W.-L. Chang, J. Luo, M.S. Zhan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, but one figure is missed in this submission due to too big size
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0232
abstract: DNA computation could in principle solve the satisfiability (SAT) problem due to the operations in parallel on extremely large numbers of strands. We demonstrate some quantum gates corresponding to the DNA ones, based on which an implementation of DNA algorithm for SAT problem is available by quantum mechanical way. Since quantum computation owns the favorable feature of operations in parallel on 2$^{n}$ states by using only n qubits, instead of 2$^{n}$ strands in DNA computation, computational complexity is much reduced in treating the SAT problem quantum mechanically. We take a three-clause SAT problem with two variables as an example, and carry out a NMR experiment for solving a one-variable SAT problem.

id: 0802.0235
title: Entanglement-breaking channels in infinite dimensions
authors: A. S. Holevo
comments: 16 pages
journal: Problems of Information Transmission 44:3 (2008) 3-18
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0235
abstract: We give a representation for entanglement-breaking channels in separable Hilbert space that generalizes the "Kraus decomposition with rank one operators" and use it to describe the complementary channels. We also give necessary and sufficient condition of entanglement-breaking for a general quantum Gaussian channel. Application of this condition to one-mode channels provides several new cases where the additivity conjecture holds in full generality.

id: 0802.0240
title: Hyperfine interaction induced decoherence and deterministic teleportation of electrons in a quantum dot nanostructure
authors: Siqing Yu, Yechao Zhu, Ye Yeo
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0240
abstract: Recently, de Visser and Blaauboer [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 96}, 246801 (2006)] proposed the most efficient deterministic teleportation protocol $\cal T$ for electron spins in a semiconductor nanostructure consisting of a single and a double quantum dot. However, it is as yet unknown if $\cal T$ can be completed before decoherence sets in. In this paper we analyze the detrimental effect of nuclear spin baths, the main source of decoherence, on $\cal T$. We show that nonclassical teleportation fidelity can be achieved with $\cal T$ provided certain conditions are met. Our study indicates that realization of quantum computation with quantum dots is indeed promising.

id: 0802.0245
title: Reply to Comments of Steuernagel on the Afshar's Experiment
authors: Eduardo V. Flores
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0245
abstract: We respond to criticism of our paper "Paradox in Wave-Paricle Duality for Non-Perturbative Measurements". We disagree with Steuernagel's derivation of the visibility of the Afshar experiment. To calculate the fringe visibility, Steuernagel utilizes two different experimental situations, i.e. the wire grid in the pattern minima and in the pattern maxima. In our assessment, this proceduere cannot lead to the correct result for the complementarity properties of wave-particle in one particular experimental set-up.

id: 0802.0249
title: Hopf Algebras in General and in Combinatorial Physics: a practical introduction
authors: G. H. E. Duchamp, P. Blasiak, A. Horzela, K. A. Penson, A. I. Solomon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Symbolic Computation (cs.SC); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0249
abstract: This tutorial is intended to give an accessible introduction to Hopf algebras. The mathematical context is that of representation theory, and we also illustrate the structures with examples taken from combinatorics and quantum physics, showing that in this latter case the axioms of Hopf algebra arise naturally. The text contains many exercises, some taken from physics, aimed at expanding and exemplifying the concepts introduced.

id: 0802.0270
title: Two-qutrit Entanglement Witnesses and Gell-Mann Matrices
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, Y. Akbari, N. Behzadi
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0270
abstract: The Gell-Mann $\lambda$ matrices for Lie algebra su(3) are the natural basis for the Hilbert space of Hermitian operators acting on the states of a three-level system(qutrit). So the construction of EWs for two-qutrit states by using these matrices may be an interesting problem. In this paper, several two-qutrit EWs are constructed based on the Gell-Mann matrices by using the linear programming (LP) method exactly or approximately. The decomposability and non-decomposability of constructed EWs are also discussed and it is shown that the $\lambda$-diagonal EWs presented in this paper are all decomposable but there exist non-decomposable ones among $\lambda$-non-diagonal EWs.

id: 0802.0279
title: Measurement-Only Topological Quantum Computation
authors: Parsa Bonderson, Michael Freedman, Chetan Nayak
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; v2: clarifying changes made to conform to the version published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 010501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0279
abstract: We remove the need to physically transport computational anyons around each other from the implementation of computational gates in topological quantum computing. By using an anyonic analog of quantum state teleportation, we show how the braiding transformations used to generate computational gates may be produced through a series of topological charge measurements.

id: 0802.0329
title: Bound entangled states with non-positive partial transpose exist
authors: Tohya Hiroshima
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author, due a crucial error in the optimization. For the last one month I have been trying to remove the error, but it seems to take a lot of time so I decided to withdraw this paper for the moment
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0329
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author, due a crucial error in the optimization. For the last one month I have been trying to remove the error, but it seems to take a lot of time so I decided to withdraw this paper for the moment.

id: 0802.0333
title: Magneto-Optical Stern-Gerlach Effect in Atomic Ensemble
authors: Yu Guo, Lan Zhou, Le-Man Kuang, C.P. Sun
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 013833 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0333
abstract: We study the birefringence of the quantized polarized light in a magneto-optically manipulated atomic ensemble as a generalized Stern-Gerlach Effect of light. To explain this engineered birefringence microscopically, we derive an effective Shr\"odinger equation for the spatial motion of two orthogonally polarized components, which behave as a spin with an effective magnetic moment leading to a Stern-Gerlach split in an nonuniform magnetic field. We show that electromagnetic induced transparency (EIT) mechanism can enhance the magneto-optical Stern-Gerlach effect of light in the presence of a control field with a transverse spatial profile and a inhomogeneous magnetic field.

id: 0802.0346
title: Absolute calibration of Analog Detectors using Stimulated Parametric Down Conversion
authors: G.Brida, M.Chekhova, M.Genovese, M.L.Rastello, I.Ruo-Berchera
comments: 
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 56 (2009) 401.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0346
abstract: Spontaneous parametric down conversion has been largely exploited as a tool for absolute calibration of photon counting detectors, photomultiplier tubes or avalanche photodiodes working in Geiger regime. In this work we investigate the extension of this technique from very low photon flux of photon counting regime to the absolute calibration of analog photodetectors at higher photon flux. Moving toward higher photon rate, i.e. at high gain regime, with the spontaneous parametric down conversion shows intrinsic limitations of the method, while the stimulated parametric down conversion process, where a seed beam properly injected into the crystal in order to increase the photon generation rate in the conjugate arm, allows us to work around this problem. A preliminary uncertainty budget is discussed.

id: 0802.0358
title: Classical Correlation in Quantum Dialogue
authors: Yong-gang Tan, Qing-yu Cai
comments: Here we point out the erroneous use of classical communication results in the insecurity of quantum dialogue protocols. Int. J. Quant. Inf. (In press)
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 6, 325-329 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0358
abstract: Classical communications are used in the post-processing procedure of quantum key distribution. Since the security of quantum key distribution is based on the principles of quantum mechanics, intuitively the secret key can only be derived from the quantum states. We find that classical communications are incorrectly used in the so-called quantum dialogue type protocols. In these protocols, public communications are used to transmit secret messages. Our calculations show that half of Alice's and Bob's secret message is leaked through classical channel. By applying Holevo bound, we can see that the quantum efficiency claimed in the quantum dialogue type of protocols is not achievable.

id: 0802.0365
title: Non-ideal atom-light interfaces: modeling real-world effects
authors: M. Koschorreck, M. W. Mitchell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0365
abstract: We present a model which describes coherent and incoherent processes in continuous-variable atom-light interfaces. We assume Gaussian states for light and atoms and formulate the system dynamics in terms of first and second moments of the angular momentum operators. Spatial and temporal inhomogeneities in light and atom variables are incorporated by partitioning the system into small homogeneous segments. Furthermore, other experimental imperfections as for instance limited detector time-resolution and atomic motion are simulated. The model is capable of describing many experimental situations ranging from room temperature vapor cells to sub-mK atomic clouds. To illustrate the method, we calculate the effect of detector time-resolution, spatial inhomogeneities and atomic motion on the spin squeezing dynamics of rubidium 87 on the D2 transition.

id: 0802.0368
title: Dynamical symmetry breaking of lambda and vee-type three-level systems on quantization of the field modes
authors: Mihir Ranjan Nath, Surajit Sen, Asoke Kumar Sen, Gautam Gangopadhyay
comments: 27 pages, 9 Figures
journal: Pramana - Journal of Physics, Vol. 71, (2008) 77-97
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0368
abstract: We develop a scheme to construct the Hamiltonians of the lambda, vee and cascade type of three-level configurations using the generators of SU(3) group. It turns out that this approach provides a well defined selection rule to give different Hamitonians for each configurations. The lambda and vee type configurations are exactly solved with different initial conditions while taking the two-mode classical and quantized fields . For the classical field, it is shown that the Rabi oscillation of the lambda model is similar to that of the vee model and the dynamics of the vee model can be recovered from lambda model and vice versa simply by inversion. We then proceed to solve the quantized version of both models introducing a novel Euler matrix formalism. It is shown that this dynamical symmetry exhibited in the Rabi oscillation of two configurations for the semiclassical models is completely destroyed on quantization of the field modes. The symmetry can be restored within the quantized models when the field modes are both in the coherent states with large average photon number which is depicted through the collapse and revival of the Rabi oscillations.

id: 0802.0394
title: Mutually Unbiased Bases for Continuous Variables
authors: Stefan Weigert, Michael Wilkinson
comments: 5 pages, no figures, revised to be identical to published text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 020303(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0394
abstract: The concept of mutually unbiased bases is studied for N pairs of continuous variables. To find mutually unbiased bases reduces, for specific states related to the Heisenberg-Weyl group, to a problem of symplectic geometry. Given a single pair of continuous variables, three mutually unbiased bases are identified while five such bases are exhibited for two pairs of continuous variables. For N = 2, the golden ratio occurs in the definition of these mutually unbiased bases suggesting the relevance of number theory not only in the finite-dimensional setting.

id: 0802.0411
title: Maximal Quantum Violation of the CGLMP Inequality on Its Both Sides
authors: Ming-Guang Hu, Dong-Ling Deng, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures. Accepted for publication in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol 6, No. 5, 1067-1076 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0411
abstract: We investigate the maximal violations for both sides of the $d$-dimensional CGLMP inequality by using the Bell operator method. It turns out that the maximal violations have a decelerating increase as the dimension increases and tend to a finite value at infinity. The numerical values are given out up to $d=10^6$ for positively maximal violations and $d=2\times 10^5$ for negatively maximal violations. Counterintuitively, the negatively maximal violations tend to be a little stronger than the positively maximal violations. Further we show the states corresponding to these maximal violations and compare them with the maximally entangled states by utilizing entangled degree defined by von Neumann entropy. It shows that their entangled degree tends to some nonmaximal value as the dimension increases.

id: 0802.0438
title: A quantum solution to the arrow-of-time dilemma
authors: Lorenzo Maccone
comments: Contains slightly more material than the published version (the additional material is clearly labeled in the latex source). Because of PRL's title policy, the leading "A" was left out of the title in the published paper
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.103:080401,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0438
abstract: The arrow of time dilemma: the laws of physics are invariant for time inversion, whereas the familiar phenomena we see everyday are not (i.e. entropy increases). I show that, within a quantum mechanical framework, all phenomena which leave a trail of information behind (and hence can be studied by physics) are those where entropy necessarily increases or remains constant. All phenomena where the entropy decreases must not leave any information of their having happened. This situation is completely indistinguishable from their not having happened at all. In the light of this observation, the second law of thermodynamics is reduced to a mere tautology: physics cannot study those processes where entropy has decreased, even if they were commonplace.

id: 0802.0466
title: Errors in the Quantum Electrodynamic Mass Analysis of Hagelstein and Chaudhary
authors: A. Widom, Y.N. Srivastava, L. Larsen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0466
abstract: Hagelstein and Chaudhary have recently criticized our low energy nuclear reaction rates in chemical cells based on our computed electron mass renormalization for surface electrons of metal hydride electrodes. They further criticize our electron mass renormalization in exploding wire systems which is very strange because mass renormalization was {\em never even mentioned} in our exploding wire work. Here we show that the calculations of Hagelstein and Chaudhary are erroneous in that they are in conflict with the Gauss law, i.e. they have arbitrarily removed all Coulomb interactions in electromagnetic propagators. They have also ignored substantial Ampere interactions in favor of computing only totally negligible contributions. When the fallacious considerations of Hagelstein and Chaudhary are clearly exposed, it becomes evident that our previous calculations remain valid.

id: 0802.0472
title: Can one see entanglement ?
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052110 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0472
abstract: The human eye can detect optical signals containing only a few photons. We investigate the possibility to demonstrate entanglement with such biological detectors. While one person could not detect entanglement by simply observing photons, we discuss the possibility for several observers to demonstrate entanglement in a Bell-type experiment, in which standard detectors are replaced by human eyes. Using a toy model for biological detectors that captures their main characteristic, namely a detection threshold, we show that Bell inequalities can be violated, thus demonstrating entanglement. Remarkably, when the response function of the detector is close to a step function, quantum non-locality can be demonstrated without any further assumptions. For smoother response functions, as for the human eye, post-selection is required.

id: 0802.0482
title: Symmetry Transformation in Extended Phase Space: the Harmonic Oscillator in the Husimi Representation
authors: Samira Bahrami, Sadolah Nasiri
comments: This is a contribution to the Proc. of the Seventh International Conference ''Symmetry in Nonlinear Mathematical Physics'' (June 24-30, 2007, Kyiv, Ukraine), published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 4 (2008), 014, 7 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0482
abstract: In a previous work the concept of quantum potential is generalized into extended phase space (EPS) for a particle in linear and harmonic potentials. It was shown there that in contrast to the Schr\"odinger quantum mechanics by an appropriate extended canonical transformation one can obtain the Wigner representation of phase space quantum mechanics in which the quantum potential is removed from dynamical equation. In other words, one still has the form invariance of the ordinary Hamilton-Jacobi equation in this representation. The situation, mathematically, is similar to the disappearance of the centrifugal potential in going from the spherical to the Cartesian coordinates. Here we show that the Husimi representation is another possible representation where the quantum potential for the harmonic potential disappears and the modified Hamilton-Jacobi equation reduces to the familiar classical form. This happens when the parameter in the Husimi transformation assumes a specific value corresponding to $Q$-function.

id: 0802.0488
title: Reproducing spin lattice models in strongly coupled atom-cavity systems
authors: Alastair Kay, Dimitris G. Angelakis
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. v3: References added
journal: Euro Phys. Lett. 84, 20001 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0488
abstract: In an array of coupled cavities where the cavities are doped with an atomic V-system, and the two excited levels couple to cavity photons of different polarizations, we show how to construct various spin models employed in characterizing phenomena in condensed matter physics, such as the spin-1/2 Ising, XX, Heisenberg, and XXZ models. The ability to construct networks of arbitrary geometry also allows for the simulation of topological effects. By tuning the number of excitations present, the dimension of the spin to be simulated can be controlled, and mixtures of different spin types produced. The facility of single-site addressing, the use of only the natural hopping photon dynamics without external fields, and the recent experimental advances towards strong coupling, makes the prospect of using these arrays as efficient quantum simulators promising.

id: 0802.0516
title: Fundamental Quantum Limit to Multiphoton Absorption Rate for Monochromatic Light
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, submitted, v2: accepted by PRL
journal: Physical Review Letters 101, 033602 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0516
abstract: The local multiphoton absorption rate for an arbitrary quantum state of monochromatic light, taking into account the photon number, momentum, and polarization degrees of freedom, is shown to have an upper bound that can be reached by coherent fields. This surprising result rules out any quantum enhancement of the multiphoton absorption rate by momentum entanglement.

id: 0802.0560
title: Detection of Spiral photons in Quantum Optics
authors: V.V. Klimov, D. Bloch, M. Ducloy, J.R.Rios Leite
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0560
abstract: We show that a new type of photon detector, sensitive to the gradients of electromagnetic fields, should be a useful tool to characterize the quantum properties of spatially-dependent optical fields. As a simple detector of such a kind, we propose using magnetic dipole or electric quadrupole transitions in atoms or molecules and apply it to the detection of spiral photons in Laguerre-Gauss (LG) beams. We show that LG beams are not true hollow beams, due to the presence of magnetic fields and gradients of electric fields on beam axis. This approach paves the way to an analysis at the quantum level of the spatial structure and angular momentum properties of singular light beams.

id: 0802.0564
title: Controlling the quantum computational speed
authors: N. Metwally, M. Abdel-Aty, M. Sebawe Abdalla
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 24, 4143-4151 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0564
abstract: The speed of quantum computation is investigated through the time evolution of the speed of the orthogonality. The external field components for classical treatment beside the detuning and the coupling parameters for quantum treatment play important roles on the computational speed. It has been shown that the number of photons has no significant effect on the speed of computation. However, it is very sensitive to the variation in both detuning and the interaction coupling parameters.

id: 0802.0567
title: Asymptotic distinguishability measures for shift-invariant quasi-free states of fermionic lattice systems
authors: M. Mosonyi, F. Hiai, T. Ogawa, M. Fannes
comments: Results extended to higher dimensional lattices, title changed. Submitted version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49 072104 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0567
abstract: We apply the recent results of F. Hiai, M. Mosonyi and T. Ogawa [arXiv:0707.2020, to appear in J. Math. Phys.] to the asymptotic hypothesis testing problem of locally faithful shift-invariant quasi-free states on a CAR algebra. We use a multivariate extension of Szego's theorem to show the existence of the mean Chernoff and Hoeffding bounds and the mean relative entropy, and show that these quantities arise as the optimal error exponents in suitable settings.

id: 0802.0577
title: Chirality Quantum Phase Transition in the Dirac oscillator
authors: A. Bermudez, M.A. Martin-Delgado, A.Luis
comments: RevTex4 file, color figures, submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 063815 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0577
abstract: We study a relativistic spin-1/2 fermion subjected to a Dirac oscillator coupling and a constant magnetic field. An interplay between opposed chirality interactions culminates in the appearance of a relativistic quantum phase transition, which can be fully characterized. We obtain analytical expressions for the energy gap, order parameter, and canonical quantum fluctuations across the critical point. Moreover, we also discuss the effect of this phase transition on the statistics of the chiral bosonic ensemble, where its super- or sub-Poissonian nature can be controled by means of external parameters. Finally, we study the entanglement properties between the degrees of freedom in the relativistic ground state, where an interesting transition between a bi-separable and a genuinely tripartite entangled state occurs.

id: 0802.0589
title: Exact Quantization Rule to the Kratzer-Type Potentials: An Application to the Diatomic Molecules
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, RAmazan Sever
comments: 26 pages
journal: J. Math. Chem. 45, 1137(2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0589
abstract: For any arbitrary values of $n$ and $l$ quantum numbers, we present a simple exact analytical solution of the $D$-dimensional ($D\geq 2$) hyperradial Schr% \"{o}dinger equation with the Kratzer and the modified Kratzer potentials within the framework of the exact quantization rule (EQR) method. The exact energy levels $(E_{nl})$ of all the bound-states are easily calculated from this EQR method. The corresponding normalized hyperradial wave functions $% (\psi_{nl}(r))$ are also calculated. The exact energy eigenvalues for these Kratzer-type potentials are calculated numerically for the typical diatomic molecules $LiH,$ $CH,$ $HCl,$ $CO,$ $NO,$ $O_{2},$ $N_{2}$ and $I_{2}$ for various values of $n$ and $l$ quantum numbers. Numerical tests using the energy calculations for the interdimensional degeneracy ($D=2-4$) for $I_{2}, $ $LiH,$ $HCl,$ $O_{2},$ $NO$ and $CO$ are also given. Our results obtained by EQR are in exact agreement with those obtained by other methods.

id: 0802.0606
title: Complete positivity for time-dependent qubit master equations
authors: Michael J. W. Hall
comments: Additional example and ref; to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 205302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0606
abstract: It is shown that if the decoherence matrix corresponding to a qubit master equation has a block-diagonal real part, then the evolution is determined by a one-dimensional oscillator equation. Further, when the full decoherence matrix is block-diagonal, then the necessary and sufficient conditions for completely positive evolution may be formulated in terms of the oscillator Hamiltonian or Lagrangian. When the solution of the oscillator equation is not known, an explicit sufficient condition for complete positivity can still be obtained, based on a Hamiltonian/Lagrangian inequality. A rotational form-invariance property is used to characterise the evolution via a single first-order nonlinear differential equation, enabling some further exact results to be obtained. A class of master equations is identified for which complete positivity reduces to the simpler condition of positivity.

id: 0802.0613
title: Is Bell's theorem relevant to quantum mechanics? On locality and non-commuting observables
authors: A. Matzkin
comments: Extended with new material
journal: AIP Conf Proc 1101, 339 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0613
abstract: Bell's theorem is a statement by which averages obtained from specific types of statistical distributions must conform to a family of inequalities. These models, in accordance with the EPR argument, provide for the simultaneous existence of quantum mechanically incompatible quantities. We first recall several contradictions arising between the assumption of a joint distribution for incompatible observables and the probability structure of quantum-mechanics, and conclude that Bell's theorem is not expected to be relevant to quantum phenomena described by non-commuting observables, irrespective of the issue of locality. Then, we try to disentangle the locality issue from the existence of joint distributions by introducing two models accounting for the EPR correlations but denying the existence of joint distributions. We will see that these models do not need to resort explicitly to non-locality: the first model relies on conservation laws for ensembles, and the second model on an equivalence class by which different configurations lead to the same physical predictions.

id: 0802.0624
title: PT-symmetric deformations of Calogero models
authors: Andreas Fring, Miloslav Znojil
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures, version acepted for publication
journal: J.Phys.A41:194010,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0624
abstract: We demonstrate that Coxeter groups allow for complex PT-symmetric deformations across the boundaries of all Weyl chambers. We compute the explicit deformations for the A_2 and G_2-Coxeter group and apply these constructions to Calogero-Moser-Sutherland models invariant under the extended Coxeter groups. The eigenspecta for the deformed models are real and contain the spectra of the undeformed case as subsystem.

id: 0802.0626
title: Bounds on Effective Hamiltonians for Stabilizer Codes
authors: Stephen S. Bullock, Dianne P. O'Leary
comments: 12 pages, two algorithms, one figure, to be submitted to QIC
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0626
abstract: This manuscript introduces various notions of k-locality of stabilizer codes inherited from the associated stabilizer groups. A choice of generators for the group leads to a Hamiltonian with the code in its groundspace, while a Hamiltonian holding the code in its groundspace might be called effective if its locality is less than that of a natural choice of generators (or any choice). This paper establishes some conditions under which effective Hamiltonians for stabilizer codes do not exist. Our results simplify in the cases of Calderbank-Shor-Steane stabilizer codes and topologically-ordered stabilizer codes arising from surface cellulations.

id: 0802.0643
title: Spin entanglement using coherent light and cavity-QED
authors: J. Grond, W. P?tz, A. Imamoglu
comments: 17 pages, 13 figures, typos corrected, reference updated
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 165307 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0643
abstract: A scheme for probabilistic entanglement generation between two distant single electron doped quantum dots, each placed in a high-Q microcavity, by detecting strong coherent light which has interacted dispersively with both subsystems and experienced Faraday rotation due to the spin selective trion transitions is discussed. In order to assess the applicability of the scheme for distant entanglement generation between atomic qubits proposed by T.D. Ladd et al. [New J. Phys. 8, 184 (2006)] to two distant quantum dots, one needs to understand the limitations imposed by hyperfine interactions of the quantum dot spin with the nuclear spins of the material and by non-identical quantum dots. Feasibility is displayed by calculating the fidelity for Bell state generation analytically within an approximate framework. The fidelity is evaluated for a wide range of parameters and different pulse lengths, yielding a trade-off between signal and decoherence, as well as a set of optimal parameters. Strategies to overcome the effect of non-identical quantum dots on the fidelity are examined and the timescales imposed by the nuclear spins are discussed, showing that efficient entanglement generation is possible with distant quantum dots. In this context, effects due to light hole transitions become important and have to be included. The scheme is discussed for one- as well as for two-sided cavities, where one must be careful with reflected light which carries spin information. The validity of the approximate method is checked by a more elaborate semiclassical simulation which includes trion formation.

id: 0802.0656
title: Quantum Direct Communication with Continuous Variables
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Samuel L. Braunstein, Stefano Mancini, Seth Lloyd
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, REVTeX
journal: Europhys. Lett. 84, 20013 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0656
abstract: We show how continuous variable systems can allow the direct communication of messages with an acceptable degree of privacy. This is possible by combining a suitable phase-space encoding of the plain message with real-time checks of the quantum communication channel. The resulting protocol works properly when a small amount of noise affects the quantum channel. If this noise is non-tolerable, the protocol stops leaving a limited amount of information to a potential eavesdropper.

id: 0802.0680
title: SUSY QM, symmetries and spectrum generating algebras for two-dimensional systems
authors: D Martinez, R D Mota
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0680
abstract: We show in a systematic and clear way how factorization methods can be used to construct the generators for hidden and dynamical symmetries. This is shown by studying the 2D problems of hydrogen atom, the isotropic harmonic oscillator and the radial potential $A\rho^{2\zeta-2}-B\rho^{\zeta-2}$. We show that in these cases the non-compact (compact) algebra corresponds to so(2,1) (su(2)).

id: 0802.0685
title: Unsharp pointer observables and the structure of decoherence
authors: C¨¦dric B¨¦ny
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0685
abstract: The theory of decoherence attempts to explain the emergent classical behaviour of a quantum system interacting with its quantum environment. In order to formalize this mechanism we introduce the idea that the information preserved in an open quantum evolution (or channel) can be characterized in terms of observables of the initial system. We use this approach to show that information which is broadcast into many parts of the environment can be encoded in a single observable. This supports a model of decoherence where the pointer observable can be an arbitrary positive operator-valued measure (POVM). This generalization makes it possible to characterize the emergence of a realistic classical phase-space. In addition, this model clarifies the relationships among the information preserved in the system, the information flowing from the system to the environment (measurement), and the establishment of correlations between the system and the environment.

id: 0802.0689
title: Permutation asymmetry inducing entanglement between degrees of freedom in multiphoton states
authors: F.W. Sun, B.H. Liu, C.W. Wong, G.C. Guo
comments: Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 015804 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0689
abstract: We describe and examine entanglement between different degrees of freedom in multiphoton states based on the permutation properties. From the state description, the entanglement comes from the permutation asymmetry. According to the different permutation properties, the multiphoton states can be divided into several parts. It will help to deal with the multiphoton interference, which can be used as the measurement of the entanglement.

id: 0802.0694
title: Distributed Compression and Squashed Entanglement
authors: Ivan Savov
comments: M.Sc thesis submitted to the Physics department of McGill University, 107 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0694
abstract: A single quantum state can be shared by many distant parties. In this thesis, we try to characterize the information contents of such distributed states by defining the multiparty information and the multiparty squashed entanglement, two steps toward a general theory of multiparty quantum information. As a further step in that direction, we partially solve the multiparty distributed compression problem where multiple parties use quantum communication to faithfully transfer their shares of a state to a common receiver. We build a protocol for multiparty distributed compression based on the fully quantum Slepian-Wolf protocol and prove both inner and outer bounds on the achievable rate region. We relate our findings to previous results in information theory and discuss some possible applications.

id: 0802.0750
title: Intrinsic and extrinsic properties of quantum systems
authors: P. Hajicek, J. Tolar
comments: 20 pages, no figure. Comments are wellcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0750
abstract: The paper attempts to convince that the orthodox interpretation of quantum mechanics does not contradict philosophical realism by throwing light onto certain properties of quantum systems that seem to have escaped attention as yet. The exposition starts with the philosophical notions of realism. Then, the quantum mechanics as it is usually taught is demoted to a mere part of the theory called phenomenology of observations, and the common impression about its contradiction to realism is explained. The main idea of the paper, the physical notion of intrinsic properties, is introduced and many examples thereof are given. It replaces the irritating dichotomy of quantum and classical worlds by a much softer difference between intrinsic and extrinsic properties, which concern equally microscopic and macroscopic systems. Finally, the classicality and the quantum measurement are analyzed and found to present some still unsolved problems. A possible way of dealing with the Schr\"{o}dinger cat is suggested that is based on the intrinsic properties. A simple quantum model of one classical property illustrates how our philosophy may work.

id: 0802.0760
title: Testing the Hilbert space dimension
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Stefano Pironio, Antonio Acin, Nicolas Gisin, Andre Allan Methot, Valerio Scarani
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; Accepted for publication in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 210503 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0760
abstract: Given a set of correlations originating from measurements on a quantum state of unknown Hilbert space dimension, what is the minimal dimension d necessary to describes such correlations? We introduce the concept of dimension witness to put lower bounds on d. This work represents a first step in a broader research program aiming to characterize Hilbert space dimension in various contexts related to fundamental questions and Quantum Information applications.

id: 0802.0781
title: Quantum information splitting using multi-partite cluster states
authors: Sreraman Muralidharan, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 7 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0781
abstract: We provide various schemes for the splitting up of Quantum information into parts using the four and five partite cluster states. Explicit protocols for the Quantum information splitting (QIS) of single and two qubit states are illustrated. It is found that the four partite cluster state can be used for the QIS of an entangled state and the five partite cluster state can be used for QIS of an arbitrary two qubit state. The schemes considered here are also secure against certain eavesdropping attacks.

id: 0802.0855
title: A Criterion for Attaining the Welch Bounds with Applications for Mutually Unbiased Bases
authors: Aleksandrs Belovs, Juris Smotrovs
comments: 19 pages: revised and heavily extended in the part concerning MUBs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0855
abstract: The paper gives a short introduction to mutually unbiased bases and the Welch bounds and demonstrates that the latter is a good technical tool to explore the former. In particular, a criterion for a system of vectors to satisfy the Welch bounds with equality is given and applied for the case of MUBs. This yields a necessary and sufficient condition on a set of orthonormal bases to form a complete system of MUBs. This condition takes an especially elegant form in the case of homogeneous systems of MUBs. We express some known constructions of MUBs in this form. Also it is shown how recently obtained results binding MUBs and some combinatorial structures (such as perfect nonlinear functions and relative difference sets) naturally follow from this criterion. Some directions for proving non-existence results are sketched as well.

id: 0802.0870
title: Building all Time Evolutions with Rotationally Invariant Hamiltonians
authors: I. Marvian, R.B. Mann
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures; V2 published version (Typos corrected, Figures changed, more discussion about metric)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022304 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0870
abstract: All elementary Hamiltonians in nature are expected to be invariant under rotation. Despite this restriction, we usually assume that any arbitrary measurement or unitary time evolution can be implemented on a physical system, an assumption whose validity is not obvious. We introduce two different schemes by which any arbitrary unitary time evolution and measurement can be implemented with desired accuracy by using rotationally invariant Hamiltonians that act on the given system and two ancillary systems serving as reference frames. These frames specify the z and x directions and are independent of the desired time evolution. We also investigate the effects of quantum fluctuations that inevitably arise due to usage of a finite system as a reference frame and estimate how fast these fluctuations tend to zero when the size of the reference frame tends to infinity. Moreover we prove that for a general symmetry any symmetric quantum operations can be implemented just by using symmetric interactions and ancillas in the symmetric states.

id: 0802.0886
title: Hamiltonian Quantum Cellular Automata in 1D
authors: Daniel Nagaj, Pawel Wocjan
comments: explanation in Section II largely rewritten, 2 new figures, accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032311 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0886
abstract: We construct a simple translationally invariant, nearest-neighbor Hamiltonian on a chain of 10-dimensional qudits that makes it possible to realize universal quantum computing without any external control during the computational process. We only require the ability to prepare an initial computational basis state which encodes both the quantum circuit and its input. The computational process is then carried out by the autonomous Hamiltonian time evolution. After a time polynomially long in the size of the quantum circuit has passed, the result of the computation is obtained with high probability by measuring a few qudits in the computational basis. This result also implies that there cannot exist efficient classical simulation methods for generic translationally invariant nearest-neighbor Hamiltonians on qudit chains, unless quantum computers can be efficiently simulated by classical computers (or, put in complexity theoretic terms, unless BPP=BQP).

id: 0802.0903
title: High-fidelity gates in a Josephson qubit
authors: Erik Lucero, M. Hofheinz, M. Ansmann, Radoslaw C. Bialczak, N. Katz, Matthew Neeley, A. D. O'Connell, H. Wang, A. N. Cleland, John M. Martinis
comments: 5 pages. 5 figures. Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0903
abstract: We demonstrate new experimental procedures for measuring small errors in a superconducting quantum bit (qubit). By carefully separating out gate and measurement errors, we construct a complete error budget and demonstrate single qubit gate fidelities of 0.98, limited by energy relaxation. We also introduce a new metrology tool -- a Ramsey interference error filter -- that can measure the occupation probability of the state $\ket{2}$ down to $10^{-4}$, a magnitude near the fault tolerant threshold.

id: 0802.0913
title: Natural line shape
authors: P.V. Elyutin
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0913
abstract: The observable line shape of the spontaneous emission depends on the procedure of atom's excitation. The spectrum of radiation emitted by a two-level atom excited from the ground state by a pi pulse of the resonant pump field is calculated for the case when the Rabi frequency is much larger than the relaxation rate. It is shown that the central part of the spectral distribution has a standard Lorentzian form, whereas for detunings from the resonance that are larger than the Rabi frequency the spectral density falls off faster. The shape of the wings of the spectral line is sensitive to the form of the pi pulse. The implications for the quantum Zeno effect theory and for the estimates of the duration of quantum jumps are discussed.

id: 0802.0918
title: The Pauli principle revisited
authors: M. Altunbulak, A. Klyachko
comments: 38 pages, submitted to Communications in Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0918
abstract: By the Pauli exclusion principle no quantum state can be occupied by more than one electron. One can put it as a constraint on the electron density matrix that bounds its eigenvalues by 1. Shortly after its discovery the Pauli principle has been replaced by skew symmetry of a multi-electron wave function. In this paper we solve a longstanding problem about the impact of this replacement on the electron density matrix, that goes far beyond the original Pauli principle.

id: 0802.0987
title: Progress in atom chips and the integration of optical microcavities
authors: E. A. Hinds, M. Trupke, B. Darqui¨¦, J. Goldwin, G. Dutier
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, proceedings of the ICOLS07 conference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0987
abstract: We review recent progress at the Centre for Cold Matter in developing atom chips. An important advantage of miniaturizing atom traps on a chip is the possibility of obtaining very tight trapping structures with the capability of manipulating atoms on the micron length scale. We recall some of the pros and cons of bringing atoms close to the chip surface, as is required in order to make small static structures, and we discuss the relative merits of metallic, dielectric and superconducting chip surfaces. We point out that the addition of integrated optical devices on the chip can enhance its capability through single atom detection and controlled photon production. Finally, we review the status of integrated microcavities that have recently been demonstrated at our Centre and discuss their prospects for future development.

id: 0802.1063
title: Derivation of the relativistic "proper-time" quantum evolution equations from Canonical Invariance
authors: Moshe Shapiro
comments: J. Phys. A, accepted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1063
abstract: Based on 1) the spectral resolution of the energy operator; 2) the linearity of correspondence between physical observables and quantum Hermitian operators; 3) the definition of conjugate coordinate-momentum variables in classical mechanics; and 4) the fact that the physical point in phase space remains unchanged under (canonical) transformations between one pair of conjugate variables to another, we are able to show that <t_s|E_s>, the proper-time rest-energy transformation matrices, are given as a*exp[-iE_s t_s/\hbar], from which we obtain the proper-time rest -energy evolution equation i\hbar{\partial/\partial t_s} |Psi>= \hat{E_s}|Psi>. For special relativistic situations this equation can be reduced to the usual i\hbar{\partial/\partial t}|Psi>=\hat{E}|Psi> dynamical equations, where t is the "reference time" and E is the total energy. Extension of these equations to accelerating frames is then provided.

id: 0802.1075
title: Exactly solvable `discrete' quantum mechanics; shape invariance, Heisenberg solutions, annihilation-creation operators and coherent states
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 46 pages, 2 figures
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 119 (2009), 663-700
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1075
abstract: Various examples of exactly solvable `discrete' quantum mechanics are explored explicitly with emphasis on shape invariance, Heisenberg operator solutions, annihilation-creation operators, the dynamical symmetry algebras and coherent states. The eigenfunctions are the (q-)Askey-scheme of hypergeometric orthogonal polynomials satisfying difference equation versions of the Schr\"odinger equation. Various reductions (restrictions) of the symmetry algebra of the Askey-Wilson system are explored in detail.

id: 0802.1139
title: Exact number conserving phase-space dynamics of the M-site Bose-Hubbard model
authors: F. Trimborn, D. Witthaut, H. J. Korsch
comments: 11 pages, Revtex 4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 043631 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1139
abstract: The dynamics of M-site, N-particle Bose-Hubbard systems is described in quantum phase space constructed in terms of generalized SU(M) coherent states. These states have a special significance for these systems as they describe fully condensed states. Based on the differential algebra developed by Gilmore, we derive an explicit evolution equation for the (generalized) Husimi-(Q)- and Glauber-Sudarshan-(P)-distributions. Most remarkably, these evolution equations turn out to be second order differential equations where the second order terms scale as 1/N with the particle number. For large N the evolution reduces to a (classical) Liouvillian dynamics. The phase space approach thus provides a distinguished instrument to explore the mean-field many-particle crossover. In addition, the thermodynamic Bloch equation is analyzed using similar techniques.

id: 0802.1142
title: Beyond mean-field dynamics of small Bose-Hubbard systems based on the number-conserving phase space approach
authors: F. Trimborn, D. Witthaut, H. J. Korsch
comments: Significantly enhanced and revised version (20 pages, 20 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 013608 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1142
abstract: The number-conserving quantum phase space description of the Bose-Hubbard model is discussed for the illustrative case of two and three modes, as well as the generalization of the two-mode case to an open quantum system. The phase-space description based on generalized SU(M) coherent states yields a Liouvillian flow in the macroscopic limit, which can be efficiently simulated using Monte Carlo methods even for large systems. We show that this description clearly goes beyond the common mean-field limit. In particular it resolves well-known problems where the common mean-field approach fails, like the description of dynamical instabilities and chaotic dynamics. Moreover, it provides a valuable tool for a semi-classical approximation of many interesting quantities, which depend on higher moments of the quantum state and are therefore not accessible within the common approach. As a prominent example, we analyse the depletion and heating of the condensate. A comparison to methods ignoring the fixed particle number shows that in this case artificial number fluctuations lead to ambiguities and large deviations even for quite simple examples.

id: 0802.1156
title: Efficiently contractable quantum circuits cannot produce much entanglement
authors: Nadav Yoran
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1156
abstract: We show a similarity between two different classical simulation methods for measurement based quantum computation -- one relying on a low entanglement (tree tensor network) representation of the computer's state, and the other a tensor contraction method based on the topology of the graph state. We use this similarity to show that any quantum circuit that can be efficiently simulated via tensor contraction cannot produce much entanglement.

id: 0802.1162
title: Approximate substitutions and the normal ordering problem
authors: H. Cheballah, G. H. E. Duchamp, K. A. Penson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Symbolic Computation (cs.SC); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1162
abstract: In this paper, we show that the infinite generalised Stirling matrices associated with boson strings with one annihilation operator are projective limits of approximate substitutions, the latter being characterised by a finite set of algebraic equations.

id: 0802.1181
title: Estimation of n non-identical unitary channels
authors: Caleb J O'Loan
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1181
abstract: We investigate the simultaneous estimation of $n$ not necessarily identical unitary channels using multi-partite entanglement. We examine whether it is possible for the rate at which the mean square error decreases to be greater than that using the channels individually. For a reasonably general situation, in which there is no functional dependence between the channels, we show that this is not possible. We look at a case in which the channels are not necessarily identical but depend on a common variable. In this case, the mean square error decreases more rapidly using multi-partite entanglement.

id: 0802.1199
title: Dissipation control in cavity QED with oscillating mode-structures
authors: I. E. Linington, B.M. Garraway
comments: v1: 11 pages, 7 figures. v2: Journal-ref added. Minor typographical changes and two references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 77, 033831 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1199
abstract: We demonstrate how a time-dependent dissipative environment may be used as a tool for controlling the quantum state of a two-level atom. In our model system the frequency and coupling strength associated with microscopic reservoir modes are modulated, while the principal features of the reservoir structure remain fixed in time. Physically, this may be achieved by containing a static atom-cavity system inside an oscillating external bath. We show that it is possible to dynamically decouple the atom from its environment, despite the fact that the two remain resonant at all times. This can lead to Markovian dynamics, even for a strong atom-bath coupling, as the atomic decay becomes inhibited into all but a few channels; the reservoir occupation spectrum consequently acquires a sideband structure, with peaks separated by the frequency of the environmental modulation. The reduction in the rate of spontaneous emission using this approach can be significantly greater than could be achieved with an oscillatory atom-bath detuning using the same parameters.

id: 0802.1207
title: Universal quantum walks and adiabatic algorithms by 1D Hamiltonians
authors: Bradley A. Chase, Andrew J. Landahl
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1207
abstract: We construct a family of time-independent nearest-neighbor Hamiltonians coupling eight-state systems on a 1D ring that enables universal quantum computation. Hamiltonians in this family can achieve universality either by driving a continuous-time quantum walk or by terminating an adiabatic algorithm. In either case, the universality property can be understood as arising from an efficient simulation of a programmable quantum circuit. Using gadget perturbation theory, one can demonstrate the same kind of universality for related Hamiltonian families acting on qubits in 2D. Our results demonstrate that simulating 1D chains of spin-7/2 particles is BQP-hard, and indeed BQP-complete because the outputs of decision problems can be encoded in the outputs of such simulations.

id: 0802.1211
title: Renormalization algorithm with graph enhancement
authors: R. H¨¹bener, C. Kruszynska, L. Hartmann, W. D¨¹r, F. Verstraete, J. Eisert, M.B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022317 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1211
abstract: We introduce a class of variational states to describe quantum many-body systems. This class generalizes matrix product states which underly the density-matrix renormalization group approach by combining them with weighted graph states. States within this class may (i) possess arbitrarily long-ranged two-point correlations, (ii) exhibit an arbitrary degree of block entanglement entropy up to a volume law, (iii) may be taken translationally invariant, while at the same time (iv) local properties and two-point correlations can be computed efficiently. This new variational class of states can be thought of as being prepared from matrix product states, followed by commuting unitaries on arbitrary constituents, hence truly generalizing both matrix product and weighted graph states. We use this class of states to formulate a renormalization algorithm with graph enhancement (RAGE) and present numerical examples demonstrating that improvements over density-matrix renormalization group simulations can be achieved in the simulation of ground states and quantum algorithms. Further generalizations, e.g., to higher spatial dimensions, are outlined.

id: 0802.1213
title: Cold atom confinement in an all-optical dark ring trap
authors: Spencer E. Olson, Matthew L. Terraciano, Mark Bashkansky, Fredrik K. Fatemi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 061404(R) (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1213
abstract: We demonstrate confinement of $^{85}$Rb atoms in a dark, toroidal optical trap. We use a spatial light modulator to convert a single blue-detuned Gaussian laser beam to a superposition of Laguerre-Gaussian modes that forms a ring-shaped intensity null bounded harmonically in all directions. We measure a 1/e spin-relaxation lifetime of ~1.5 seconds for a trap detuning of 4.0 nm. For smaller detunings, a time-dependent relaxation rate is observed. We use these relaxation rate measurements and imaging diagnostics to optimize trap alignment in a programmable manner with the modulator. The results are compared with numerical simulations.

id: 0802.1225
title: Stochastic master equation for a probed system in a cavity
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052111 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1225
abstract: We present a detailed derivation of the stochastic master equation determining the time evolution of the state of a general quantum system, which is placed inside a cavity and subjected to indirect measurements by monitoring the state of electromagnetic radiation transmitted through the cavity. The derivation is based on the physics involved and the final result is stated in terms of the physical parameters of the setup. To illustrate the predictions contained in the equation, we solve it analytically for a specific system, and we demonstrate quantum jumps and freezing of the internal coherent dynamics of the system as a result of continued measurements.

id: 0802.1238
title: Degradation of non-maximal entanglement of scalar and Dirac fields in non-inertial frames
authors: Qiyuan Pan, Jiliang Jing
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A77:024302,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1238
abstract: The entanglement between two modes of the free scalar and Dirac fields as seen by two relatively accelerated observers has been investigated. It is found that the same initial entanglement for an initial state parameter $\alpha$ and its "normalized partner" $\sqrt{1-\alpha^{2}}$ will be degraded by the Unruh effect along two different trajectories except for the maximally entangled state, which just shows the inequivalence of the quantization for a free field in the Minkowski and Rindler coordinates. In the infinite acceleration limit the state doesn't have the distillable entanglement for any $\alpha$ for the scalar field but always remains entangled to a degree which is dependent of $\alpha$ for the Dirac field. It is also interesting to note that in this limit the mutual information equals to just half of the initially mutual information, which is independent of $\alpha$ and the type of field.

id: 0802.1308
title: Dispersive Coupling Between the Superconducting Transmission Line Resonator and the Double Quantum Dots
authors: Guo-Ping Guo, Hui Zhang, Yong Hu, Tao Tu, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 020302(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1308
abstract: Realization of controllable interaction between distant qubits is one of the major problems in scalable solid state quantum computing. We study a superconducting transmission line resonator (TLR) as a tunable dispersive coupler for the double-dot molecules. A general interaction Hamiltonian of $n$ two-electron spin-based qubits and the TLR is presented, where the double-dot qubits are biased at the large detuning region and the TLR is always empty and virtually excited. Our analysis o the main decoherence sources indicates that various major quantum operations can be reliably implemented with current technology.

id: 0802.1310
title: Quantum Localization in Open Chaotic Systems
authors: Jung-Wan Ryu, G. Hur, Sang Wook Kim
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1310
abstract: We study a quasi-Floquet state of a $\delta$-kicked rotor with absorbing boundaries focusing on the nature of the dynamical localization in open quantum systems. The localization lengths $\xi$ of lossy quasi-Floquet states located near the absorbing boundaries decrease as they approach the boundary while the corresponding decay rates $\Gamma$ are dramatically enhanced. We find the relation $\xi \sim \Gamma^{-1/2}$ and explain it based upon the finite time diffusion, which can also be applied to a random unitary operator model. We conjecture that this idea is valid for the system exhibiting both the diffusion in classical dynamics and the exponential localization in quantum mechanics.

id: 0802.1318
title: Quantum knots
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 18 pp, 3 figs
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008) 3591 - 3596
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1318
abstract: It is known that besides the usual unitary mappings $\Omega = 1/\Omega^\dagger$ between the equivalent representations of the physical Hilbert space of Quantum Mechanics (often, Fourier transformations), the generalized non-unitary maps $\Omega \neq 1/\Omega^\dagger$ can also help to simplify the analysis. We adapt the standard Dirac's notation and recollect the Buslaev's and Grecchi's repulsive quartic oscillator Hamiltonian as an example. Then we propose the whole new class of the models of the similar type, characterized by a complexification of the path ${\cal C}$ of the (obviously, not observable!) "coordinates". An exactly solvable potentialless Schr\"{o}dinger equation is finally chosen for illustration. In it, the dynamical (i.e., in our example, confining) role of the traditional potentials $V(x)$ is shown to be taken over by the mere topologically nontrivial shape of ${\cal C}$. Our construction evokes several new open questions in physics (${\cal PT}-$symmetric wave packets at a single energy?) as well as in mathematics (a three-Hilbert-space generalized formulation of Quantum Mechanics?).

id: 0802.1325
title: Single mode two-channel cavity QED
authors: F. L. Semi?o
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, typos fixed
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41 (2008) 081004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1325
abstract: In this short communication, a new type of two-channel cavity QED model is derived. Two-channel models are important for they often lead to quantum interference phenomena. The previous models relied on the use of two or more modes of the quantized electromagnetic field, partially because of energy and parity restrictions. As it is shown in this work, such restrictions may be overcome with the use of properly chosen configurations of atomic levels and the aplication of classical external fields. Competing one- and two-photon processes involving one single mode may be obtained.

id: 0802.1360
title: The structure of degradable quantum channels
authors: Toby S. Cubitt, Mary-Beth Ruskai, Graeme Smith
comments: 42 pages, 3 figures, Web and paper abstract differ; (v2 contains only minor typo corrections)
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 102104 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1360
abstract: Degradable quantum channels are among the only channels whose quantum and private classical capacities are known. As such, determining the structure of these channels is a pressing open question in quantum information theory. We give a comprehensive review of what is currently known about the structure of degradable quantum channels, including a number of new results as well as alternate proofs of some known results. In the case of qubits, we provide a complete characterization of all degradable channels with two dimensional output, give a new proof that a qubit channel with two Kraus operators is either degradable or anti-degradable and present a complete description of anti-degradable unital qubit channels with a new proof. For higher output dimensions we explore the relationship between the output and environment dimensions ($d_B$ and $d_E$ respectively) of degradable channels. For several broad classes of channels we show that they can be modeled with a environment that is "small" in the sense $d_E \leq d_B$. Perhaps surprisingly, we also present examples of degradable channels with ``large'' environments, in the sense that the minimal dimension $d_E > d_B$. Indeed, one can have $d_E > \tfrac{1}{4} d_B^2$. In the case of channels with diagonal Kraus operators, we describe the subclass which are complements of entanglement breaking channels. We also obtain a number of results for channels in the convex hull of conjugations with generalized Pauli matrices. However, a number of open questions remain about these channels and the more general case of random unitary channels.

id: 0802.1390
title: Decisions, Decisions, Decisions: Can Savage Salvage Everettian Probability?
authors: Huw Price
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure, based on talk presented at the Many Worlds at 50 conference, Perimeter Institute, September 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1390
abstract: Critics object that the Everett view cannot make sense of quantum probabilities, in one or both of two ways: either it cannot make sense of probability at all, or it cannot explain why probability should be governed by the Born rule. David Deutsch has attempted to meet these objections by appealing to an Everettian version of Savage's rational decision theory. Deutsch argues not only that an analogue of classical decision under uncertainty makes sense in an Everett world; but also that under reasonable assumptions, the betting odds of a rational Everettian agent should be constrained by the Born rule. Deutsch's proposal has been defended and developed by David Wallace, and in a different form by Hilary Greaves. In this paper I offer some objections to the Deutsch-Wallace-Greaves argument, focussing in particular on the supposed analogy with classical decision under uncertainty.

id: 0802.1411
title: Zero-field and Larmor spinor precessions in a neutron polarimeter experiment
authors: S. Sponar, J. Klepp, G. Badurek, Y. Hasegawa
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1411
abstract: We present a neutron polarimetric experiment where two kinds of spinor precessions are observed: one is induced by different total energy of neutrons (zero-field precession) and the other is induced by a stationary guide field (Larmor precession). A characteristic of the former is the dependence of the energy-difference, which is in practice tuned by the frequency of the interacting oscillating magnetic field. In contrast the latter completely depends on the strength of the guide field, namely Larmor frequency. Our neutron-polarimetric experiment exhibits individual tuning as well as specific properties of each spinor precession, which assures the use of both spin precessions for multi-entangled spinor manipulation.

id: 0802.1441
title: Demonstration of a Quantum Controlled-NOT Gate in the Telecom Band
authors: Jun Chen, Joseph B. Altepeter, Milja Medic, Kim Fook Lee, Burc Gokden, Robert H. Hadfield, Sae Woo Nam, Prem Kumar
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1441
abstract: We present the first quantum controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate realized using a fiber-based indistinguishable photon-pair source in the 1.55 $\mu$m telecommunications band. Using this free-space CNOT gate, all four Bell states are produced and fully characterized by performing quantum state tomography, demonstrating the gate's unambiguous entangling capability and high fidelity. Telecom-band operation makes this CNOT gate particularly suitable for quantum information processing tasks that are at the interface of quantum communication and linear optical quantum computing.

id: 0802.1464
title: Upper Bounds on the Noise Threshold for Fault-tolerant Quantum Computing
authors: Julia Kempe, Oded Regev, Falk Unger, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1464
abstract: We prove new upper bounds on the tolerable level of noise in a quantum circuit. We consider circuits consisting of unitary k-qubit gates each of whose input wires is subject to depolarizing noise of strength p, as well as arbitrary one-qubit gates that are essentially noise-free. We assume that the output of the circuit is the result of measuring some designated qubit in the final state. Our main result is that for p>1-\Theta(1/\sqrt{k}), the output of any such circuit of large enough depth is essentially independent of its input, thereby making the circuit useless. For the important special case of k=2, our bound is p>35.7%. Moreover, if the only allowed gate on more than one qubit is the two-qubit CNOT gate, then our bound becomes 29.3%. These bounds on p are notably better than previous bounds, yet are incomparable because of the somewhat different circuit model that we are using. Our main technique is the use of a Pauli basis decomposition, which we believe should lead to further progress in deriving such bounds.

id: 0802.1469
title: Fully-connected network of superconducting qubits in a cavity
authors: D.I. Tsomokos, S. Ashhab, F. Nori
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures. Replaced with published version; made explicit connection with finite LMG model
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 113020 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1469
abstract: A fully-connected qubit network is considered, where every qubit interacts with every other one. When the interactions between the qubits are homogeneous, the system is a special case of the finite Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model. We propose a natural implementation of this model using superconducting qubits in state-of-the-art circuit QED. The ground state, the low-lying energy spectrum and the dynamical evolution are investigated. We find that, under realistic conditions, highly entangled states of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and W types can be generated. We also comment on the influence of disorder on the system and discuss the possibility of simulating complex quantum systems, such as Sherrington-Kirkpatrick spin glasses, with superconducting qubit networks.

id: 0802.1475
title: Robust and Efficient Quantum Repeaters with Atomic Ensembles and Linear Optics
authors: Nicolas Sangouard, Christoph Simon, Bo Zhao, Yu-Ao Chen, Hugues de Riedmatten, Jian-Wei Pan, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, accepted version (to appear in Phys. Rev. A)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1475
abstract: In the last few years there has been a lot of interest in quantum repeater protocols using only atomic ensembles and linear optics. Here we show that the local generation of high-fidelity entangled pairs of atomic excitations, in combination with the use of two-photon detections for long-distance entanglement generation, permits the implementation of a very attractive quantum repeater protocol. Such a repeater is robust with respect to phase fluctuations in the transmission channels, and at the same time achieves higher entanglement generation rates than other protocols using the same ingredients. We propose an efficient method of generating high-fidelity entangled pairs locally, based on the partial readout of the ensemble-based memories. We also discuss the experimental implementation of the proposed protocol.

id: 0802.1492
title: Entanglement and Quantum Groups
authors: J. K. Korbicz, J. Wehr, M. Lewenstein
comments: final version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 062104 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1492
abstract: We describe quantum mechanical entanglement in terms of compact quantum groups. We prove an analog of positivity of partial transpose (PPT) criterion and formulate a Horodecki-type Theorem.

id: 0802.1536
title: A Pair Of Quanta Cannot Be Wed
authors: Nick Herbert
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1536
abstract: Wooters, Zurek and others have shown that "A Single Quantum Cannot Be Cloned". The reason is two-fold: 1. A quantum cloner would permit FTL signaling; 2. A quantum cloner would violate the linearity requirement for quantum superposition. I present here a similar proof that two arbitrary quantum states cannot be universally welded together to produce a double quantum state. In particular, opposite polarization states cannot be perfectly merged. This paper closes another FTL loophole and discloses a new law of nature: Perfect quantum weddings are not possible.

id: 0802.1558
title: Low-frequency vacuum squeezing via polarization self-rotation in Rb vapor
authors: Eugeniy E. Mikhailov, Irina Novikova
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters, Issue 11, 33, 1213-1215, (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1558
abstract: We observed squeezed vacuum light at 795 nm in 87Rb vapor via resonant polarization self-rotation, and report noise sidebands suppression of ~1 dB below shot noise level spanning from acoustic (30 kHz) to MHz frequencies. This is the first demonstration of sub-MHz quadrature vacuum squeezing in atomic systems. The spectral range of observed squeezing matches well typical bandwidths of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) resonances, making this simple technique for generation of optical fields with non-classical statistics at atomic transitions wavelengths attractive for EIT-based quantum information protocols applications.

id: 0802.1592
title: Quantum pattern recognition with liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance
authors: Rodion Neigovzen, Jorge L. Neves, Rudolf Sollacher, Steffen J. Glaser
comments: updated version, Journal-ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042321 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1592
abstract: A novel quantum pattern recognition scheme is presented, which combines the idea of a classic Hopfield neural network with adiabatic quantum computation. Both the input and the memorized patterns are represented by means of the problem Hamiltonian. In contrast to classic neural networks, the algorithm can return a quantum superposition of multiple recognized patterns. A proof of principle for the algorithm for two qubits is provided using a liquid state NMR quantum computer.

id: 0802.1596
title: Coherence Conservation of a Qubit Coupled to a Thermal Dissipating Environment
authors: Robabeh Rahimi, Akira SaiToh, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 6, Supp. 1, pp.779-785 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1596
abstract: It is shown that quantum coherence is conserved in a principal system in the case that the system is coupled to a fast dissipating environment [arXiv:0709.0562]. The phenomenon is called the quantum wipe effect. Here, this effect is reviewed and the analytical proof for a model system consisting of a one-qubit system coupled to a fast dissipating environment is extended to an environment at a thermal equilibrium.

id: 0802.1609
title: Symmetric construction of reference-frame-free qudits
authors: Jun Suzuki, Gelo Noel Macuja Tabia, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 5 pages, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052328 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1609
abstract: By exploiting a symmetric scheme for coupling $N$ spin-1/2 constituents (the physical qubits) to states with total angular momentum $N/2-1$, we construct rotationally invariant logical qudits of dimension $d=N-1$. One can encode all qudit states, and realize all qudit measurements, by this construction. The rotational invariance of all relevant objects enables one to transmit quantum information without having aligned reference frames between the parties that exchange the qudits. We illustrate the method by explicit constructions of reference-frame-free qubits and qutrits and, for the qubit case, comment on possible experimental implementations.

id: 0802.1610
title: Controlling soliton excitations in Heisenberg spin chain through magic angle
authors: Jing Lu, Lan Zhou, Le-Man Kuang, C. P. Sun
comments: 7 pages 4 figures
journal: Physical Review E 79, 016606 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1610
abstract: We study the nonlinear dynamics of collective excitation in a $N$-site $XXZ$ quantum spin chain, which is manipulated by an oblique magnetic field. We show that, when the tilted field is applied along the magic angle $\theta_{0} =\pm\arccos \sqrt{1/3}$, the anisotropic Heisenberg spin chain becomes isotropic and thus an free propagating spin wave is stimulated. And in the regime of the tilted angle larger and smaller then the magic angle, two types of nonlinear excitations appear, which are bright soliton and dark soliton.

id: 0802.1618
title: Coupling of Electronic and Motional Dynamics in a Cold Atom Optical Lattice
authors: Hashem Zoubi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 023411 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1618
abstract: We study the coupling of internal electronic excitations to vibrational modes of the external motion of ultracold atoms in an optical lattice. For different ground and excited state potentials the on-site coupling of excitations and vibrations term renormalizes the effective electronic transition energy, which appears e.g. in clock transitions. In addition in the Mott state with filling factor one, the dipole-dipole coupling between neighbouring sites includes emission and absorption of vibrational quanta. Such processes create a significant mechanism for excitation of vibrations leading to motional heating of the lattice atoms by resonant light interaction. We calculate estimates of the corresponding parameters from a perturbation expansion in small atomic displacements.

id: 0802.1633
title: Note on genuine multipartite classical correlations
authors: Andrzej Grudka, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1633
abstract: We discuss the problem of coexistence of genuine quantum multipartite correlations and classical multipartite correlations. We introduce a postulate which any measure of genuine multipartite classical correlations should satisfy. We show that covariance does not satisfy this postulate. Finally we propose a definition of genuine multipartite correlations and illustrate it with examples.

id: 0802.1639
title: Noise gates for decoherent quantum circuits
authors: Angelo Bassi, D.-A. Deckert
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures: journal reference added + some typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032323 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1639
abstract: A major problem in exploiting microscopic systems for developing a new technology based on the principles of Quantum Information is the influence of noise which tends to work against the quantum features of such systems. It becomes then crucial to understand how noise affects the evolution of quantum circuits: several techniques have been proposed among which stochastic differential equations (SDEs) can represent a very convenient tool. We show how SDEs naturally map any Markovian noise into a linear operator, which we will call a noise gate, acting on the wave function describing the state of the circuit, and we will discuss some examples. We shall see that these gates can be manipulated like any standard quantum gate, thus simplifying in certain circumstances the task of computing the overall effect of the noise at each stage of the protocol. This approach yields equivalent results to those derived from the Lindblad equation; yet, as we show, it represents a handy and fast tool for performing computations, and moreover, it allows for fast numerical simulations and generalizations to non Markovian noise. In detail we review the depolarizing channel and the generalized amplitude damping channel in terms of this noise gate formalism and show how these techniques can be applied to any quantum circuit.

id: 0802.1676
title: An All Optical Fibre Quantum Controlled-NOT Gate
authors: Alex S. Clark, Jeremie Fulconis, John G. Rarity, William J. Wadsworth, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 030303(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1676
abstract: We report the first experimental demonstration of an optical controlled-NOT gate constructed entirely in fibre. We operate the gate using two heralded optical fibre single photon sources and find an average logical fidelity of 90% and an average process fidelity of 0.83<F<0.91. On the basis of a simple model we are able to conclude that imperfections are primarily due to the photon sources, meaning that the gate itself works with very high fidelity.

id: 0802.1682
title: Squeezed vacuum as a universal quantum probe
authors: Roberto Gaiba, Matteo G A Paris
comments: revised version, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373, 934 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1682
abstract: We address local quantum estimation of bilinear Hamiltonians probed by Gaussian states. We evaluate the relevant quantum Fisher information (QFI) and derive the ultimate bound on precision. Upon maximizing the QFI we found that single- and two-mode squeezed vacuum represent an optimal and universal class of probe states, achieving the so-called Heisenberg limit to precision in terms of the overall energy of the probe. We explicitly obtain the optimal observable based on the symmetric logarithmic derivative and also found that homodyne detection assisted by Bayesian analysis may achieve estimation of squeezing with near-optimal sensitivity in any working regime. Besides, by comparison of our results with those coming from global optimization of the measurement we found that Gaussian states are effective resources, which allow to achieve the ultimate bound on precision imposed by quantum mechanics using measurement schemes feasible with current technology.

id: 0802.1684
title: High-fidelity readout of trapped-ion qubits
authors: A. Myerson, D. Szwer, S. Webster, D. Allcock, M. Curtis, G. Imreh, J. Sherman, D. Stacey, A. Steane, D. Lucas
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; improved readout fidelity (numerical results changed)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 200502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1684
abstract: We demonstrate single-shot qubit readout with fidelity sufficient for fault-tolerant quantum computation, for two types of qubit stored in single trapped calcium ions. For an optical qubit stored in the (4S_1/2, 3D_5/2) levels of 40Ca+ we achieve 99.991(1)% average readout fidelity in one million trials, using time-resolved photon counting. An adaptive measurement technique allows 99.99% fidelity to be reached in 145us average detection time. For a hyperfine qubit stored in the long-lived 4S_1/2 (F=3, F=4) sub-levels of 43Ca+ we propose and implement a simple and robust optical pumping scheme to transfer the hyperfine qubit to the optical qubit, capable of a theoretical fidelity 99.95% in 10us. Experimentally we achieve 99.77(3)% net readout fidelity, inferring at least 99.87(4)% fidelity for the transfer operation.

id: 0802.1688
title: Observation of Ultra-narrow Electromagnetically Induced Transparency and Slow Light using Purely Electronic Spins in a Hot Atomic Vapor
authors: F. Goldfarb, J. Ghosh, M. David, J. Ruggiero, T. Chaneli¨¨re, J.-L. Le Gou?t, H. Gilles, R. Ghosh, F. Bretenaker
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 82, 54002 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1688
abstract: Electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) is observed in gaseous 4He at room temperature. Ultra-narrow (less than 10 kHz) EIT windows are obtained for the first time for purely electronic spins in the presence of Doppler broadening. The positive role of collisions is emphasized through measurements of the power dependence of the EIT resonance. Measurement of slow light opens up possible ways to applications.

id: 0802.1708
title: Classification of the separable maps which preserve Werner states
authors: Haidong Yuan, Lluis Masanes
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 034303 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1708
abstract: We classify the completely-positive maps acting on two $d$-dimensional systems which commute with all $U\otimes U$ unitaries, where $U\in SU(d)$. This set of operations map Werner states to Werner states. We find a simple condition for a map being implementable by stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC). We show that all PPT-preserving maps can be implemented by SLOCC. This can be used to prove that the entanglement of Werner states cannot be stochastically increased, even if we allow PPT entanglement for free.

id: 0802.1734
title: Lower bounds on entanglement measures from incomplete information
authors: O. G¨¹hne, M. Reimpell, R.F. Werner
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, v2: final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052317 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1734
abstract: How can we quantify the entanglement in a quantum state, if only the expectation value of a single observable is given? This question is of great interest for the analysis of entanglement in experiments, since in many multiparticle experiments the state is not completely known. We present several results concerning this problem by considering the estimation of entanglement measures via Legendre transforms. First, we present a simple algorithm for the estimation of the concurrence and extensions thereof. Second, we derive an analytical approach to estimate the geometric measure of entanglement, if the diagonal elements of the quantum state in a certain basis are known. Finally, we compare our bounds with exact values and other estimation methods for entanglement measures.

id: 0802.1811
title: Entanglement Enhances Security in Secret Sharing
authors: Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 012311 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1811
abstract: We analyze tolerable quantum bit error rates in secret sharing protocols, and show that using entangled encoding states is advantageous in the case when the eavesdropping attacks are local. We also provide a criterion for security in secret sharing -- a parallel of the Csiszar-Korner criterion in single-receiver cryptography.

id: 0802.1816
title: A note on quantum algorithms and the minimal degree of epsilon-error polynomials for symmetric functions
authors: Ronald de Wolf
comments: 7 pages LaTeX. 2nd version: corrected a few small inaccuracies
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1816
abstract: The degrees of polynomials representing or approximating Boolean functions are a prominent tool in various branches of complexity theory. Sherstov recently characterized the minimal degree deg_{\eps}(f) among all polynomials (over the reals) that approximate a symmetric function f:{0,1}^n-->{0,1} up to worst-case error \eps: deg_{\eps}(f) = ~\Theta(deg_{1/3}(f) + \sqrt{n\log(1/\eps)}). In this note we show how a tighter version (without the log-factors hidden in the ~\Theta-notation), can be derived quite easily using the close connection between polynomials and quantum algorithms.

id: 0802.1825
title: Sudden Birth Versus Sudden Death of Entanglement in Multipartite Systems
authors: C.E. Lopez, G. Romero, F. Lastra, E. Solano, J. C. Retamal
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 080503 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1825
abstract: We study the entanglement dynamics of two cavities interacting with independent reservoirs. Expectedly, we observe that, as the cavity entanglement is depleted, it is transferred to the reservoir degrees of freedom. We find that when the cavity entanglement suddenly disappear, the reservoir entanglement suddenly and necessarily appears. Surprisingly, we show that this {\it entanglement sudden birth} can manifest before, simultaneously, or even after {\it entanglement sudden death}. Finally, we present an explanatory study of other entanglement partitions and of higher dimensional systems.

id: 0802.1874
title: Perturbative Gadgets at Arbitrary Orders
authors: Stephen P. Jordan, Edward Farhi
comments: Corrected an error: U dagger vs. U inverse
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062329 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1874
abstract: Adiabatic quantum algorithms are often most easily formulated using many-body interactions. However, experimentally available interactions are generally two-body. In 2004, Kempe, Kitaev, and Regev introduced perturbative gadgets, by which arbitrary three-body effective interactions can be obtained using Hamiltonians consisting only of two-body interactions. These three-body effective interactions arise from the third order in perturbation theory. Since their introduction, perturbative gadgets have become a standard tool in the theory of quantum computation. Here we construct generalized gadgets so that one can directly obtain arbitrary k-body effective interactions from two-body Hamiltonians. These effective interactions arise from the kth order in perturbation theory.

id: 0802.1877
title: Quantum continual measurements: the spectrum of the output
authors: Alberto Barchielli, Matteo Gregoratti
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures. Submitted to the proceedings of the 28-th Conference on Quantum Probability and Related Topics, 2-8 september 2007, CIMAT-Guanajuato, MEXICO
journal: Quantum Probability Series QP-PQ Vol. 23 (World Scientific, Singapore, 2008) pp. 63-76
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1877
abstract: When a quantum system is monitored in continuous time, the result of the measurement is a stochastic process. When the output process is stationary, at least in the long run, the spectrum of the process can be introduced and its properties studied. A typical continual measurement for quantum optical systems is the so called homodyne detection. In this paper we show how the Heisenberg uncertainty relations give rise to characteristic bounds on the possible homodyne spectra and we discuss how this is related to the typical quantum phenomenon of squeezing.

id: 0802.1906
title: Generation of four-partite GHZ and W states by using a high-finesse bimodal cavity
authors: D. Gonta, S. Fritzsche, T. Radtke
comments: RevTex file, 13 pages, 7 figures, corrected typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062312 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1906
abstract: We propose two novel schemes to engineer four-partite entangled Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) and W states in a deterministic way by using chains of (two-level) Rydberg atoms within the framework of cavity QED. These schemes are based on the resonant interaction of the atoms with a bimodal cavity that simultaneously supports, in contrast to a single-mode cavity, two independent modes of the photon field. In addition, we suggest the schemes to reveal the non-classical correlations for the engineered GHZ and W states. It is shown how these schemes can be extended in order to produce general N-partite entangled GHZ and W states.

id: 0802.1919
title: Random Quantum Circuits are Approximate 2-designs
authors: Aram W. Harrow, Richard A. Low
comments: 48 pages, 1 figure. Typo in bibliography fixed
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. Vol. 291, No. 1, pp. 257--302 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1919
abstract: Given a universal gate set on two qubits, it is well known that applying random gates from the set to random pairs of qubits will eventually yield an approximately Haar-distributed unitary. However, this requires exponential time. We show that random circuits of only polynomial length will approximate the first and second moments of the Haar distribution, thus forming approximate 1- and 2-designs. Previous constructions required longer circuits and worked only for specific gate sets. As a corollary of our main result, we also improve previous bounds on the convergence rate of random walks on the Clifford group.

id: 0802.1921
title: High resolution optical time domain reflectometer based on 1.55um up-conversion photon-counting module
authors: Matthieu Legre, Rob Thew, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Opt. Exp., Vol. 15, No. 13, 8237 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1921
abstract: We implement a photon-counting Optical Time Domain Reflectometer (OTDR) at 1.55um which exhibits a high 2-point resolution and a high accuracy. It is based on a low temporal-jitter photon-counting module at 1.55um. This detector is composed of a periodically poled Lithium niobate (PPLN) waveguide, which provides a wavelength conversion from near infrared to visible light, and a low jitter silicon photon-counting detector. With this apparatus, we obtain centimetre resolution over a measurement range of tens of kilometres.

id: 0802.1975
title: Genuine tripartite entanglement monotone of $(2\otimes 2\otimes n)-$ dimensional systems
authors: Chang-shui Yu, L. Zhou, He-shan Song
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 022313 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1975
abstract: A genuine tripartite entanglement monotone is presented for $(2\otimes 2\otimes n)$-dimensional tripartite pure states by introducing a new entanglement measure for bipartite pure states. As an application, we consider the genuine tripartite entanglement of the ground state of the exactly solvable isotropic spin-1/2 chain with three-spin interaction. It is shown that the singular behavior of the genuine tripartite entanglement exactly signals a quantum phase transition.

id: 0802.1981
title: Exact stochastic simulation of dissipation and non-Markovian effects in open quantum systems
authors: Denis Lacroix
comments: accepted for publication in Physical Review E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1981
abstract: The exact dynamics of a system coupled to an environment can be described by an integro-differential stochastic equation of its reduced density. The influence of the environment is incorporated through a mean-field which is both stochastic and non-local in time and where the standard two-times correlation functions of the environment appear naturally. Since no approximation is made, the presented theory incorporates exactly dissipative and non-Markovian effects. Applications to the spin-boson model coupled to a heat-bath with various coupling regimes and temperature show that the presented stochastic theory can be a valuable tool to simulate exactly the dynamics of open quantum systems. Links with stochastic Schroedinger equation method and possible extensions to "imaginary time" propagation are discussed.

id: 0802.1997
title: Large Qudit Limit of One-dimensional Quantum Walks
authors: Mitsunori Sato, Naoki Kobayashi, Makoto Katori, Norio Konno
comments: REVTeX4, 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1997
abstract: We study a series of one-dimensional discrete-time quantum-walk models labeled by half integers $j=1/2, 1, 3/2, ...$, introduced by Miyazaki {\it et al.}, each of which the walker's wave function has $2j+1$ components and hopping range at each time step is $2j$. In long-time limit the density functions of pseudovelocity-distributions are generally given by superposition of appropriately scaled Konno's density function. Since Konno's density function has a finite open support and it diverges at the boundaries of support, limit distribution of pseudovelocities in the $(2j+1)$-component model can have $2j+1$ pikes, when $2j+1$ is even. When $j$ becomes very large, however, we found that these pikes vanish and a universal and monotone convex structure appears around the origin in limit distributions. We discuss a possible route from quantum walks to classical diffusion associated with the $j \to \infty$ limit.

id: 0802.2019
title: Bipartite quantum systems: on the realignment criterion and beyond
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Paolo Aniello, Antonello Scardicchio
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures, improved version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 415301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2019
abstract: Inspired by the `computable cross norm' or `realignment' criterion, we propose a new point of view about the characterization of the states of bipartite quantum systems. We consider a Schmidt decomposition of a bipartite density operator. The corresponding Schmidt coefficients, or the associated symmetric polynomials, are regarded as quantities that can be used to characterize bipartite quantum states. In particular, starting from the realignment criterion, a family of necessary conditions for the separability of bipartite quantum states is derived. We conjecture that these conditions, which are weaker than the parent criterion, can be strengthened in such a way to obtain a new family of criteria that are independent of the original one. This conjecture is supported by numerical examples for the low dimensional cases. These ideas can be applied to the study of quantum channels, leading to a relation between the rate of contraction of a map and its ability to preserve entanglement.

id: 0802.2042
title: Weak Measurements with Entangled Probes
authors: David Menzies, Natalia Korolkova
comments: 4 pages, single diagram
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2042
abstract: Encoding the imaginary part of a weak value onto an initially entangled probe can modify its entanglement content - provided the probe observable can distinguish between states of different entropies. Apart from fundamental interest, this result illustrates the utility of the imaginary weak value as a calculational tool in certain entanglement concentration protocols.

id: 0802.2077
title: Hyperspherical Partial Wave Theory with Two-term Error Correction
authors: S. Paul
comments: 9 pages, 18 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2077
abstract: Hyperspherical Partial Wave Theory has been applied to calculate T-matrix elements and Single Differential Cross-Section (SDCS) results for electron-hydrogen ionization process within Temkin-Poet model potential. We considered three different values of step length to compute the radial part of final state wave function. Numerical outcomes show that T-matrix elements and SDCS values depend on the step length h. Here, we have presented T-matrix elements and the corresponding SDCS results for 0.0075 a.u., 0.009 a.u. and 0.01 a.u. values of h and for 27.2eV, 40.8ev and 54.4eV impact energies. With the help of the calculated data for three different step lengths, we have been able to evaluate a two-term error function depending on the step length h. Finally, two-term error corrected T-matrix elements and the corresponding SDCS values have been computed. We fitted our two-term error corrected SDCS results by a suitable curve and compared with the benchmark results of Jones et al. [Phys. Rev. A, 66, 032717 (2002)]. Our fitted curves agree very well with the calculated results of Jones et al. and two-term error corrected SDCS results somewhere agree with the benchmark results. Two-term error corrected SDCS results are significantly better than the calculated SDCS results of different step lengths.

id: 0802.2092
title: Concurrence of Stochastic 1-Qubit Maps
authors: Meik Hellmund, Armin Uhlmann
comments: longer intro, small changes in text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2092
abstract: Explicit expressions for the concurrence of all positive and trace-preserving ("stochastic") 1-qubit maps are presented. By a new method we find the relevant convex roof pattern. We conclude that two component optimal decompositions always exist. Our results can be transferred to $2 \times n$-quantum systems providing the concurrence for all rank two density operators as well as a lower bound for their entanglement of formation.

id: 0802.2136
title: Large Cross-phase Modulation Based on Double EIT in a Four-level Tripod Atomic System
authors: Shujing Li, Xudong Yang, Xuemin Cao, Chunhong Zhang, Changde Xie, Hai Wang
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2136
abstract: We report the experimental observations on the simultaneous EIT effects for probe and trigger fields (double EIT) as well as the large cross-phase modulation (XPM) between the two fields in a four-level tripod EIT system of the D1 line of 87Rb atoms. The XPM coefficients (larger than 2*10-5cm2/W) and the accompanying transmissions (higher than 60%) are measured at slightly detuning of the probe field from the exact EIT resonance condition. The presented system can be applied in the recently proposed quantum information processing with weak cross-Kerr nonlinearities.

id: 0802.2149
title: Goos-H?nchen-Like Shifts in Atom Optics
authors: Jianhua Huang, Zhenglu Duan, Hong Y. Ling, Weiping Zhang
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2149
abstract: We consider the propagation of a matter wavepacket of two-level atoms through a square potential created by a super-Gaussian laser beam. We explore the matter wave analog of Goos-H\"{a}nchen shift within the framework of atom optics where the roles of atom and light is exchanged with respect to conventional optics. Using a vector theory, where atoms are treated as particles possessing two internal spin components, we show that not only large negative but also large positive Goos-H\"{a}nchen shifts can occur in the reflected atomic beam.

id: 0802.2154
title: Quantum information processing with single photons and atomic ensembles in microwave coplanar waveguide resonators
authors: David Petrosyan, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 170501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2154
abstract: We show that pairs of atoms optically excited to the Rydberg states can strongly interact with each other via effective long-range dipole-dipole or van der Waals interactions mediated by their non-resonant coupling to a common microwave field mode of a superconducting coplanar waveguide cavity. These cavity mediated interactions can be employed to generate single photons and to realize in a scalable configuration a universal phase gate between pairs of single photon pulses propagating or stored in atomic ensembles in the regime of electromagnetically induced transparency.

id: 0802.2156
title: Teleportation using continuous variable quantum cloning machine
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2156
abstract: We show that an unknown quantum state in phase space can be teleported via three-mode entanglement generated by continuous variable quantum cloning machine (transformation). Further, proceeding with our teleportation protocol we are able to improve the fidelity of teleportation obtained by Loock et.al. [Phys.Rev.Lett. 84, 3482(2000)]. Also we study here the entanglement between the two output copies from cloning machine.

id: 0802.2168
title: Constrained MaxLik reconstruction of multimode photon distributions
authors: G. Brida, M. Genovese, A. Meda, S. Olivares, M. G. A. Paris, F. Piacentini
comments: 
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 56 (2009) 196
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2168
abstract: We address the reconstruction of the full photon distribution of multimode fields generated by seeded parametric down-conversion (PDC). Our scheme is based on on/off avalanche photodetection assisted by maximum-likelihood (MaxLik) estimation and does not involve photon counting. We present a novel constrained MaxLik method that incorporates the request of finite energy to improve the rate of convergence and, in turn, the overall accuracy of the reconstruction.

id: 0802.2169
title: Evaluating measures of nonclassical correlation in a multipartite quantum system
authors: Akira SaiToh, Robabeh Rahimi, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Proc. NIC@QS07
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 6, Supp. 1, pp.787-793 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2169
abstract: We introduce and compare several measures of nonclassical correlation defined on the basis of a widely-recognized paradigm claiming that a multipartite system represented by a density matrix having no product eigenbasis possesses nonclassical correlation.

id: 0802.2217
title: Quantum mechanical sum rules for two model systems
authors: M. Belloni, R. W. Robinett
comments: 23 pages, no figures, to appear in Am. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2217
abstract: Sum rules have played an important role in the development of many branches of physics since the earliest days of quantum mechanics. We present examples of one-dimensional quantum mechanical sum rules and apply them in two familiar systems, the infinite well and the single delta-function potential. These cases illustrate the different ways in which such sum rules can be realized, and the varying mathematical techniques by which they can be confirmed. Using the same methods, we also evaluate the second-order energy shifts arising from the introduction of a constant external field, namely the Stark effect.

id: 0802.2246
title: Quantum bouncer with quadratic dissipation
authors: Gabriel Gonzalez
comments: Accepted for publication in Rev. Mex. Fis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2246
abstract: The energy loss due to a quadratic velocity dependent force on a quantum particle bouncing on a perfectly reflecting surface is obtained for a full cycle of motion. We approach this problem by means of a new effective phenomenological Hamiltonian which corresponds to the actual energy of the system and obtained the correction to the eigenvalues of the energy in first order quantum perturbation theory for the case of weak dissipation.

id: 0802.2256
title: Quantum Correlation Bounds for Quantum Information Experiments Optimization: the Wigner Inequality Case
authors: F. A. Bovino, I. P. Degiovanni
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2256
abstract: Violation of modified Wigner inequality by means binary bipartite quantum system allows the discrimination between the quantum world and the classical local-realistic one, and also ensures the security of Ekert-like quantum key distribution protocol. In this paper we study both theoretically and experimentally the bounds of quantum correlation associated to the modified Wigner's inequality finding the optimal experimental configuration for its maximal violation. We also extend this analysis to the implementation of Ekert's protocol.

id: 0802.2263
title: Mathematical framework for detection and quantification of nonclassical correlation
authors: Akira SaiToh, Robabeh Rahimi, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 14 pages, no figure, v1-v2: 4 pages, v2: a proposition and a proof corrected, v3: 6 pages, more details of proofs written, an explanation of a measure corrected, v4: 15 pages, a new nonlinear EnCE map introduced, v5: 15 pages, typos corrected, v6: 18 pages, an inconsistent remark removed, v7: 19 pages, minor changes in presentation, v8-v10: 14 pages, minor revisions, to appear in QIC
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 11, 0167-0180 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2263
abstract: Existing measures of bipartite nonclassical correlation that is typically characterized by nonvanishing nonlocalizable information under the zero-way CLOCC protocol are expensive in computational cost. We define and evaluate economical measures on the basis of a new class of maps, eigenvalue-preserving-but-not-completely-eigenvalue-preserving (EnCE) maps. The class is in analogy to the class of positive-but-not-completely-positive (PnCP) maps that have been commonly used in the entanglement theories. Linear and nonlinear EnCE maps are investigated. We also prove subadditivity of the measures in a form of logarithmic fidelity.

id: 0802.2289
title: The Fibonacci quantum walk and its cassical trace map
authors: Alejandro Romanelli
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2289
abstract: We study the quantum walk in momentum space using a coin arranged in quasi-periodic sequences following a Fibonacci prescription. We build for this system a classical map based on the trace of the evolution operator. The sub-ballistic behavior of this quantum walk is connected with the power-law decay of the time correlations of the trace map.

id: 0802.2315
title: A scheme for amplification and discrimination of photons
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, R. Prabhu, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, RevteX, Minor revision, References added
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41 (2008) 235501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2315
abstract: A scheme for exploring photon number amplification and discrimination is presented based on the interaction of a large number of two-level atoms with a single mode radiation field. The fact that the total number of photons and atoms in the excited states is a constant under time evolution in Dicke model is exploited to rearrange the atom-photon numbers. Three significant predictions emerge from our study: Threshold time for initial exposure to photons, time of perception (time of maximum detection probability), and discrimination of first few photon states.

id: 0802.2327
title: The capacity of transmitting atomic qubit with light
authors: Xiao-yu Chen
comments: 4 pages
journal: Quantum Inf Process 9 (2010) 451-462
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2327
abstract: The quantum information transfer between a single photon and a two-level atom is considered as a part of a quantum channel. The channel is a degradable channel even when there are decays of the atomic excited state and the single photon state, as far as the total excitation of the combined initial state does not exceed 1. The single letter formula for quantum capacity is obtained.

id: 0802.2367
title: QuanFou, QuanGlue, QuanOracle and QuanShi, Four Special Purpose Quantum Compilers
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 11 pages (files: 1 .tex, 2 .sty, 7 .pdf)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2367
abstract: This paper introduces QuanFou v1.1, QuanGlue v1.1, QuanOracle v1.1, QuanShi v1.1, four Java applications available for free. (Source code included in the distribution.) Each application compiles a different kind of input quantum evolution operator. The applications output a quantum circuit that equals the input evolution operator.

id: 0802.2370
title: Java Application that Outputs Quantum Circuit for Some NAND Formula Evaluators
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 10 pages (files: 1 .tex, 1 .sty, 3 .pdf)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2370
abstract: This paper introduces QuanFruit v1.1, a Java application available for free. (Source code included in the distribution.) Recently, Farhi-Goldstone-Gutmann (FGG) wrote a paper arXiv:quant-ph/0702144 that proposes a quantum algorithm for evaluating NAND formulas. QuanFruit outputs a quantum circuit for the FFG algorithm.

id: 0802.2402
title: Cavity nonlinear optics with few photons and ultracold quantum particles
authors: Andr¨¢s Vukics, Wolfgang Niedenzu, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 013828 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2402
abstract: The light force on particles trapped in the field of a high-Q cavity mode depends on the quantum state of field and particle. Different photon numbers generate different optical potentials anddifferent motional states induce different field evolution. Even for weak saturation and linear polarizability the induced particle motion leads to nonlinear field dynamics. We derive a corresponding effective field Hamiltonian containing all the powers of the photon number operator, which predicts nonlinear phase shifts and squeezing even at the few-photon level. Wave-function simulations of the full particle-field dynamics confirm this and show significant particle-field entanglement in addition.

id: 0802.2414
title: Classical Enhancement of Quantum Error-Correcting Codes
authors: Isaac Kremsky, Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Todd A. Brun
comments: 8 pages, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012341 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2414
abstract: We present a general formalism for quantum error-correcting codes that encode both classical and quantum information (the EACQ formalism). This formalism unifies the entanglement-assisted formalism and classical error correction, and includes encoding, error correction, and decoding steps such that the encoded quantum and classical information can be correctly recovered by the receiver. We formally define this kind of quantum code using both stabilizer and symplectic language, and derive the appropriate error-correcting conditions. We give several examples to demonstrate the construction of such codes.

id: 0802.2419
title: Tomography increases key rates of quantum-key-distribution protocols
authors: Shun Watanabe, Ryutaroh Matsumoto, Tomohiko Uyematsu
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, REVTeX4. To be published in PRA. Version 2 adds many references, a closed form key rate formula for unital channels, and a procedure for the maximum likelihood channel estimation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042316 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2419
abstract: We construct a practically implementable classical processing for the BB84 protocol and the six-state protocol that fully utilizes the accurate channel estimation method, which is also known as the quantum tomography. Our proposed processing yields at least as high key rate as the standard processing by Shor and Preskill. We show two examples of quantum channels over which the key rate of our proposed processing is strictly higher than the standard processing. In the second example, the BB84 protocol with our proposed processing yields a positive key rate even though the so-called error rate is higher than the 25% limit.

id: 0802.2443
title: Bell's Inequality, Quantum Measurement and Einstein Realism: A Unified Perspective
authors: John V. Corbett, Dipankar Home
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2443
abstract: The logical foundations of Bell's inequality are reexamined. We argue that the form of the reality condition that underpins Bell's inequality comes from the requirement of solving the quantum measurement problem. Hence any violation of Bell's inequality necessarily implies nonlocality because of the measurement problem. The differences in the implications of deterministic and stochastic formulations of Bell's inequality are highlighted. The reality condition used in Bell's inequality is shown to be a generalisation of Einstein's later form of realism.

id: 0802.2448
title: An Arrow of Time Operator for Standard Quantum Mechanics
authors: Y. Strauss, J. Silman, S. Machnes, L.P. Horwitz
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2448
abstract: We introduce a self-adjoint operator that indicates the direction of time within the framework of standard quantum mechanics. That is, as a function of time its expectation value decreases monotonically for any initial state. This operator can be defined for any system governed by a Hamiltonian with a uniformly finitely degenerate, absolutely continuous and semibounded spectrum. We study some of the operator's properties and illustrate them for a large equivalence class of scattering problems. We also discuss some previous attempts to construct such an operator, and show that the no-go theorems developed in this context are not applicable to our construction.

id: 0802.2457
title: Visualization of Branch Points in PT-Symmetric Waveguides
authors: Shachar Klaiman, Nimrod Moiseyev, Uwe Gunther
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.101:080402,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2457
abstract: The visualization of an exceptional point in a PT symmetric directional coupler(DC) is demonstrated. In such a system the exceptional point can be probed by varying only a single parameter. Using the Rayleigh-Schroedinger perturbation theory we prove that the spectrum of a PT symmetric Hamiltonian is real as long as the radius of convergence has not been reached. We also show how one can use a PT symmetric DC to measure the radius of convergence for non PT symmetric structures. For such systems the physical meaning of the rather mathematical term: radius of convergence, is exemplified.

id: 0802.2469
title: Optimal Controlled teleportation via several kinds of three-qubit states
authors: Ting Gao, Feng-Li Yan, You-Cheng Li
comments: 15 pages
journal: Science in China Series G, 51 (2008) 1529.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2469
abstract: The probability of successfully controlled teleportating an unknown qubit using a general three-particle state is investigated. We give the analytic expressions of maximal probabilities of successfully controlled teleportating an unknown qubit via several kinds of tripartite states including a tripartite GHZ state and a tripartite W-state.

id: 0802.2472
title: Sequentially generated states for the study of two dimensional systems
authors: Mari-Carmen Ba?uls, David P¨¦rez-Garc¨ªa, Michael M. Wolf, Frank Verstraete, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052306 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2472
abstract: Matrix Product States can be defined as the family of quantum states that can be sequentially generated in a one-dimensional system. We introduce a new family of states which extends this definition to two dimensions. Like in Matrix Product States, expectation values of few body observables can be efficiently evaluated and, for the case of translationally invariant systems, the correlation functions decay exponentially with the distance. We show that such states are a subclass of Projected Entangled Pair States and investigate their suitability for approximating the ground states of local Hamiltonians.

id: 0802.2493
title: Suppressing the spurious states of the centre of mass
authors: P. Dita, L. Micu
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2493
abstract: Following Dirac's ideas concerning the quantization of constrained systems, we suggest to replace the free centre of mass Hamiltonian H_{CM} by another operator which commutes with all the elements of the algebra generated via the commutation relations by H_{CM} and the constraints which fix the centre of mass position. We show that the new Hamiltonian is a multiple of the identity operator and, as a result, its unique effect is to raise the internal energy levels by a constant amount.

id: 0802.2504
title: An introduction to many worlds in quantum computation
authors: Clare Hewitt-Horsman
comments: Published version. This supercedes quant-ph/0210204. Comments welcome
journal: Found. Phys. 39(8) August 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2504
abstract: The interpretation of quantum mechanics is an area of increasing interest to many working physicists. In particular, interest has come from those involved in quantum computing and information theory, as there has always been a strong foundational element in this field. This paper introduces one interpretation of quantum mechanics, a modern `many-worlds' theory, from the perspective of quantum computation. Reasons for seeking to interpret quantum mechanics are discussed, then the specific `neo-Everettian' theory is introduced and its claim as the best available interpretation defended. The main objections to the interpretation, including the so-called ``problem of probability'' are shown to fail. The local nature of the interpretation is demonstrated, and the implications of this both for the interpretation and for quantum mechanics more generally are discussed. Finally, the consequences of the theory for quantum computation are investigated, and common objections to using many worlds to describe quantum computing are answered. We find that using this particular many-worlds theory as a physical foundation for quantum computation gives several distinct advantages over other interpretations, and over not interpreting quantum theory at all.

id: 0802.2505
title: SU(2) Symmetry and Degeneracy From SUSY QM of a Neutron in the Magnetic Field of a Linear Current
authors: D. Martinez, V. D. Granados, R. D. Mota
comments: 
journal: Phys.Lett.A350:31-35,2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2505
abstract: From SUSY ladder operators in momentum space of a neutron in the magnetic field of a linear current, we construct $2\times 2$ matrix operators that together with the z-component of the angular momentum satisfy the su(2) Lie algebra. We use this fact to explain the degeneracy of the energy spectrum.

id: 0802.2537
title: On relativistic elements of reality
authors: Louis Marchildon
comments: Clarifications, reference added; published version
journal: Foundations of Physics 38 (2008) 804-17
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2537
abstract: Several arguments have been proposed some years ago, attempting to prove the impossibility of defining Lorentz-invariant elements of reality. I find that a sufficient condition for the existence of elements of reality, introduced in these proofs, seems to be used also as a necessary condition. I argue that Lorentz-invariant elements of reality can be defined but, as Vaidman pointed out, they won't satisfy the so-called product rule. In so doing I obtain algebraic constraints on elements of reality associated with a maximal set of commuting Hermitian operators.

id: 0802.2542
title: Casimir Energies: Temperature Dependence, Dispersion, and Anomalies
authors: I. Brevik, K. A. Milton
comments: 15 pages, no figures; slight revision of discussion
journal: Phys.Rev.E78:011124,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2542
abstract: Assuming the conventional Casimir setting with two thick parallel perfectly conducting plates of large extent with a homogeneous and isotropic medium between them, we discuss the physical meaning of the electromagnetic field energy $W_{\rm disp}$ when the intervening medium is weakly dispersive but nondissipative. The presence of dispersion means that the energy density contains terms of the form $d[\omega\epsilon(\omega)] /d\omega$ and $d[\omega\mu(\omega)] /d\omega$. We find that, as $W_{\rm disp}$ refers thermodynamically to a non-closed physical system, it is {\it not} to be identified with the internal thermodynamic energy $U$ following from the free energy $F$, or the electromagnetic energy $W$, when the last-mentioned quantities are calculated without such dispersive derivatives. To arrive at this conclusion, we adopt a model in which the system is a capacitor, linked to an external self-inductance $L$ such that stationary oscillations become possible. Therewith the model system becomes a non-closed one. As an introductory step, we review the meaning of the nondispersive energies, $F, U,$ and $W$. As a final topic, we consider an anomaly connected with local surface divergences encountered in Casimir energy calculations for higher spacetime dimensions, $D>4$, and discuss briefly its dispersive generalization. This kind of application is essentially a generalization of the treatment of Alnes {\it et al.} [J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. {\bf 40}, F315 (2007)] to the case of a medium-filled cavity between two hyperplanes.

id: 0802.2573
title: Mean-field dynamics of a Bose Josephson junction in an optical cavity
authors: J. M. Zhang, W. M. Liu, D. L. Zhou
comments: revised according to the comments of the referee
journal: Phys.Rev.A, 78, 043618 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2573
abstract: We study the mean-field dynamics of a Bose Josephson junction which is dispersively coupled to a single mode of a high-finesse optical cavity. An effective classical Hamiltonian for the Bose Josephson junction is derived and its dynamics is studied in the perspective of phase portrait. It is shown that the strong condensate-field coupling does alter the dynamics of the Bose Josephson junction drastically. The possibility of coherent manipulating and \textsl{in situ} observation of the dynamics of the Bose Josephson junction is discussed.

id: 0802.2588
title: Entanglement purification without controlled-NOT gates by using the natural dynamics of spin chains
authors: Koji Maruyama, Franco Nori
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022312 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2588
abstract: We present a simple protocol to purify bipartite entanglement in spin-1/2 particles by utilizing only natural spin-spin interactions, i.e. those that can commonly be realized in realistic physical systems, and S_z-measurements on single spins. Even the standard isotropic Heisenberg interaction is shown to be sufficient to purify mixed state entanglement if there are at least three pairs of spins. This approach could be useful for quantum information processing in solid-state-based systems.

id: 0802.2606
title: Two Kinds of Iterative Solutions for Generalized Sombrero-shaped Potential in $N$-dimensional Space
authors: Zhao Wei-Qin
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2606
abstract: Based on two different iteration procedures the groundstate wave functions and energies for N-dimensional generalized Sombrero-shaped potentials are solved. Two kinds of trial functions for the iteration procedure are defined. The iterative solutions are convergent nicely to consistent results for different choices of iteration procedures and trial functions.

id: 0802.2672
title: Systematic study of the PDC speckle structure for quantum imaging applications
authors: G.Brida, M.Genovese, A.Meda, E. Predazzi, I.Ruo-Berchera
comments: 
journal: Int. Journ Quant. Inf. 7 (2009) 139
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2672
abstract: Sub shot noise imaging of weak object by exploiting Parametric Down Converted light represents a very interesting technological development. A precise characterization of PDC speckle structure in dependence of pump beam parameters is a fundamental tool for this application. In this paper we present a first set of data addressed to this purpose.

id: 0802.2675
title: Quantum pseudo-randomness from cluster-state quantum computation
authors: Winton G. Brown, Yaakov S. Weinstein, Lorenza Viola
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, version appearing in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2675
abstract: We show how to efficiently generate pseudo-random states suitable for quantum information processing via cluster-state quantum computation. By reformulating pseudo-random algorithms in the cluster-state picture, we identify a strategy for optimizing pseudo-random circuits by properly choosing single-qubit rotations. A Markov chain analysis provides the tool for analyzing convergence rates to the Haar measure and finding the optimal single-qubit gate distribution. Our results may be viewed as an alternative construction of approximate unitary 2-designs.

id: 0802.2682
title: Comment on "An Arrow of Time Operator for Standard Quantum Mechanics" - a sign of the time!
authors: Michael J.W. Hall
comments: Further propeties, generalisation to almost periodic systems, ref added, minor corrections, bad pun
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2682
abstract: It is shown that the `arrow of time' operator, M_F, recently suggested by Strauss et al., in arXiv:0802.2448v1 [quant-ph], is simply related to the sign of the canonical `time' observable, T (apparently first introduced by Holevo). In particular, the monotonic decrease of < M_F > corresponds to the fact that < sgn T > increases monotonically with time. This relationship also provides a physical interpretation of the property M_F < 1. Some further properties and possible generalisations are pointed out, including to almost-periodic systems.

id: 0802.2698
title: Casimir-Polder force between an atom and a dielectric plate: thermodynamics and experiment
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure; improved discussion; to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. (Fast Track Communications)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. v.41, 432001-(1-9) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2698
abstract: The low-temperature behavior of the Casimir-Polder free energy and entropy for an atom near a dielectric plate are found on the basis of the Lifshitz theory. The obtained results are shown to be thermodynamically consistent if the dc conductivity of the plate material is disregarded. With inclusion of dc conductivity, both the standard Lifshitz theory (for all dielectrics) and its generalization taking into account screening effects (for a wide range of dielectrics) violate the Nernst heat theorem. The inclusion of the screening effects is also shown to be inconsistent with experimental data of Casimir force measurements. The physical reasons for this inconsistency are elucidated.

id: 0802.2725
title: Quantum key distribution with an unknown and untrusted source
authors: Yi Zhao, Bing Qi, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 31 pages, 6 figures, REVTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 77, 052327 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2725
abstract: The security of a standard bi-directional "plug & play" quantum key distribution (QKD) system has been an open question for a long time. This is mainly because its source is equivalently controlled by an eavesdropper, which means the source is unknown and untrusted. Qualitative discussion on this subject has been made previously. In this paper, we present the first quantitative security analysis on a general class of QKD protocols whose sources are unknown and untrusted. The securities of standard BB84 protocol, weak+vacuum decoy state protocol, and one-decoy decoy state protocol, with unknown and untrusted sources are rigorously proved. We derive rigorous lower bounds to the secure key generation rates of the above three protocols. Our numerical simulation results show that QKD with an untrusted source gives a key generation rate that is close to that with a trusted source.

id: 0802.2728
title: Zitterbewegung in Quantum Mechanics -- a research program
authors: David Hestenes
comments: 26 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2728
abstract: Spacetime Algebra (STA) provides unified, matrix-free spinor methods for rotational dynamics in classical theory as well as quantum mechanics. That makes it an ideal tool for studying particle models of zitterbewegung and using them to study zitterbewegung in the Dirac theory. This paper develops a self-contained dynamical model of the electron as a lightlike particle with helical zitterbewegung and electromagnetic interactions. It attributes to the electron an electric dipole moment oscillating with ultrahigh frequency, and the possibility of observing this directly as a resonance in electron channeling is analyzed in detail. A modification of the Dirac equation is suggested to incorporate the oscillating dipole moment. That enables extension of the Dirac equation to incorporate electroweak interactions in a new way.

id: 0802.2749
title: Limit distributions of two-dimensional quantum walks
authors: Kyohei Watabe, Naoki Kobayashi, Makoto Katori, Norio Konno
comments: v3: REVTeX4, 20 pages, 6 figures, minor corrections made for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A77 (2008) 062331/1-9
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2749
abstract: One-parameter family of discrete-time quantum-walk models on the square lattice, which includes the Grover-walk model as a special case, is analytically studied. Convergence in the long-time limit $t \to \infty$ of all joint moments of two components of walker's pseudovelocity, $X_t/t$ and $Y_t/t$, is proved and the probability density of limit distribution is derived. Dependence of the two-dimensional limit density function on the parameter of quantum coin and initial four-component qudit of quantum walker is determined. Symmetry of limit distribution on a plane and localization around the origin are completely controlled. Comparison with numerical results of direct computer-simulations is also shown.

id: 0802.2750
title: Quantum walks on circles in phase space via superconducting circuit quantum electrodynamics
authors: Peng Xue, Barry C. Sanders, Alexandre Blais, Kevin Lalumiere
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables
journal: Physical Review A 78, 042334 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2750
abstract: We show how a quantum walk can be implemented for the first time in a quantum quincunx created via superconducting circuit quantum electrodynamics (QED), and how interpolation from quantum to random walk is implemented by controllable decoherence using a two resonator system. Direct control over the coin qubit is difficult to achieve in either cavity or circuit QED, but we show that a Hadamard coin flip can be effected via direct driving of the cavity, with the result that the walker jumps between circles in phase space but still exhibits quantum walk behavior over 15 steps.

id: 0802.2777
title: Propagation of Nonclassical Radiation through a Semiconductor Slab
authors: D.Yu. Vasylyev, W. Vogel, T. Schmielau, K. Henneberger, D.-G. Welsch
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2777
abstract: Based on a microscopic derivation of the emission spectra of a bulk semiconductor we arrive at a clear physical interpretation of the noise current operators in macroscopic quantum electrodynamics. This opens the possibility to study medium effects on nonclassical radiation propagating through an absorbing or amplifying semiconductor. As an example, the propagation of an incident squeezed vacuum is analyzed.

id: 0802.2779
title: Multiphoton Bloch-Siegert shifts and level-splittings in a three-level system
authors: Peter L. Hagelstein, Irfan U. Chaudhary
comments: 29 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2779
abstract: In previous work we studied the spin-boson model in the multiphoton regime, using a rotation that provides a separation between terms that contribute most of the level energies away from resonance, and terms responsible for the level splittings at the anticrossing. Here, we consider a generalization of the spin-boson model consisting of a three-level system coupled to an oscillator. We construct a similar rotation and apply it to the more complicated model. We find that the rotation provides a useful approximation to the energy levels in the multiphoton region of the new problem. We find that good results can be obtained for the level splittings at the anticrossings for resonances involving the lower two levels in regions away from accidental or low-order resonances of the upper two levels.

id: 0802.2781
title: Coherent tunneling and quantum coherence oscillations at the atomic level
authors: M. Grigorescu
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Romanian Journ. Phys. 42, 509-518 (1997)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2781
abstract: The evolution of the quantum wave packet describing an atom trapped in the surface-tip junction of the scanning tunneling microscope is investigated by using the time-dependent Schroedinger equation, and by a quasi-classical Hamiltonian approach. The estimates concern a Xe atom in a biased double-well junction potential. The exact treatment shows that quantum coherence oscillations of the metastable ground state may occur at particular resonant values of the bias voltage. The effect of decoherence by partial localization is studied within the quasi-classical frame.

id: 0802.2814
title: Transmittance and near-field characterization of sub-wavelength tapered optical fibers
authors: Fedja Orucevic, Val¨¦rie Lef¨¨vre-Seguin, Jean Hare
comments: 
journal: Optics express 15, 21 (2007) 13624-13629
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2814
abstract: We have produced high transmission sub-wavelength tapered optical fibers for the purpose of whispering gallery mode coupling in fused silica microcavities at 780 nm. A detailed analysis of the fiber transmittance evolution during tapering is demonstrated to reflect precisely the mode coupling and cutoff in the fiber. This allows to control the final size, the number of guided modes and their effective index. These results are checked by evanescent wave mapping measurements on the resulting taper.

id: 0802.2822
title: A new approach to characterize qubit channels
authors: Filippo Caruso, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 6 pages, accepted for publication in the special issue of IJQI "Noise, Information and Complexity at Quantum Scale", eds. S. Mancini and F. Marchesoni (2008)
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 6, 621 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2822
abstract: We analyze qubit channels by exploiting the possibility of representing two-level quantum systems in terms of characteristic functions. To do so, we use functions of non-commuting variables (Grassmann variables), defined in terms of generalized displacement operators, following an approach which resemble the one adopted for continuous-variable (Bosonic) systems. It allows us to introduce the notion of qubit Gaussian channels and to show that they share similar properties with the corresponding continuous-variable counterpart. Some examples of qubit channels are investigated using this approach.

id: 0802.2859
title: Bang-Bang control of a qubit coupled to a quantum critical spin bath
authors: Davide Rossini, Paolo Facchi, Rosario Fazio, Giuseppe Florio, Daniel A. Lidar, Saverio Pascazio, Francesco Plastina, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052112 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2859
abstract: We analytically and numerically study the effects of pulsed control on the decoherence of a qubit coupled to a quantum spin bath. When the environment is critical, decoherence is faster and we show that the control is relatively more effective. Two coupling models are investigated, namely a qubit coupled to a bath via a single link and a spin star model, yielding results that are similar and consistent.

id: 0802.2873
title: Environmentally induced corrections to the geometric phase in a two-level system
authors: Fernando C. Lombardo, Paula I. Villar
comments: 4 pages, no figures. Minor changes, version to appear in the special issue of IJQI Noise, Information and Complexity at Quantum Scale
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2873
abstract: We calculate the geometric phase for different open systems (spin-boson and spin-spin models). We study not only how they are corrected by the presence of the different type of environments but also discuss the appearence of decoherence effects. These should be taken into account when planning experimental setups to study the geometric phase in the nonunitary regime. We propose a model with slow decoherence rate in which the geometric phase is still modified and might be measured.

id: 0802.2876
title: Spin squeezing of atomic ensembles via nuclear-electronic spin entanglement
authors: T. Fernholz, H. Krauter, K. Jensen, J. F. Sherson, A. S. Soerensen, E. S. Polzik
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 073601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2876
abstract: Entangled many body systems have recently attracted significant attention in various contexts. Among them, spin squeezed atoms and ions have raised interest in the field of precision measurements, as they allow to overcome quantum noise of uncorrelated particles. Precise quantum state engineering is also required as a resource for quantum computation, and spin squeezing can be used to create multi-partite entangled states. Two-mode spin squeezed systems have been used for elementary quantum communication protocols. Until now spin squeezing has been always achieved via generation of entanglement between different atoms of the ensemble. In this Letter, we demonstrate for the first time ensemble spin squeezing generated by engineering the quantum state of each individual atom. More specifically, we entangle the nuclear and electronic spins of $10^{12}$ Cesium atoms at room temperature. We verify entanglement and ensemble spin squeezing by performing quantum tomography on the atomic state.

id: 0802.3005
title: Strong interaction between light and a single trapped atom without a cavity
authors: Meng Khoon Tey, Zilong Chen, Syed Abdullah Aljunid, Brenda Chng, Florian Huber, Gleb Maslennikov, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 4, 924-927 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3005
abstract: Coupling of light to an atom at single quanta level with high probability is a building block for many quantum information processing protocols. It is commonly believed that efficient coupling is only achievable with the assistance of a cavity. Here, we report on an observation of substantial coupling between a light beam and a single $^{87}$Rb atom in a direct extinction measurement by focusing light to a small spot with a single lens. Our result opens a new perspective on processing quantum information carried by light using atoms, and is important to many ongoing experiments that require strong coupling of single photons to an atom in free space.

id: 0802.3131
title: Properties of entangled photon pairs generated by a CW laser with small coherence time: theory and experiment
authors: Simone Cialdi, Fabrizio Castelli, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics vol. 56, Issue 2 & 3, pages 215 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3131
abstract: The generation of entangled photon pairs by parametric down--conversion from solid state CW lasers with small coherence time is theoretically and experimentally analyzed. We consider a compact and low-cost setup based on a two-crystal scheme with Type-I phase matching. We study the effect of the pump coherence time over the entangled state visibility and over the violation of Bell's inequality, as a function of the crystals length. The full density matrix is reconstructed by quantum tomography. The proposed theoretical model is verified using a purification protocol based on a compensation crystal.

id: 0802.3161
title: Experimentally generating and tuning robust entanglement between photonic qubits
authors: B. P. Lanyon, N. K. Langford
comments: lower print quality for arxiv figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3161
abstract: We generate and study the entanglement properties of novel states composed of three polarisation-encoded photonic qubits. By varying a single experimental parameter we can coherently move from a fully separable state to a maximally robust W state, while at all times preserving an optimally robust, symmetric entanglement configuration. We achieve a high fidelity with these configurations experimentally, including the highest reported W state fidelity.

id: 0802.3162
title: Ideal intersections for radio-frequency trap networks
authors: Janus H. Wesenberg
comments: v2: Significantly expanded version, as published. LaTeX source file includes VTK datafile for the 3D implementation of the ideal intersection
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 013416 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3162
abstract: We investigate the possible form of ideal intersections for two-dimensional rf trap networks suitable for quantum information processing with trapped ions. We show that the lowest order multipole component of the rf field that can contribute to an ideal intersection is a hexapole term uniquely determined by the tangents of the intersecting paths. The corresponding ponderomotive potential does not provide any confinement perpendicular to the paths if these intersect at right angles, indicating that ideal right-angle X intersections are impossible to achieve with hexapole fields. Based on this result, we propose an implementation of an ideal oblique-X intersection using a three-dimensional electrode structure.

id: 0802.3163
title: Creation, manipulation, and detection of Abelian and non-Abelian anyons in optical lattices
authors: M. Aguado, G. K. Brennen, F. Verstraete, J. I. Cirac
comments: 8 pages, 4 pdf figures; v2: reference added, typos fixed; v3: matches published version (title changed), contains appendix not there
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 260501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3163
abstract: Anyons are particlelike excitations of strongly correlated phases of matter with fractional statistics, characterized by nontrivial changes in the wave function, generalizing Bose and Fermi statistics, when two of them are interchanged. This can be used to perform quantum computations [A. Yu. Kitaev, Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) 303, 2 (2003)]. We show how to simulate the creation and manipulation of Abelian and non- Abelian anyons in topological lattice models using trapped atoms in optical lattices. Our proposal, feasible with present technology, requires an ancilla particle which can undergo single-particle gates, be moved close to each constituent of the lattice and undergo a simple quantum gate, and be detected.

id: 0802.3177
title: General theory of decoy-state quantum cryptography with source errors
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang, C.-Z. Peng, J. Zhang, L. Yang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: Our results can be used securely for any source of diagonal states, including the Plug-&-Play protocol with whatever error pattern, if we know the ranges of errors of a few parameters
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042311 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3177
abstract: The existing theory of decoy-state quantum cryptography assumes the exact control of each states from Alice's source. Such exact control is impossible in practice. We develop the theory of decoy-state method so that it is unconditionally secure even there are state errors of sources, if the range of a few parameters in the states are known. This theory simplifies the practical implementation of the decoy-state quantum key distribution because the unconditional security can be achieved with a slightly shortened final key, even though the small errors of pulses are not corrected.

id: 0802.3183
title: Violation of the Cauchy-Schwarz Inequality in the Macroscopic Regime
authors: A. M. Marino, V. Boyer, P. D. Lett
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3183
abstract: We have observed a violation of the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality in the macroscopic regime by more than 8 standard deviations. The violation has been obtained while filtering out only the low frequency noise of the quantum-correlated beams that results from the technical noise of the laser used to generate them. We use bright intensity-difference squeezed beams produced by four-wave mixing as the source of the correlated fields. We also demonstrate that squeezing does not necessarily imply a violation of the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality.

id: 0802.3221
title: Entanglement and Density Matrix of a Block of Spins in AKLT Model
authors: Ying Xu, Hosho Katsura, Takaaki Hirano, Vladimir E. Korepin
comments: Revised version, typos corrected, references added, 31 pages
journal: Jour. Stat. Phys. vol 133, no. 2, 347-377 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3221
abstract: We study a 1-dimensional AKLT spin chain, consisting of spins $S$ in the bulk and $S/2$ at both ends. The unique ground state of this AKLT model is described by the Valence-Bond-Solid (VBS) state. We investigate the density matrix of a contiguous block of bulk spins in this ground state. It is shown that the density matrix is a projector onto a subspace of dimension $(S+1)^{2}$. This subspace is described by non-zero eigenvalues and corresponding eigenvectors of the density matrix. We prove that for large block the von Neumann entropy coincides with Renyi entropy and is equal to $\ln(S+1)^{2}$.

id: 0802.3230
title: Toy Models for Retrocausality
authors: Huw Price
comments: 12 pages, 14 figures
journal: Studies In History and Philosophy of Modern Physics, 39(2008):752-761.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3230
abstract: A number of writers have been attracted to the idea that some of the peculiarities of quantum theory might be manifestations of 'backward' or 'retro' causality, underlying the quantum description. This idea has been explored in the literature in two main ways: firstly in a variety of explicit models of quantum systems, and secondly at a conceptual level. This note introduces a third approach, intended to complement the other two. It describes a simple toy model, which, under a natural interpretation, shows how retrocausality can emerge from simple global constraints. The model is also useful in permitting a clear distinction between the kind of retrocausality likely to be of interest in QM, and a different kind of reverse causality, with which it is liable to be confused. The model is proposed in the hope that future elaborations might throw light on the potential of retrocausality to account for quantum phenomena.

id: 0802.3252
title: Algebraic Structure of a Master Equation with Generalized Lindblad Form
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex ; 10 pages ; no figure
journal: Int. J. Geom. Meth. Mod. Phys. 5(2008) 1033-1040
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3252
abstract: The quantum damped harmonic oscillator is described by the master equation with usual Lindblad form. The equation has been solved completely by us in arXiv : 0710.2724 [quant-ph]. To construct the general solution a few facts of representation theory based on the Lie algebra $su(1,1)$ were used. In this paper we treat a general model described by a master equation with generalized Lindblad form. Then we examine the algebraic structure related to some Lie algebras and construct the interesting approximate solution.

id: 0802.3287
title: A Kapitza-Dirac-Talbot-Lau interferometer for highly polarizable molecules
authors: Stefan Gerlich, Lucia Hackermueller, Klaus Hornberger, Alexander Stibor, Hendrik Ulbricht, Michael Gring, Fabienne Goldfarb, Tim Savas, Marcel Mueri, Marcel Mayor, Markus Arndt
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 3, 711-715 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3287
abstract: Research on matter waves is a thriving field of quantum physics and has recently stimulated many investigations with electrons, neutrons, atoms, Bose-condensed ensembles, cold clusters and hot molecules. Coherence experiments with complex objects are of interest for exploring the transition to classical physics, for measuring molecular properties and they have even been proposed for testing new models of space-time. For matter-wave experiments with complex molecules, the strongly dispersive effect of the interaction between the diffracted molecule and the grating wall is a major challenge because it imposes enormous constraints on the velocity selection of the molecular beam. We here describe the first experimental realization of a new interferometer that solves this problem by combining the advantages of a Talbot-Lau setup with the benefits of an optical phase grating and we show quantum interference with new large molecules.

id: 0802.3300
title: Projective Expected Utility
authors: Pierfrancesco La Mura
comments: 7 pages, to appear in the Proceedings of Quantum Interaction 2008
journal: J. of Math. Psychology, 53:5 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3300
abstract: Motivated by several classic decision-theoretic paradoxes, and by analogies with the paradoxes which in physics motivated the development of quantum mechanics, we introduce a projective generalization of expected utility along the lines of the quantum-mechanical generalization of probability theory. The resulting decision theory accommodates the dominant paradoxes, while retaining significant simplicity and tractability. In particular, every finite game within this larger class of preferences still has an equilibrium.

id: 0802.3351
title: The computational difficulty of finding MPS ground states
authors: Norbert Schuch, Ignacio Cirac, Frank Verstraete
comments: 5 pages. v2: accepted version, Journal-Ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 250501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3351
abstract: We determine the computational difficulty of finding ground states of one-dimensional (1D) Hamiltonians which are known to be Matrix Product States (MPS). To this end, we construct a class of 1D frustration free Hamiltonians with unique MPS ground states and a polynomial gap above, for which finding the ground state is at least as hard as factoring. By lifting the requirement of a unique ground state, we obtain a class for which finding the ground state solves an NP-complete problem. Therefore, for these Hamiltonians it is not even possible to certify that the ground state has been found. Our results thus imply that in order to prove convergence of variational methods over MPS, as the Density Matrix Renormalization Group, one has to put more requirements than just MPS ground states and a polynomial spectral gap.

id: 0802.3365
title: Simulation of high-spin Heisenberg models in coupled cavities
authors: Jaeyoon Cho, Dimitris G. Angelakis, Sougato Bose
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062338 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3365
abstract: We propose a scheme to realize the Heisenberg model of any spin in an arbitrary array of coupled cavities. Our scheme is based on a fixed number of atoms confined in each cavity and collectively applied constant laser fields, and is in a regime where both atomic and cavity excitations are suppressed. It is shown that as well as optically controlling the effective spin Hamiltonian, it is also possible to engineer the magnitude of the spin. Our scheme would open up an unprecedented way to simulate otherwise intractable high-spin problems in many-body physics.

id: 0802.3392
title: Single-atom aided probe of the decoherence of a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: H. T. Ng, S. Bose
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 023610 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3392
abstract: We study a two-level atom coupled to a Bose-Einstein condensate. We show that the rules governing the decoherence of mesoscopic superpositions involving different classical-like states of the condensate can be probed using this system. This scheme is applicable irrespective of whether the condensate is initially in a coherent, thermal or more generally in any mixture of coherent states. The effects of atom loss and finite temperature to the decoherence can therefore be studied. We also discuss the various noise sources causing the decoherence.

id: 0802.3397
title: A Lossy Bosonic Quantum Channel with Non-Markovian Memory
authors: O. V. Pilyavets, V. G. Zborovskii, S. Mancini
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052324 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3397
abstract: We provide a simple and realistic model to study memory effects in a lossy bosonic quantum channel over arbitrary number of uses. The noise correlation among different uses is introduced by contiguous modes interactions which results in an exponential decay of the correlations over channel uses (modes). This model allows us to characterize the asymptotic behavior of the channel for classical information transmission.

id: 0802.3472
title: Reconciling Semiclassical and Bohmian Mechanics: I. Stationary states
authors: Bill Poirier
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: B. Poirier, J. Chem. Phys. 121, 4501-4515 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3472
abstract: The semiclassical method is characterized by finite forces and smooth, well-behaved trajectories, but also by multivalued representational functions that are ill-behaved at turning points. In contrast, quantum trajectory methods--based on Bohmian mechanics (quantum hydrodynamics)--are characterized by infinite forces and erratic trajectories near nodes, but also well-behaved, single-valued representational functions. In this paper, we unify these two approaches into a single method that captures the best features of both, and in addition, satisfies the correspondence principle. Stationary eigenstates in one degree of freedom are the primary focus, but more general applications are also anticipated.

id: 0802.3484
title: Perfect teleportation and superdense coding through an asymmetric five qubit state
authors: Sreraman Muralidharan, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: To appear in PRAYAS
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3484
abstract: We explicate an example of the so called Task oriented Maximally Entangled states (TMES) in the context of teleportation and superdense coding. In physical situation, this state can emerge from decoherence of more entangled state or may be prepared for the purpose at hand, with less entanglement resource. We find that a variant of the Brown state can be utilized for perfect teleportation of single and two qubit states. In case of superdense coding, it is observed that five cbits can be transmitted by sending only three qubits.

id: 0802.3503
title: Controlling subluminal to superluminal behavior of group velocity in an f-deformed Bose-Einstein condensate beyond the rotating wave approximation
authors: Z. Haghshenasfard, M. Soltanolkotabi, M. H. Naderi
comments: 44pages, 22 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3503
abstract: In this paper, we investigate tunable control of the group velocity of a weak probe field propagating through an f-deformed Bose-Einstein condensate of three-level atoms beyond the rotating wave approximation. For this purpose, we use an f- deformed generalization of an effective two-level quantum model of the three-level configuration without the rotating wave approximation in which the Gardiners phonon operators for Bose-Einstein condensate are deformed by an operator- valued function,f(n), of the particle- number operator n . Corrections produced by the counter- rotating terms appear in the first order as an intensity- dependent detuning and in the second order as an intensity- dependent atom-field coupling. We consider the collisions between the atoms as a special kind of f- deformation where the collision rate k is regarded as the deformation parameter. We demonstrate the enhanced effect of subluminal and superluminal propagation based on electromagnetically induced transparency and electromagnetically induced absorption, respectively. In particular, we find that (i) the absorptive and dispersive properties of the deformed condensate can be controlled effectively in the absence of the rotating wave approximation by changing the deformation parameter k, the total number of atoms N and the counter- rotating terms parameter, (ii) by increasing the values of k, 1/N and the counter- rotating terms parameter, the group velocity of the probe pulse changes, from subluminal to superluminal and (iii) beyond the rotating wave approximation, the subluminal and superluminal behaviors of the probe field are enhanced.

id: 0802.3538
title: Decoherence-free preparation of Dicke states of trapped ions by collective stimulated Raman adiabatic passage
authors: I. E. Linington, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3538
abstract: We propose a simple technique for the generation of arbitrary-sized Dicke states in a chain of trapped ions. The method uses global addressing of the entire chain by two pairs of delayed but partially overlapping laser pulses to engineer a collective adiabatic passage along a multi-ion dark state. Our technique, which is a many-particle generalization of stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP), is decoherence-free with respect to spontaneous emission and robust against moderate fluctuations in the experimental parameters. Furthermore, because the process is very rapid, the effects of heating are almost negligible under realistic experimental conditions. We predict that the overall fidelity of synthesis of a Dicke state involving ten ions sharing two excitations should approach 98% with currently achievable experimental parameters.

id: 0802.3543
title: High fidelity universal set of quantum gates using non-adiabatic rapid passage
authors: R. Li, M. Hoover, F. Gaitan
comments: 28 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Info. Comp. vol. 9, 290 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3543
abstract: Numerical simulation results are presented which suggest that a class of non-adiabatic rapid passage sweeps first realized experimentally in 1991 should be capable of implementing a universal set of quantum gates G_{u} that operate with high fidelity. The gates constituting G_{u} are the Hadamard and NOT gates, together with variants of the phase, \pi /8, and controlled-phase gates. The universality of G_{u} is established by showing that it can construct the universal set consisting of Hadamard, phase, \pi /8, and controlled-NOT gates. Sweep parameter values are provided which simulations indicate will produce the different gates in G_{u}, and for which the gate error probability P_{e} satisfies: (i) P_{e} < 10^{-4} for the one-qubit gates; and (ii) P_{e} < 1.27x 10^{-3} for the modified controlled-phase gate. The sweeps in this class are non-composite and generate controllable quantum interference effects that allow the gates in G_{u} to operate non-adiabatically while maintaining high fidelity. These interference effects have been observed using NMR, and it has previously been shown how these rapid passage sweeps can be applied to atomic systems using electric fields. Here we show how these sweeps can be applied to both superconducting charge and flux qubit systems. The simulations suggest that the universal set of gates G_{u} produced by these rapid passage sweeps shows promise as possible elements of a fault-tolerant scheme for quantum computing.

id: 0802.3551
title: Infinite quantum well: a coherent state approach
authors: P. L. Garcia de Leon, J. P. Gazeau, J. Queva
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3551
abstract: A new family of 2-component vector-valued coherent states for the quantum particle motion in an infinite square well potential is presented. They allow a consistent quantization of the classical phase space and observables for a particle in this potential. We then study the resulting position and (well-defined) momentum operators. We also consider their mean values in coherent states and their quantum dispersions.

id: 0802.3567
title: Dynamical kickback and non commuting impurities in a spin chain
authors: Diego de Falco, Dario Tamascelli
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, Workshop NIC@QS 2007 Proceedings; aesthetic changes, keyword added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3567
abstract: In an interacting continuous time quantum walk, while the walker (the cursor) is moving on a graph, computational primitives (unitary operators associated with the edges) are applied to ancillary qubits (the register). The model with one walker was originally proposed by R. Feynman, who thus anticipated many features of the Continuous Time Quantum Walk (CTWQ) computing paradigm. In this note we examine the behaviour of an interacting CTQW with two walkers and examine the interaction of the walkers with noncommuting primitives. We endow such a walk with a notion of trajectory, in the sense of sample path of an associated Markov process, in order to use such notions as sojourn time and first passage time as heuristic tools for gaining intuition about its behaviour.

id: 0802.3601
title: Auxiliary fields as a tool for computing analytical solutions of the Schr?dinger equation
authors: B. Silvestre-Brac, C. Semay, F. Buisseret
comments: 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 275301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3601
abstract: We propose a new method to obtain approximate solutions for the Schr\"{o}dinger equation with an arbitrary potential that possesses bound states. This method, relying on the auxiliary field technique, allows in many cases to find analytical solutions. It offers a convenient way to study the qualitative features of the energy spectrum of bound states in any potential. In particular, we illustrate our method by solving the case of central potentials with power-law form and with logarithmic form. For these types of potentials, we propose very accurate analytical energy formulae which improve a lot the corresponding formulae that can be found in literature.

id: 0802.3612
title: Universal quantum logic gates in a scalable Ising spin quantum computer
authors: G. F. Mkrtchian
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, Conference on Quantum Information and Quantum Control II, August 7-11, 2006, Cananda
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3612
abstract: We consider the model of quantum computer, which is represented as a Ising spin lattice, where qubits (spin-half systems) are separated by the isolators (two spin-half systems). In the idle mode or at the single bit operations the total spin of isolators is 0. There are no need of complicated protocols for correcting the phase and probability errors due to permanent interaction between the qubits. We present protocols for implementation of universal quantum gates with the rectangular radio-frequency pulses.

id: 0802.3625
title: The GMc-interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Christian Jansson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3625
abstract: The GMc-interpretation (Gravitation-Motion of mass-light with maximal speed c) is a consistent approach to quantum mechanics very closely related to classical physics. Several postulates are formulated that are satisfied in classical physics, general relativity theory, quantum theory and thermodynamics. In this interpretation, particles are always particles, never waves, and many paradoxes can be easily understood or avoided. In particular, the postulates allow to explain the measurement problem and the concept of interaction-free measurements; the latter allows to find objects without ``touching'' them, and sometimes the phrase ``seeing in the dark'' is used. Additionally, the concepts of complementarity, uncertainty, decoherence, locality and realism are investigated. One key property of this interpretation is that all observed probabilities and interference patterns are known before a particle is in the experiment. Ontological questions are discussed.

id: 0802.3631
title: Quantum gates and multi-particle entanglement by Rydberg excitation blockade and adiabatic passage
authors: Ditte Moller, Lars Bojer Madsen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3631
abstract: We propose to apply stimulated adiabatic passage to transfer atoms from their ground state into Rydberg excited states. Atoms a few micrometers apart experience a dipole-dipole interaction among Rydberg states that is strong enough to shift the atomic resonance and inhibit excitation of more than a single atom. We show that the adiabatic passage in the presence of this interaction between two atoms leads to robust creation of maximally entangled states and to two-bit quantum gates. For many atoms, the excitation blockade leads to an effective implementation of collective-spin and Jaynes-Cummings-like Hamiltonians, and we show that the adiabatic passage can be used to generate collective Jx=0 eigenstates and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states of tens of atoms.

id: 0802.3632
title: Geometry of quantum correlations
authors: Itamar Pitowsky
comments: Published version, slight change in title
journal: Physical Review A 77, 062109 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3632
abstract: Consider the set Q of quantum correlation vectors for two observers, each with two possible binary measurements. Quadric (hyperbolic) inequalities which are satisfied by every vector in Q are proved, and equality holds on a two dimensional manifold consisting of the local boxes, and all the quantum correlation vectors that maximally violate the Clauser, Horne, Shimony, and Holt (CHSH) inequality. The quadric inequalities are tightly related to CHSH, they are their iterated versions (equation 20). Consequently, it is proved that Q is contained in a hyperbolic cube whose axes lie along the non-local (Popescu, Rohrlich) boxes. As an application, a tight constraint on the rate of local boxes that must be present in every quantum correlation is derived. The inequalities allow testing the validity of quantum mechanics on the basis of data available from experiments which test the violation of CHSH. It is noted how these results can be generalized to the case of n sites, each with two possible binary measurements.

id: 0802.3670
title: Entanglement of Remote Spins with Unequal Coupling to an Optically Active Mediator
authors: Erik M. Gauger, Peter P. Rohde, A. Marshall Stoneham, Brendon W. Lovett
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 10 073027 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3670
abstract: We demonstrate that two remote qubits can be entangled through an optically active intermediary even if the coupling strengths between mediator and qubits are different. This is true for a broad class of interactions. We consider two contrasting scenarios. First, we extend the analysis of a previously studied gate operation which relies on pulsed, dynamical control of the optical state and which may be performed quickly. We show that remote spins can be entangled in this case even when the intermediary coupling strengths are unequal. Second, we propose an alternative adiabatic control procedure, and find that the system requirements become even less restrictive in this case. The scheme could be tested immediately in a range of systems including molecules, quantum dots, or defects in crystals.

id: 0802.3684
title: Multiplayer Quantum Games and its Application as Access Controller in Architecture of Quantum Computers
authors: Paulo Benicio, Melo de Sousa, Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3684
abstract: One of the basics tasks in computer systems is the control of access of resources. Basically, there is a finite amount of resources that can be, for example, the CPU, memory or I/O ports, and several processes requiring those resources. If there is not enough resource in order to attend the demand, some kind of control access has to be employed. In this work, recognizing the resource sharing problem as a competition, we employ a simplified multiplayer quantum game as an access controller. The proposed quantum game can be employed in the architecture of quantum computers.

id: 0802.3729
title: Problems in the theory of thermal Casimir force between dielectrics and semiconductors
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, B. Geyer
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures. Proceedings of QFEXT07, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor., v.41, N16, p.164032-(1-12), 2008.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3729
abstract: The application of the Lifshitz theory to describe the thermal Casimir force between dielectrics and semiconductors is considered. It is shown that for all true dielectrics (i.e., for all materials having zero conductivity at zero temperature) the inclusion of a nonzero conductivity arising at nonzero temperature into the model of dielectric response leads to the violation of the Nernst heat theorem. This result refers equally to simple insulators, intrinsic semiconductors, Mott-Hubbard dielectrics and doped semiconductors with doping concentration below a critical value. We demonstrate that in the insulator-metal transition the Casimir free energy changes abruptly irrespective of whether the conductivity changes continuously or discontinuously. The application of the Lifshitz formula to polar dielectrics results in large thermal correction that is linear in temperature. A rule is formulated on how to apply the Lifshitz theory to real materials in agreement with thermodynamics and experiment.

id: 0802.3733
title: Experimental procedures for precision measurements of the Casimir force with an Atomic Force Microscope
authors: Hsiang-Chih Chiu, Chia-Cheng Chang, R. Castillo-Garza, F. Chen, U. Mohideen
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3733
abstract: Experimental methods and procedures required for precision measurements of the Casimir force are presented. In particular, the best practices for obtaining stable cantilevers, calibration of the cantilever, correction of thermal and mechanical drift, measuring the contact separation, sphere radius and the roughness are discussed.

id: 0802.3749
title: Quantum walk on circles in phase space
authors: Peng Xue, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 10, 053025 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3749
abstract: We propose a variation of the quantum walk on a circle in phase space by conjoining the Hadamard coin flip with simultaneous displacement of the walker's location in phase space and show that this generalization is a proper quantum walk albeit over multiple concentric circles in phase instead of just over one circle. We motivate the conjoining of Hadamard and displacement operations by showing that the Jaynes-Cummings model for coin+walker approximately yields this description in the dispersive limit. The quantum walk signature is evident in the phase distribution of the walker provided that appropriate pulse durations are applied for each coin flip.

id: 0802.3788
title: Security proof of quantum key distribution with detection efficiency mismatch
authors: Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Kiyoshi Tamaki, Bing Qi, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Xiongfeng Ma
comments: 35 pages, 7 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, vol. 9, pp. 0131-0165 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3788
abstract: In theory, quantum key distribution (QKD) offers unconditional security based on the laws of physics. However, as demonstrated in recent quantum hacking theory and experimental papers, detection efficiency loophole can be fatal to the security of practical QKD systems. Here, we describe the physical origin of detection efficiency mismatch in various domains including spatial, spectral, and time domains and in various experimental set-ups. More importantly, we prove the unconditional security of QKD even with detection efficiency mismatch. We explicitly show how the key generation rate is characterized by the maximal detection efficiency ratio between the two detectors. Furthermore, we prove that by randomly switching the bit assignments of the detectors, the effect of detection efficiency mismatch can be completely eliminated.

id: 0802.3828
title: Decoherence by a spin thermal bath: Role of the spin-spin interactions and initial state of the bath
authors: Shengjun Yuan, Mikhail I. Katsnelson, Hans De Raedt
comments: submitted to PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 184301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3828
abstract: We study the decoherence of two coupled spins that interact with a spin-bath environment. It is shown that the connectivity and the coupling strength between the spins in the environment are of crucial importance for the decoherence of the central system. For the anisotropic spin-bath, changing the connectivity or coupling strenghts changes the decoherence of the central system from Gaussian to exponential decay law. The initial state of the environment is shown to affect the decoherence process in a qualitatively significant manner.

id: 0802.3853
title: On the interpretative essence of the term "interaction-free measurement": The role of entanglement
authors: R. M. Angelo
comments: accepted in Found. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3853
abstract: The polemical term "interaction-free measurement" (IFM) is analyzed in its interpretative nature. Two seminal works proposing the term are revisited and their underlying interpretations are assessed. The role played by nonlocal quantum correlations (entanglement) is formally discussed and some controversial conceptions in the original treatments are identified. As a result the term IFM is shown to be consistent neither with the standard interpretation of quantum mechanics nor with the lessons provided by the EPR debate.

id: 0802.3862
title: Process POVM: A mathematical framework for the description of process tomography experiments
authors: Mario Ziman
comments: 4 pages, comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062112 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3862
abstract: In this paper we shall introduce the mathematical framework for the description of measurements of quantum processes. Using this framework the process estimation problems can be treated in the similar way as the state estimation problems, only replacing the concept of positive operator valued measure (POVM) by the concept of process POVM (PPOVM). In particular, we will show that any measurement of qudit channels can be described by a collection of effects (positive operators) defined on two-qudit system. However, the effects forming a PPOVM are not normalized in the usual sense. We will demonstrate the usage of this formalism in discrimination problems by showing that perfect channel discrimination is equivalent to a specific unambiguous state discrimination.

id: 0802.3892
title: Incomplete quantum process tomography and principle of maximal entropy
authors: Mario Ziman
comments: 8 pages, comments welcome, references added
journal: Phys.Rev.A 78, 032118 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3892
abstract: The main goal of this paper is to extend and apply the principle of maximum entropy (MaxEnt) to incomplete quantum process estimation tasks. We will define a so-called process entropy function being the von Neumann entropy of the state associated with the quantum process via Choi-Jamiolkowski isomorphism. It will be shown that an arbitrary process estimation experiment can be reformulated in a unified framework and MaxEnt principle can be consistently exploited. We will argue that the suggested choice for the process entropy satisfies natural list of properties and it reduces to the state MaxEnt principle, if applied to preparator devices.

id: 0802.3896
title: Optimal tracking for pairs of qubit states
authors: Paulo E. M. F. Mendonca, Alexei Gilchrist, Andrew C. Doherty
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures. Extensive revision of text, optimality results extended, other physical applications included
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 78, 012319 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3896
abstract: In classical control theory, tracking refers to the ability to perform measurements and feedback on a classical system in order to enforce some desired dynamics. In this paper we investigate a simple version of quantum tracking, namely, we look at how to optimally transform the state of a single qubit into a given target state, when the system can be prepared in two different ways, and the target state depends on the choice of preparation. We propose a tracking strategy that is proved to be optimal for any input and target states. Applications in the context of state discrimination, state purification, state stabilization and state-dependent quantum cloning are presented, where existing optimality results are recovered and extended.

id: 0802.3972
title: Exotic quantum phase transitions in a Bose-Einstein condensate coupled to an optical cavity
authors: Gang Chen, Xiaoguang Wang, J.-Q. Liang, Z. D. Wang
comments: 4 pages; figures 1 and 3 are modified; topos are corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 023634 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3972
abstract: A new extended Dicke model, which includes atom-atom interactions and a driving classical laser field, is established for a Bose-Einstein condensate inside an ultrahigh-finesse optical cavity. A feasible experimental setup with a strong atom-field coupling is proposed, where most parameters are easily controllable and thus the predicted second-order superradiant-normal phase transition may be detected by measuring the ground-state atomic population. More intriguingly, a novel second-order phase transition from the superradiant phase to the \textquotedblleft Mott" phase is also revealed. In addition, a rich and exotic phase diagram is presented.

id: 0802.3980
title: A deeper insight into quantum state transfer from an information flux viewpoint
authors: C. Di Franco, M. Paternostro, G. M. Palma
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 6, Supp. 1, 659 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3980
abstract: We use the recently introduced concept of information flux in a many-body register in order to give an alternative viewpoint on quantum state transfer in linear chains of many spins.

id: 0802.4008
title: Dynamic symmetry approach to entanglement
authors: Alexander Klyachko
comments: An extended lecture in Cargese, Corsica, France, Oct 2005, 30 pages
journal: Proc. NATO Advance Study Inst. on Physics and theoretical computer science, J.-P. Gazeau, et al ed, IOS Press. Amsterdam, 2007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4008
abstract: In this lectures I explain a connection between geometric invariant theory and entanglement, and give a number of examples how this approach works.

id: 0802.4051
title: Epsilon-measures of entanglement
authors: Caterina Mora, Marco Piani, Hans Briegel
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 2008 New J. Phys. 10 083027 (15pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4051
abstract: We associate to every entanglement measure a family of measures which depend on a precision parameter, and which we call epsilon-measures of entanglement. Their definition aims at addressing a realistic scenario in which we need to estimate the amount of entanglement in a state that is only partially known. We show that many properties of the original measure are inherited by the family, in particular weak monotonicity under transformations applied by means of Local Operations and Classical Communication (LOCC). On the other hand, they may increase on average under stochastic LOCC. Remarkably, the epsilon-version of a convex entanglement measure is continuous even if the original entanglement measure is not, so that the epsilon-version of an entanglement measure may be actually considered a smoothed version of it.

id: 0802.4053
title: Reconciling Semiclassical and Bohmian Mechanics: III. Scattering states for continuous potentials
authors: Corey Trahan, Bill Poirier
comments: 16 pages and 14 figures
journal: C. Trahan and B. Poirier, J. Chem. Phys. 124, 034116 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4053
abstract: In a previous paper [J. Chem. Phys. 121 4501 (2004)] a unique bipolar decomposition, Psi = Psi1 + Psi2 was presented for stationary bound states Psi of the one-dimensional Schroedinger equation, such that the components Psi1 and Psi2 approach their semiclassical WKB analogs in the large action limit. The corresponding bipolar quantum trajectories, as defined in the usual Bohmian mechanical formulation, are classical-like and well-behaved, even when Psi has many nodes, or is wildly oscillatory. A modification for discontinuous potential stationary stattering states was presented in a second paper [J. Chem. Phys. 124 034115 (2006)], whose generalization for continuous potentials is given here. The result is an exact quantum scattering methodology using classical trajectories. For additional convenience in handling the tunneling case, a constant velocity trajectory version is also developed.

id: 0802.4055
title: Bifurcations, order, and chaos in the Bose-Einstein condensation of dipolar gases
authors: Patrick K?berle, Holger Cartarius, Toma? Fab?i?, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, minor changes in the text and additional reference added
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 023017
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4055
abstract: We apply a variational technique to solve the time-dependent Gross-Pitaevskii equation for Bose-Einstein condensates in which an additional dipole-dipole interaction between the atoms is present with the goal of modelling the dynamics of such condensates. We show that universal stability thresholds for the collapse of the condensates correspond to bifurcation points where always two stationary solutions of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation disappear in a tangent bifurcation, one dynamically stable and the other unstable. We point out that the thresholds also correspond to "exceptional points," i.e. branching singularities of the Hamiltonian. We analyse the dynamics of excited condensate wave functions via Poincare surfaces of section for the condensate parameters and find both regular and chaotic motion, corresponding to (quasi-) periodically oscillating and irregularly fluctuating condensates, respectively. Stable islands are found to persist up to energies well above the saddle point of the mean-field energy, alongside with collapsing modes. The results are applicable when the shape of the condensate is axisymmetric.

id: 0802.4069
title: Reconciling Semiclassical and Bohmian Mechanics: II. Scattering states for discontinuous potentials
authors: Corey Trahan, Bill Poirier
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures
journal: C. Trahan and B. Poirier, J. Chem. Phys. 124. 034115 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4069
abstract: In a previous paper [J. Chem. Phys. 121 4501 (2004)] a unique bipolar decomposition, Psi = Psi1 + Psi2 was presented for stationary bound states Psi of the one-dimensional Schroedinger equation, such that the components Psi1 and Psi2 approach their semiclassical WKB analogs in the large action limit. Moreover, by applying the Madelung-Bohm ansatz to the components rather than to Psi itself, the resultant bipolar Bohmian mechanical formulation satisfies the correspondence principle. As a result, the bipolar quantum trajectories are classical-like and well-behaved, even when Psi has many nodes, or is wildly oscillatory. In this paper, the previous decomposition scheme is modified in order to achieve the same desirable properties for stationary scattering states. Discontinuous potential systems are considered (hard wall, step, square barrier/well), for which the bipolar quantum potential is found to be zero everywhere, except at the discontinuities. This approach leads to an exact numerical method for computing stationary scattering states of any desired boundary conditions, and reflection and transmission probabilities. The continuous potential case will be considered in a future publication.

id: 0802.4072
title: Simulating the Quantum Magnet
authors: Axel Friedenauer, Hector Schmitz, Jan Tibor Gl¨¹ckert, Diego Porras, Tobias Sch?tz
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4072
abstract: To gain deeper insight into the dynamics of complex quantum systems we need a quantum leap in computer simulations. We can not translate quantum behaviour arising with superposition states or entanglement efficiently into the classical language of conventional computers. The final solution to this problem is a universal quantum computer [1], suggested in 1982 and envisioned to become functional within the next decade(s); a shortcut was proposed via simulating the quantum behaviour of interest in a different quantum system, where all parameters and interactions can be controlled and the outcome detected sufficiently well. Here we study the feasibility of a quantum simulator based on trapped ions [2]. We experimentally simulate the adiabatic evolution of the smallest non-trivial spin system from the paramagnetic into the (anti-)ferromagnetic order with a quantum magnetisation for two spins of 98%, controlling and manipulating all relevant parameters of the Hamiltonian independently via electromagnetic fields. We prove that the observed transition is not driven by thermal fluctuations, but of quantum mechanical origin, the source of quantum fluctuations in quantum phase transitions [3]. We observe a final superposition state of the two degenerate spin configurations for the ferromagnetic and the antiferromagnetic order, respectively. These correspond to deterministically entangled states achieved with a fidelity up to 88%. Our work demonstrates a building block for simulating quantum spin-Hamiltonians with trapped ions. The method has potential for scaling to a higher number of coupled spins [2].

id: 0802.4091
title: Quantum theory of electron tunneling into intersubband cavity polariton states
authors: Simone De Liberato, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 79 (2009) 075317
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4091
abstract: Through a non-perturbative quantum theory, we investigate how the quasi-electron excitations of a two-dimensional electron gas are modified by strong coupling to the vacuum field of a microcavity. We show that the electronic dressed states originate from a Fano-like coupling between the bare electron states and the continuum of intersubband cavity polariton excitations. In particular, we calculate the electron spectral function modified by light-matter interactions and its impact on the electronic injection of intersubband cavity polaritons. The domain of validity of the present theoretical results is critically discussed. We show that resonant electron tunneling from a narrow-band injector can selectively excite superradiant states and produce efficient intersubband polariton electroluminescence.

id: 0802.4114
title: Continuous monitoring can improve indistinguishability of a single-photon source
authors: Shesha Raghunathan, Todd Brun
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 033831 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4114
abstract: A new engineering technique using continuous quantum measurement in conjunction with feed-forward is proposed to improve indistinguishability of a single-photon source. The technique involves continuous monitoring of the state of the emitter, processing the noisy output signal with a simple linear estimation algorithm, and feed forward to control a variable delay at the output. In the weak coupling regime, the information gained by monitoring the state of the emitter is used to reduce the time uncertainty inherent in photon emission from the source, which improves the indistinguishability of the emitted photons.

id: 0802.4118
title: A Quantum-Enhanced Prototype Gravitational-Wave Detector
authors: Keisuke Goda, Osamu Miyakawa, Eugeniy E. Mikhailov, Shailendhar Saraf, Rana Adhikari, Kirk McKenzie, Robert Ward, Steve Vass, Alan J. Weinstein, Nergis Mavalvala
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. Accepted for publication in Nature Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4118
abstract: The quantum nature of the electromagnetic field imposes a fundamental limit on the sensitivity of optical precision measurements such as spectroscopy, microscopy, and interferometry. The so-called quantum limit is set by the zero-point fluctuations of the electromagnetic field, which constrain the precision with which optical signals can be measured. In the world of precision measurement, laser-interferometric gravitational wave (GW) detectors are the most sensitive position meters ever operated, capable of measuring distance changes on the order of 10^-18 m RMS over kilometer separations caused by GWs from astronomical sources. The sensitivity of currently operational and future GW detectors is limited by quantum optical noise. Here we demonstrate a 44% improvement in displacement sensitivity of a prototype GW detector with suspended quasi-free mirrors at frequencies where the sensitivity is shot-noise-limited, by injection of a squeezed state of light. This demonstration is a critical step toward implementation of squeezing-enhancement in large-scale GW detectors.

id: 0802.4137
title: Fault-tolerant quantum computation in concatenation of verified cluster states
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Katsuji Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. v2:improved version
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1110, 141 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4137
abstract: A novel scheme is presented for fault-tolerant quantum computation based on the cluster model. Some relevant logical cluster states are constructed in concatenation by post-selection through verification, without necessity of recovery operation, where a suitable code such as the Steane's 7-qubit code is adopted for transversal operations. This simple concatenated construction of verified cluster states achieves a high noise threshold ~1%, and restrains the divergence of resources.

id: 0802.4144
title: A frustrated nanomechanical device powered by the lateral Casimir force
authors: MirFaez Miri, Ramin Golestanian
comments: 3 pages, to appear in Applied Physics Letters
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 92, 113103 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4144
abstract: The coupling between corrugated surfaces due to the lateral Casimir force is employed to propose a nanoscale mechanical device composed of two racks and a pinion. The noncontact nature of the interaction allows for the system to be made frustrated by choosing the two racks to move in the same direction and forcing the pinion to choose between two opposite directions. This leads to a rich and sensitive phase behavior, which makes the device potentially useful as a mechanical {\em sensor} or {\em amplifier}. The device could also be used to make a mechanical {\em clock} signal of tunable frequency.

id: 0802.4155
title: The Security of Practical Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Valerio Scarani, Helle Bechmann-Pasquinucci, Nicolas J. Cerf, Miloslav Dusek, Norbert Lutkenhaus, Momtchil Peev
comments: Identical to the published version, up to cosmetic editorial changes
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 81, 1301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4155
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) is the first quantum information task to reach the level of mature technology, already fit for commercialization. It aims at the creation of a secret key between authorized partners connected by a quantum channel and a classical authenticated channel. The security of the key can in principle be guaranteed without putting any restriction on the eavesdropper's power. The first two sections provide a concise up-to-date review of QKD, biased toward the practical side. The rest of the paper presents the essential theoretical tools that have been developed to assess the security of the main experimental platforms (discrete variables, continuous variables and distributed-phase-reference protocols).

id: 0802.4160
title: Deterministic Quantum Distribution of a d-ary key
authors: Anita Eusebi, Stefano Mancini
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Quant. Inf. & Comp. Vol. 9, No.11&12 (2009) pp. 950-962
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4160
abstract: We present an extension to a d-ary alphabet of a recently proposed deterministic quantum key distribution protocol. It relies on the use of mutually unbiased bases in prime power dimension d, for which we provide an explicit expression. Then, by considering a powerful individual attack, we show that the security of the protocol is maximal for d=3.

id: 0802.4167
title: Coexistence of qubit effects
authors: Paul Busch, Heinz-J¨¹rgen Schmidt
comments: Version 3 gives much improved structure, more elegant approach, simpler form of result, and proof of equivalence with other approaches in the literature; in Quantum Information Processing (2009)
journal: Quantum Information Processing 9 (2010) 143-169
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4167
abstract: Two quantum events, represented by positive operators (effects), are coexistent if they can occur as possible outcomes in a single measurement scheme. Equivalently, the corresponding effects are coexistent if and only if they are contained in the ranges of a single (joint) observable. Here we give several equivalent characterizations of coexistent pairs of qubit effects. We also establish the equivalence between our results and those obtained independently by other authors. Our approach makes explicit use of the Minkowski space geometry inherent in the four-dimensional real vector space of selfadjoint operators in a two-dimensional complex Hilbert space.

id: 0802.4172
title: Memory effects in a Markov chain dephasing channel
authors: Antonio D'Arrigo, Elena De Leo, Giuliano Benenti, Giuseppe Falci
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, NIC@QS proceedings
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 6, 651 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4172
abstract: We study a dephasing channel with memory, modelled by a Markov chain. We show that even weak memory effects have a detrimental impact on the performance of quantum error correcting schemes designed for uncorrelated errors. We also discuss an alternative scheme that takes advantage of memory effects to protect quantum information.

id: 0802.4193
title: A remark on the paper ``Randomizing quantum states: Constructions and applications''
authors: Guillaume Aubrun
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4193
abstract: The concept of $\e$-randomizing quantum channels has been introduced by Hayden, Leung, Shor and Winter in connection with approximately encrypting quantum states. They proved using a discretization argument that sets of roughly $d \log d$ random unitary operators provide examples of such channels on $\C^d$. We show that a simple trick improves the efficiency of the argument and reduces the number of unitary operators to roughly $d$.

id: 0802.4195
title: Gradient Flows for Optimisation and Quantum Control: Foundations and Applications
authors: T. Schulte-Herbrueggen, S.J. Glaser, G. Dirr, U. Helmke
comments: updated version with further references
journal: Rev. Math. Phys. 22 (2010) 597--667
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4195
abstract: For addressing optimisation tasks on finite dimensional quantum systems, we give a comprehensive account of the foundations of gradient flows on Riemannian manifolds including new developments: we extend former results from Lie groups such as the full unitary group to closed subgroups like partitionings by factorisation into tensor products, where the finest partitioning consists of purely local unitary operations. Moreover, the common framework is kept sufficiently general and allows for setting up gradient flows on (sub-)manifolds, Lie (sub-)groups, quotient groups, and reductive homogeneous spaces. Relevant convergence conditions are discussed meant to serve as justification for recent and new achievements, and as foundation for further research. Exploiting the differential geometry of quantum dynamics under different scenarios helps to provide highly useful algorithms: (a) On an abstract level, gradient flows may establish the exact upper bounds of pertinent quality functions, i.e. upper bounds reachable within the underlying manifold of the state space dynamics; (b) in a second stage referring to a concrete experimental setting, gradient flows on the manifold of piecewise constant control amplitudes $\R^m$ may be set up to provide (approximations to) optimal control of quantum devices under realistic conditions. Illustrative examples and new applications are given relating to distance measures of pure-state entanglement. We establish the correspondence to best rank-1 approximations of higher-order tensors.

id: 0802.4236
title: Frame transforms, star products and quantum mechanics on phase space
authors: P. Aniello, V.I. Man'ko, G. Marmo
comments: 48 pages
journal: J.Phys.A41:285304,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4236
abstract: Using the notions of frame transform and of square integrable projective representation of a locally compact group $G$, we introduce a class of isometries (tight frame transforms) from the space of Hilbert-Schmidt operators in the carrier Hilbert space of the representation into the space of square integrable functions on the direct product group $G\times G$. These transforms have remarkable properties. In particular, their ranges are reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces endowed with a suitable 'star product' which mimics, at the level of functions, the original product of operators. A 'phase space formulation' of quantum mechanics relying on the frame transforms introduced in the present paper, and the link of these maps with both the Wigner transform and the wavelet transform are discussed.

id: 0802.4246
title: Physical realization of coupled Hilbert-space mirrors for quantum-state engineering
authors: E. S. Kyoseva, N. V. Vitanov, B. W. Shore
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 54, 2237-2257 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4246
abstract: Manipulation of superpositions of discrete quantum states has a mathematical counterpart in the motion of a unit-length statevector in an N-dimensional Hilbert space. Any such statevector motion can be regarded as a succession of two-dimensional rotations. But the desired statevector change can also be treated as a succession of reflections, the generalization of Householder transformations. In multidimensional Hilbert space such reflection sequences offer more efficient procedures for statevector manipulation than do sequences of rotations. We here show how such reflections can be designed for a system with two degenerate levels - a generalization of the traditional two-state atom - that allows the construction of propagators for angular momentum states. We use the Morris-Shore transformation to express the propagator in terms of Morris-Shore basis states and Cayley-Klein parameters, which allows us to connect properties of laser pulses to Hilbert-space motion. Under suitable conditions on the couplings and the common detuning, the propagators within each set of degenerate states represent products of generalized Householder reflections, with orthogonal vectors. We propose physical realizations of this novel geometrical object with resonant, near-resonant and far-off-resonant laser pulses. We give several examples of implementations in real atoms or molecules.

id: 0802.4248
title: Coexistence of qubit effects
authors: Peter Stano, Daniel Reitzner, Teiko Heinosaari
comments: A paper with identical title is being published on the arXiv simultaneously by P. Busch and H.-J. Schmidt. These authors solve the same problem independently with a different method. In v2 the proof of the main result has been clarified, and some minor errors have been corrected. In v3 some typos have been corrected and a reference has been added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012315 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4248
abstract: We characterize all coexistent pairs of qubit effects. This gives an exhaustive description of all pairs of events allowed, in principle, to occur in a single qubit measurement. The characterization consists of three disjoint conditions which are easy to check for a given pair of effects. Known special cases are shown to follow from our general characterization theorem.

id: 0802.4254
title: Coherent pulsed excitation of degenerate multistate systems: Exact analytic solutions
authors: E. S. Kyoseva, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 73, 023420 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4254
abstract: We show that the solution of a multistate system composed of N degenerate lower (ground) states and one upper (excited) state can be reduced by using the Morris-Shore transformation to the solution of a two-state system involving only the excited state and a (bright) superposition of ground states. In addition, there are N-1 dark states composed of ground states. We use this decomposition to derive analytical solutions for degenerate extensions of the most popular exactly soluble models: the resonance solution, the Rabi, Landau-Zener, Rosen-Zener, Allen-Eberly and Demkov-Kunike models. We suggest various applications of the multistate solutions, for example, as tools for creating multistate coherent superpositions by generalized resonant pi-pulses. We show that such generalized pi-pulses can occur even when the upper state is far off resonance, at special detunings, which makes it possible to operate in the degenerate ground-state manifold without populating the (possibly lossy) upper state, even transiently.

id: 0802.4270
title: Propagation Rules of Subsystem Codes
authors: Salah A. Aly
comments: Private comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4270
abstract: We demonstrate propagation rules of subsystem code constructions by extending, shortening and combining given subsystem codes. Given an $[[n,k,r,d]]_q$ subsystem code, we drive new subsystem codes with parameters $[[n+1,k,r,\geq d]]_q$, $[[n-1,k+1,r,\geq d-1]]_q$, $[[n,k-1,r+1,d]]_q$. The interested readers shall consult our companion papers for upper and lower bounds on subsystem codes parameters, and introduction, trading dimensions, families, and references on subsystem codes [1][2][3] and references therein.

id: 0802.4276
title: Fermion- and Spin-Counting in Strongly Correlated Systems
authors: Sibylle Braungardt, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Roy J. Glauber, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 063613 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4276
abstract: We apply the atom counting theory to strongly correlated Fermi systems and spin models, which can be realized with ultracold atoms. The counting distributions are typically sub-Poissonian and remain smooth at quantum phase transitions, but their moments exhibit critical behavior, and characterize quantum statistical properties of the system. Moreover, more detailed characterizations are obtained with experimentally feasible spatially resolved counting distributions.

id: 0802.4287
title: Delayed (sudden) birth of entanglement
authors: Z. Ficek, R. Tanas
comments: References added, version accepted for publication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4287
abstract: The concept of time delayed creation of entanglement by the dissipative process of spontaneous emission is investigated. A threshold effect for the creation of entanglement is found that the initially unentangled qubits can be entangled after a finite time despite the fact that the coherence between the qubits exists for all times. This delayed creation of entanglement, that we call sudden birth of entanglement, is opposite to the currently extensively discussed sudden death of entanglement and is characteristic for transient dynamics of one-photon entangled states of the system. We determine the threshold time for the creation of entanglement and find that it is related to time at which the antisymmetric state remains the only excited state being populated. It is shown that the threshold time can be controlled by the distance between the qubits and the direction of initial excitation relative to the interatomic axis. This effect suggests a new alternative for the study of entanglement and provides an interesting resource for creation on demand of entanglement between two qubits.

id: 0802.4314
title: Identifying phases of quantum many-body systems that are universal for quantum computation
authors: Andrew C. Doherty, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, comments welcome; v2 has had many technical detailed removed, and gives a simplified presentation; v3 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 020506 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4314
abstract: Quantum computation can proceed solely through single-qubit measurements on an appropriate quantum state, such as the ground state of an interacting many-body system. We investigate a simple spin-lattice system based on the cluster-state model, and by using nonlocal correlation functions that quantify the fidelity of quantum gates performed between distant qubits, we demonstrate that it possesses a quantum (zero-temperature) phase transition between a disordered phase and an ordered "cluster phase" in which it is possible to perform a universal set of quantum gates.

id: 0802.4327
title: Irreversibility of entanglement loss
authors: Francesco Buscemi
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, llncs.sty; contribution to the proceedings of TQC2008, Tokyo. Few typos corrected. To appear in: [Y. Kawano and M. Mosca (eds.): TQC 2008, LNCS 5106, pp.16-28, 2008]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4327
abstract: The action of a channel on a quantum system, when non trivial, always causes deterioration of initial quantum resources, understood as the entanglement initially shared by the input system with some reference purifying it. One effective way to measure such a deterioration is by measuring the loss of coherent information, namely the difference between the initial coherent information and the final one: such a difference is ``small'', if and only if the action of the channel can be ``almost perfectly'' corrected with probability one. In this work, we generalise this result to different entanglement loss functions, notably including the entanglement of formation loss, and prove that many inequivalent entanglement measures lead to equivalent conditions for approximate quantum error correction. In doing this, we show how different measures of bipartite entanglement give rise to corresponding distance-like functions between quantum channels, and we investigate how these induced distances are related to the cb-norm.

id: 0802.4342
title: Moving system with speeded-up evolution
authors: M. I. Shirokov
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4342
abstract: In the classical (non-quantum) relativity theory the course of the moving clock is dilated as compared to the course of the clock at rest (the Einstein dilation). Any unstable system may be regarded as a clock. The time evolution (e.g., the decay) of a uniformly moving physical system is considered using the relativistic quantum theory. The example of a moving system is given whose evolution turns out to be speeded-up instead of being dilated. A discussion of this paradoxical result is presented.

id: 0802.4355
title: Multi-Cell Traps for Registering of Cold Atom Clouds
authors: G.A. Kouzaev, K.J. Sand
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4355
abstract: In this letter, the results on the development and simulation of new three-dimensional nanotraps for cold dressed atoms are considered. The traps are the multi-cell structures built by crossed non-touching carbon nanotubes. The trapping effect is tuned by the DC and RF currents to confine the strong- or low-potential seeking atoms far enough from the areas of strong Casimir-Polder and spin-flip forces. It is supposed that the developed and simulated multi-cell structures are pertinent for catching the Bose-Einstein condensates to demonstrate the Josephson effect, and to enable the study of the entanglement of confined clouds in three-dimensional nano-cells.

id: 0802.4356
title: On canonical pairs in 2-transverse-mode DOPOs
authors: Carlos Navarrete-Benlloch, Eugenio Roldan, German J. de Valcarcel
comments: This notes are support material for a previous work (arxiv: 0709.0212v2 [quant-ph])
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4356
abstract: In ref. [1] we analyzed the properties of a Degenerate Optical Parametric Oscillator (DOPO) tuned to the first transverse mode family at the signal frequency. Above threshold, a Hermite-Gauss mode with an arbitrary orientation in the transverse plane is emitted, and thus the rotational invariance of the system is broken. When quantum effects were taken into account, it was found on the one hand, that quantum noise is able to induce a random rotation on this classically emitted mode. On the other hand, the analysis of a balanced homodyne detection in which the local oscillator (LO) was orthogonal to the excited mode at any time, showed that squeezing in the quadrature selected by the LO was found for every phase of this one, squeezing being perfect for a pi/2 phase. This last fact revealed an apparent paradox: If all quadratures are below shot noise level, the uncertainty principle seems to be violated. In [1] we stated that the explanation behind this paradox is that the quadratures of the rotating orthogonal mode do not form a canonical pair, and the extra noise is transferred to the diffusing orientation. Thes notes are devoted to prove this claim.

id: 0802.4362
title: Quantum reflection of bright matter-wave solitons
authors: S. L. Cornish, N. G. Parker, A. M. Martin, T. E. Judd, R. G. Scott, T. M. Fromhold, C. S. Adams
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures. Submitted to special issue of Physica D on "Nonlinear dynamics in degenerate quantum gases"
journal: Physica D 238, 1299-1305 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4362
abstract: We propose the use of bright matter-wave solitons formed from Bose-Einstein condensates with attractive interactions to probe and study quantum reflection from a solid surface at normal incidence. We demonstrate that the presence of attractive interatomic interactions leads to a number of advantages for the study of quantum reflection. The absence of dispersion as the soliton propagates allows precise control of the velocity normal to the surface and for much lower velocities to be achieved. Numerical modelling shows that the robust, self-trapped nature of bright solitons leads to a clean reflection from the surface, limiting the disruption of the density profile and permitting accurate measurements of the reflection probability.

id: 0802.4384
title: Demonstration of Ultra Low Dissipation Optomechanical Resonators on a Chip
authors: G. Anetsberger, R. Rivi¨¨re, A. Schliesser, O. Arcizet, T. J. Kippenberg
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4384
abstract: Cavity-enhanced radiation-pressure coupling of optical and mechanical degrees of freedom gives rise to a range of optomechanical phenomena, in particular providing a route to the quantum regime of mesoscopic mechanical oscillators. A prime challenge in cavity optomechanics has however been to realize systems which simultaneously maximize optical finesse and mechanical quality. Here we demonstrate for the first time independent control over both mechanical and optical degree of freedom within one and the same on-chip resonator. The first direct observation of mechanical normal mode coupling in a micromechanical system allows for a quantitative understanding of mechanical dissipation. Subsequent optimization of the resonator geometry enables intrinsic material loss limited mechanical Q-factors, rivalling the best values reported in the high MHz frequency range, while simultaneously preserving the resonators' ultra-high optical finesse. Besides manifesting a complete understanding of mechanical dissipation in microresonator based optomechanical systems, our results provide an ideal setting for cavity optomechanics.

id: 0802.4406
title: Holographic quantum computing
authors: Karl Tordrup, Antonio Negretti, Klaus Molmer
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 040501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4406
abstract: We propose that a single mesoscopic ensemble of trapped polar molecules can support a "holographic quantum computer" with hundreds of qubits encoded in collective excitations with definite spatial phase variations. Each phase pattern is uniquely addressed by optical Raman processes with classical optical fields, while one- and two-qubit gates are accomplished by selectively transferring the individual qubit states to a stripline microwave cavity field and a Cooper pair box where controllable two-level unitary dynamics is governed by classical microwave fields.

id: 0802.4441
title: Hong-Ou-Mandel dip using photon pairs from a PPLN waveguide
authors: Qiang Zhang, Hiroki Takesue, Carsten Langrock, Xiuping Xie, M. M. Fejer, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 5 Pages, 2 figures
journal: Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 49 (2010) 064401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4441
abstract: We experimentally observed a Hong-Ou-Mandle dip with photon pairs generated in a periodically poled reverse-proton-exchange lithium niobate waveguide with an integrated mode demultiplexer at a wavelength of 1.5 um. The visibility of the dip in the experiment was 80% without subtraction of any noise terms at a peak pump power of 4.4 mW. The new technology developed in the experiment can find various applications in the research field of linear optics quantum computation in fiber or quantum optical coherence tomography with near infrared photon pairs.

id: 0802.0379
title: Creation and Manipulation of Anyons in the Kitaev Model
authors: S. Dusuel, K. P. Schmidt, J. Vidal
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 177204 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0379
abstract: We analyze the effect of local spin operators in the Kitaev model on the honeycomb lattice. We show, in perturbation around the isolated-dimer limit, that they create Abelian anyons together with fermionic excitations which are likely to play a role in experiments. We derive the explicit form of the operators creating and moving Abelian anyons without creating fermions and show that it involves multi-spin operations. Finally, the important experimental constraints stemming from our results are discussed.

id: 0802.0447
title: String order and symmetries in quantum spin lattices
authors: D. Perez-Garcia, M.M. Wolf, M. Sanz, F. Verstraete, J.I. Cirac
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 167202 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0447
abstract: We show that the existence of string order in a given quantum state is intimately related to the presence of a local symmetry by proving that both concepts are equivalent within the framework of finitely correlated states. Once this connection is established, we provide a complete characterization of local symmetries in these states. The results allow to understand in a straightforward way many of the properties of string order parameters, like their robustness/fragility under perturbations and their typical disappearance beyond strictly one-dimensional lattices. We propose and discuss an alternative definition, ideally suited for detecting phase transitions, and generalizations to two and more spatial dimensions.

id: 0802.0465
title: Monocrystalline AlGaAs heterostructures for high-reflectivity high-Q micromechanical resonators in the MHz regime
authors: Garrett D. Cole, Simon Groeblacher, Katharina Gugler, Sylvain Gigan, Markus Aspelmeyer
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 92, 261108 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0465
abstract: We present high-performance megahertz micromechanical oscillators based on freestanding epitaxial AlGaAs distributed Bragg reflectors. Compared with dielectric reflectors, the low mechanical loss of the monocrystalline heterostructure gives rise to significant improvements in the achievable mechanical quality factor Q while simultaneously exhibiting near unity reflectivity. Experimental characterization yields an optical reflectivity exceeding 99.98% and mechanical quality factors up to 20 000 at 4 K. This materials system is not only an interesting candidate for optical coatings with ultralow thermal noise, but also provides a promising path toward quantum optical control of massive micromechanical mirrors.

id: 0802.0551
title: Inverse square problem and so(2,1) symmetry in noncommutative space
authors: Pulak Ranjan Giri
comments: 5 pages, Revised version
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A24:2655-2663,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0551
abstract: We study the quantum mechanics of a system with inverse square potential in noncommutative space. Both the coordinates and momentums are considered to be noncommutative, which breaks the original so(2,1) symmetry. The energy levels and eigenfunctions are obtained. The generators of the so(2,1) algebra are also studied in noncommutative phase space and the commutators are calculated, which shows that the so(2,1) algebra obtained in noncommutative space is not closed. However the commutative limit \Theta,\bar{\Theta}\to 0 for the algebra smoothly goes to the standard so(2,1) algebra.

id: 0802.0695
title: Superpositions of Probability Distributions
authors: Petr Jizba, Hagen Kleinert
comments: 23 pages, RevTeX, minor changes, accepted to Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 78 (2008) 031122
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0695
abstract: Probability distributions which can be obtained from superpositions of Gaussian distributions of different variances v = \sigma ^2 play a favored role in quantum theory and financial markets. Such superpositions need not necessarily obey the Chapman-Kolmogorov semigroup relation for Markovian processes because they may introduce memory effects. We derive the general form of the smearing distributions in v which do not destroy the semigroup property. The smearing technique has two immediate applications. It permits simplifying the system of Kramers-Moyal equations for smeared and unsmeared conditional probabilities, and can be conveniently implemented in the path integral calculus. In many cases, the superposition of path integrals can be evaluated much easier than the initial path integral. Three simple examples are presented, and it is shown how the technique is extended to quantum mechanics.

id: 0802.0836
title: Sub-Doppler laser cooling and magnetic trapping of erbium
authors: Andrew J. Berglund, Siu Au Lee, Jabez J. McClelland
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 053418 (2007)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0836
abstract: We investigate cooling mechanisms in magneto-optically and magnetically trapped erbium. We find efficient sub-Doppler cooling in our trap, which can persist even in large magnetic fields due to the near degeneracy of two Lande g factors. Furthermore, a continuously loaded magnetic trap is demonstrated where we observe temperatures below 25 microkelvin. These favorable cooling and trapping properties suggest a number of scientific possibilities for rare-earth atomic physics, including narrow linewidth laser cooling and spectroscopy, unique collision studies, and degenerate bosonic and fermionic gases with long-range magnetic dipole coupling.

id: 0802.0840
title: Wrapped branes as qubits
authors: L. Borsten, D. Dahanayake, M. J. Duff, W. Rubens, H. Ebrahim
comments: Version appearing in Phys. Rev. Lett, includes Type IIA description as well as Type IIB
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.100:251602,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0840
abstract: Recent work has established a correspondence between the tripartite entanglement measure of three qubits and the macroscopic entropy of the four-dimensional 8-charge STU black hole of supergravity. Here we consider the configurations of intersecting D3-branes, whose wrapping around the six compact dimensions T^6 provides the microscopic string-theoretic interpretation of the charges, and associate the three-qubit basis vectors |ABC>, (A,B,C=0 or 1) with the corresponding 8 wrapping cycles. In particular, we relate a well-known fact of quantum information theory, that the most general real three-qubit state can be parameterized by four real numbers and an angle, to a well-known fact of string theory, that the most general STU black hole can be described by four D3-branes intersecting at an angle.

id: 0802.0857
title: Narrow-line magneto-optical cooling and trapping of strongly magnetic atoms
authors: Andrew J. Berglund, James L. Hanssen, Jabez J. McClelland
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett. 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0857
abstract: Laser cooling on weak transitions is a useful technique for reaching ultracold temperatures in atoms with multiple valence electrons. However, for strongly magnetic atoms a conventional narrow-line magneto-optical trap (MOT) is destabilized by competition between optical and magnetic forces. We overcome this difficulty in Er by developing an unusual narrow-line MOT that balances optical and magnetic forces using laser light tuned to the blue side of a narrow (8 kHz) transition. The trap population is spin-polarized with temperatures reaching below 2 microkelvin. Our results constitute an alternative method for laser cooling on weak transitions, applicable to rare-earth-metal and metastable alkaline earth elements.

id: 0802.0866
title: Stronger constraints on non-Newtonian gravity from the Casimir effect
authors: V.M. Mostepanenko, R.S. Decca, E. Fischbach, G.L. Klimchitskaya, D.E. Krause, D. L¨®pez
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, Proceedings of QFEXT07, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A41:164054,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0866
abstract: We review new constraints on the Yukawa-type corrections to Newtonian gravity obtained recently from gravitational experiments and from the measurements of the Casimir force. Special attention is paid to the constraints following from the most precise dynamic determination of the Casimir pressure between the two parallel plates by means of a micromechanical torsional oscillator. The possibility of setting limits on the predictions of chameleon field theories using the results of gravitational experiments and Casimir force measurements is discussed.

id: 0802.0921
title: Non-Hermitian spectral effects in a PT-symmetric waveguide
authors: David Krejcirik, Milos Tater
comments: 17 pages, LaTeX with 7 EPS figures. Contrary to a version to appear in J. Phys. A, this one contains the figures in colour.
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 244013.
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0921
abstract: We present a numerical study of the spectrum of the Laplacian in an unbounded strip with PT-symmetric boundary conditions. We focus on non-Hermitian features of the model reflected in an unusual dependence of the eigenvalues below the continuous spectrum on various boundary-coupling parameters.

id: 0802.1027
title: The effect of nonlinearity on adiabatic evolution of light
authors: Yoav Lahini, Francesca Pozzi, Marc Sorel, Roberto Morandotti, Demetrios N. Christodoulides, Yaron Silberberg
comments: Comments welcomed
journal: Physical Review Letters 101, 193901 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1027
abstract: We investigate the effect of nonlinearity in a system described by an adiabatically evolving Hamiltonian. Experiments are conducted in a three-core waveguide structure that is adiabatically varying with distance, in analogy to the STIRAP process in atomic physics. In the linear regime, the system exhibits an adiabatic power transfer between two waveguides which are not directly coupled, with negligible power recorded in the intermediate coupling waveguide. In the presence of nonlinearity the behavior of this configuration is drastically altered and the adiabatic light passage is found to critically depend on the excitation power. We show how this effect is related to the destruction of the dark state formed in the STIRAP configuration.

id: 0802.1065
title: Quantum radiations from exciton condensate in Electron-Hole Bilayer Systems
authors: Jinwu Ye, T. Shi, Longhua Jiang, C. P. Sun
comments: REVTEX4, 18 colour figures, 27 PRBpages
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1065
abstract: Superfluid has been realized in Helium-4, Helium-3 and ultra-cold atoms. It has been widely used in making high-precision devices and also in cooling various systems. There have been extensive experimental search for possible exciton superfluid (ESF) in semiconductor electron-hole bilayer (EHBL) systems below liquid Helium temperature. However, exciton superfluid are meta-stable and will eventually decay through emitting photons. Here we study quantum nature of photons emitted from the excitonic superfluid (ESF) phase in the semiconductor EHBL and find that the light emitted from the excitonic superfluid has unique and unusual features not shared by any other atomic or condensed matter systems. We show that the emitted photons along the direction perpendicular to the layer are in a coherent state, those along all tilted directions are in a two modes squeezed state. We determine the two mode squeezing spectra, the angle resolved power spectrum, the line shapes of both the momentum distribution curve (MDC) and the energy distribution curve (EDC). From the two photon correlation functions, we find there are photon bunching, the photo-count statistics is super-Poissonian. We discuss how several important parameters such as the chemical potential, the exciton decay rate, the quasiparticle energy spectrum and the dipole-dipole interaction strength between the excitons in our theory can be extracted from the experimental data and comment on available experimental data on both EDC and MDC.

id: 0802.1224
title: Quantum Communication through Spin Chain Dynamics: an Introductory Overview
authors: Sougato Bose
comments: Material covered till Dec 2006
journal: Contemporary Physics, Volume 48, Issue 1 January 2007, pages 13 - 30
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1224
abstract: We present an introductory overview of the use of spin chains as quantum wires, which has recently developed into a topic of lively interest. The principal motivation is in connecting quantum registers without resorting to optics. A spin chain is a permanently coupled 1D system of spins. When one places a quantum state on one end of it, the state will be dynamically transmitted to the other end with some efficiency if the spins are coupled by an exchange interaction. No external modulations or measurements on the body of the chain, except perhaps at the very ends, is required for this purpose. For the simplest (uniformly coupled) chain and the simplest encoding (single qubit encoding), however, dispersion reduces the quality of transfer. We present a variety of alternatives proposed by various groups to achieve perfect quantum state transfer through spin chains. We conclude with a brief discussion of the various directions in which the topic is developing.

id: 0802.1276
title: Van der Waals and Casimir interactions between atoms and carbon nanotubes
authors: G.L. Klimchitskaya, E.V. Blagov, V.M. Mostepanenko
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, Proceedings of QFEXT07, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor, v.41, N16, p.164012 -(1-8), 2008.
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1276
abstract: The van der Waals and Casimir interactions of a hydrogen atom (molecule) with a single-walled and a multiwalled carbon nanotubes are compared. It is shown that the macroscopic concept of graphite dielectric permittivity is already applicable for nanotubes with only two or three walls. The absorption of hydrogen atoms by a nanotube at separations below one nanometer is considered. The lateral force due to exchange repulsion moves the atom to a position above the cell center, where it is absorbed by the nanotube because the repulsive force cannot balance the van der Waals attraction.

id: 0802.1296
title: On quantum statistics in data analysis
authors: Dusko Pavlovic
comments: 7 pages, Quantum Interaction 2008 (Oxford, April 2008) v3: added two diagrams, changed some wordings
journal: 
subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1296
abstract: Originally, quantum probability theory was developed to analyze statistical phenomena in quantum systems, where classical probability theory does not apply, because the lattice of measurable sets is not necessarily distributive. On the other hand, it is well known that the lattices of concepts, that arise in data analysis, are in general also non-distributive, albeit for completely different reasons. In his recent book, van Rijsbergen argues that many of the logical tools developed for quantum systems are also suitable for applications in information retrieval. I explore the mathematical support for this idea on an abstract vector space model, covering several forms of data analysis (information retrieval, data mining, collaborative filtering, formal concept analysis...), and roughly based on an idea from categorical quantum mechanics. It turns out that quantum (i.e., noncommutative) probability distributions arise already in this rudimentary mathematical framework. We show that a Bell-type inequality must be satisfied by the standard similarity measures, if they are used for preference predictions. The fact that already a very general, abstract version of the vector space model yields simple counterexamples for such inequalities seems to be an indicator of a genuine need for quantum statistics in data analysis.

id: 0802.1738
title: Characterising through Erasing: A Theoretical Framework for Representing Documents Inspired by Quantum Theory
authors: ?lvaro Francisco Huertas-Rosero, Leif Azzopardi, C. J. van Rijsbergen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, Quantum Interaction Symposium 2008
journal: Proceedings of Quantum Interaction Symposium 2008
subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1738
abstract: The problem of representing text documents within an Information Retrieval system is formulated as an analogy to the problem of representing the quantum states of a physical system. Lexical measurements of text are proposed as a way of representing documents which are akin to physical measurements on quantum states. Consequently, the representation of the text is only known after measurements have been made, and because the process of measuring may destroy parts of the text, the document is characterised through erasure. The mathematical foundations of such a quantum representation of text are provided in this position paper as a starting point for indexing and retrieval within a ``quantum like'' Information Retrieval system.

id: 0802.1842
title: Back-action evasion and squeezing of a mechanical resonator using a cavity detector
authors: A. A. Clerk, F. Marquardt, K. Jacobs
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 095010 (2008) (Focus Issue)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1842
abstract: We study the quantum measurement of a cantilever using a parametrically-coupled electromagnetic cavity which is driven at the two sidebands corresponding to the mechanical motion. This scheme, originally due to Braginsky et al. [V. Braginsky, Y. I. Vorontsov, and K. P. Thorne, Science 209, 547 (1980)], allows a back-action free measurement of one quadrature of the cantilever's motion, and hence the possibility of generating a squeezed state. We present a complete quantum theory of this system, and derive simple conditions on when the quantum limit on the added noise can be surpassed. We also study the conditional dynamics of the measurement, and discuss how such a scheme (when coupled with feedback) can be used to generate and detect squeezed states of the oscillator. Our results are relevant to experiments in optomechanics, and to experiments in quantum electromechanics employing stripline resonators coupled to mechanical resonators.

id: 0802.1930
title: Fidelity and Entanglement of a Spatially Extended Linear Three-Qubit Register
authors: Roland Doll, Martijn Wubs, Sigmund Kohler, Peter Hanggi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 6, 681 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1930
abstract: We study decoherence of a three-qubit array coupled to substrate phonons. Assuming an initial three-qubit entangled state that would be decoherence-free for identical qubit positions, allows us to focus on non-Markovian effects of the inevitable spatial qubit separation. It turns out that the coherence is most affected when the qubits are regularly spaced. Moreover, we find that up to a constant scaling factor, two-qubit entanglement is not influenced by the presence f the third qubit, even though all qubits interact via the phonon field.

id: 0802.2132
title: Bell inequality violation versus entanglement in presence of local decoherence
authors: A. G. Kofman, A. N. Korotkov
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052329 (2008)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2132
abstract: We analyze the effect of local decoherence of two qubits on their entanglement and the Bell inequality violation. Decoherence is described by Kraus operators, which take into account dephasing and energy relaxation at an arbitrary temperature. We show that in the experiments with superconducting phase qubits the survival time for entanglement should be much longer than for the Bell inequality violation.

id: 0802.2364
title: Quantum Stirring in low dimensional devices
authors: Itamar Sela, Doron Cohen
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, improved version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 245440 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2364
abstract: A circulating current can be induced in the Fermi sea by displacing a scatterer, or more generally by integrating a quantum pump into a closed circuit. The induced current may have either the same or the opposite sense with respect to the "pushing" direction of the pump. We work out explicit expressions for the associated geometric conductance using the Kubo-Dirac monopoles picture, and illuminate the connection with the theory of adiabatic passage in multiple path geometry.

id: 0802.2398
title: Spatial adiabatic passage in a realistic triple well structure
authors: Jared H. Cole, Andrew D. Greentree, L. C. L. Hollenberg, S. Das Sarma
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures (color online) - Published Version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 235418 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2398
abstract: We investigate the evolution of an electron undergoing coherent tunneling via adiabatic passage (CTAP) using the solution of the one-dimensional Schroedinger equation in both space and time for a triple well potential. We find the eigenspectrum and complete time evolution for a range of different pulsing schemes. This also provides an example of a system that can be described with the tools from both quantum optics and condensed matter. We find that while the quantum optics description of the process captures most of the key physics, there are important effects that can only be correctly described by a more complete representation. This is an important point for applications such as quantum information processing or quantum control where it is common practice to use a reduced state space formulation of the quantum system in question.

id: 0802.2605
title: Sensitivity of Quantum Motion to Perturbation in Triangle Map
authors: Wen-ge Wang
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 77, 036206 (2008)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2605
abstract: We study quantum Loschmidt echo, or fidelity, in the triangle map whose classical counterpart has linear instability and weak chaos. Numerically, three regimes of fidelity decay have been found with respect to the perturbation strength $\epsilon$. In the regime of weak perturbation, the fidelity decays as $\exp (-c\epsilon^2 t^{\gamma})$ with $\gamma \simeq 1.7$. In the regime of strong perturbation, the fidelity is approximately a function of $\epsilon t^{2.5}$, which is predicted for the classical fidelity [G. Casati, {\it et al}, Phys.Rev.Lett.{\bf 94}, 114101 (2005)], and decays slower than power-law decay for long times. In an intermediate regime, the fidelity has approximately an exponential decay $\exp (-c' \epsilon t)$.

id: 0802.2910
title: Exact Isospectral Pairs of PT-Symmetric Hamiltonians
authors: Carl M. Bender, Daniel W. Hook
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures
journal: J.Phys.A41:244005,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2910
abstract: A technique for constructing an infinite tower of pairs of PT-symmetric Hamiltonians, $\hat{H}_n$ and $\hat{K}_n$ (n=2,3,4,...), that have exactly the same eigenvalues is described. The eigenvalue problem for the first Hamiltonian $\hat{H}_n$ of the pair must be posed in the complex domain, so its eigenfunctions satisfy a complex differential equation and fulfill homogeneous boundary conditions in Stokes' wedges in the complex plane. The eigenfunctions of the second Hamiltonian $\hat{K}_n$ of the pair obey a real differential equation and satisfy boundary conditions on the real axis. This equivalence constitutes a proof that the eigenvalues of both Hamiltonians are real. Although the eigenvalue differential equation associated with $\hat{K}_n$ is real, the Hamiltonian $\hat{K}_n$ exhibits quantum anomalies (terms proportional to powers of $\hbar$). These anomalies are remnants of the complex nature of the equivalent Hamiltonian $\hat{H}_n$. In the classical limit in which the anomaly terms in $\hat{K}_n$ are discarded, the pair of Hamiltonians $H_{n,classical}$ and $K_{n,classical}$ have closed classical orbits whose periods are identical.

id: 0802.3164
title: A non-Hermitian $PT-$symmetric Bose-Hubbard model: eigenvalue rings from unfolding higher-order exceptional points
authors: E. M. Graefe, U. Guenther, H. J. Korsch, A. E. Niederle
comments: minor changes
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 255206
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3164
abstract: We study a non-Hermitian $PT-$symmetric generalization of an $N$-particle, two-mode Bose-Hubbard system, modeling for example a Bose-Einstein condensate in a double well potential coupled to a continuum via a sink in one of the wells and a source in the other. The effect of the interplay between the particle interaction and the non-Hermiticity on characteristic features of the spectrum is analyzed drawing special attention to the occurrence and unfolding of exceptional points (EPs). We find that for vanishing particle interaction there are only two EPs of order $N+1$ which under perturbation unfold either into $[(N+1)/2]$ eigenvalue pairs (and in case of $N+1$ odd, into an additional zero-eigenvalue) or into eigenvalue triplets (third-order eigenvalue rings) and $(N+1)\mod 3$ single eigenvalues, depending on the direction of the perturbation in parameter space. This behavior is described analytically using perturbational techniques. More general EP unfoldings into eigenvalue rings up to $(N+1)$th order are indicated.

id: 0802.3181
title: Detecting entangled states in graphene via crossed Andreev reflection
authors: Colin Benjamin, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 235403 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3181
abstract: Shot noise cross-correlations across single layer graphene structures are calculated with insulators separating a superconducting region. A new feature of specular crossed Andreev reflection comes into play due to the unique band structure of graphene. This gives rise to a rich structure in the states of the electric current flowing across the graphene sheet. We identified a parametric regime where {\em positive} shot noise cross-correlations of the current appear signifying entanglement. In contrast to previous proposals the sign of the cross-correlations can be easily tuned by the application of a gate voltage.

id: 0802.3227
title: Reading the Electron Clock
authors: David Hestenes
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3227
abstract: If electron zitterbewegung is a real effect, it should generate an electric dipole field oscillating with the zitterbewegung frequency 2mc^2/hbar. The possibility of detecting it as a resonance in electron channeling is analyzed.

id: 0802.3565
title: Berry Curvature in Graphene: A New Approach
authors: Pierre Gosselin, Alain B¨¦rard, Herv¨¦ Mohrbach, Subir Ghosh
comments: Slightly modified version, to appear in EPJC
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3565
abstract: In the present paper we have directly computed the Berry curvature terms relevant for Graphene in the presence of an \textit{inhomogeneous} lattice distortion. We have employed the generalized Foldy Wouthuysen framework, developed by some of us \cite{ber0,ber1,ber2}. We show that a non-constant lattice distortion leads to a valley-orbit coupling which is responsible to a valley-Hall effect. This is similar to the valley-Hall effect induced by an electric field proposed in \cite{niu2} and is the analogue of the spin-Hall effect in semiconductors \cite{MURAKAMI, SINOVA}. Our general expressions for Berry curvature, for the special case of homogeneous distortion, reduce to the previously obtained results \cite{niu2}. We also discuss the Berry phase in the quantization of cyclotron motion.

id: 0802.3597
title: Processing Information in Quantum Decision Theory
authors: V.I. Yukalov, D. Sornette
comments: Review article, 49 pages, Latex file
journal: Entropy 11 (2009) 1073-1120
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3597
abstract: A survey is given summarizing the state of the art of describing information processing in Quantum Decision Theory, which has been recently advanced as a novel variant of decision making, based on the mathematical theory of separable Hilbert spaces. This mathematical structure captures the effect of superposition of composite prospects, including many incorporated intended actions. The theory characterizes entangled decision making, non-commutativity of subsequent decisions, and intention interference. The self-consistent procedure of decision making, in the frame of the quantum decision theory, takes into account both the available objective information as well as subjective contextual effects. This quantum approach avoids any paradox typical of classical decision theory. Conditional maximization of entropy, equivalent to the minimization of an information functional, makes it possible to connect the quantum and classical decision theories, showing that the latter is the limit of the former under vanishing interference terms.

id: 0802.3808
title: Two-channel Feshbach physics in a structured continuum
authors: N. Nygaard, R. Piil, K. Molmer
comments: 18 pages, 9 embedded figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 023617 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3808
abstract: We analyze the scattering and bound state physics of a pair of atoms in a one-dimensional optical lattice interacting via a narrow Feshbach resonance. The lattice provides a structured continuum allowing for the existence of bound dimer states both below and above the continuum bands, with pairs above the continuum stabilized by either repulsive interactions or their center of mass motion. Inside the band the Feshbach coupling to a closed channel bound state leads to a Fano resonance profile for the transmission, which may be mapped out by RF- or photodissociative spectroscopy. We generalize the scattering length concept to the one-dimensional lattice, where a scattering length may be defined at both the lower and the upper continuum thresholds. As a function of the applied magnetic field the scattering length at either band edge exhibits the usual Feshbach divergence when a bound state enters or exits the continuum. Near the scattering length divergences the binding energy and wavefunction of the weakly bound dimer state acquires a universal form reminiscent of those of free-space Feshbach molecules. We give numerical examples of our analytic results for a specific Feshbach resonance, which has been studied experimentally.

id: 0802.3941
title: Generalized entanglement in static and dynamic quantum phase transitions
authors: Shusa Deng, Gerardo Ortiz, Lorenza Viola
comments: 11 pages, 4 eps color figures. Invited talk at the 14th International Conference on Recent Progress in Many Body Theories (RPMBT14), July 2007, Barcelona
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3941
abstract: We investigate a class of one-dimensional, exactly solvable anisotropic XY spin-1/2 models in an alternating transverse magnetic field from an entanglement perspective. We find that a physically motivated Lie-algebraic generalized entanglement measure faithfully portraits the static phase diagram -- including second- and fourth-order quantum phase transitions belonging to distinct universality classes. In the simplest time-dependent scenario of a slow quench across a quantum critical point, we identify parameter regimes where entanglement exhibits universal dynamical scaling relative to the static limit.

id: 0802.4140
title: Generalized tomographic maps
authors: M. Asorey, P. Facchi, V.I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, S. Pascazio, E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 77, 042115 (2008)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4140
abstract: We introduce several possible generalizations of tomography for quadratic surfaces. We analyze different types of elliptic, hyperbolic and hybrid tomograms. In all cases it is possible to consistently define the inverse tomographic map. We find two different ways of introducing tomographic sections. The first method operates by deformations of the standard Radon transform. The second method proceeds by shifting a given quadric pattern. The most general tomographic transformation can be defined in terms of marginals over surfaces generated by deformations of complete families of hyperplanes or quadrics. We discuss practical and conceptual perspectives and possible applications.

id: 0802.4275
title: Bright solitary waves of trapped atomic Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: N. G. Parker, A. M. Martin, C. S. Adams, S. L. Cornish
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures (low quality)
journal: Physica D: Nonlinear Phenomena, Volume 238, Issue 15, 15 July 2009, Pages 1456-1461
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4275
abstract: Motivated by recent experimental observations, we study theoretically multiple bright solitary waves of trapped Bose-Einstein condensates. Through variational and numerical analyses, we determine the threshold for collapse of these states. Under $\pi$-phase differences between adjacent waves, we show that the experimental states lie consistently at the threshold for collapse, where the corresponding in-phase states are highly unstable. Following the observation of two long-lived solitary waves in a trap, we perform detailed three-dimensional simulations which confirm that in-phase waves undergo collapse while a $\pi$-phase difference preserves the long-lived dynamics and gives excellent quantitative agreement with experiment. Furthermore, intermediate phase differences lead to the growth of population asymmetries between the waves, which ultimately triggers collapse.

id: 0802.3117
title: Entanglement entropy, conformal invariance and extrinsic geometry
authors: Sergey N. Solodukhin
comments: 12 pages; minor corrections in (4.8), (4.16); final version to appear in PLB
journal: Phys.Lett.B665:305-309,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3117
abstract: We use the conformal invariance and the holographic correspondence to fully specify the dependence of entanglement entropy on the extrinsic geometry of the 2d surface $\Sigma$ that separates two subsystems of quantum strongly coupled ${\mathcal{N}}=4$ SU(N) superconformal gauge theory. We extend this result and calculate entanglement entropy of a generic 4d conformal field theory. As a byproduct, we obtain a closed-form expression for the entanglement entropy in flat space-time when $\Sigma$ is sphere $S_2$ and when $\Sigma$ is two-dimensional cylinder. The contribution of the type A conformal anomaly to entanglement entropy is always determined by topology of surface $\Sigma$ while the dependence of the entropy on the extrinsic geometry of $\Sigma$ is due to the type B conformal anomaly.

id: 0802.4204
title: Controllable scattering of photons inside a one-dimensional resonator waveguide
authors: Lan Zhou, Z. R. Gong, Yu-xi Liu, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 101, 100501 (2008)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.4204
abstract: We analyze coherent transport of photons, which propagate in a one-dimensional coupled-resonator waveguide (CRW) and are scattered by a controllable two-level system located inside the CRW. Our approach, which uses discrete coordinates, unifies "low" and "high" energy effective theories for single photon scattering. We show that the controllable two-level system can behave as a quantum switch for the coherent transport of photons. This study may inspire new electro-optical single-photon quantum devices. We also suggest an experimental setup based on superconducting transmission line resonators and qubits

id: 0802.0386
title: Long-Range Order in Electronic Transport through Disordered Metal Films
authors: S. Aigner, L. Della Pietra, Y. Japha, O. Entin-Wohlman, T. David, R. Salem, R. Folman, J. Schmiedmayer
comments: 
journal: Science 319, 1226 - 1229, (2008)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0386
abstract: Ultracold atom magnetic field microscopy enables the probing of current flow patterns in planar structures with unprecedented sensitivity. In polycrystalline metal (gold) films we observe long-range correlations forming organized patterns oriented at +/- 45 deg relative to the mean current flow, even at room temperature and at length scales orders of magnitude larger than the diffusion length or the grain size. The preference to form patterns at these angles is a direct consequence of universal scattering properties at defects. The observed amplitude of the current direction fluctuations scales inversely to that expected from the relative thickness variations, the grain size and the defect concentration, all determined independently by standard methods. This indicates that ultracold atom magnetometry enables new insight into the interplay between disorder and transport.

id: 0802.2233
title: Waiting Times and Noise in Single Particle Transport
authors: Tobias Brandes
comments: 
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 17, No. 7, 477-496 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2233
abstract: The waiting time distribution $w(\tau)$, i.e. the probability for a delay $\tau$ between two subsequent transition (`jumps') of particles, is a statistical tool in (quantum) transport. Using generalized Master equations for systems coupled to external particle reservoirs, one can establish relations between $w(\tau)$ and other statistical transport quantities such as the noise spectrum and the Full Counting Statistics. It turns out that $w(\tau)$ usually contains additional information on system parameters and properties such as quantum coherence, the number of internal states, or the entropy of the current channels that participate in transport.

id: 0802.3837
title: Search for long lived heaviest nuclei beyond the valley of stability
authors: P. Roy Chowdhury, C. Samanta, D.N. Basu
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys.Rev.C77:044603,2008
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3837
abstract: The existence of long lived superheavy nuclei (SHN) is controlled mainly by spontaneous fission and $\alpha$-decay processes. According to microscopic nuclear theory, spherical shell effects at Z=114, 120, 126 and N=184 provide the extra stability to such SHN to have long enough lifetime to be observed. To investigate whether the so-called "stability island" could really exist around the above Z, N values, the $\alpha$-decay half lives along with the spontaneous fission and $\beta$-decay half lives of such nuclei are studied. The $\alpha$-decay half lives of SHN with Z=102-120 are calculated in a quantum tunneling model with DDM3Y effective nuclear interaction using $Q_\alpha$ values from three different mass formulae prescribed by Koura, Uno, Tachibana, Yamada (KUTY), Myers, Swiatecki (MS) and Muntian, Hofmann, Patyk, Sobiczewski (MMM). Calculation of spontaneous fission (SF) half lives for the same SHN are carried out using a phenomenological formula and compared with SF half lives predicted by Smolanczuk {\it et al}. Possible source of discrepancy between the calculated $\alpha$-decay half lives of some nuclei and the experimental data of GSI, JINR-FLNR, RIKEN are discussed. In the region of Z=106-108 with N$\sim$ 160-164, the $\beta$-stable SHN $^{268}_{106}Sg_{162}$ is predicted to have highest $\alpha$-decay half life ($T_\alpha \sim 3.2hrs$) using $Q_\alpha$ value from MMM. Interestingly, it is much greater than the recently measured $T_\alpha$ ($\sim 22s$) of deformed doubly magic $^{270}_{108}Hs_{162}$ nucleus. A few fission-survived long-lived SHN which are either $\beta$-stable or having large $\beta$-decay half lives are predicted to exist near $^{294}110_{184}$, $^{293}110_{183}$, $^{296}112_{184}$ and $^{298}114_{184}$. These nuclei might decay predominantly through $\alpha$-particle emission.

id: 0802.0291
title: Integral representations of separable states
authors: Bronis?aw Jakubczyk, Gabriel Pietrzkowski
comments: 21 pages, no figures, added references, to appear in Reports on Mathematical Physics
journal: Rep. Math. Phys. 63, 111-130 (2009)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0291
abstract: We study a separability problem suggested by mathematical description of bipartite quantum systems. We consider Hermitian 2-forms on the tensor product $H=K\otimes L$, where $K,L$ are finite dimensional complex spaces. Inspired by quantum mechanical terminology we call such a form separable if it is a convex combination of hermitian tensor products $(\sigma_p)^*\odot \sigma_p$ of 1-forms $\sigma_p$ on $H$ that are product forms $\sigma_p=\phi_p\otimes \psi_p$, where $\phi_p\in K^*$, $\psi_p\in L^*$. We introduce an integral representation of separable forms. In particular, we show that the integral of $(D_{z^*}}\Phi)^*\odot D_{z^*}\Phi$ of any square integrable map $\Phi:\C^n\to \C^m$, with square integrable conjugate derivative $D_{z^*}\Phi$, is a separable form. Vice versa, any separable form in the interior of the set of such forms, can be represented in this way. This implies that any separable mixed state (and only such states) can be either explicitly represented in the integral form, or it may be arbitrarily well approximated by such states.

id: 0802.3624
title: Proving the Theorem of Wigner by an Exercise in Simple Geometry
authors: Manfred Buth
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.3624
abstract: The leading idea of the paper is to treat the theorem of Wigner with methods inspired by geometry. The exercise mentionned in the title has two functions: On the one hand it can serve as a pedagogical text in order to make the reader acquainted with the essential features of the theorem and its proof. On the other hand it will turn out to be the core of the general proof.

