id: 0803.3446
title: Hitting time for the continuous quantum walk
authors: Martin Varbanov, Hari Krovi, Todd A. Brun
comments: 12 pages, 1figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022324 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3446
abstract: We define the hitting (or absorbing) time for the case of continuous quantum walks by measuring the walk at random times, according to a Poisson process with measurement rate $\lambda$. From this definition we derive an explicit formula for the hitting time, and explore its dependence on the measurement rate. As the measurement rate goes to either 0 or infinity the hitting time diverges; the first divergence reflects the weakness of the measurement, while the second limit results from the Quantum Zeno effect. Continuous-time quantum walks, like discrete-time quantum walks but unlike classical random walks, can have infinite hitting times. We present several conditions for existence of infinite hitting times, and discuss the connection between infinite hitting times and graph symmetry.

id: 0803.3459
title: The QWalk Simulator of Quantum Walks
authors: F.L. Marquezino, R. Portugal
comments: 21 pages, 11 figures. Accepted in Computer Physics Communications. Simulator can be downloaded from this http URL
journal: Computer Physics Communications, Volume 179, Issue 5, Pages 359-369. (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Software (cs.MS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3459
abstract: Several research groups are giving special attention to quantum walks recently, because this research area have been used with success in the development of new efficient quantum algorithms. A general simulator of quantum walks is very important for the development of this area, since it allows the researchers to focus on the mathematical and physical aspects of the research instead of deviating the efforts to the implementation of specific numerical simulations. In this paper we present QWalk, a quantum walk simulator for one- and two-dimensional lattices. Finite two-dimensional lattices with generic topologies can be used. Decoherence can be simulated by performing measurements or by breaking links of the lattice. We use examples to explain the usage of the software and to show some recent results of the literature that are easily reproduced by the simulator.

id: 0803.4453
title: Symmetry-noise interplay in quantum walk on an n-cycle
authors: Subhashish Banerjee, R. Srikanth, C.M. Chandrashekar, Pranaw Rungta
comments: 4 pages and 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 78, 052316 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4453
abstract: Augmenting the unitary transformation which generates a quantum walk by a generalized phase gate G is a symmetry for both noisy and noiseless quantum walk on a line, in the sense that it leaves the position probability distribution invariant. However, this symmetry breaks down in the case of a quantum walk on an n-cycle, and hence can be regarded as a probe of the walk topology. Noise, modelled here as phase flip and generalized amplitude damping channels, tends to restore the symmetry because it classicalizes the walk. However, symmetry restoration happens even in the regime where the walker is not entirely classical, because noise also has the effect of desensitizing the operation G to the walk topology. We discuss methods for physical implementation, and talk about the wider implications to condensed matter systems.

