id: 0803.0059
title: Probing Mott lobes via the AC Josephson effect
authors: M.X. Huo, Ying Li, Z. Song, C.P. Sun
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0059
abstract: The alternating-current (AC) Josephson effect is studied in a system consisting of two weakly coupled Bose Hubbard models. In the framework of the mean field theory, Gross-Pitaevskii equations show that the amplitude of the Josephson current is proportional to the product of superfluid order parameters. In addition, the chemical potential--current relation for a small size system is obtained via the exact numerical computation. This allows us to propose a feasible experimental scheme to measure the Mott lobes of the quantum phase transition.

id: 0803.0100
title: Entanglement-Assisted Quantum Quasi-Cyclic Low-Density Parity-Check Codes
authors: Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Todd A. Brun, Igor Devetak
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure. Final version that will show up on PRA. Minor changes in contents and Title
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 032340 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0100
abstract: We investigate the construction of quantum low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes from classical quasi-cyclic (QC) LDPC codes with girth greater than or equal to 6. We have shown that the classical codes in the generalized Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) construction do not need to satisfy the dual-containing property as long as pre-shared entanglement is available to both sender and receiver. We can use this to avoid the many 4-cycles which typically arise in dual-containing LDPC codes. The advantage of such quantum codes comes from the use of efficient decoding algorithms such as sum-product algorithm (SPA). It is well known that in the SPA, cycles of length 4 make successive decoding iterations highly correlated and hence limit the decoding performance. We show the principle of constructing quantum QC-LDPC codes which require only small amounts of initial shared entanglement.

id: 0803.0108
title: Equation of Motion for the Quantum Characteristic Functions
authors: Itay Hen, Amir Kalev
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0108
abstract: In this paper, we derive equations of motion for the normal-order, the symmetric-order and the antinormal-order quantum characteristic functions, applicable for general Hamiltonian systems. We do this by utilizing the `characteristic form' of both quantum states and Hamiltonians. The equations of motion we derive here are rather simple in form and in essence, and as such have a number of attractive features. As we shall see, our approach enables the descriptions of quantum and classical time evolutions in one unified language. It allows for a direct comparison between quantum and classical dynamics, providing insight into the relations between quantum and classical behavior, while also revealing a smooth transition between quantum and classical time evolutions. In particular, the $\hbar\to 0$ limit of the quantum equations of motion instantly recovers their classical counterpart. We also argue that the derived equations may prove to be very useful in numerical simulations.

id: 0803.0110
title: A novel scheme for entanglement engineering in a fermionic system
authors: Jiming Gao, Jiaxiang Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0110
abstract: We present a novel scheme to engineer the entanglement in a fermionic system, which is modeled by a minimally three-site Hubbard model. It is found that, in this type of system, we can have two free parameters. One is used to tune the entanglement and the other to switch on or off the above tuning function. The whole process is much like what happens in a traditional transistor switch, where the main current between the emitter and collector can be turned on or off by the base current.

id: 0803.0142
title: Reconciling Semiclassical and Bohmian Mechanics: IV. Multisurface Dynamics
authors: Bill Poirier, Gerard Parlant
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: B. Poirier and G. Parlant, J. Phys. Chem. A 111, 10400 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0142
abstract: In previous articles [J. Chem. Phys. 121 4501 (2004), J. Chem. Phys. 124 034115 (2006), J. Chem. Phys. 124 034116 (2006)] a bipolar counter-propagating wave decomposition, Psi = Psi+ + Psi-, was presented for stationary states Psi of the one-dimensional Schrodinger equation, such that the components Psi+- approach their semiclassical WKB analogs in the large action limit. The corresponding bipolar quantum trajectories are classical-like and well-behaved, even when Psi has many nodes, or is wildly oscillatory. In this paper, the method is generalized for multisurface scattering applications, and applied to several benchmark problems. A natural connection is established between intersurface transitions and (+/-) transitions.

id: 0803.0143
title: Reconciling Semiclassical and Bohmian Mechanics: V. Wavepacket Dynamics
authors: Bill Poirier
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0143
abstract: In previous articles [J. Chem. Phys. 121 4501 (2004), J. Chem. Phys. 124 034115 (2006), J. Chem. Phys. 124 034116 (2006), J. Phys. Chem. A 111 10400 (2007)] a bipolar counter-propagating wave decomposition, Psi = Psi+ + Psi-, was presented for stationary states Psi of the one-dimensional Schrodinger equation, such that the components Psi+- approach their semiclassical WKB analogs in the large action limit. The corresponding bipolar quantum trajectories are classical-like and well-behaved, even when Psi has many nodes, or is wildly oscillatory. In this paper, the method is generalized for time-dependent wavepacket dynamics applications, and applied to several benchmark problems, including multisurface systems with nonadiabatic coupling.

id: 0803.0155
title: Sub-Shot-Noise Quantum Optical Interferometry: A Comparison of Entangled State Performance within a Unified Measurement Scheme
authors: Yang Gao, Hwang Lee
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0155
abstract: Phase measurement using a lossless Mach-Zehnder interferometer with certain entangled $N$-photon states can lead to a phase sensitivity of the order of 1/N, the Heisenberg limit. However, previously considered output measurement schemes are different for different input states to achieve this limit. We show that it is possible to achieve this limit just by the parity measurement for all the commonly proposed entangled states. Based on the parity measurement scheme, the reductions of the phase sensitivity in the presence of photon loss are examined for the various input states.

id: 0803.0183
title: Optimal control of atom transport for quantum gates in optical lattices
authors: G. De Chiara, T. Calarco, M. Anderlini, S. Montangero, P. J. Lee, B. L. Brown, W. D. Phillips, J. V. Porto
comments: revised version: minor changes, 2 references added, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052333 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0183
abstract: By means of optimal control techniques we model and optimize the manipulation of the external quantum state (center-of-mass motion) of atoms trapped in adjustable optical potentials. We consider in detail the cases of both non interacting and interacting atoms moving between neighboring sites in a lattice of a double-well optical potentials. Such a lattice can perform interaction-mediated entanglement of atom pairs and can realize two-qubit quantum gates. The optimized control sequences for the optical potential allow transport faster and with significantly larger fidelity than is possible with processes based on adiabatic transport.

id: 0803.0193
title: Flux Continuity and Probability Conservation in Complexified Bohmian Mechanics
authors: Bill Poirier
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: B. Poirier, Phys. Rev. A 77, 022114 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0193
abstract: Recent years have seen increased interest in complexified Bohmian mechanical trajectory calculations for quantum systems, both as a pedagogical and computational tool. In the latter context, it is essential that trajectories satisfy probability conservation, to ensure they are always guided to where they are most needed. In this paper, probability conservation for complexified Bohmian trajectories is considered. The analysis relies on time-reversal symmetry considerations, leading to a generalized expression for the conjugation of wavefunctions of complexified variables. This in turn enables meaningful discussion of complexified flux continuity, which turns out not to be satisfied in general, though a related property is found to be true. The main conclusion, though, is that even under a weak interpretation, probability is not conserved along complex Bohmian trajectories.

id: 0803.0207
title: A generalized non-Hermitian oscillator Hamiltonian, N-fold supersymmetry and position-dependent mass models
authors: Bijan Bagchi, Toshiaki Tanaka
comments: 9 pages, no figures; minor corrections, to appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372 (2008) 5390-5393
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0207
abstract: A generalized non-Hermitian oscillator Hamiltonian is proposed that consists of additional linear terms which break PT-symmetry explicitly. The model is put into an equivalent Hermitian form by means of a similarity transformation and the criterion of N-fold supersymmetry with a position-dependent mass is shown to reside in it.

id: 0803.0272
title: High threshold universal quantum computation on the surface code
authors: Austin G. Fowler, Ashley M. Stephens, Peter Groszkowski
comments: 18 pages, 28 figures, state distillation section corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052312 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0272
abstract: We present a comprehensive and self-contained simplified review of the quantum computing scheme of Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 190504 (2007), which features a 2-D nearest neighbor coupled lattice of qubits, a threshold error rate approaching 1%, natural asymmetric and adjustable strength error correction and low overhead arbitrarily long-range logical gates. These features make it by far the best and most practical quantum computing scheme devised to date. We restrict the discussion to direct manipulation of the surface code using the stabilizer formalism, both of which we also briefly review, to make the scheme accessible to a broad audience.

id: 0803.0282
title: On a new definition of quantum entropy
authors: Michele Campisi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Longer version published as: Phys. Rev. E 78, 051123 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0282
abstract: It is proved here that, as a consequence of the unitary quantum evolution, the expectation value of a properly defined quantum entropy operator (as opposed to the non-evolving von Neumann entropy) can only increase during non adiabatic transformations and remains constant during adiabatic ones. Thus Clausius formulation of the second law is established as a theorem in quantum mechanics, in a way that is equivalent to the previously established formulation in terms of minimal work principle [A. E. Allahverdyan and T. M. Nieuwenhuizen, Phys. Rev. E 71, 046107 (2005)]. The corresponding Quantum Mechanical Principle of Entropy Increase is then illustrated with an exactly solvable example, namely the driven harmonic oscillator. Attention is paid to both microcanonical and canonical initial condition. The results are compared to their classical counterparts.

id: 0803.0292
title: Quantum Games and the Relationships between Quantum Mechanics and Game Theory
authors: Esteban Guevara
comments: 19 pages
journal: in Game Theory: Strategies, Equilibria, And Theorems by I. Haugen and A. Nilsen. Nova Science Publishers, 83-115, (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0292
abstract: Quantum games have proposed a new point of view for the solution of the classical problems and dilemmas in game theory. Certain quantization relationships can be proposed with the objective that a game can be generalized into a quantum domain where the linear superposition of actions is allowed. This quantization let us describe and solution problems originated by conflicting or cooperative behaviors among the members of a system from the point of view of quantum mechanical interactions. This leads us to interesting aspects which only can be observed through the quantization of a game like the possibility of the entanglement between players, the definition of a socioeconomical temperature in a system, the collective welfare principle,the analysis of a game through elements of quantum information theory and the globalization process. The relationships between quantum mechanics and game theory are also studied and its shown how although both systems analyzed are described through two theories apparently different (quantum mechanics and game theory) both are analogous and thus exactly equivalents.

id: 0803.0299
title: Two and four-level systems in magnetic fields restricted in time
authors: V.G. Bagrov, M.C. Baldiotti, D.M. Gitman, A.D. Levin
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Brazilian Journal of Physics, v. 41, 71 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0299
abstract: We describe some new exact solutions for two- and four-level systems. In all the cases, external fields have a restricted behavior in time. First, we consider two types of new solutions for one-spin equation, one of them is in a external magnetic field that acts during a finite time interval. A new solution for two interacting spins is found in the case when the field difference between the external fields in each spin vary adiabatically, vanishing on the time infinity. The latter system can be identified with a quantum gate realized by two coupled quantum dots. The probability of the Swap operation for such a gate can be explicitly expressed in terms of special functions. Using the obtained expressions, we construct plots for the Swap operation for some parameters of the external magnetic field and interaction function.

id: 0803.0309
title: Development and Numerical Analysis of "Black-box" Counterpropagating Wave Algorithm for Exact Quantum Scattering Calculations
authors: Bill Poirier
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: B. Poirier, J. Theoret. Comput. Chem. 6, 99-125 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0309
abstract: In a recent series of papers [J. Chem. Phys. 121 4501 (2004), J. Chem. Phys. 124 034115 (2006), J. Chem. Phys. 124 034116 (2006)] a bipolar counter-propagating wave decomposition, Psi = Psi+ + Psi-, was presented for stationary bound states Psi of the one-dimensional Shrodinger equation, such that the components Psi+- approach their semiclassical WKB analogs in the large action limit. The corresponding bipolar quantum trajectories are classical-like and well-behaved, even when Psi has many nodes, or is wildly oscillatory. In this paper, the earlier results are used to construct a universal ``black-box'' algorithm, numerically robust, stable and efficient, for computing accurate scattering quantities of any quantum dynamical system in one degree of freedom.

id: 0803.0345
title: Secret key distillation from shielded two-qubit states
authors: Joonwoo Bae
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052320 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0345
abstract: The quantum states corresponding to a secret key are characterized using the so-called private states, where the key part consisting of a secret key is shielded by the additional systems. Based on the construction, it was shown that a secret key can be distilled from bound entangled states. In this work, I consider the shielded two-qubit states in a key-distillation scenario and derive the conditions under which a secret key can be distilled using the recurrence protocol or the two-way classical distillation, advantage distillation together with one-way postprocessing. From the security conditions, it is shown that a secret key can be distilled from bound entangled states in a much wider range. In addition, I consider the case that in which white noise is added to quantum states and show that the classical distillation protocol still works despite a certain amount of noise although the recurrence protocol does not.

id: 0803.0348
title: Quantum Energy Teleportation in Spin Chain Systems
authors: Masahiro Hotta
comments: 22 pages, 4 figure, to be published in JPSJ
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0348
abstract: We propose a protocol for quantum energy teleportation which transports energy in spin chains to distant sites only by local operations and classical communication. By utilizing ground-state entanglement and notion of negative energy density region, energy is teleported without breaking any physical laws including causality and local energy conservation. Because not excited physical entity but classical information is transported in the protocol, the dissipation rate of energy in transport is expected to be strongly suppressed.

id: 0803.0403
title: Identification of observables in quantum toboggans
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 25 pp
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 215304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0403
abstract: Quantum systems with real energies generated by an apparently non-Hermitian Hamiltonian may re-acquire the consistent probabilistic interpretation via an ad hoc metric which specifies the set of observables in the updated Hilbert space of states. The recipe is extended here to quantum toboggans. In the first step the tobogganic integration path is rectified and the Schroedinger equation is given the generalized eigenvalue-problem form. In the second step the general double-series representation of the eligible metric operators is derived.

id: 0803.0406
title: Quantum error correction may delay, but also cause, entanglement sudden death
authors: Isabel Sainz, Gunnar Bjork
comments: 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052307 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0406
abstract: Dissipation may cause two initially entangled qubits to evolve into a separable state in a finite time. This behavior is called entanglement sudden death (ESD). We study to what extent quantum error correction can combat ESD. We find that in some cases quantum error correction can delay entanglement sudden death but in other cases quantum error correction may cause ESD for states that otherwise do not suffer from it. Our analysis also shows that fidelity may not be the best measure to compare the efficiency of different error correction codes since the fidelity is not directly coupled to a state's remaining entanglement.

id: 0803.0417
title: `What is a Thing?': Topos Theory in the Foundations of Physics
authors: Andreas Doering, Chris Isham
comments: To appear in ``New Structures in Physics'' ed R. Coecke
journal: In New Structures for Physics, ed. Bob Coecke, Springer Lecture Notes in Physics 813, 753--940, Springer, Heidelberg (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0417
abstract: The goal of this paper is to summarise the first steps in developing a fundamentally new way of constructing theories of physics. The motivation comes from a desire to address certain deep issues that arise when contemplating quantum theories of space and time. In doing so we provide a new answer to Heidegger's timeless question ``What is a thing?''. Our basic contention is that constructing a theory of physics is equivalent to finding a representation in a topos of a certain formal language that is attached to the system. Classical physics uses the topos of sets. Other theories involve a different topos. For the types of theory discussed in this paper, a key goal is to represent any physical quantity $A$ with an arrow $\breve{A}_\phi:\Si_\phi\map\R_\phi$ where $\Si_\phi$ and $\R_\phi$ are two special objects (the `state-object' and `quantity-value object') in the appropriate topos, $\tau_\phi$. We discuss two different types of language that can be attached to a system, $S$. The first, $\PL{S}$, is a propositional language; the second, $\L{S}$, is a higher-order, typed language. Both languages provide deductive systems with an intuitionistic logic. With the aid of $\PL{S}$ we expand and develop some of the earlier work (By CJI and collaborators.) on topos theory and quantum physics. A key step is a process we term `daseinisation' by which a projection operator is mapped to a sub-object of the spectral presheaf $\Sig$--the topos quantum analogue of a classical state space. The topos concerned is $\SetH{}$: the category of contravariant set-valued functors on the category (partially ordered set) $\V{}$ of commutative sub-algebras of the algebra of bounded operators on the quantum Hilbert space $\Hi$.

id: 0803.0452
title: The decreasing property of relative entropy and the strong superadditivity of quantum channels
authors: Grigori G. Amosov, Stefano Mancini
comments: 9 pages, the error in the first version is corrected
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 7 (2009) 594-609
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0452
abstract: We argue that a fundamental (conjectured) property of memoryless quantum channels, namely the strong superadditivity, is intimately related to the decreasing property of the quantum relative entropy. Using the latter we first give, for a wide class of input states, an estimation of the output entropy for phase damping channels and some Weyl quantum channels. Then we prove, without any input restriction, the strong superadditivity for several quantum channels, including depolarizing quantum channels, quantum-classical channels and quantum erasure channels.

id: 0803.0467
title: A spatial envelope soliton model of the electron - propagating within a fictitious waveguide
authors: Roald Ekholdt
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0467
abstract: The paper proposes an envelope soliton model of the electron. The soliton propagates within a waveguide which size varies with the potential. The soliton is the solution of the Schroedinger equation with the addition of a nonlinear term that is the negative of Bohm's Quantum potential. This potential is interpreted as representing the dispersion of the linear equation. The model is based on de Broglie's original wave-particle concept, which is based on the Special theory of relativity. The model thus illustrates that theory.

id: 0803.0470
title: Feedback cooling of the normal modes of a massive electromechanical system to submillikelvin temperature
authors: A. Vinante, M. Bignotto, M. Bonaldi, M. Cerdonio, L. Conti, P. Falferi, N. Liguori, S. Longo, R. Mezzena, A. Ortolan, G.A. Prodi, F. Salemi, L. Taffarello, G. Vedovato, S. Vitale, J.-P. Zendri
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 033601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0470
abstract: We apply a feedback cooling technique to simultaneously cool the three electromechanical normal modes of the ton-scale resonant-bar gravitational wave detector AURIGA. The measuring system is based on a dc Superconducting Quantum Interference Device (SQUID) amplifier, and the feedback cooling is applied electronically to the input circuit of the SQUID. Starting from a bath temperature of 4.2 K, we achieve a minimum temperature of 0.17 mK for the coolest normal mode. The same technique, implemented in a dedicated experiment at subkelvin bath temperature and with a quantum limited SQUID, could allow to approach the quantum ground state of a kilogram-scale mechanical resonator.

id: 0803.0479
title: Additivity of the Renyi entropy of order 2 for positive-partial-transpose-inducing channels
authors: B. Dierckx, M. Fannes, C. Vandenplas
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0479
abstract: We prove that the minimal Renyi entropy of order 2 (RE2) output of a positive-partial-transpose(PPT)-inducing channel joint to an arbitrary other channel is equal to the sum of the minimal RE2 output of the individual channels. PPT-inducing channels are channels with a Choi matrix which is bound entangled or separable. The techniques used can be easily recycled to prove additivity for some non-PPT-inducing channels such as the depolarizing and transpose depolarizing channels, though not all known additive channels. We explicitly make the calculations for generalized Werner-Holevo channels as an example of both the scope and limitations of our techniques.

id: 0803.0485
title: Quantum interference structures in trapped ion dynamics beyond the Lamb-Dicke and rotating wave approximations
authors: Dong Wang, Tony Hansson, Asa Larson, Hans O. Karlsson, Jonas Larson
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures. Replaced with revised version. Phys. Rev. A 77, 053808 (2008)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0485
abstract: We apply wave packet methods to study an ion-trap system in the strong excitation regime imposing neither the rotating wave nor the Lamb-Dicke approximations. By this approach we show the existence of states with restricted phase space evolution, as a genuine consequence of quantum interference between wave packet fractions. A particular instance of such a state oscillates between maximal entanglement and pure disentanglement between the constitute subsystems. The characteristic crossover time is very rapid making them suitable for state preparations of EPR or Schrodinger cat states. Over longer time periods the dynamics of these states exhibits collapse-revival patterns with well resolved fractional revivals in autocorrelation, inversion and entanglement.

id: 0803.0565
title: Astronomical spectrograph calibration with broad-spectrum frequency combs
authors: D.A. Braje, M.S. Kirchner, S. Osterman, T. Fortier, S.A. Diddams
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0565
abstract: Broadband femtosecond-laser frequency combs are filtered to spectrographically resolvable frequency-mode spacing, and the limitations of using cavities for spectral filtering are considered. Data and theory are used to show implications to spectrographic calibration of high-resolution, astronomical spectrometers.

id: 0803.0579
title: Equivalence between Bell inequalities and quantum Minority game
authors: Adrian P. Flitney, Maximilian Schlosshauer, Christian Schmid, Wieslaw Laskowski, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: v1 4 pages ReTeX, 2 figures (1 EPS); v2 11 pages LateX, 2 figures, changes to format, minor changes to wording (including title) and one new finding added on uniqueness of result
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009) 521-524
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0579
abstract: We show that, for a continuous set of entangled four-partite states, the task of maximizing the payoff in the symmetric-strategy four-player quantum Minority game is equivalent to maximizing the violation of a four-particle Bell inequality with each observer choosing the same set of two dichotomic observables. We conclude the existence of direct correspondences between (i) the payoff rule and Bell inequalities, and (ii) the strategy and the choice of measured observables in evaluating these Bell inequalities. We also show that such a correspondence between Bell polynomials (in a single plane) and four-player, symmetric, binary-choice quantum games is unique to the four-player quantum Minority game and its "anti-Minority" version. This indicates that the four-player Minority game not only plays a special role among quantum games but also in studies of Bell-type quantum nonlocality.

id: 0803.0607
title: A study of the efficiency of the class of $W$-states as a quantum channel
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari, Sunandan Gangopadhyay
comments: 7 pages, Latex
journal: IJTP: Vol.48, Issue-2, 403 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0607
abstract: Recently, a new class of $W$-states has been defined by Agarwal and Pati \cite{agarwal} and it has been shown that they can be used as a quantum channel for teleportation and superdense coding. In this work, we identify those three-qubit states from the set of the new class of $W$-states which are most efficient or suitable for quantum teleportation. We show that with some probability $|W_1>=(1/2)(|100>+|010>+\sqrt{2}|001>)$ is best suited for teleportation channel in the sense that it does not depend on the input state.

id: 0803.0613
title: Channel Estimation Theory of Low-Noise Multiple Parameters:Attainablity Problem of the Cram{¨¦}r-Rao Bounds
authors: Masahiro Hotta, Tokishiro Karasawa
comments: 22 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012332 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0613
abstract: For decoherence processes induced by weak interactions with the environment, a general quantum channel with one noise parameter has been formulated. This channel is called low-noise channel and very useful for investigating the parameter estimation in the leading order. In this paper, we formulate the low-noise channel with multiple unknown parameters in order to address the simultaneous achievability of the Cram{\'e}r-Rao bound for the parameters estimation. In general, the simultaneous achievement of the Cram{\'e}r-Rao bound for multi-parameter estimations suffers from non-commutativity of optimal measurements for respective parameters. However, with certain exceptions, we show that the Cram{\'e}r-Rao bound for output states of dissipative low-noise channels can be always attained in the first order of the parameters as long as D \leq N-1, where D and N denote the number of the parameters and the dimension of the system, respectively. This condition is replaced by D \leq N^{2}-1 if it is allowed to set the entanglement with ancilla systems in its input state and to perform the non-local measurement on the composite system.

id: 0803.0617
title: Quantum dynamics of one and two bosonic atoms in a combined tight-binding periodic and weak parabolic potential
authors: Manuel Valiente, David Petrosyan
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 83, 30007 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0617
abstract: Strongly interacting bosonic particles in a tight-binding periodic potential superimposed by a weak parabolic trap is a paradigm for many cold atom experiments. Here, after revisiting the single particle problem, we study interaction-bound dimers of bosonic atoms in the combined lattice and parabolic potential. We consider both repulsively- and attractively-bound dimers and find pronounced differences in their behaviour. We identify conditions under which attractive and repulsive dimers exhibit analogous dynamics. Our studies reveal that coherent transport and periodic oscillations of appropriately prepared one- and two-atom wavepackets can be achieved, which may facilitate information transfer in optical lattice based quantum computation schemes.

id: 0803.0673
title: Solution of the Matrix Hamiltonians via asymptotic iteration method
authors: Ramazan Koc, Okan Ozer, Hayriye Tutunculer
comments: 15 pages, 2 Tables. Please check this http URL for other studies at University of Gaziantep
journal: Chinese J. Phys., 46, 1-13 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0673
abstract: A method is suggested to obtain solutions of the various quantum optical Hamiltonians in the framework of the asymptotic iteration method. We extend the notion of asymptotic iteration method to solve the 2 \times 2 matrix Hamiltonians. On a particular case, eigenvalues of the Rabi and Rashba Hamiltonians are computed. The method presented here reproduces a number of earlier results in a natural way as well as leads to a novel findings. Possible generalizations of the method are also suggested.

id: 0803.0711
title: Ultimate field-free molecular alignment by combined adiabatic-impulsive field design
authors: S. Guerin, A. Rouzee, E. Hertz
comments: 5 pages, 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0711
abstract: We show that a laser pulse designed as an adiabatic ramp followed by a kick allows one to reach a perfect postpulse molecular alignment, free of saturation. The mechanism is based on an optimized distribution of the energy between a weakly efficient but non saturating adiabatic ramp and an efficient but saturating impulsive field. Unprecedent degrees of alignment are predicted using state-of-the-art pulse shaping techniques and non-destructive field intensities. The scheme can be extended to reach high degrees of orientation of polar molecules using designed half-cycle pulses.

id: 0803.0738
title: Thermal Casimir vs Casimir-Polder forces: Equilibrium and non-equilibrium forces
authors: Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Stefan Scheel
comments: 5 pages, 0 figures, minor additions
journal: Physical Review Letters 100 (25), 253201 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0738
abstract: We critically discuss the common belief that the thermal Casimir-Polder force can always be represented as a Matsubara sum, as it is true for the Casimir force. On the contrary, an exact treatment of the atom-field coupling reveals that for a ground-state atom, terms associated with virtual-photon absorption contribute to the force which are identified as a signature of non-equilibrium dynamics. Even the equilibrium force on a thermalized atom or molecule may be overestimated when using the ground-state polarizability instead of its thermal counterpart.

id: 0803.0757
title: Unifying several separability conditions using the covariance matrix criterion
authors: Oleg Gittsovich, Otfried G¨¹hne, Philipp Hyllus, Jens Eisert
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052319 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0757
abstract: We present a framework for deciding whether a quantum state is separable or entangled using covariance matrices of locally measurable observables. This leads to the covariance matrix criterion as a general separability criterion. We demonstrate that this criterion allows to detect many states where the familiar criterion of the positivity of the partial transpose fails. It turns out that a large number of criteria which have been proposed to complement the positive partial transpose criterion - the computable cross norm or realignment criterion, the criterion based on local uncertainty relations, criteria derived from extensions of the realignment map, and others - are in fact a corollary of the covariance matrix criterion.

id: 0803.0760
title: Phase transitions, entanglement and quantum noise interferometry in cold atoms
authors: Florian Mintert, Ana Maria Rey, Indubala I. Satija, Charles W. Clark
comments: 4 pages 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0760
abstract: We show that entanglement monotones can characterize the pronounced enhancement of entanglement at a quantum phase transition if they are sensitive to long-range high order correlations. These monotones are found to develop a sharp peak at the critical point and to exhibit universal scaling. We demonstrate that similar features are shared by noise correlations and verify that these experimentally accessible quantities indeed encode entanglement information and probe separability.

id: 0803.0764
title: Asymmetric and Symmetric Subsystem BCH Codes and Beyond
authors: Salah A. Aly
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, and 2 tables of independent work. Private comments and corrections are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0764
abstract: Recently, the theory of quantum error control codes has been extended to subsystem codes over symmetric and asymmetric quantum channels -- qubit-flip and phase-shift errors may have equal or different probabilities. Previous work in constructing quantum error control codes has focused on code constructions for symmetric quantum channels. In this paper, we develop a theory and establish the connection between asymmetric quantum codes and subsystem codes. We present families of subsystem and asymmetric quantum codes derived, once again, from classical BCH and RS codes over finite fields. Particularly, we derive an interesting asymmetric and symmetric subsystem codes based on classical BCH codes with parameters $[[n,k,r,d]]_q$, $[[n,k,r,d_z/d_x]]_q$ and $[[n,k',0,d_z/d_x]]_q$ for arbitrary values of code lengths and dimensions. We establish asymmetric Singleton and Hamming bounds on asymmetric quantum and subsystem code parameters; and derive optimal asymmetric MDS subsystem codes. Finally, our constructions are well explained by an illustrative example. This paper is written on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the discovery of classical BCH codes and their quantum counterparts were derived nearly 10 years ago.

id: 0803.0766
title: Quantum computation in semiconductor quantum dots of electron-spin asymmetric anisotropic exchange
authors: Xiang Hao, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev .A 76, 044306(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0766
abstract: The universal quantum computation is obtained when there exists asymmetric anisotropic exchange between electron spins in coupled semiconductor quantum dots. The asymmetric Heisenberg model can be transformed into the isotropic model through the control of two local unitary rotations for the realization of essential quantum gates. The rotations on each qubit are symmetrical and depend on the strength and orientation of asymmetric exchange. The implementation of the axially symmetric local magnetic fields can assist the construction of quantum logic gates in anisotropic coupled quantum dots. This proposal can efficiently use each physical electron spin as a logical qubit in the universal quantum computation.

id: 0803.0767
title: Swap Action in a Solid-State Controllable Anisotropic Heisenberg Model
authors: Xiang Hao, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Letts. A 372, 1119(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0767
abstract: Correct swap action can be realized via the control of the anisotropic Heisenberg interaction in solid-state quantum systems. The conditions of performing a swap are derived by the dynamics of arbitrary bipartite pure state. It is found that swap errors can be eliminated in the presence of symmetric anisotropy. In realistic quantum computers with unavoidable fluctuations, the gate fidelity of swap action is estimated. The scheme of quantum computation via the anisotropic Heisenberg interaction is implemented in a one dimensional quantum dots. The slanting and static magnetic field can be used to adjust the anisotropy.

id: 0803.0768
title: Quantum information processing in a spin-bus system of coupled chains
authors: Xiang Hao, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0768
abstract: The effective Heisenberg interaction of long distance is constructed in spin qubits connected to a bus of two strongly coupled chains. Universal quantum computation can be realized on the basis of the bus which always keeps frozen at the ground state. It is found that the effective interaction is primarily determined by the energy spectra of the bus. With the variation of the distance between two connecting nodes, the interaction alternately occurs between antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic ones. The long range interaction can also be attained in coupled infinite chains. The quantum gate operations with the high precision are implemented in the condition of quantum fluctuations.

id: 0803.0769
title: Entanglement in a hardcore-boson Hubbard model
authors: Xiang Hao, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0769
abstract: The entanglement in a Hubbard chain of hardcore bosons is investigated. The analytic expression of the global entanglement in ground state is derived. The divergence of the derivative of the global entanglement shows the quantum criticality of the ground state. For the thermal equilibrium state, the bipartite and the multipartite entanglement are evaluated. The entanglement decreases to zero at a certain temperature. The thermal entanglement is rapidly decreasing with the increase of the number of sites in the lattice. The bipartite thermal entanglement approaches a constant value at a certain number of sites while the multipartite entanglement eventually vanishes.

id: 0803.0770
title: Entanglement in a Dimerized Antiferromagnetic Heisenberg Chain
authors: Xiang Hao, Shiqun Zhu
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Quant. Infor. 4, 1037(2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0770
abstract: The entanglement properties in an antiferromagnetic dimerized Heisenberg spin-1/2 chain are investigated. The entanglement gap, which is the difference between the ground-state energy and the minimal energy that any separable state can attain, is calculated to detect the entanglement. It is found that the entanglement gap can be increased by varying the alternation parameter. Through thermal energy, the witness of the entanglement can determine a characteristic temperature below that an entangled state can be obtained. The entanglement detected by the energy can provide a lower bound for that determined by the concurrence. If the alternation parameter is smaller than a critical value, there is always no inter-dimer entanglement in the chain.

id: 0803.0771
title: Entanglement and purity of single- and two-photon states
authors: Jun O.S. Yin, S.J. van Enk
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures, 1 debuting author
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062333 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0771
abstract: Whereas single- and two-photon wave packets are usually treated as pure states, in practice they will be mixed. We study how entanglement created with mixed photon wave packets is degraded. We find in particular that the entanglement of a delocalized single-photon state of the electro-magnetic field is determined simply by its purity. We also discuss entanglement for two-photon mixed states, as well as the influence of a vacuum component.

id: 0803.0776
title: Cavity optomechanical coupling assisted by an atomic gas
authors: H. Ian, Z. R. Gong, Yu-xi Liu, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 013824 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0776
abstract: We theoretically study a cavity filled with atoms, which provides the optical-mechanical interaction between the modified cavity photonic field and a movable mirror at one end. We show that the cavity field ``dresses'' these atoms, producing two types of polaritons, effectively enhancing the radiation pressure of the cavity field upon the end mirror, as well as establishing an additional squeezing mode of the end mirror. This squeezing produces an adiabatic entanglement, which is absent in usual vacuum cavities, between the oscillating mirror and the rest of the system. We analyze the entanglement and quantify it using the Loschmidt echo and fidelity.

id: 0803.0779
title: Ultimate Energy Densities for Electromagnetic Pulses
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0779
abstract: The ultimate electric and magnetic energy densities that can be attained by bandlimited electromagnetic pulses in free space are calculated using an ab initio quantized treatment, and the quantum states of electromagnetic fields that achieve the ultimate energy densities are derived. The ultimate energy densities also provide an experimentally accessible metric for the degree of localization of polychromatic photons.

id: 0803.0791
title: Stimulated Raman adiabatic passage in a multi-level atom
authors: A. D. Boozer
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 023411 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0791
abstract: We present a general formalism for describing stimulated Raman adiabatic passage in a multi-level atom. The atom is assumed to have two ground state manifolds a and b and an excited state manifold e, and the adiabatic passage is carried out by resonantly driving the a-e and b-e transitions with time-dependent fields. Our formalism gives a complete description of the adiabatic passage process, and can be applied to systems with arbitrary numbers of degenerate states in each manifold and arbitrary couplings of the a-e and b-e transitions. We illustrate the formalism by applying it to both a simple toy model and to adiabatic passage in the Cesium atom.

id: 0803.0870
title: New experimental limit on Pauli Exclusion Principle violation by electrons (the VIP experiment)
authors: C. Curceanu Petrascu, S. Bartalucci, S. Bertolucci, M. Bragadireanu, M. Cargnelli, M. Catitti, S. Di Matteo, J.-P. Egger, C. Guaraldo, M. Iliescu, T. Ishiwatari, M. Laubenstein, J. Marton, E. Milotti, D. Pietreanu, T. Ponta, D.L. Sirghi, F. Sirghi, L. Sperandio, O. Vazquez Doce, E. Widmann, J. Zmeskal
comments: To appear in proceedings of the XLVI International Winter Meeting on Nuclear Physics, Bormio, Italy, January 20-26, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0870
abstract: The Pauli Exclusion Principle is one of the basic principles of modern physics and is at the very basis of our understanding of matter: thus it is fundamental importance to test the limits of its validity. Here we present the VIP (Violation of the Pauli Exclusion Principle) experiment, where we search for anomalous X-rays emitted by copper atoms in a conductor: any detection of these anomalous X-rays would mark a Pauli-forbidden transition. ] VIP is currently taking data at the Gran Sasso underground laboratories, and its scientific goal is to improve by at least four orders of magnitude the previous limit on the probability of Pauli violating transitions, bringing it into the 10**-29 - 10**-30 region. First experimental results, together with future plans, are presented.

id: 0803.0890
title: Locality of dynamics in general harmonic quantum systems
authors: M. Cramer, A. Serafini, J. Eisert
comments: 19 pages latex, contribution to proceedings of "Quantum Information and Many-Body Quantum Systems" Workshop, 26-31 Mar 2007, Pisa. (v2) minor changes
journal: Quantum information and many body quantum systems, Eds. M. Ericsson, S. Montangero, Pisa: Edizioni della Normale, pp 51-72, 2008 (Publications of the Scuola Normale Superiore. CRM Series, 8)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0890
abstract: The Lieb-Robinson theorem states that locality is approximately preserved in the dynamics of quantum lattice systems. Whenever one has finite-dimensional constituents, observables evolving in time under a local Hamiltonian will essentially grow linearly in their support, up to exponentially suppressed corrections. In this work, we formulate Lieb-Robinson bounds for general harmonic systems on general lattices, for which the constituents are infinite-dimensional, as systems representing discrete versions of free fields or the harmonic approximation to the Bose-Hubbard model. We consider both local interactions as well as infinite-ranged interactions, showing how corrections to locality are inherited from the locality of the Hamiltonian: Local interactions result in stronger than exponentially suppressed corrections, while non-local algebraic interactions result in algebraic suppression. We derive bounds for canonical operators, Weyl operators and outline generalization to arbitrary operators. As an example, we discuss the Klein-Gordon field, and see how the approximate locality in the lattice model becomes the exact causality in the field limit. We discuss the applicability of these results to quenched lattice systems far from equilibrium, and the dynamics of quantum phase transitions.

id: 0803.0909
title: Quantum computing, phase estimation and applications
authors: Miroslav Dob?¨ª?ek
comments: PhD thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0909
abstract: In this thesis, attention is paid to small experimental testbed applications with respect to the quantum phase estimation algorithm, the core approach for finding energy eigenvalues. An iterative scheme for quantum phase estimation (IPEA) is derived from the Kitaev phase estimation, a study of robustness of the IPEA utilized as a few-qubit testbed application is performed, and an improved protocol for phase reference alignment is presented. Additionally, a short overview of quantum cryptography is given, with a particular focus on quantum steganography and authentication.

id: 0803.0913
title: Quaternions, octonions and Bell-type inequalities
authors: E. Shchukin, W. Vogel
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0913
abstract: Multipartite Bell-type inequalities are derived for general systems. They involve up to eight observables with arbitrary spectra on each site. These inequalities are closely related to the algebras of quaternions and octonions.

id: 0803.0921
title: Protecting coherence in Optimal Control Theory: State dependent constraint approach
authors: Jose P. Palao, Ronnie Kosloff, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 063412 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0921
abstract: Optimal control theory is developed for the task of obtaining a primary objective in a subspace of the Hilbert space while avoiding other subspaces of the Hilbert space. The primary objective can be a state-to-state transition or a unitary transformation. A new optimization functional is introduced which leads to monotonic convergence of the algorithm. This approach becomes necessary for molecular systems subject to processes implying loss of coherence such as predissociation or ionization. In these subspaces controllability is hampered or even completely lost. Avoiding the lossy channels is achieved via a functional constraint which depends on the state of the system at each instant in time. We outline the resulting new algorithm, discuss its convergence properties and demonstrate its functionality for the example of a state-to-state transition and of a unitary transformation for a model of cold Rb2.

id: 0803.0953
title: Delay time computation for relativistic tunneling particles
authors: Alex E. Bernardini
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J . C55 (2008) 125-132
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0953
abstract: We study the tunneling zone solutions of a one-dimensional electrostatic potential for the relativistic (Dirac to Klein-Gordon) wave equation when the incoming wave packet exhibits the possibility of being almost totally transmitted through the barrier. The transmission probabilities, the phase times and the dwell times for the proposed relativistic dynamics are obtained and the conditions for the occurrence of accelerated tunneling transmission are all quantified. We show that, in some limiting cases, the analytical difficulties that arise when the stationary phase method is employed for obtaining phase (traversal) tunneling times are all overcome. Lessons concerning the phenomenology of the relativistic tunneling suggest revealing insights into condensed-matter experiments using electrostatic barriers for which the accelerated tunneling effect can be observed.

id: 0803.0972
title: Special Relativity in Quantum Phase Space
authors: Daniela Dragoman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0972
abstract: A phase space treatment of special relativity of quantum systems is developed. In this approach a quantum particle remains localized if subject to inertial transformations, the localization occurring in a finite phase space area. Unlike non-relativistic transformations, relativistic transformations generally distort the phase space distribution function, being equivalent to aberrations in optics.

id: 0803.1010
title: Generating correlated (2+1)-photon in an active Raman gain medium
authors: Chun-Hua Yuan, Cui-Ping Lu, Weiping Zhang, L. Deng
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 033804 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1010
abstract: A scheme of generating controllable (2+1) photons in a double-$% \Lambda$ atomic system based on active-Raman-gain is presented in this paper. Such (2+1) photons can be a potential candidate to generate a correlated photon pair as the photon `1' acts as a trigger. Compared to other schemes of generating correlated photon pairs, our scheme exhibits a number of advantages due to the exploit of the stimulated Raman process.

id: 0803.1011
title: Rank three bipartite entangled states are distillable
authors: Lin Chen, Yi-Xin Chen
comments: 5 pages; no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1011
abstract: We prove that the bipartite entangled state of rank three is distillable. So there is no rank three bipartite bound entangled state. By using this fact, We present some families of rank four states that are distillable. We also analyze the relation between the low rank state and the Werner state.

id: 0803.1032
title: Matrix rearrangement approach for the entangling power with mixed qudit systems
authors: Xiao-Ming Lu, Xiaoguang Wang, Yang Yang, Jian Chen
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, will appear in Quantum Infomation & Computation Vol.8 No.6/7 pp0671-0680
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 8, No. 6&7 (2008) 0671-0680
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1032
abstract: We extend the former matrix rearrangement approach of the entangling power to the general cases, without the requirement of the same dimensions of the subsystems. The entangling power of a unitary operator is completely determined by its realignment and partial transposition. As applications, we calculate the entangling power for the Ising interaction and the isotropic Heisenberg interaction in the mixed qudit system.

id: 0803.1040
title: Geometric Measure of Entanglement and Shared Quantum States
authors: Levon Tamaryan, DaeKil Park, Jin-Woo Son, Sayatnova Tamaryan
comments: 13 pages, 2 figure, will appear in PRA, many references added, new results are included, style is improved
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032304(2008)(8 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1040
abstract: We give an explicit expression for the geometric measure of entanglement for three qubit states that are linear combinations of four orthogonal product states. It turns out that the geometric measure for these states has three different expressions depending on the range of definition in parameter space. Each expression of the measure has its own geometrically meaningful interpretation. Such an interpretation allows oneself to take one step toward a complete understanding for the general properties of the entanglement measure. The states that lie on joint surfaces separating different ranges of definition, designated as shared states, seem to have particularly interesting features. The properties of the shared states are fully discussed.

id: 0803.1083
title: Structural approach to unambiguous discrimination of two mixed quantum states
authors: M. Kleinmann, H. Kampermann, D. Bruss
comments: 33 pages, 3 figures, minor corrections
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 032201 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1083
abstract: We analyze the optimal unambiguous discrimination of two arbitrary mixed quantum states. We show that the optimal measurement is unique and we present this optimal measurement for the case where the rank of the density operator of one of the states is at most 2 ("solution in 4 dimensions"). The solution is illustrated by some examples. The optimality conditions proved by Eldar et al. [Phys. Rev. A 69, 062318 (2004)] are simplified to an operational form. As an application we present optimality conditions for the measurement, when only one of the two states is detected. The current status of optimal unambiguous state discrimination is summarized via a general strategy.

id: 0803.1093
title: Quantum simulator for the Ising model with electrons floating on a helium film
authors: Sarah Mostame, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 220501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1093
abstract: We propose a physical setup that can be used to simulate the quantum dynamics of the Ising model with present-day technology. Our scheme consists of electrons floating on superfluid helium which interact via Coulomb forces. In the limit of low temperatures, the system will stay near the ground state where its Hamiltonian is equivalent to the Ising model and thus shows phenomena such as quantum criticality. Furthermore, the proposed design could be generalized in order to study interacting field theories (e.g., $\lambda\phi^4$) and adiabatic quantum computers.

id: 0803.1102
title: Thermal state entanglement in harmonic lattices
authors: Janet Anders
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062102 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1102
abstract: We investigate the entanglement properties of thermal states of the harmonic lattice in one, two and three dimensions. We establish the value of the critical temperature for entanglement between neighbouring sites and give physical reasons. Further sites are shown to be entangled only due to boundary effects. Other forms of entanglement are addressed in the second part of the paper by using the energy as witness of entanglement. We close with a comprehensive diagram showing the different phases of entanglement versus complete separability and propose techniques to swap and tune entanglement experimentally.

id: 0803.1128
title: Transport in open spin chains: A Monte Carlo wave-function approach
authors: Mathias Michel, Ortwin Hess, Hannu Wichterich, Jochen Gemmer
comments: to be published in Physical Reviews B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 104303 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1128
abstract: We investigate energy transport in several two-level atom or spin-1/2 models by a direct coupling to heat baths of different temperatures. The analysis is carried out on the basis of a recently derived quantum master equation which describes the nonequilibrium properties of internally weakly coupled systems appropriately. For the computation of the stationary state of the dynamical equations, we employ a Monte Carlo wave-function approach. The analysis directly indicates normal diffusive or ballistic transport in finite models and hints toward an extrapolation of the transport behavior of infinite models.

id: 0803.1132
title: Dynamics of Low-Density Ultracold Rydberg Gases
authors: J. O. Day, E. Brekke, T. G. Walker
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052712 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1132
abstract: Population dynamics in weakly-excited clouds of ultracold $^{87}$Rb Rydberg atoms were studied by means of trap loss, fluorescence detection, and state dependent stimulated emission. Rydberg atoms were excited to various nl Rydberg states via continuous two-photon excitation from a magneto-optical trap. A stimulated emission probe laser was then used to bring the Rydberg atoms down to the 6P$_{3/2}$ state, allowing state-dependent detection of the Rydberg atoms. Measurements of trap loss and fluorescent emission reveal information about the evolution of the Rydberg populations. In particular, population in the initial Rydberg state quickly transfers to other Rydberg states by a non-collisional mechanism, likely superradiant emission. The trap-loss measurements are consistent with black-body ionization as the dominant loss mechanism.

id: 0803.1164
title: Qantum theory of optomechanical cooling
authors: Florian Marquardt, A. A. Clerk, S. M. Girvin
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, brief review submitted to Journal of Modern Optics, for the proceedings of the "Physics of Quantum Electronics" conference (Snowbird, 2008)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1164
abstract: We review the quantum theory of cooling of a mechanical oscillator subject to the radiation pressure force due to light circulating inside a driven optical cavity. Such optomechanical setups have been used recently in a series of experiments by various groups to cool mechanical oscillators (such as cantilevers) by factors reaching $10^{5}$, and they may soon go to the ground state of mechanical motion. We emphasize the importance of the sideband-resolved regime for ground state cooling, where the cavity ring-down rate is smaller than the mechanical frequency. Moreover, we illustrate the strong coupling regime, where the cooling rate exceeds the cavity ring-down rate and where the driven cavity resonance and the mechanical oscillation hybridize.

id: 0803.1183
title: Non-Markovian Open Quantum Systems
authors: Cesar A. Rodriguez-Rosario, E.C.G. Sudarshan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1183
abstract: We construct a non-Markovian canonical dynamical map that accounts for systems correlated with the environment. The physical meaning of not completely positive maps is studied to obtain a theory of non-Markovian quantum dynamics. The relationship between inverse maps and correlations with the environment is established. A generalized non-Markovian master equation is derived from the canonical dynamical map that goes beyond the Kossakowski-Lindblad Markovian master equation. Non-equilibrium quantum thermodynamics can be be studied within this theory.

id: 0803.1193
title: Lie Algebraic Analysis and Control of Quantum Dynamics
authors: Domenico D'Alessandro
comments: New version. It does not contain the application to quantum walks. This part in the previous version contained an error. It has been corrected and expanded in a new paper called `Analysis of quantum walks with time varying coin on d-dimensional lattices' to be posted on the archives. Also a proof in the previous version was incomplete and it has been corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1193
abstract: In this paper, we show how to use the analysis of the Lie algebra associated with a quantum mechanical system to study its dynamics and facilitate the design of controls. We give algorithms to decompose the dynamics and describe their application to the control of two coupled spin 1/2's.

id: 0803.1219
title: Optical squeezing of a mechanical oscillator by dispersive interaction
authors: M. Bhattacharya, P. -L. Giscard, P. Meystre
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1219
abstract: We consider a small partially reflecting vibrating mirror coupled dispersively to a single optical mode of a high finesse cavity. We show this arrangement can be used to implement quantum squeezing of the mechanically oscillating mirror.

id: 0803.1229
title: Atomic current in optical lattices: Esaki-Tsu equation revisited
authors: Andrey R. Kolovsky
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 063604 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1229
abstract: The paper discusses the master equation approach to derivation of the Esaki-Tsu equation for drift current. It is shown that the relaxation term in the master equation can be identified by measuring the velocity distribution of the carriers. We also show that the standard form of the relaxation term, used earlier to derive Esaki-Tsu equation, predicts unphysical velocity distribution and suggest a more elaborated relaxation term, which is argued to correctly capture the effect of bosonic bath in experiments on atomic current in optical lattices.

id: 0803.1232
title: Linear optical scheme to demonstrate genuine multipartite entanglement for single-particle W states
authors: Hyunchul Nha
comments: 6 pages, new scheme proposed with improved efficiency, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062328 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1232
abstract: We consider the method of entanglement witness operator to verify genuine multipartite entanglement for single-particle W states involving N parties. In particular, linear optical schemes using photo detectors and beam splitters are proposed to implement two different types of witness operator in experiment. The first scheme that requires only a single measurement setting is shown to detect genuine multipartite entanglement for the overall efficiency beyond 1-1/N. On the other hand, the second scheme with N+1 measurement settings achieves success at a significantly lowered efficiency than 1-1/N.

id: 0803.1240
title: Partial Observations, Einstein Locality and Bell Inequalities in Quantized Detector Networks
authors: G. Jaroszkiewicz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1240
abstract: Quantized detector networks (QDN) deals with quantum information exchange between observers and their apparatus rather than with systems under observation. Partial observations in QDN involve subsets of the elementary signal detectors which constitute an apparatus. We use them to prove that QDN is consistent with Einstein locality and violations of Bell-type inequalities.

id: 0803.1264
title: Nonclassicality without entanglement enables bit commitment
authors: Howard Barnum, Oscar C.O. Dahlsten, Matthew Leifer, Ben Toner
comments: 
journal: Proceedings of IEEE Information Theory Workshop, 2008, pp. 386-390
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1264
abstract: We investigate the existence of secure bit commitment protocols in the convex framework for probabilistic theories. The framework makes only minimal assumptions, and can be used to formalize quantum theory, classical probability theory, and a host of other possibilities. We prove that in all such theories that are locally non-classical but do not have entanglement, there exists a bit commitment protocol that is exponentially secure in the number of systems used.

id: 0803.1292
title: Fidelity susceptibility and long-range correlation in the Kitaev honeycomb model
authors: Shuo Yang, Shi-Jian Gu, Chang-Pu Sun, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012304 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1292
abstract: We study exactly both the ground-state fidelity susceptibility and bond-bond correlation function in the Kitaev honeycomb model. Our results show that the fidelity susceptibility can be used to identify the topological phase transition from a gapped A phase with Abelian anyon excitations to a gapless B phase with non-Abelian anyon excitations. We also find that the bond-bond correlation function decays exponentially in the gapped phase, but algebraically in the gapless phase. For the former case, the correlation length is found to be $1/\xi=2\sinh^{-1}[\sqrt{2J_z -1}/(1-J_z)]$, which diverges around the critical point $J_z=(1/2)^+$.

id: 0803.1342
title: Teleportation of composite systems for communication and information processing
authors: Sebastien G.R. Louis, Andrew D. Greentree, W.J. Munro, Kae Nemoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1342
abstract: We describe two protocols for efficient data transmission using a single passive bus. Different types of interactions are obtained enabling deterministic transfer and teleportation of composite quantum systems for arbitrary subsystem dimension and for arbitrary numbers of subsystems. The subsystems may become entangled in the transmission in which case the protocols can serve generalized teleportation based information processing as well as storage and transmission functions. We explore the cases of two qubits and two qutrits in detail, obtaining a maximally entangling mapping of the composite systems and discuss the use of a continuous variable bus.

id: 0803.1350
title: Quantum Correlations over Long-distances Using Noisy Quantum Repeaters
authors: Joonwoo Bae, Jeong San Kim
comments: 4 + epsilon pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1350
abstract: Quantum correlations as the resource for quantum communication can be distributed over long distances by quantum repeaters. In this Letter, we introduce the notion of a noisy quantum repeater, and examine its role in quantum communication. Quantum correlations shared through noisy quantum repeaters are then characterized and their secrecy properties are studied. Remarkably, noisy quantum repeaters naturally introduce private states in the key distillation scenario, and consequently key distillation protocols are demonstrated to be more tolerant.

id: 0803.1355
title: Parallelism of quantum computations from prequantum classical statistical field theory (PCSFT)
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1355
abstract: This paper is devoted to such a fundamental problem of quantum computing as quantum parallelism. It is well known that quantum parallelism is the basis of the ability of quantum computer to perform in polynomial time computations performed by classical computers for exponential time. Therefore better understanding of quantum parallelism is important both for theoretical and applied research, cf. e.g. David Deutsch \cite{DD}. We present a realistic interpretation based on recently developed prequantum classical statistical field theory (PCSFT). In the PCSFT-approach to QM quantum states (mixed as well as pure) are labels of special ensembles of classical fields. Thus e.g. a single (!) ``electron in the pure state'' $\psi$ can be identified with a special `` electron random field,'' say $\Phi_\psi(\phi).$ Quantum computer operates with such random fields. By one computational step for e.g. a Boolean function $f(x_1,...,x_n)$ the initial random field $\Phi_{\psi_0}(\phi)$ is transformed into the final random field $\Phi_{\psi_f}(\phi)$ ``containing all values'' of $f.$ This is the objective of quantum computer's ability to operate quickly with huge amounts of information -- in fact, with classical random fields.

id: 0803.1391
title: Quantum-like Representation Algorithm: Transformation of Probabilistic Data into vectors on Bloch's Sphere
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1391
abstract: In this paper we present a simple algorithm for representation of statistical data of any origin by complex probability amplitudes. Numerical simulation with Mathematica-6 is performed. The Bloch's sphere is used for visualization of results of numerical simulation. On the one hand, creation of such a quantum-like (QL) representation and its numerical approval is an important step in clarification of extremely complicated interrelation between classical and quantum randomness. On the other hand, it opens new possibilities for application the mathematical formalism of QM in other domains of science.

id: 0803.1406
title: Single Particle Tunneling in Strongly Driven Double Well Potentials
authors: E. Kierig, U. Schnorrberger, A. Schietinger, J. Tomkovic, M.K. Oberthaler
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1406
abstract: We report on the first direct observation of coherent control of single particle tunneling in a strongly driven double well potential. In our setup atoms propagate in a periodic arrangement of double wells allowing the full control of the driving parameters such as frequency, amplitude and even the space-time symmetry. Our experimental findings are in quantitative agreement with the predictions of the corresponding Floquet theory and are also compared to the predictions of a simple two mode model. Our experiments reveal directly the critical dependence of coherent destruction of tunneling on the generalized parity symmetry.

id: 0803.1418
title: Quantum learning by measurement and feedback
authors: Soren Gammelmark, Klaus Molmer
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 2009 New J. Phys. 11 033017
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1418
abstract: We propose an approach to quantum computing in which quantum gate strengths are parametrized by quantum degrees of freedom, and the capability of the quantum computer to perform desired tasks is monitored and gradually improved by successive feedback modifications of the coupling strength parameters. Our proposal aims at experimental implementation, scalable to computational problems too large to be simulated theoretically, and we demonstrate feasibility of our proposal with simulations on search and factoring algorithms.

id: 0803.1427
title: Exact Results on Dynamical Decoupling by $¦Ð$-Pulses in Quantum Information Processes
authors: G?tz S. Uhrig
comments: 12 pages and 3 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics, vol 10, page 083024 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1427
abstract: The aim of dynamical decoupling consists in the suppression of decoherence by appropriate coherent control of a quantum register. Effectively, the interaction with the environment is reduced. In particular, a sequence of $\pi$ pulses is considered. Here we present exact results on the suppression of the coupling of a quantum bit to its environment by optimized sequences of $\pi$ pulses. The effect of various cutoffs of the spectral density of the environment is investigated. As a result we show that the harder the cutoff is the better an optimized pulse sequence can deal with it. For cutoffs which are neither completely hard nor very soft we advocate iterated optimized sequences.

id: 0803.1447
title: Quantum computation, quantum state engineering, and quantum phase transitions driven by dissipation
authors: Frank Verstraete, Michael M. Wolf, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 7 pages
journal: Nature Physics 5, 633 - 636 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1447
abstract: We investigate the computational power of creating steady-states of quantum dissipative systems whose evolution is governed by time-independent and local couplings to a memoryless environment. We show that such a model allows for efficient universal quantum computation with the result of the computation encoded in the steady state. Due to the purely dissipative nature of the process, this way of doing quantum computation exhibits some inherent robustness and defies some of the DiVincenzo criteria for quantum computation. We show that there is a natural class of problems that can be solved with such a model - the preparation of ground states of frustration free quantum Hamiltonians. This allows for robust and efficient creation of exotic states that exhibit features like topological quantum order and the creation of PEPS and it proves the existence of novel dissipative phase transitions. In particular the latter can in principle be verified experimentally with present day technology such as with optical lattices.

id: 0803.1463
title: Preparation of Entangled States by Quantum Markov Processes
authors: B. Kraus, H. P. B¨¹chler, S. Diehl, A. Kantian, A. Micheli, P. Zoller
comments: minor changes, references added, appendix removed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042307 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1463
abstract: We investigate the possibility of using a dissipative process to prepare a quantum system in a desired state. We derive for any multipartite pure state a dissipative process for which this state is the unique stationary state and solve the corresponding master equation analytically. For certain states, like the Cluster states, we use this process to show that the jump operators can be chosen quasi-locally, i.e. they act non-trivially only on a few, neighboring qubits. Furthermore, the relaxation time of this dissipative process is independent of the number of subsystems. We demonstrate the general formalism by considering arbitrary MPS-PEPS states. In particular, we show that the ground state of the AKLT-model can be prepared employing a quasi--local dissipative process.

id: 0803.1473
title: Effect of detector dead-times on the security evaluation of differential-phase-shift quantum key distribution against sequential attacks
authors: Marcos Curty, Kiyoshi Tamaki, Tobias Moroder
comments: 21 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052321 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1473
abstract: We investigate limitations imposed by detector dead-times on the performance of sequential attacks against a differential-phase-shift (DPS) quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol with weak coherent pulses. In particular, we analyze sequential attacks based on unambiguous state discrimination of the signal states emitted by the source and we obtain ultimate upper bounds on the maximal distance achievable by a DPS QKD scheme both in the so-called trusted and untrusted device scenarios, respectively.

id: 0803.1478
title: Measurement-based quantum computer in the gapped ground state of a two-body Hamiltonian
authors: Gavin K. Brennen, Akimasa Miyake
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; v3 the extended final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 010502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1478
abstract: We propose a scheme for a ground-code measurement-based quantum computer, which enjoys two major advantages. First, every logical qubit is encoded in the gapped degenerate ground subspace of a spin-1 chain with nearest-neighbor two-body interactions, so that it equips built-in robustness against noise. Second, computation is processed by single-spin measurements along multiple chains dynamically coupled on demand, so as to keep teleporting only logical information into a gap-protected ground state of the residual chains after the interactions with spins to be measured are turned off. We describe implementations using trapped atoms or polar molecules in an optical lattice, where the gap is expected to be as large as 0.2 kHz or 4.8 kHz respectively.

id: 0803.1479
title: Adiabatic cavity QED with pairs of atoms: Atomic entanglement and Quantum teleportation
authors: C. Lazarou, B. M. Garraway
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures, To appear in European Physical Journal Special Topics
journal: The European Physical Journal Special Topics160 235-246 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1479
abstract: We study the dynamics of a pair of atoms, resonantly interacting with a single mode cavity, in the situation where the atoms enter the cavity with a time delay between them. Using time dependent coupling functions to represent the spatial profile of the mode, we considered the adiabatic limit of the system. Although the time evolution is mostly adiabatic, energy crossings play an important role in the system dynamics. Following from this, entanglement, and a procedure for cavity state teleportation are considered. We examine the behaviour of the system when we introduce decoherence, a finite detuning, and potential asymmetries in the coupling profiles of the atoms.

id: 0803.1482
title: Quantum States and Phases in Driven Open Quantum Systems with Cold Atoms
authors: S. Diehl, A. Micheli, A. Kantian, B. Kraus, H.P. B¨¹chler, P. Zoller
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Nature Physics 4, 878 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1482
abstract: An open quantum system, whose time evolution is governed by a master equation, can be driven into a given pure quantum state by an appropriate design of the system-reservoir coupling. This points out a route towards preparing many body states and non-equilibrium quantum phases by quantum reservoir engineering. Here we discuss in detail the example of a \emph{driven dissipative Bose Einstein Condensate} of bosons and of paired fermions, where atoms in an optical lattice are coupled to a bath of Bogoliubov excitations via the atomic current representing \emph{local dissipation}. In the absence of interactions the lattice gas is driven into a pure state with long range order. Weak interactions lead to a weakly mixed state, which in 3D can be understood as a depletion of the condensate, and in 1D and 2D exhibits properties reminiscent of a Luttinger liquid or a Kosterlitz-Thouless critical phase at finite temperature, with the role of the ``finite temperature'' played by the interactions.

id: 0803.1495
title: Encoding One Logical Qubit Into Six Physical Qubits
authors: Bilal Shaw, Mark M. Wilde, Ognyan Oreshkov, Isaac Kremsky, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, 4 tables
journal: Physical Review A 78, 012337 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1495
abstract: We discuss two methods to encode one qubit into six physical qubits. Each of our two examples corrects an arbitrary single-qubit error. Our first example is a degenerate six-qubit quantum error-correcting code. We explicitly provide the stabilizer generators, encoding circuit, codewords, logical Pauli operators, and logical CNOT operator for this code. We also show how to convert this code into a non-trivial subsystem code that saturates the subsystem Singleton bound. We then prove that a six-qubit code without entanglement assistance cannot simultaneously possess a Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) stabilizer and correct an arbitrary single-qubit error. A corollary of this result is that the Steane seven-qubit code is the smallest single-error correcting CSS code. Our second example is the construction of a non-degenerate six-qubit CSS entanglement-assisted code. This code uses one bit of entanglement (an ebit) shared between the sender and the receiver and corrects an arbitrary single-qubit error. The code we obtain is globally equivalent to the Steane seven-qubit code and thus corrects an arbitrary error on the receiver's half of the ebit as well. We prove that this code is the smallest code with a CSS structure that uses only one ebit and corrects an arbitrary single-qubit error on the sender's side. We discuss the advantages and disadvantages for each of the two codes.

id: 0803.1499
title: Multipartite Entanglement in Non-Equilibrium Quantum Phase Transition in a Collective Atomic System
authors: Kishore T. Kapale, Girish S. Agarwal
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1499
abstract: We study multipartite entanglement in non-equilibrium quantum phase transition (NEQPT) attainable in a coherently driven atomic ensemble undergoing collective decay. The NEQPT arises in the steady state of the system as the drive field strength is varied in comparison with the decay parameter. A close connection is observed between the critical behavior and the multi-partite entanglement in the system determined via the von Neumann entropy. The derivative of the von Neumann entropy shows Lambda-type behavior typical of the second order phase transitions. We further show that the calculated bi- and tri- partite entropies satisfy the Lieb inequality.

id: 0803.1512
title: A Protocol for Quantum Energy Distribution
authors: Masahiro Hotta
comments: 20 pages No figures, to be published in Phys.Lett.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1512
abstract: A new protocol, quantum energy distribution (QED), is proposed in which multiple parties can simultaneously extract positive energy from spin chains by common secret keys shared by an energy supplier. QED is robust against impersonation; an adversary, who does not have a common secret key and attempts to get energy, will instead give energy to the spin chains. The total amount of energy transfer gives a lower bound of the residual energy of any local cooling process by the energy supplier.

id: 0803.1524
title: Entanglement and Berry Phase in Two Interacting Qubits
authors: Ai Min Chen, Sam Young Cho, Taeseung Choi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1524
abstract: Entanglement and Berry phase are investigated in two interacting qubit systems. The XXZ spin interaction model with a slowly rotating magnetic field is employed for the interaction between the two qubits. We show how the anisotropy of interaction reveals unique relations between the Berry phases and the entanglements for the eigenstates of the system.

id: 0803.1532
title: Purifying GHZ States Using Degenerate Quantum Codes
authors: K. H. Ho, H. F. Chau
comments: Significantly revised with a few new results added, 33 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1532
abstract: Degenerate quantum codes are codes that do not reveal the complete error syndrome. Their ability to conceal the complete error syndrome makes them powerful resources in certain quantum information processing tasks. In particular, the most error-tolerant way to purify depolarized Bell states using one-way communication known to date involves degenerate quantum codes. Here we study three closely related purification schemes for depolarized GHZ states shared among $m \geq 3$ players by means of degenerate quantum codes and one-way classical communications. We find that our schemes tolerate more noise than all other one-way schemes known to date, further demonstrating the effectiveness of degenerate quantum codes in quantum information processing.

id: 0803.1554
title: Optical Quantum Computing
authors: Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Science, 318, 1467 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1554
abstract: In 2001 all-optical quantum computing became feasible with the discovery that scalable quantum computing is possible using only single photon sources, linear optical elements, and single photon detectors. Although it was in principle scalable, the massive resource overhead made the scheme practically daunting. However, several simplifications were followed by proof-of-principle demonstrations, and recent approaches based on cluster states or error encoding have dramatically reduced this worrying resource overhead, making an all-optical architecture a serious contender for the ultimate goal of a large-scale quantum computer. Key challenges will be the realization of high-efficiency sources of indistinguishable single photons, low-loss, scalable optical circuits, high efficiency single photon detectors, and low-loss interfacing of these components.

id: 0803.1561
title: Short Time Dynamics of Scalar Products in Hilbert Space
authors: Ad¨¦lcio C. Oliveira
comments: 24 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1561
abstract: We use the semiclassical method proposed in \cite{Adelcio2003} to study scalar products such as the overlap, Husimi functions and fidelity decay. Scars of classical periodic orbits arise naturally in this pertubative expansion. We also derive analytically a well known numerical result that fidelity has a quadratic decay for short times. We study the overlap in the chaotic regime and integrable for some simple systems.

id: 0803.1594
title: Decoy states for quantum key distribution based on decoherence-free subspaces
authors: Zhen-Qiang Yin, Yi-Bo Zhao, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Zheng-Fu Han, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 6 pages,1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062326 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1594
abstract: Quantum key distribution with decoherence-free subspaces has been proposed to overcome the collective noise to the polarization modes of photons flying in quantum channel. Prototype of this scheme have also been achieved with parametric-down conversion source. However, a novel type of photon-number-splitting attack we proposed in this paper will make the practical implementations of this scheme insecure since the parametric-down conversion source may emit multi-photon pairs occasionally. We propose decoy states method to make these implementations immune to this attack. And with this decoy states method, both the security distance and key bit rate will be increased.

id: 0803.1643
title: Quantum Many-Body Dynamics of Coupled Double-Well Superlattices
authors: Peter Barmettler, Ana Maria Rey, Eugene Demler, Mikhail D. Lukin, Immanuel Bloch, Vladimir Gritsev
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012330 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1643
abstract: We propose a method for controllable generation of non-local entangled pairs using spinor atoms loaded in an optical superlattice. Our scheme iteratively increases the distance between entangled atoms by controlling the coupling between the double wells. When implemented in a finite linear chain of 2N atoms, it creates a triplet valence bond state with large persistency of entanglement (of the order of N). We also study the non-equilibrium dynamics of the one-dimensional ferromagnetic Heisenberg Hamiltonian and show that the time evolution of a state of decoupled triplets on each double well leads to the formation of a highly entangled state where short-distance antiferromagnetic correlations coexist with longer-distance ferromagnetic ones. We present methods for detection and characterization of the various dynamically generated states. These ideas are a step forward towards the use of atoms trapped by light as quantum information processors and quantum simulators.

id: 0803.1665
title: Many body effects and cluster state quantum computation in strongly interacting systems of photons
authors: Dimitris G. Angelakis, Sougato Bose, Alastair Kay, Marcelo F. Santos
comments: 10 pages. Contribution to proceedings of "Quantum Information and Many-Body Quantum Systems" Workshop, 26-31 Mar 2007, Pisa
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1665
abstract: We discuss the basic properties of a recently proposed hybrid light-matter system of strongly interacting photons in an array of coupled cavities each doped with a single two level system. Using the non-linearity generated from the photon blockade effect, we predict strong correlations between the hopping photons in the array, and show the possibility of observing a phase transition from a polaritonic insulator to a superfluid of photons. In the Mott phase, this interaction can be mapped to an array of spins. We show how the remaining Hamiltonian, in conjunction with individual spin manipulation, can thus be used for simulating spin chains (useful for state transfer protocols) and cluster state quantum computation.

id: 0803.1712
title: Towards quantum frequency combs: boosting the generation of highly nonclassical light states by cavity-enhanced parametric down-conversion at high repetition rates
authors: Alessandro Zavatta, Valentina Parigi, Marco Bellini
comments: 5 pages 3 figures; updated with major additions, added references, and changed title. Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 78, 033809 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1712
abstract: We demonstrate the generation of multi-photon quantum states of light by cavity-enhanced parametric down-conversion in the high-repetition-rate pulsed regime. An external enhancement cavity resonant with the spectral comb of modes of a mode-locked pump laser provides a coherent build-up of the pump intensity and greatly enhances the parametric gain without sacrificing its high repetition rate and comb structure. We probe the parametric gain enhancement by the conditional generation and tomographic analysis of two-photon Fock states. Besides its potential impact to efficiently generate highly-nonclassical or entangled multi-photon states in many existing experimental setups, this scheme opens new and exciting perspectives towards the combination of quantum and comb technologies for enhanced measurements and advanced quantum computation protocols.

id: 0803.1724
title: Experimental generation of genuine four-partite entangled states with total three-party correlation for continuous variables
authors: Aihong Tan, Yu Wang, Xiaoli Jin, Xiaolong Su, Xiaojun Jia, Jing Zhang, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1724
abstract: We experimentally prepare a new type of continuous variable genuine four-partite entangled states, the quantum correlation property of which is different from that of the four-mode GHZ and cluster states, and which has not any qubit counterpart to be proposed at present. In the criterion inequalities for the full inseparability of the genuine four-partite entangled states, the amplitude and phase quadrature correlation variances totally consisting of three-party combination from the four entangled modes are involved. The measured correlation variances among the quadratures of the prepared entangled states satisfy the sufficient requirements for the full inseparability. The type of entangled states has especially potential application in quantum information with continuous quantum variables.

id: 0803.1757
title: Nanomechanical squeezing with detection via a microwave cavity
authors: M. J. Woolley, A. C. Doherty, G. J. Milburn, K. C. Schwab
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, largely rewritten, particularly with regard to clarifying the relationship between microwave field and mechanical squeezing
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062303 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1757
abstract: We study a parametrically-driven nanomechanical resonator capacitively coupled to a microwave cavity. If the nanoresonator can be cooled to near its quantum ground state then quantum squeezing of a quadrature of the nanoresonator motion becomes feasible. We consider the adiabatic limit in which the cavity mode is slaved to the nanoresonator mode. By driving the cavity on its red-detuned sideband, the squeezing can be coupled into the microwave field at the cavity resonance. The red-detuned sideband drive is also compatible with the goal of ground state cooling. Squeezing of the output microwave field may be inferred using a technique similar to that used to infer squeezing of the field produced by a Josephson parametric amplifier, and subsequently, squeezing of the nanoresonator motion may be inferred. We have calculated the output field microwave squeezing spectra and related this to squeezing of the nanoresonator motion, both at zero and finite temperature. Driving the cavity on the blue-detuned sideband, and on both the blue and red sidebands, have also been considered within the same formalism.

id: 0803.1760
title: Entanglement of two distant Bose-Einstein condensates by detection of Bragg-scattered photons
authors: B. Deb, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 013639 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1760
abstract: We show that it is possible to generate entanglement between two distant Bose-Einstein condensates by detection of Hanbury Brown-Twiss type correlations in photons Bragg-scattered by the condensates. Upon coincident detection of two photons by two detectors, the projected joint state of two condensates is shown to be non-Gaussian. We verify the existence of entanglement by showing that the partially transposed state is negative. Further we use the inequality in terms of higher order moments to confirm entanglement. Our proposed scheme can be generalized for multiple condensates and also for spinor condensates with Bragg scattering of polarized light with the latter capable of producing hyper entanglement.

id: 0803.1767
title: Single- and Multichannel Wave Bending
authors: B.N. Zakhariev, V.M. Chabanov
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1767
abstract: Recently, we have discovered a new concept of permanent wave resonance with potential spatial oscillations. This means the constant wave swinging frequency on the whole energy intervals of spectral forbidden zones destroying physical solutions and deepening the theory of waves in periodic potentials. It also shows the other side of strengthening the fundamentally important magic nuclear structures. A new language of wave bending will be presented to enrich our quantum intuition, e.g., the paradoxical effective attraction of barriers and repulsion of wells in multichannel systems.

id: 0803.1778
title: Extended Reduction Criterion and Lattice States
authors: Fabio Benatti, Roberto Floreanini, Alexandra M. Liguori
comments: 17 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 48, 052103 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1778
abstract: We study a particular class of states of a bipartite system consisting of two 4-level parties. By means of an adapted extended reduction criterion we associate their entanglement properties to the geometric patterns of a planar lattice consisting of 16 points.

id: 0803.1799
title: Dynamics and stability of Bose-Einstein condensates with attractive 1/r interaction
authors: Holger Cartarius, Toma? Fab?i?, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: Corrected the original usage of two inconsistent energy units in some equations and in Figs. 2, 4, 5, and 6; 12 pages 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 013615 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1799
abstract: The time-dependent extended Gross-Pitaevskii equation for Bose-Einstein condensates with attractive 1/r interaction is investigated with both a variational approach and numerically exact calculations. We show that these condensates exhibit signatures known from the nonlinear dynamics of autonomous Hamiltonian systems. The two stationary solutions created in a tangent bifurcation at a critical value of the scattering length are identified as elliptical and hyperbolical fixed points, corresponding to stable and unstable stationary states of the condensate. The stable stationary state is surrounded by elliptical islands, corresponding to condensates periodically oscillating in time, whereas condensate wave functions in the unstable region undergo a collapse within finite time. For negative scattering lengths below the tangent bifurcation no stationary solutions exist, i.e., the condensate is always unstable and collapses.

id: 0803.1810
title: Experimental demonstration of a BDCZ quantum repeater node
authors: Zhen-Sheng Yuan, Yu-Ao Chen, Bo Zhao, Shuai Chen, Joerg Schmiedmayer, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature 454, 1098 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1810
abstract: Quantum communication is a method that offers efficient and secure ways for the exchange of information in a network. Large-scale quantum communication (of the order of 100 km) has been achieved; however, serious problems occur beyond this distance scale, mainly due to inevitable photon loss in the transmission channel. Quantum communication eventually fails when the probability of a dark count in the photon detectors becomes comparable to the probability that a photon is correctly detected. To overcome this problem, Briegel, D\"{u}r, Cirac and Zoller (BDCZ) introduced the concept of quantum repeaters, combining entanglement swapping and quantum memory to efficiently extend the achievable distances. Although entanglement swapping has been experimentally demonstrated, the implementation of BDCZ quantum repeaters has proved challenging owing to the difficulty of integrating a quantum memory. Here we realize entanglement swapping with storage and retrieval of light, a building block of the BDCZ quantum repeater. We follow a scheme that incorporates the strategy of BDCZ with atomic quantum memories. Two atomic ensembles, each originally entangled with a single emitted photon, are projected into an entangled state by performing a joint Bell state measurement on the two single photons after they have passed through a 300-m fibre-based communication channel. The entanglement is stored in the atomic ensembles and later verified by converting the atomic excitations into photons. Our method is intrinsically phase insensitive and establishes the essential element needed to realize quantum repeaters with stationary atomic qubits as quantum memories and flying photonic qubits as quantum messengers.

id: 0803.1871
title: Experimental verification of the feasibility of a quantum channel between Space and Earth
authors: Paolo Villoresi, Thomas Jennewein, Fabrizio Tamburini, Markus Aspelmeyer, Cristian Bonato, Rupert Ursin, Claudio Pernechele, Vincenza Luceri, Giuseppe Bianco, Anton Zeilinger, Cesare Barbieri
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 10, 033038 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Space Physics (physics.space-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1871
abstract: Extending quantum communication to Space environments would enable to perform fundamental experiments on quantum physics as well as applications of quantum information at planetary and interplanetary scales. Here, we report the first experimental implementation of a scheme for single-photon exchange between a satellite and an Earth-based station. We built an experiment that mimics a single photon source on a satellite, exploiting the telescope at the Matera Laser Ranging Observatory of the Italian Space Agency to detect the transmitted photons. Weak laser pulses, emitted by the ground-based station, are directed towards a satellite equipped with cube-corner retroreflectors. These reflect a small portion of the pulse, with an average of less-than-one photon per pulse directed to our receiver, as required for the faint-pulse quantum communication. We were able to detect returns from satellite Ajisai, a low-earth orbit geodetic satellite, whose orbit has a perigee height of 1485 km.

id: 0803.1873
title: Truncated su(2) moment problem for spin and polarization states
authors: Tobias Moroder, Michael Keyl, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 275302 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1873
abstract: We address the problem whether a given set of expectation values is compatible with the first and second moments of the generic spin operators of a system with total spin j. Those operators appear as the Stokes operator in quantum optics, as well as the total angular momentum operators in the atomic ensemble literature. We link this problem to a particular extension problem for bipartite qubit states; this problem is closely related to the symmetric extension problem that has recently drawn much attention in different contexts of the quantum information literature. We are able to provide operational, approximate solutions for every large spin numbers, and in fact the solution becomes exact in the limiting case of infinite spin numbers. Solutions for low spin numbers are formulated in terms of a hyperplane characterization, similar to entanglement witnesses, that can be efficiently solved with semidefinite programming.

id: 0803.1887
title: Hybrid phase-space simulation method for interacting Bose fields
authors: Scott E. Hoffmann, Joel F. Corney, Peter D. Drummond
comments: 13 pages; 6 figures; references added; figures corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1887
abstract: We introduce an approximate phase-space technique to simulate the quantum dynamics of interacting bosons. With the future goal of treating Bose-Einstein condensate systems, the method is designed for systems with a natural separation into highly occupied (condensed) modes and lightly occupied modes. The method self-consistently uses the Wigner representation to treat highly occupied modes and the positive-P representation for lightly occupied modes. In this method, truncation of higher-derivative terms from the Fokker-Planck equation is usually necessary. However, at least in the cases investigated here, the resulting systematic error, over a finite time, vanishes in the limit of large Wigner occupation numbers. We tested the method on a system of two interacting anharmonic oscillators, with high and low occupations, respectively. The Hybrid method successfully predicted atomic quadratures to a useful simulation time 60 times longer than that of the positive-P method. The truncated Wigner method also performed well in this test. For the prediction of the correlation in a quantum nondemolition measurement scheme, for this same system, the Hybrid method gave excellent agreement with the exact result, while the truncated Wigner method showed a large systematic error.

id: 0803.1897
title: An elementary optical gate for expanding entanglement web
authors: Toshiyuki Tashima, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 030302(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1897
abstract: We introduce an elementary optical gate for expanding polarization entangled W states, in which every pair of photons are entangled alike. The gate is composed of a pair of 50:50 beamsplitters and ancillary photons in the two-photon Fock state. By seeding one of the photons in an $n$-photon W state into this gate, we obtain an $(n+2)$-photon W state after post-selection. This gate gives a better efficiency and a simpler implementation than previous proposals for $\rm W$-state preparation.

id: 0803.1906
title: Excitation transfer in two two-level systems coupled to an oscillator
authors: Peter L. Hagelstein, Irfan U. Chaudhary
comments: 26 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1906
abstract: We consider a generalization of the spin-boson model in which two different two-level systems are coupled to an oscillator, under conditions where the oscillator energy is much less than the two-level system energies, and where the oscillator is highly excited. We find that the two-level system transition energy is shifted, producing a Bloch-Siegert shift in each two-level system similar to what would be obtained if the other were absent. At resonances associated with energy exchange between a two-level system and the oscillator, the level splitting is about the same as would be obtained in the spin-boson model at a Bloch-Siegert resonance. However, there occur resonances associated with the transfer of excitation between one two-level system and the other, an effect not present in the spin-boson model. We use a unitary transformation leading to a rotated system in which terms responsible for the shift and splittings can be identified. The level splittings at the anticrossings associated with both energy exchange and excitation transfer resonances are accounted for with simple two-state models and degenerate perturbation theory using operators that appear in the rotated Hamiltonian.

id: 0803.1910
title: A paradigm for entanglement and information swapping of two qubits
authors: Nasser Metwally, Mahmoud Abdel-Aty
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1910
abstract: Based on a general unitary operation of two-qubit system, we investigate the dynamics of entanglement, entropy and purity. Distinctive features in the different initial states settings of an interacting bipartite system are explored. The striking effects of initial product states on entanglement shows that zeros entanglement can be obtained during the development of the interaction.

id: 0803.1911
title: On group theory for quantum gates and quantum coherence
authors: Michel Planat, Philippe Jorrand
comments: 10 pages, to appear in J Phys A: Math and Theo (Fast Track Communication)
journal: Journal of Physics A Mathematical and Theoretical 41 (2008) 182001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1911
abstract: Finite group extensions offer a natural language to quantum computing. In a nutshell, one roughly describes the action of a quantum computer as consisting of two finite groups of gates: error gates from the general Pauli group P and stabilizing gates within an extension group C. In this paper one explores the nice adequacy between group theoretical concepts such as commutators, normal subgroups, group of automorphisms, short exact sequences, wreath products... and the coherent quantum computational primitives. The structure of the single qubit and two-qubit Clifford groups is analyzed in detail. As a byproduct, one discovers that M20, the smallest perfect group for which the commutator subgroup departs from the set of commutators, underlies quantum coherence of the two-qubit system. One recovers similar results by looking at the automorphisms of a complete set of mutually unbiased bases.

id: 0803.1914
title: Geometric phases and quantum phase transitions
authors: Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: Invited review article for IJMPB; material covered till June 2007; 10 pages
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B 22, 561-581 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1914
abstract: Quantum phase transition is one of the main interests in the field of condensed matter physics, while geometric phase is a fundamental concept and has attracted considerable interest in the field of quantum mechanics. However, no relevant relation was recognized before recent work. In this paper, we present a review of the connection recently established between these two interesting fields: investigations in the geometric phase of the many-body systems have revealed so-called "criticality of geometric phase", in which geometric phase associated with the many-body ground state exhibits universality, or scaling behavior in the vicinity of the critical point. In addition, we address the recent advances on the connection of some other geometric quantities and quantum phase transitions. The closed relation recently recognized between quantum phase transitions and some of geometric quantities may open attractive avenues and fruitful dialog between different scientific communities.

id: 0803.1946
title: Maximal qubit tomography
authors: Tam¨¢s Tasn¨¢di
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1946
abstract: A new qubit tomography protocol is introduced, based on a continuous positive operator valued measure, which is supported by the set of pure states, and equivariant under the symmetry group SO(3,R) of the qubit state space. Thus the sample data for the tomography protocol is a discrete set of points on the Bloch sphere obtained by a series of independent measurements on identical replicas of the qubit. Although the maximum likelihood estimator uniquely exists, it cannot be explicitly calculated. Instead, we present another convenient, simple estimator, show that it is unbiased and calculate its variance. Furthermore, a detailed account is given about known properties of related discrete qubit state estimation protocols (like ``minimal qubit tomography''), and the results are compared, discussed.

id: 0803.1965
title: Oscillations of the purity in the repeated-measurement-based generation of quantum states
authors: B. Militello, K. Yuasa, H. Nakazato, A. Messina
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1965
abstract: Repeated observations of a quantum system interacting with another one can drive the latter toward a particular quantum state, irrespectively of its initial condition, because of an {\em effective non-unitary evolution}. If the target state is a pure one, the degree of purity of the system approaches unity, even when the initial condition of the system is a mixed state. In this paper we study the behavior of the purity from the initial value to the final one, that is unity. Depending on the parameters, after a finite number of measurements, the purity exhibits oscillations, that brings about a lower purity than that of the initial state, which is a point to be taken care of in concrete applications.

id: 0803.1973
title: Resonances for a Hydrogenic System or a Harmonic Oscillator Strongly Coupled to a Field
authors: Claude Billionnet
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1973
abstract: We calculate resonances which are formed by a particle in a potential which is either Coulombian or quadratic when the particle is strongly coupled to a massless boson, taking only two energy levels into consideration. From these calculations we derive how the moving away of the particle from its attraction center goes together with the energy lowering of hybrid states that this particle forms with the field. We study the width of these states and we show that stable states may also appear in the coupling.

id: 0803.1981
title: Comment on "Typicality for Generalized Microcanonical Ensemble"
authors: Dorje C. Brody
comments: Version to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 148901 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1981
abstract: The validity of the so-called "typicality" argument for a generalised microcanonical ensemble proposed recently is examined.

id: 0803.1982
title: Liquid State NMR as a Test-bed for Developing Quantum Control Methods
authors: C.A. Ryan, C. Negrevergne, M. Laforest, E. Knill, R. Laflamme
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1982
abstract: In building a quantum information processor (QIP), the challenge is to coherently control a large quantum system well enough to perform an arbitrary quantum algorithm and to be able to correct errors induced by decoherence. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) QIPs offer an excellent test-bed on which to develop and benchmark tools and techniques to control quantum systems. Two main issues to consider when designing control methods are accuracy and efficiency, for which two complementary approaches have been developed so far to control qubit registers with liquid-state NMR methods. The first applies optimal control theory to numerically optimize the control fields to implement unitary operations on low dimensional systems with high fidelity. The second technique is based on the efficient optimization of a sequence of imperfect control elements so that implementation of a full quantum algorithm is possible while minimizing error accumulation. This article summarizes our work in implementing both of these methods. Furthermore, we show that taken together, they form a basis to design quantum-control methods for a block-architecture QIP so that large system size is not a barrier to implementing optimal control techniques.

id: 0803.2007
title: Coherent-feedback quantum control with a dynamic compensator
authors: Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 4 pages, 4 EPS figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2007
abstract: I present an experimental realization of a coherent-feedback control system that was recently proposed for testing basic principles of linear quantum stochastic control theory [M. R. James, H. I. Nurdin and I. R. Petersen, to appear in IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control (2008), arXiv:quant-ph/0703150v2]. For a dynamical plant consisting of an optical ring-resonator, I demonstrate ~ 7 dB broadband disturbance rejection of injected laser signals via all-optical feedback with a tailored dynamic compensator. Comparison of the results with a transfer function model pinpoints critical parameters that determine the coherent-feedback control system's performance.

id: 0803.2021
title: Solid state quantum memory using the 31P nuclear spin
authors: John J. L. Morton, Alexei M. Tyryshkin, Richard M. Brown, Shyam Shankar, Brendon W. Lovett, Arzhang Ardavan, Thomas Schenkel, Eugene E. Haller, Joel W. Ager, S. A. Lyon
comments: v2: Tomography added and storage of general initial states
journal: Nature 455 1085 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2021
abstract: The transfer of information between different physical forms is a central theme in communication and computation, for example between processing entities and memory. Nowhere is this more crucial than in quantum computation, where great effort must be taken to protect the integrity of a fragile quantum bit. Nuclear spins are known to benefit from long coherence times compared to electron spins, but are slow to manipulate and suffer from weak thermal polarisation. A powerful model for quantum computation is thus one in which electron spins are used for processing and readout while nuclear spins are used for storage. Here we demonstrate the coherent transfer of a superposition state in an electron spin 'processing' qubit to a nuclear spin 'memory' qubit, using a combination of microwave and radiofrequency pulses applied to 31P donors in an isotopically pure 28Si crystal. The electron spin state can be stored in the nuclear spin on a timescale that is long compared with the electron decoherence time and then coherently transferred back to the electron spin, thus demonstrating the 31P nuclear spin as a solid-state quantum memory. The overall store/readout fidelity is about 90%, attributed to systematic imperfections in radiofrequency pulses which can be improved through the use of composite pulses. We apply dynamic decoupling to protect the nuclear spin quantum memory element from sources of decoherence. The coherence lifetime of the quantum memory element is found to exceed one second at 5.5K.

id: 0803.2022
title: Quantum Illumination
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: 11 pages, plain TeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2022
abstract: The use of entangled light to illuminate objects is shown to provide significant enhancements over unentangled light for detecting and imaging those objects in the presence of high levels of noise and loss. Each signal sent out is entangled with an ancilla, which is retained. Detection takes place via an entangling measurement on the returning signal together with the ancilla. Quantum illumination with e bits of entanglement increases the effective signal-to-noise ratio of detection and imaging by a factor of 2^e, an exponential improvement over unentangled illumination.

id: 0803.2069
title: Memory Imperfections in Atomic Ensemble-based Quantum Repeaters
authors: Jonatan Bohr Brask, Anders Sondberg Sorensen
comments: 15 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012350 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2069
abstract: Quantum repeaters promise to deliver long-distance entanglement overcoming noise and loss in realistic quantum channels. A promising class of repeaters, based on atomic ensemble quantum memories and linear optics, follow the proposal by Duan et al [Nature 414, 413, 2001]. Here we analyse this protocol in terms of a very general model for the quantum memories employed. We derive analytical expressions for scaling of entanglement with memory imperfections, dark counts, loss and distance, and apply our results to two specific quantum memory protocols. Our methods apply to any quantum memory with an interaction Hamiltonian at most quadratic in the mode operators and are in principle extendible to more recent modifications of the original DLCZ proposal.

id: 0803.2094
title: Inverse operator representations of quantum phase
authors: G.M. Saxena
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2094
abstract: We define quantum phase in terms of inverses of annihilation and creation operators. We show that like Susskind - Glogower phase operators, the measured phase operators and the unitary phase operators can be defined in terms of the inverse operators. However, for the unitary phase operator the Hilbert space includes the negative energy states. The quantum phase in inverse operator representation may find the applications in the field of quantum optics particularly in the squeezed states.

id: 0803.2097
title: Delay of Squeezing and Entanglement using Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in a Vapour Cell
authors: G. H¨¦tet, B. C. Buchler, O. Gl?ckl, M. T. L. Hsu, A. M. Akulshin, H.-A. Bachor, P. K. Lam
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2097
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally the delay of squeezed light and entanglement using Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) in a rubidium vapour cell. We perform quadrature amplitude measurements of the probe field and find no appreciable excess noise from the EIT process. From an input squeezing of 3.1 dB at low sideband frequencies, we observed the survival of 2 dB of squeezing at the EIT output. By splitting the squeezed light on a beam-splitter, we generated biased entanglement between two beams. We transmit one of the entangled beams through the EIT cell and correlate the quantum statistics of this beam with its entangled counterpart. We experimentally observed a 2 $\mu$s delay of the biased entanglement and obtained a preserved degree of wavefunction inseparability of 0.71, below the unity value for separable states.

id: 0803.2114
title: Entanglement and fidelity signatures of quantum phase transitions in spin liquid models
authors: Amit Tribedi, Indrani Bose
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 77, 032307 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2114
abstract: We consider a spin ladder model which is known to have matrix product states as exact ground states with spin liquid characteristics. The model has two critical-point transitions at the parameter values u=0 and infinity. We study the variation of entanglement and fidelity measures in the ground states as a function of u and specially look for signatures of quantum phase transitions at u=0 and infinity. The two different entanglement measures used are S(i) (the single-site von Neumann entropy) and S(i, j) (the two-body entanglement). At the quantum critical point (QCP) u=infinity, the entanglement measure E (=S(i) ,S(i, j)) vanishes but remains nonzero at the other QCP u=0. The first and second derivatives of E with respect to the parameter u and the entanglement length associated with S(i, j) are further calculated to identify special features, if any, near the QCPs. We further determine the GS fidelity F and a quantity ln(D) related to the second derivative of F and show that these quantities calculated for finite-sized systems are good indicators of QPTs occurring in the infinite system.

id: 0803.2117
title: Intertwining symmetry algebras of quantum superintegrable systems on the hyperboloid
authors: J. A. Calzada, S. Kuru, J. Negro, M. A. del Olmo
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2117
abstract: A class of quantum superintegrable Hamiltonians defined on a two-dimensional hyperboloid is considered together with a set of intertwining operators connecting them. It is shown that such intertwining operators close a su(2,1) Lie algebra and determine the Hamiltonians through the Casimir operators. By means of discrete symmetries a broader set of operators is obtained closing a so(4,2) algebra. The physical states corresponding to the discrete spectrum of bound states as well as the degeneration are characterized in terms of unitary representations of su(2,1) and so(4,2).

id: 0803.2192
title: Modified Afshar Experiment: Calculations
authors: Eduardo V. Flores
comments: Typos have been corrected. Two sections added: visibility and which-way information. Conclusions section revised. Reference [4] has been changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2192
abstract: The Afshar experiment is a relatively simple two-slit experiment with results that appear to show a discrepancy with the predictions of Bohr's Principle of Complementarity. We report on the results of a calculation using a simpler but equivalent set-up called the modified Afshar experiment. Numerical results are in agreement with the experimental results performed on the Afshar experiment set-up. Calculations show that the level of which-way information and visibility in the Afshar experiement is higher than originally estimated.

id: 0803.2241
title: Comment on "on a new definition of quantum entropy"
authors: Keyvan Sadri
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2241
abstract: In the article, on a new definition of quantum entropy, Campisi has explained an operator for entropy based on quantum number operator. It has been claimed that the expectation values for this operator increases for every non-quasi-static time dependent perturbations. We have found an example for a case that entropy with this definition does not increase through a spontaneous process.

id: 0803.2243
title: Fidelity analysis of topological quantum phase transitions
authors: Damian F. Abasto, Alioscia Hamma, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 010301(R), 2008.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2243
abstract: We apply the fidelity metric approach to analyze two recently introduced models that exhibit a quantum phase transition to a topologically ordered phase. These quantum models have a known connection to classical statistical mechanical models; we exploit this mapping to obtain the scaling of the fidelity metric tensor near criticality. The topological phase transitions manifest themselves in divergences of the fidelity metric across the phase boundaries. These results provide evidence that the fidelity approach is a valuable tool to investigate novel phases lacking a clear characterization in terms of local order parameters.

id: 0803.2277
title: Effects of Chirped Laser Pulses on Nonclassical Correlation and Entanglement of Photon Pairs from Single Atom
authors: C. H. Raymond Ooi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2277
abstract: We study the effects of arbitrary laser pulse excitations on quantum correlation, entanglement and the role of quantum noise. The transient quantities are computed exactly using a method that provides exact solutions of the Langevin field operators for photon pairs produced by a double Raman atom driven by laser pulses. Short pulses with appropriate chirping, delay and/or detuning can generate broadband photon pairs and yield results that provide insights on how to generate very large nonclassical correlation. We find that short pulses are not favorable for entanglement. The quantity was previously found to be phase-sensitive and this is used with the pulse area concept to explain the rapid variations of entanglement with pulse width and strength. Photon correlation and entanglement are favored by exclusively two different initial conditions. Analysis reinforces our understanding of the two nonclassical concepts.

id: 0803.2316
title: On the CNOT-cost of TOFFOLI gates
authors: Vivek V. Shende, Igor L. Markov
comments: 28 pages
journal: Quant.Inf.Comp. 9(5-6):461-486 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2316
abstract: The three-input TOFFOLI gate is the workhorse of circuit synthesis for classical logic operations on quantum data, e.g., reversible arithmetic circuits. In physical implementations, however, TOFFOLI gates are decomposed into six CNOT gates and several one-qubit gates. Though this decomposition has been known for at least 10 years, we provide here the first demonstration of its CNOT-optimality. We study three-qubit circuits which contain less than six CNOT gates and implement a block-diagonal operator, then show that they implicitly describe the cosine-sine decomposition of a related operator. Leveraging the canonicity of such decompositions to limit one-qubit gates appearing in respective circuits, we prove that the n-qubit analogue of the TOFFOLI requires at least 2n CNOT gates. Additionally, our results offer a complete classification of three-qubit diagonal operators by their CNOT-cost, which holds even if ancilla qubits are available.

id: 0803.2334
title: Perfect transference of a d-level quantum state over pseudo-distance-regular networks
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, R. Sufiani, S. F. Taghavi, E. Barati
comments: 28 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2334
abstract: Following the prescription of Ref. \cite{PST} in which perfect state transference (PST) of a qubit over distance regular spin networks was discussed, in this paper PST of an arbitrary $d$-level quantum state (qudit) over antipodes of more general networks called pseudo distance-regular networks, is investigated. In fact, the spectral analysis techniques used in the previous work \cite{PST}, and algebraic structures of pseudo distance-regular graphs are employed to give an explicit formula for suitable coupling constants in the Hamiltonians so that the state of a particular qudit initially encoded on one site will evolve freely to the opposite site without any dynamical control, i.e., we show that how to derive the parameters of the system so that PST can be achieved. Keywords:Perfect state transfer, $d$-level quantum state, Stratification, Pseudo-distance-regular network PACs Index: 01.55.+b, 02.10.Yn

id: 0803.2359
title: Simulation of partial entanglement with nonsignaling resources
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Nicolas Gisin, Sandu Popescu, Valerio Scarani
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052111 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2359
abstract: With the goal of gaining a deeper understanding of quantum non-locality, we decompose quantum correlations into more elementary non-local correlations. We show that the correlations of all pure entangled states of two qubits can be simulated without communication, hence using only non-signaling resources. Our simulation model works in two steps. First, we decompose the quantum correlations into a local and a non-local part. Second, we present a model for simulating the nonlocal part using only non-signaling resources. In our model partially entangled states require more nonlocal resources than maximally entangled states, but the less the state is entangled, the less frequently must the nonlocal resources be used.

id: 0803.2387
title: Generation of two-mode entanglement between separated cavities
authors: Pengbo Li
comments: 4pages,1figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2387
abstract: We propose a scheme for the generation of two-mode entangled states between two spatially separated cavities. It utilizes a two-level atom sequentially coupling to two high-Q cavities with a strong classical driving field. It is shown that by suitably choosing the intensities and detunings of the fields and coherent control of the dynamics, several different entangled states such as entangled coherent states and Bell states can be produced between the modes of the two cavities.

id: 0803.2411
title: Numerical Analysis of Optimized Coherent Control Pulses
authors: P. Karbach, S. Pasini, G. S. Uhrig
comments: 8 pages and 10 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022315 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2411
abstract: Numerically we simulate the effect of optimized coherent control pulses with a finite duration on a qubit in a bath of spins. The pulses of finite duration are compared with ideal instantaneous pulses. In particular, we show that properly designed short pulses can approximate ideal instantaneous pulses up to a certain order in the shortness of the pulse. We provide examples of such pulses, quantify the discrepancy from the ideal case and compare their effect for various ranges of the coupling constants.

id: 0803.2425
title: Space-like Separation in a Bell Test assuming Gravitationally Induced Collapses
authors: D. Salart, A. Baas, J.A.W. van Houwelingen, N. Gisin, H. Zbinden
comments: 
journal: PRL 100, 220404 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2425
abstract: We report on a Bell experiment with space-like separation assuming that the measurement time is related to gravity-induced state reduction. Two energy-time entangled photons are sent through optical fibers and directed into unbalanced interferometers at two receiving stations separated by 18 km. At each station, the detection of a photon triggers the displacement of a macroscopic mass. The timing ensures space-like separation from the moment a photon enters its interferometer until the mass has moved. 2-photon interference fringes with a visibility of up to 90.5% are obtained, leading to a violation of Bell inequality.

id: 0803.2444
title: Casimir energy between a plane and a sphere in electromagnetic vacuum
authors: Paulo A. Maia Neto, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. A comparison with existing results (new reference [26]) was added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012115 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2444
abstract: The Casimir energy is computed in the geometry of interest for the most precise experiments, a plane and a sphere in electromagnetic vacuum. The scattering formula is developed on adapted plane-waves and multipole basis, leading to an expression valid for arbitrary relative values of the sphere radius and inter-plate distance. In the limiting case of perfect reflection, the electromagnetic result is found to depart from the commonly used proximity-force approximation (PFA) significantly more rapidly than expected from scalar computations.

id: 0803.2446
title: Low-energy excitations of a boson pair in a double-well trap
authors: D.S. Murphy, J.F. McCann
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2446
abstract: The states of a boson pair in a one-dimensional double-well potential are investigated. Properties of the ground and lowest excited states of this system are studied, including the two-particle wavefunction, momentum pair distribution and entanglement. The effects of varying both the barrier height and the effective interaction strength are investigated.

id: 0803.2456
title: Hyperspherical Coulomb spheroidal representation in the Coulomb three-body problem
authors: D I Abramov
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2456
abstract: The new representation of the Coulomb three-body wave function via the well-known solutions of the separable Coulomb two-centre problem $\phi_j(\xi,\eta)=X_j(\xi)Y_j(\eta)$ is obtained, where $X_j(\xi)$ and $Y_j(\eta)$ are the Coulomb spheroidal functions. Its distinguishing characteristic is the coordination with the boundary conditions of the scattering problem below the three-particle breakup. That is, the wave function of the scattering particles in any open channel is the asymptotics of the single, corresponding to that channel, term of the expansion suggested. The effect is achieved due to the new relation between three internal coordinates of the three-body system and the parameters of $\phi_j(\xi,\eta)$. It ensures the orthogonality of $\phi_j(\xi,\eta)$ on the sphere of a constant hyperradius, $\rho=const$, in place of the surface $R=|\bi{x}_2-\bi{x}_1|=const$ appearing in the traditional Born-Oppenheimer approach. The independent variables $\xi$ and $\eta$ are the orthogonal coordinates on that sphere with three poles in the coalescence points. They are connected with the elliptic coordinates on the plane by means of the stereographic projection. For the total angular momentum $J\ge 0$ the products of $\phi_j$ and the Wigner $D$-functions form the hyperspherical Coulomb spheroidal (HSCS) basis on the five-dimensional hypersphere, $\rho$ being a parameter. The system of the differential equations and the boundary conditions for the radial functions $f^J_i(\rho)$, the coefficients of the HSCS decomposition of the three-body wave function, are presented.

id: 0803.2507
title: Quantum Cryptography
authors: Hoi-Kwong Lo, Yi Zhao
comments: 51 pages, 14 figures. This is a shortened version of an invited review article for the Encyclopedia of Complexity and System Science (to be published by Springer). This submission is with permission of Springer
journal: Encyclopedia of Complexity and Systems Science,Volume 8, pages 7265-7289, Springer New York, 2009.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2507
abstract: There is no abstract for this review article.

id: 0803.2543
title: Quantum key distribution with triggering parametric down conversion sources
authors: Xiongfeng Ma, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 073018 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2543
abstract: Parametric down-conversion (PDC) sources can be used for quantum key distribution (QKD). One can use a PDC source as a triggered single photon source. Recently, there are various practical proposals of the decoy state QKD with triggering PDC sources. In this paper, we generalize the passive decoy state idea, originally proposed by Mauerer and Silberhorn. The generalized passive decoy state idea can be applied to cases where either threshold detectors or photon number resolving detectors are used. The decoy state protocol proposed by Adachi, Yamamoto, Koashi and Imoto (AYKI) can be treated as a special case of the generalized passive decoy state method. By simulating a recent PDC experiment, we compare various practical decoy state protocols with the infinite decoy protocol and also compare the cases using threshold detectors and photon-number resolving detectors. Our simulation result shows that with the AYKI protocol, one can achieve a key generation rate that is close to the theoretical limit of infinite decoy protocol. Furthermore, our simulation result shows that a photon-number resolving detector appears to be not very useful for improving QKD performance in this case. Although our analysis is focused on the QKD with PDC sources, we emphasize that it can also be applied to other QKD setups with triggered single photon sources.

id: 0803.2557
title: Optical imaging beyond the diffraction limit via dark states
authors: Hebin Li, Vladimir A. Sautenkov, Michael M. Kash, Alexei V. Sokolov, George R. Welch, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, M. Suhail Zubairy, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 013803 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2557
abstract: We study the possibility of creating spatial patterns having subwavelength size by using the so-called dark states formed by the interaction between atoms and optical fields. These optical fields have a specified spatial distribution. Our experiments in Rb vapor display spatial patterns that are smaller than the length determined by the diffraction limit of the optical system used in the experiment. This approach may have applications to interference lithography and might be used in coherent Raman spectroscopy to create patterns with subwavelength spatial resolution.

id: 0803.2566
title: Convergence properties of fixed-point search with general but equal phase shifts for any iterations
authors: D. Li, X. Li, H. Huang, X. Li
comments: 7 pages, one figure
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf., Vol. 8, p.1075-1087 (2010), with small changes, the new title is Fixed-point search with two arbitrary equal phase shifts for any number of iterations
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2566
abstract: Grover presented the fixed-point search by replacing the selective inversions by selective phase shifts of $\pi /3$. In this paper, we investigate the convergence behavior of the fixed-point search algorithm with general but equal phase shifts for any iterations.

id: 0803.2581
title: Contextuality, decoherence and quantum trajectories
authors: A. S. Sanz, F. Borondo
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 478, 301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2581
abstract: Here we analyze the relationship between quantum contextuality and decoherence in interference experiments with matter particles by means of a simple reduced quantum-trajectory model, which attempts to simulate the behavior of the projections of multi-dimensional, system-plus-environment Bohmian trajectories onto the subspace of the reduced system. This model allows us to understand the crossing of the subsystem trajectories as a combined effect of interference quenching and erasure of ``which-way'' information, which can be of utility to interpret decoherence effects in many-dimensional systems where full Bohmian treatments become prohibitive computationally.

id: 0803.2606
title: Should particle trajectories comply with the transverse momentum distribution?
authors: M. Davidovic, D. Arsenovic, M. Bozic, A. S. Sanz, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 160, 95 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2606
abstract: The momentum distributions associated with both the wave function of a particle behind a grating and the corresponding Bohmian trajectories are investigated and compared. Near the grating, it is observed that the former does not depend on the distance from the grating, while the latter changes with this distance. However, as one moves further apart from the grating, in the far field, both distributions become identical.

id: 0803.2609
title: Entanglement-induced geometric phase of quantum states
authors: Erik Sj?qvist
comments: New title, major changes, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374, 1431 (2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2609
abstract: The concept of relative state is used to introduce geometric phases that originate from correlations in states of composite quantum systems. In particular, we identify an entanglement-induced geometric phase in terms of a weighted average of geometric phase factors associated with a decomposition that define the entanglement of formation. An explicit procedure to calculate the entanglement-induced geometric phase for qubit pairs is put forward. We illustrate it for maximally entangled mixed states (MEMS) of two qubits.

id: 0803.2641
title: Channel and carrier adapted quantum error correction
authors: Gunnar Bjork, Jonas Almlof, Isabel Sainz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2641
abstract: The paper has been withdrawn by the autors. The proposed code is not working because orthogonality.

id: 0803.2645
title: Quantum Boundaries in Minkowski Space
authors: Richard A Mould
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2645
abstract: It is claimed in another paper that the collapse of a quantum mechanical wave function is more than invariant, it is trans-representational. It must occur along a fully invariant surface. The obvious surface available for this purpose is that of the backward time cone of the collapse event as proposed by Hellwig and Kraus. This collapse is widely believed to result in paradoxical causal loops that cannot be removed by special relativistic or standard quantum mechanical considerations alone. However, the paradox is resolved when we apply the qRule foundation theory that is developed in the other paper. The causal and temporal orders of state reduction are then found to be in agreement with one another, and the resulting boundaries in Minkowski space are shown to have a novel architecture that limits the range of a Hellwig-Kraus reduction in space and time. Although these boundaries have been worked out using the qRules, they should be the same for any foundation theory that treats the collapse of a wave in an invariant way, and requires that a collapse destroys the possibility of any further influence on itself, as do the qRules. Keywords: measurement, state reduction, wave collapse.

id: 0803.2666
title: Theory of cavity-assisted microwave cooling of polar molecules
authors: Margareta Wallquist, Peter Rabl, Mikhail D. Lukin, Peter Zoller
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 063005.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2666
abstract: We analyze cavity-assisted cooling schemes for polar molecules in the microwave domain, where molecules are excited on a rotational transition and energy is dissipated via strong interactions with a lossy stripline cavity, as recently proposed by A. Andre et al., Nature Physics 2, 636 (2006). We identify the dominant cooling and heating mechanisms in this setup and study cooling rates and final temperatures in various parameter regimes. In particular we analyze the effects of a finite environment temperature on the cooling efficiency, and find minimal temperature and optimized cooling rate in the strong drive regime. Further we discuss the trade-off between efficiency of cavity cooling and robustness with respect to ubiquitous imperfections in a realistic experimental setup, such as anharmonicity of the trapping potential.

id: 0803.2670
title: Quantum mechanics on curved 2D systems with electric and magnetic fields
authors: Giulio Ferrari, Giampaolo Cuoghi
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 100, 230403 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2670
abstract: We derive the Schroedinger equation for a spinless charged particle constrained to a curved surface with electric and magnetics fields applied. The particle is confined on the surface using a thin-layer procedure, giving rise to the well-known geometric potential. The electric and magnetic fields are included via the four-potential. We find that there is no coupling between the fields and the surface curvature and that, with a proper choice of the gauge, the surface and transverse dynamics are exactly separable. Finally, the Hamiltonian for the cylinder, sphere and torus are analytically derived.

id: 0803.2686
title: Simulation of Many-Body Hamiltonians using Perturbation Theory with Bounded-Strength Interactions
authors: Sergey Bravyi, David P. DiVincenzo, Daniel Loss, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: v1: 8 pages Latex, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.101:070503,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2686
abstract: We show how to map a given n-qubit target Hamiltonian with bounded-strength k-body interactions onto a simulator Hamiltonian with two-body interactions, such that the ground-state energy of the target and the simulator Hamiltonians are the same up to an extensive error O(epsilon n) for arbitrary small epsilon. The strength of interactions in the simulator Hamiltonian depends on epsilon and k but does not depend on n. We accomplish this reduction using a new way of deriving an effective low-energy Hamiltonian which relies on the Schrieffer-Wolff transformation of many-body physics.

id: 0803.2705
title: Locally Optimal Control of Quantum Systems with Strong Feedback
authors: Alireza Shabani, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 4 pages, Revtex4. v2: published version (some errors corrected)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 230403 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2705
abstract: For quantum systems with high purity, we find all observables that, when continuously monitored, maximize the instantaneous reduction in the von Neumann entropy. This allows us to obtain all locally optimal feedback protocols with strong feedback, and explicit expressions for the best such protocols for systems of size N <= 4. We also show that for a qutrit the locally optimal protocol is the optimal protocol for a given range of control times, and derive an upper bound on all optimal protocols with strong feedback.

id: 0803.2710
title: New aspects of the purity and information of an entangled qubit pair
authors: Nasser Metwally
comments: 
journal: Int. Journal of Quantum Information Vol 6 No 1 Pages 187-200 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2710
abstract: In this article, we investigate the purity dynamics of entangled 2 two-level atoms interacting with a single quantized electromagnetic field. We show that the purity of the qubit pairs depends on the initial state of the atomic system. It is found that the superposition case is the best choice to generate entangled states with high purity and hence high entanglement. It is clear that the purity of one qubit can be purified at the expense of the other pair through the phenomena of purity swapping. The mean photon number plays an important role in increasing the purity. The robustness of the quantum channel is investigated in the presence of individual attacks, where we study the separability of these channels and evaluate its fidelity. Finally, we use the partial entangled states as quantum channels to perform the original coding protocol. We find that Bob can obtain the coded information with reasonable percentage. The inequality of security is tested, where we determine the interval of times in which Alice and Bob can communicatesecurely. These intervals depend on the type of error and the structure of the initial atomic system

id: 0803.2712
title: Nonlinear spectroscopy of photons bound to one atom
authors: I. Schuster, A. Kubanek, A. Fuhrmanek, T. Puppe, P.W.H. Pinkse, K. Murr, G. Rempe
comments: 7 figures, Nature Physics
journal: Nature Physics 4, 382-385 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2712
abstract: Optical nonlinearities typically require macroscopic media, thereby making their implementation at the quantum level an outstanding challenge. Here we demonstrate a nonlinearity for one atom enclosed by two highly reflecting mirrors. We send laser light through the input mirror and record the light from the output mirror of the cavity. For weak laser intensity, we find the vacuum-Rabi resonances. But for higher intensities, we find an additional resonance. It originates from the fact that the cavity can accommodate only an integer number of photons and that this photon number determines the characteristic frequencies of the coupled atom-cavity system. We selectively excite such a frequency by depositing at once two photons into the system and find a transmission which increases with the laser intensity squared. The nonlinearity differs from classical saturation nonlinearities and is direct spectroscopic proof of the quantum nature of the atom-cavity system. It provides a photon-photon interaction by means of one atom, and constitutes a step towards a two-photon gateway or a single-photon transistor.

id: 0803.2717
title: Distributed authentication for randomly compromised networks
authors: Travis R. Beals, Kevin P. Hynes, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures; final version
journal: New Journal of Physics 11 (2009) 085005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2717
abstract: We introduce a simple, practical approach with probabilistic information-theoretic security to solve one of quantum key distribution's major security weaknesses: the requirement of an authenticated classical channel to prevent man-in-the-middle attacks. Our scheme employs classical secret sharing and partially trusted intermediaries to provide arbitrarily high confidence in the security of the protocol. Although certain failures elude detection, we discuss preemptive strategies to reduce the probability of failure to an arbitrarily small level: probability of such failures is exponentially suppressed with increases in connectivity (i.e., connections per node).

id: 0803.2723
title: Metastability Driven by Soft Quantum Fluctuation Modes
authors: Marco Zoli
comments: Journal of Low Temperature Physics (2008) Publisher: Springer Netherlands
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2723
abstract: The semiclassical Euclidean path integral method is applied to compute the low temperature quantum decay rate for a particle placed in the metastable minimum of a cubic potential in a {\it finite} time theory. The classical path, which makes a saddle for the action, is derived in terms of Jacobian elliptic functions whose periodicity establishes the one-to-one correspondence between energy of the classical motion and temperature (inverse imaginary time) of the system. The quantum fluctuation contribution has been computed through the theory of the functional determinants for periodic boundary conditions. The decay rate shows a peculiar temperature dependence mainly due to the softening of the low lying quantum fluctuation eigenvalues. The latter are determined by solving the Lam\`{e} equation which governs the fluctuation spectrum around the time dependent classical bounce.

id: 0803.2725
title: Arbitrary Coherent Superpositions of Quantized Vortices in Bose-Einstein Condensates from Orbital Angular Momentum Beams of Light
authors: Sulakshana Thanvanthri, Kishore T. Kapale, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2725
abstract: We recently proposed a scheme for the creation of coherent superpositions of vortex states in Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) using orbital angular momentum (OAM) states of light [Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 173601 (2005)]. Here we discuss further technical details of the proposal, provide alternative, time-reversal-symmetric scheme for transfer of a superposition of OAM states of light to the BEC via a procedure analogous to the traditional STimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage (STIRAP) technique, and discuss an alternative trap configuration conducive for sustaining large charge vortices. Superpositions of OAM states of light, created using experimental techniques, can be transfered to an initially nonrotating BEC via a specially devised Raman coupling scheme. The techniques proposed here open up avenues to study coherent interaction of OAM states of light with matter. The study could also be employed for performing various quantum information processing tasks with OAM states of light--including a memory for a quantum state of the initial superposition.

id: 0803.2733
title: Real-time control of the periodicity of a standing wave: an optical accordion
authors: T. C. Li, H. Kelkar, D. Medellin, M. G. Raizen
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Opt. Express 16, 5465-5470 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2733
abstract: We report an experimental method to create optical lattices with real-time control of their periodicity. We demonstrate a continuous change of the lattice periodicity from 0.96 $\mu$m to 11.2 $\mu$m in one second, while the center fringe only moves less than 2.7 $\mu$m during the whole process. This provides a powerful tool for controlling ultracold atoms in optical lattices, where small spacing is essential for quantum tunneling, and large spacing enables single-site manipulation and spatially resolved detection.

id: 0803.2747
title: Irreducible multi-particle correlations in states without maximal rank
authors: D.L. Zhou
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 180505 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2747
abstract: In a system of $n$ quantum particles, the correlations are classified into a series of irreducible $k$-particle correlations ($2\le k\le n$), where the irreducible $k$-particle correlation is the correlation appearing in the states of $k$ particles but not existing in the states of $k-1$ particles. A measure of the degree of irreducible $k$-particle correlation is defined based on the maximal entropy construction. By adopting a continuity approach, we overcome the difficulties in calculating the degrees of irreducible multi-particle correlations for the multi-particle states without maximal rank. In particular, we obtain the degrees of irreducible multi-particle correlations in the $n$-qubit stabilizer states and the $n$-qubit generalized GHZ states, which reveals the distribution of multi-particle correlations in these states.

id: 0803.2748
title: Entanglement of Multipartite Schmidt-correlated States
authors: Ming-Jing Zhao, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372(2008)2552-2557
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2748
abstract: We generalize the Schmidt-correlated states to multipartite systems. The related equivalence under SLOCC, the separability, entanglement witness, entanglement measures of negativity, concurrence and relative entropy are investigated in detail for the generalized Schmidt-correlated states.

id: 0803.2770
title: Min- and Max- Relative Entropies and a New Entanglement Monotone
authors: Nilanjana Datta
comments: published version
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 55, p.2816-2826, June 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2770
abstract: Two new relative entropy quantities, called the min- and max-relative entropies, are introduced and their properties are investigated. The well-known min- and max- entropies, introduced by Renner, are obtained from these. We define a new entanglement monotone, which we refer to as the max-relative entropy of entanglement, and which is an upper bound to the relative entropy of entanglement. We also generalize the min- and max-relative entropies to obtain smooth min- and max- relative entropies. These act as parent quantities for the smooth Renyi entropies, and allow us to define the analogues of the mutual information, in the Smooth Renyi Entropy framework. Further, the spectral divergence rates of the Information Spectrum approach are shown to be obtained from the smooth min- and max-relative entropies in the asymptotic limit.

id: 0803.2788
title: Simultaneous cooling and entanglement of mechanical modes of a micromirror in an optical cavity
authors: Claudiu Genes, David Vitali, Paolo Tombesi
comments: submitted to NJP
journal: New J. Phys. 10 095009 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2788
abstract: Laser cooling of a mechanical mode of a resonator by the radiation pressure of a detuned optical cavity mode has been recently demonstrated by various groups in different experimental configurations. Here we consider the effect of a second mechanical mode with a close, but different resonance frequency. We show that the nearby mechanical resonance is simultaneously cooled by the cavity field, provided that the difference between the two mechanical frequencies is not too small. When this frequency difference becomes smaller than the effective mechanical damping of the secondary mode, the two cooling processes interfere destructively and cavity cooling is suppressed in the limit of identical mechanical frequencies. We show that also the entanglement properties of the steady state of the tripartite system crucially depend upon on the difference between the two mechanical frequencies. If the latter is larger than the effective damping of the second mechanical mode, the state shows fully tripartite entanglement and each mechanical mode is entangled with the cavity mode. If instead the frequency difference is smaller, the steady state is a two-mode biseparable state, inseparable only when one splits the cavity mode from the two mechanical modes. In this latter case, the entanglement of each mechanical mode with the cavity mode is extremely fragile with respect to temperature.

id: 0803.2798
title: Towards fault-tolerant quantum computing with trapped ions
authors: J. Benhelm, G. Kirchmair, C. F. Roos, R. Blatt
comments: submitted to Nature Physics
journal: Nature Physics 4, 463 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2798
abstract: Today ion traps are among the most promising physical systems for constructing a quantum device harnessing the computing power inherent in the laws of quantum physics. The standard circuit model of quantum computing requires a universal set of quantum logic gates for the implementation of arbitrary quantum operations. As in classical models of computation, quantum error correction techniques enable rectification of small imperfections in gate operations, thus allowing for perfect computation in the presence of noise. For fault-tolerant computation, it is commonly believed that error thresholds ranging between 10^-4 and 10^-2 will be required depending on the noise model and the computational overhead for realizing the quantum gates. Up to now, all experimental implementations have fallen short of these requirements. Here, we report on a Molmer-Sorensen type gate operation entangling ions with a fidelity of 99.3(1)% which together with single-qubit operations forms a universal set of quantum gates. The gate operation is performed on a pair of qubits encoded in two trapped calcium ions using a single amplitude-modulated laser beam interacting with both ions at the same time. A robust gate operation, mapping separable states onto maximally entangled states is achieved by adiabatically switching the laser-ion coupling on and off. We analyse the performance of a single gate and concatenations of up to 21 gate operations. The gate mechanism holds great promise not only for two-qubit but also for multi-qubit operations.

id: 0803.2828
title: Quantum optics with bosons and fermions
authors: Alain Aspect, Denis Boiron, Christoph Westbrook
comments: English version of "Optique atomique quantique : apr\`es les bosons, les fermions"
journal: Europhysics News 39, 1 (2008) 25
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2828
abstract: Atom optics, a field which takes much inspiration from traditional optics, has advanced to the point that some of the fundamental experiments of quantum optics, involving photon correlations, have found atomic analogs. We discuss some recent experiments on atom bunching and anti-bunching as well as some prospects for extending them to the field of many body physics.

id: 0803.2863
title: Entanglement reciprocation using three level atoms in a lambda configuration
authors: F. C. Lourenco, A. Vidiella-Barranco
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D, 47, 127 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2863
abstract: We propose a scheme in which entanglement can be transferred from atoms (discrete variables) to entangled states of cavity fields (continuous variables). The cavities play the role of a kind of quantum memory for entanglement, in such a way that it is possible to retrieve it back to the atoms. In our method, two three level atoms in a lambda configuration, previously entangled, are set to interact with single mode cavity fields prepared in coherent states. During the process, one e-bit of entanglement may be deposited in the cavities in an efficient way. We also show that the stored entanglement may be transferred back to flying atoms.

id: 0803.2887
title: Derivation of Maxwell-Bloch-type equations by projection of quantum models
authors: Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 4 pages, 1 EPS figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2887
abstract: A simple algebraic procedure is described for deriving Maxwell-Bloch-type equations from single-atom cavity quantum electrodynamics (cavity QED) master equations via orthogonal projection onto a manifold of semiclassical states. In particular the usual Maxwell-Bloch Equations are obtained--up to a state-dependent correction factor of order unity--straightforwardly from the unconditional Jaynes-Cummings master equation. The technique of projecting onto a semiclassical manifold can also be applied with conditional master equations (quantum filters), leading to stochastic simulation models that include multiplicative noise terms associated with fluctuations of the atomic dipole. The utility of such models is briefly explored in the context of single-atom absorptive bistability.

id: 0803.2908
title: Casimir-Lifshitz Theory and Metamaterials
authors: F.S.S. Rosa, D.A.R. Dalvit, P.W. Milonni
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 183602 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2908
abstract: Based on a generalization of the Lifshiftz theory we calculate Casimir forces involving magnetodielectric and possibly anisotropic metamaterials, focusing on the possibility of repulsive forces. It is found that Casimir repulsion decreases with magnetic dissipation, and even a small Drude background in metallic-based metamaterials acts to make attractive a Casimir force that would otherwise be predicted to be repulsive. The sign of the force also depends sensitively on the degree of optical anisotropy of the metamaterial, and on the form of the frequency-dependency of the magnetic response.

id: 0803.2919
title: Distributed Relay Protocol for Probabilistic Information-Theoretic Security in a Randomly-Compromised Network
authors: Travis R. Beals, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures; added proof of verification sub-protocol, minor corrections
journal: ICITS 2008, LNCS 5155, pp. 29-39, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2919
abstract: We introduce a simple, practical approach with probabilistic information-theoretic security to mitigate one of quantum key distribution's major limitations: the short maximum transmission distance (~200 km) possible with present day technology. Our scheme uses classical secret sharing techniques to allow secure transmission over long distances through a network containing randomly-distributed compromised nodes. The protocol provides arbitrarily high confidence in the security of the protocol, with modest scaling of resource costs with improvement of the security parameter. Although some types of failure are undetectable, users can take preemptive measures to make the probability of such failures arbitrarily small.

id: 0803.2920
title: Scalable cavity-QED-based scheme of generating entanglement of atoms and of cavity fields
authors: Jaehak Lee, Jiyong Park, Sang Min Lee, Hai-Woong Lee, Ashfaq H. Khosa
comments: 7 pages, 10 figure, published to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 032327 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2920
abstract: We propose a cavity-QED-based scheme of generating entanglement between atoms. The scheme is scalable to an arbitrary number of atoms, and can be used to generate a variety of multipartite entangled states such as the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger, W, and cluster states. Furthermore, with a role switching of atoms with photons, the scheme can be used to generate entanglement between cavity fields. We also introduce a scheme that can generate an arbitrary multipartite field graph state.

id: 0803.2940
title: Operator fidelity susceptibility: an indicator of quantum criticality
authors: Xiaoguang Wang, Zhe Sun, Z. D. Wang
comments: Four pages, two figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2940
abstract: We introduce the operator fidelity and propose to use its susceptibility for characterizing the sensitivity of quantum systems to perturbations. Two typical models are addressed: one is the transverse Ising model exhibiting a quantum phase transition, and the other is the one dimensional Heisenberg spin chain with next-nearest-neighbor interactions, which has the degeneracy. It is revealed that the operator fidelity susceptibility is a good indicator of quantum criticality regardless of the system degeneracy.

id: 0803.2954
title: Entanglement Monogamy of Tripartite Quantum States
authors: Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 77, 032329 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2954
abstract: An interesting monogamy equation with the form of Pythagorean theorem is found for $2\otimes 2\otimes n$-dimensional pure states, which reveals the relation among bipartite concurrence, concurrence of assistance, and genuine tripartite entanglement. At the same time, a genuine tripartite entanglement monotone as a generalization of 3-tangle is naturally obtained for $(2\otimes 2\otimes n)$- dimensional pure states in terms of a distinct idea. For mixed states, the monogamy equation is reduced to a monogamy inequality. Both results for tripartite quantum states can be employed to multipartite quantum states.

id: 0803.2976
title: Quantum Learning Machine
authors: Jeongho Bang, James Lim, M. S. Kim, Jinhyoung Lee
comments: 4 pages, 8 figures; Revisions made to improve the introduction and motivation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2976
abstract: We propose a novel notion of a quantum learning machine for automatically controlling quantum coherence and for developing quantum algorithms. A quantum learning machine can be trained to learn a certain task with no a priori knowledge on its algorithm. As an example, it is demonstrated that the quantum learning machine learns Deutsch's task and finds itself a quantum algorithm, that is different from but equivalent to the original one.

id: 0803.2982
title: Local implementation of nonlocal operations of block forms
authors: Ning Bo Zhao, An Min Wang
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2982
abstract: We investigate the local implementation of nonlocal operations with the block matrix form, and propose a protocol for any diagonal or offdiagonal block operation. This method can be directly generalized to the two-party multiqubit case and the multiparty case. Especially, in the multiparty cases, any diagonal block operation can be locally implemented using the same resources as the multiparty control-U operation discussed in Ref. [Eisert et al., Phys. Rev. A 62, 052317(2000)]. Although in the bipartite case, this kind of operations can be transformed to control-U operation using local operations, these transformations are impossible in the multiparty cases. We also compare the local implementation of nonlocal block operations with the remote implementation of local operations, and point out a relation between them.

id: 0803.3050
title: Intensity correlations in resonance nonlinear magneto-optical rotation
authors: Tigran S. Varzhapetyan, Hebin Li, Gombojav O. Ariunbold, Vladimir A. Sautenkov, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Communications 282 (2009) pp. 39-44
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3050
abstract: We have studied the intensity correlations between two orthogonally linearly polarized components of a laser field propagating through a resonant atomic medium. These experiments have been performed in a Rubidium atomic vapor. We observe that the correlations between the orthogonally polarized components of the laser beam are maximal in the absence of a magnetic field. The magnitude of the correlations depends on the applied magnetic field, and the magnitude first decreases and then increases with increasing magnetic field. Minimal correlations and maximal rotation angles are observed at the same magnetic fields. The width of the correlation function is directly proportional to the excited state lifetime and inversely proportional to the Rabi frequency of laser field. These results can be useful for improving optical magnetometers and for optical field or atomic spin squeezing.

id: 0803.3054
title: A multi-frequency high-field pulsed EPR / ENDOR spectrometer
authors: Gavin W. Morley, Louis-Claude Brunel, Johan van Tol
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Review of Scientific Instruments 79, 064703 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3054
abstract: We describe a pulsed multi-frequency electron paramagnetic resonance spectrometer operating at several frequencies in the range of 110-336 GHz. The microwave source at all frequencies consists of a multiplier chain starting from a solid state synthesizer in the 12-15 GHz range. A fast PIN-switch at the base frequency creates the pulses. At all frequencies a Fabry-Perot resonator is employed and the pi/2 pulse length ranges from ~100 ns at 110 GHz to ~600 ns at 334 GHz. Measurements of a single crystal containing dilute Mn2+ impurities at 12 T illustrate the effects of large electron spin polarizations. The capabilities also allow for pulsed electron nuclear double resonance experiments as demonstrated by Mims ENDOR of 39K nuclei in Cr:K3NbO8.

id: 0803.3066
title: A communication-efficient nonlocal measurement with application to communication complexity and bipartite gate capacities
authors: Aram W. Harrow, Debbie W. Leung
comments: 6 pages
journal: IEEE Trans. Info. Theory, Volume 57, Issue 8, pages 5504 - 5508 (Aug 2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3066
abstract: Two dual questions in quantum information theory are to determine the communication cost of simulating a bipartite unitary gate, and to determine their communication capacities. We present a bipartite unitary gate with two surprising properties: 1) simulating it with the assistance of unlimited EPR pairs requires far more communication than with a better choice of entangled state, and 2) its communication capacity is far lower than its capacity to create entanglement. This suggests that 1) unlimited EPR pairs are not the most general model of entanglement assistance for two-party communication tasks, and 2) the entangling and communicating abilities of a unitary interaction can vary nearly independently. The technical contribution behind these results is a communication-efficient protocol for measuring whether an unknown shared state lies in a specified rank-one subspace or its orthogonal complement.

id: 0803.3096
title: Physical Underpinnings of Privacy
authors: Joseph M. Renes, Jean-Christian Boileau
comments: 12.5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032335 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3096
abstract: One of the remarkable features of quantum mechanics is the ability to ensure secrecy. Private states embody this effect, as they are precisely those multipartite quantum states from which two parties can produce a shared secret that cannot in any circumstance be correlated to an external system. Naturally, these play an important role in quantum key distribution (QKD) and quantum information theory. However, a general distillation method has heretofore been missing. Inspired by Koashi's complementary control scenario (arXiv:0704.3661v1 [quant-ph]), we give a new definition of private states in terms of one party's potential knowledge of two complementary measurements made on the other and use this to construct a general method of private state distillation using quantum error-correcting codes. The procedure achieves the same key rate as recent, more information-theoretic approaches while demonstrating the physical principles underlying privacy of the key. Additionally, the same approach can be used to establish the hashing inequality for entanglement distillation, as well as the direct quantum coding theorem.

id: 0803.3097
title: Maximal violation of tight Bell inequalities for maximal high-dimensional entanglement
authors: Seung-Woo Lee, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 4+ pages, 2 figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 010103(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3097
abstract: We propose a Bell inequality for high-dimensional bipartite systems obtained by binning local measurement outcomes and show that it is tight. We find a binning method for even d-dimensional measurement outcomes for which this Bell inequality is maximally violated by maximally entangled states. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the Bell inequality is applicable to continuous variable systems and yields strong violations for two-mode squeezed states.

id: 0803.3105
title: A Master Equation with Generalized Lindblad Form and a Unitary Transformation by the Squeezing Operator
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex ; 12 pages ; no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3105
abstract: In the preceding paper arXiv:0802.3252 [quant-ph] we treated a model given by a master equation with generalized Lindblad form, and examined the algebraic structure related to some Lie algebras and constructed an approximate solution. In this paper we apply a unitary transformation by the squeezing operator to the master equation. Then the generalized Lindblad form is tranformed to the usual Lindblad one, while the (original) Hamiltonian is tranformed to somewhat complicated one. As a result we have two different representations based on the Lie algebra su(1,1). We examine new algebraic structure and construct some approximate solution.

id: 0803.3109
title: Voronoi Diagrams for Quantum States and Its Application to a Numerical Estimation of a Quantum Channel Capacity
authors: Kimikazu Kato
comments: Ph.D thesis, adviser: Hiroshi Imai, 118 pages, 15 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3109
abstract: In quantum information theory, a geometric approach, known as "quantum information geometry," has been considered as a powerful method. In this thesis, we give a computational geometric interpretation to the geometric structure of a quantum system. Especially we introduce the concept of the Voronoi diagram and the smallest enclosing ball problem to the space of quantum states. With those tools in computational geometry, we analyze the adjacency structure of a point set in the quantum state space. Additionally, as an application, we show an effective method to compute the capacity of a quantum channel.

id: 0803.3113
title: Tunneling and energy splitting in an asymmetric double-well potential
authors: Dae-Yup Song
comments: 
journal: Annals of Physics 323 (2008) 2991-2999
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3113
abstract: An asymmetric double-well potential is considered, assuming that the minima of the wells are quadratic with a frequency $\omega$ and the difference of the minima is close to a multiple of $\hbar \omega$. A WKB wave function is constructed on both sides of the local maximum between the wells, by matching the WKB function to the exact wave functions near the classical turning points. The continuities of the wave function and its first derivative at the local maximum then give the energy-level splitting formula, which not only reproduces the instanton result for a symmetric potential, but also elucidates the appearance of resonances of tunneling in the asymmetric potential.

id: 0803.3139
title: Qubits from tight knots and bent nano-bars
authors: Victor Atanasov, Rossen Dandoloff
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3139
abstract: We propose a novel mechanism for creating a qubit based on a tight knot, that is a nano-quantum wire system so small and so cold as to be quantum coherent with respect to curvature-induced effects. To establish tight knots as legitimate candidates for qubits, we propose an effective curvature-induced potential that produces the two-level system and identify the tunnel coupling between the two local states. We propose also a different design of nano-mechanical qubit based on twisted nano-rods. We describe how both devices can be manipulated. Also we outline possible decoherence channels, detection schemes and experimental setups.

id: 0803.3148
title: Loschmidt echo and Berry phase around degeneracies in nonlinear systems
authors: X. X. Yi, X. L. Huang, W. Wang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052115(2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3148
abstract: We study the Loschmidt echo and Berry phase in a nonlinear system transported around a double and triple degeneracy. The nonlinearity of the system makes the Berry phase different from that in linear systems. We propose a witness of nonlinearity for the nonlinear system and show its dependence on the parameters of the system, taking the standard Landau-Zener model as an example. We calculate the Loschmidt echo(LE) or quantum fidelity in the quantum dynamics under perturbations around the degeneracy, and establish a connection between the LE and the witness of nonlinearity. These phases and Loschmidt echo can be observed with current experimental technology in a nonlinear resonator.

id: 0803.3172
title: Qubit channels with small correlations
authors: Filippo Caruso, Vittorio Giovannetti, Chiara Macchiavello, Mary Beth Ruskai
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables
journal: Physical Review A 77, 052323 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3172
abstract: We introduce a class of quantum channels with correlations acting on pairs of qubits, where the correlation takes the form of a shift operator onto a maximally entangled state. We optimise the output purity and show that below a certain threshold the optimum is achieved by partially entangled states whose degree of entanglement increases monotonically with the correlation parameter. Above this threshold, the optimum is achieved by the maximally entangled state characterizing the shift. Although, a full analysis can only be done for the 2-norm, both numerical and heuristic arguments indicate that this behavior and the optimal inputs are independent of p>1 when the optimal output purity is measured using the p-norm.

id: 0803.3183
title: Deutsch Algorithm on Classical Circuits
authors: Osman Kaan Erol
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3183
abstract: The well-known Deutsch Algorithm (DA) and Deutsch-Jozsha Algorithm (DJA) both are used as an evidence to the power of quantum computers over classical computation mediums. In these theoretical experiments, it has been shown that a quantum computer can find the answer with certainty within a few steps although classical electronic systems must evaluate more iterations than quantum computer. In this paper, it is shown that a classical computation system formed by using ordinary electronic parts may perform the same task with equal performance than quantum computers. DA and DJA quantum circuits act like an analog computer, so it is unfair to compare the bit of classical digital computers with the qubit of quantum computers. An analog signal carrying wire will of course carry more information that a bit carrying wire without serial communication protocols.

id: 0803.3188
title: General properties of the evolution of unstable states at long times
authors: K. Urbanowski
comments: 12 pages, new comments and references added, accepted for publication in The European Physical Journal D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3188
abstract: An effect generated by the nonexponential behavior of the survival amplitude of an unstable state at the long time region is considered. It is known that this amplitude tends to zero as $t$ goes to the infinity more slowly than any exponential function of $t$. Using methods of asymptotic analysis we find the asymptotic form of this amplitude in the long time region in a general model independent case. We find that the long time behavior of this amplitude affects the form of the energy of unstable states: This energy should be much smaller for suitably long times $t$ than the energy of this state for $t$ of the order of the lifetime of the considered unstable state.

id: 0803.3232
title: Codeword stabilized quantum codes: algorithm and structure
authors: Isaac L. Chuang, Andrew W. Cross, Graeme Smith, John A. Smolin, Bei Zeng
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3232
abstract: The codeword stabilized ("CWS") quantum codes formalism presents a unifying approach to both additive and nonadditive quantum error-correcting codes (arXiv:0708.1021). This formalism reduces the problem of constructing such quantum codes to finding a binary classical code correcting an error pattern induced by a graph state. Finding such a classical code can be very difficult. Here, we consider an algorithm which maps the search for CWS codes to a problem of identifying maximum cliques in a graph. While solving this problem is in general very hard, we prove three structure theorems which reduce the search space, specifying certain admissible and optimal ((n,K,d)) additive codes. In particular, we find there does not exist any ((7,3,3)) CWS code though the linear programming bound does not rule it out. The complexity of the CWS search algorithm is compared with the contrasting method introduced by Aggarwal and Calderbank (arXiv:cs/0610159).

id: 0803.3233
title: Quantal time asymmetry: mathematical foundation and physical interpretation
authors: A. Bohm, P. Bryant, Y. Sato
comments: Plenary talk at the 5th International Symposium on Quantum Theory and Symmetries, July 22-28, 2007, Valladolid, Spain
journal: J.Phys.A41:304019,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3233
abstract: For a quantum theory that includes exponentially decaying states and Breit-Wigner resonances, which are related to each other by the lifetime-width relation $\tau=\frac{\hbar}{\Gamma}$, where $\tau$ is the lifetime of the decaying state and $\Gamma$ the width of the resonance, one has to go beyond the Hilbert space and beyond the Schwartz-Rigged Hilbert Space $\Phi\subset\mathcal{H}\subset\Phi^\times$ of the Dirac formalism. One has to distinguish between prepared states, using a space $\Phi_-\subset\mat hcal{H}$, and detected observables, using a space $\Phi_+\subset\mathcal{H}$, where $-(+)$ refers to analyticity of the energy wave function in the lower (upper) complex energy semiplane. This differentiation is also justified by causality: A state needs to be prepared first, before an observable can be measured in it. The axiom that will lead to the lifetime-width relation is that $\Phi_+$ and $\Phi_-$ are Hardy spaces of the upper and lower semiplane, respectively. Applying this axiom to the relativistic case for the variable $\s=p_\mu p^\mu$ leads to semigroup transformations into the forward light cone (Einstein causality) and a precise definition of resonance mass and width.

id: 0803.3237
title: Memory effects in quantum channel discrimination
authors: Giulio Chiribella, Giacomo M. D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 180501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3237
abstract: We consider quantum-memory assisted protocols for discriminating quantum channels. We show that for optimal discrimination of memory channels, memory assisted protocols are needed. This leads to a new notion of distance for channels with memory. For optimal discrimination and estimation of sets of unitary channels memory-assisted protocols are not required.

id: 0803.3243
title: The preparation time in a scattering experiment
authors: Peter Bryant
comments: To be published in Journal of Physics: Conference Series
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3243
abstract: A quantum mechanical theory with time asymmetry intrinsic to states (or observables) features the concept of an initial time of the state and thus a preparation time of the physical system represented by the state. This special time is investigated in the context of scattering theory, where, in standard quantum mechanics, the physical meaning of a preparation time has remained obscure. In an experiment, the preparation time corresponds to an ensemble of times of scattering marking the times in the laboratory when one scattering projectile interacts with one target quantum.

id: 0803.3267
title: Efficient simulation of quantum evolution using dynamical coarse-graining
authors: M. Khasin, R. Kosloff
comments: The version submitted to Phys. Rev. A, 28 pages, 3 figures, comments are very welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3267
abstract: A novel scheme to simulate the evolution of a restricted set of observables of a quantum system is proposed. The set comprises the spectrum-generating algebra of the Hamiltonian. The idea is to consider a certain open-system evolution, which can be interpreted as a process of weak measurement of the distinguished observables performed on the evolving system of interest. Given that the observables are "classical" and the Hamiltonian is moderately nonlinear, the open system dynamics displays a large time-scales separation between the dephasing of the observables and the decoherence of the evolving state in the basis of the generalized coherent states (GCS), associated with the spectrum-generating algebra. The time scale separation allows the unitary dynamics of the observables to be efficiently simulated by the open-system dynamics on the intermediate time-scale.The simulation employs unraveling of the corresponding master equations into pure state evolutions, governed by the stochastic nonlinear Schroedinger equantion (sNLSE). It is proved that GCS are globally stable solutions of the sNLSE, if the Hamilonian is linear in the algebra elements.

id: 0803.3287
title: Quantum communication on closed time-like curves
authors: Ian T. Durham
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures; speculative; comments greatly appreciated; added details on using weak measurements to reduce information limitations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3287
abstract: We define a new quantity we call a ctcbit that provides a means for quantifying a qubit on a closed time-like curve (CTC) as a shared resource. We describe a simple protocol for the sharing of information that is similar to quantum teleportation but does not require an entangled particle pair or ebit. While there is the appearance that the given resource is free, we employ a non-Hausdorff topology to prevent any limitless information exchanges. Nonetheless, the resource does limit the type of information that may be transferred, though this limitation can be reduced through the use of weak measurements. While the reality of CTCs is highly speculative, the present paper provides a manner by which quantum informational methods may be employed to study such problems and may ultimately prove useful in studying quantum gravity.

id: 0803.3289
title: Teleportation seen from space-time
authors: Marek Czachor
comments: v1 is a preliminary progress report; in v2 notation in eq. (24) corrected, and a comment on (24) added. Typos in (3), (16), (39) corrected. v3 is extended by sections on relativistic qubits and PND's, and fuller bibliography of the subject; v4 is resubmitted to Class. Quant. Grav. with suggested modifications included
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.25:205003,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3289
abstract: Formal similarity between Minkowski tetrads and Bell bases allows to think of metric tensors in terms of quantum teleportation protocols. The role of null tetrads for quantum information processing is different. They define qubits resistant to a special kind of noise that occurs if coding and decoding of quantum information is performed in different reference frames. These examples show that mutual links between quantum information and the 2-spinor calculus may be nontrivial and worthy of further studies.

id: 0803.3311
title: Three-Qubit Groverian Measure
authors: Eylee Jung, Mi-Ra Hwang, DaeKil Park, Levon Tamaryan, Sayatnova Tamaryan
comments: 25 pages, no figure, V2: will appear in QIC (quantum information and computation)
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 8 (No. 10) (2008) 0925-0942
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3311
abstract: The Groverian measures are analytically computed in various types of three-qubit states. The final results are also expressed in terms of local-unitary invariant quantities in each type. This fact reflects the manifest local-unitary invariance of the Groverian measure. It is also shown that the analytical expressions for various types have correct limits to other types. For some types (type 4 and type 5) we failed to compute the analytical expression of the Groverian measure in this paper. However, from the consideration of local-unitary invariants we have shown that the Groverian measure in type 4 should be independent of the phase factor $\phi$, which appear in the three-qubit state $|\psi>$. This fact with geometric interpretation on the Groverian measure may enable us to derive the analytical expressions for general arbitrary three-qubit states in near future.

id: 0803.3359
title: Adiabatic Condition and Quantum Geometric Potential
authors: Jianda Wu, Meisheng Zhao, Jianlan Chen, Yongde Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062114 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3359
abstract: In this paper, we present a U(1)-invariant expansion theory of the adiabatic process. As its application, we propose and discuss new sufficient adiabatic approximation conditions. In the new conditions, we find a new invariant quantity referred as quantum geometric potential (QGP) contained in all time-dependent processes. Furthermore, we also give detailed discussion and analysis on the properties and effects of QGP.

id: 0803.3382
title: Repulsive and restoring Casimir forces with left-handed materials
authors: Yaping Yang, Ran Zeng, Shutian Liu, Hong Chen, Shiyao Zhu
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3382
abstract: We investigate repulsive Casimir force between slabs containing left-handed materials with controllable electromagnetic properties. The sign of Casimir force is determined by the electric and magnetic properties of the materials, and it is shown that the formation of the repulsive force is related to the wave impedances of two slabs. The sign change of the Casimir force as a function of the distance is studied. Special emphasis is put on the restoring Casimir force which may be found to exist between perfectly conducting material and metamaterial slabs. This restoring force is a natural power for the system oscillation in vacuum and also can be used for system stabilization.

id: 0803.3390
title: Curvature-induced quantum behaviour on a helical nanotube
authors: Victor Atanasov, Rossen Dandoloff
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3390
abstract: We investigate the effect of curvature on the behaviour of a quantum particle bound to move on a surface shaped as a helical tube. We derive and discuss the governing Schr\"odinger equation and the corresponding quantum effective potential which is periodic and points to the helical configuration as more energetically favorable as compared to the straight tube. The exhibited periodicity also leads to energy band structure of pure geometrical origin.

id: 0803.3391
title: Curvature induced quantum potential on deformed surfaces
authors: Victor Atanasov, Rossen Dandoloff
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 371, 118, (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3391
abstract: We investigate the effect of curvature on the behaviour of a quantum particle bound to move on a surface. For the Gaussian bump we derive and discuss the quantum potential which results in the appearance of a bound state for particles with vanishing angular momentum. The Gaussian bump provides a characteristic length for the problem. For completeness we propose an inverse problem in differential geometry, i.e. what deformed surfaces produce prescribed curvature induced quantum potentials. We solve this inverse problem in the case of rotational surfaces. We also show that there exist rotational surfaces in the form of a circular strip around the axis of symmetry which allow particles with generic angular momentum to bind.

id: 0803.3393
title: Secret Broadcasting of W-type state
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, B.S.Choudhury
comments: Accepted in International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI)
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI), Year: 2009 Vol: 7 Issue: 2 (March 2009) Page: 559 - 565
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3393
abstract: In this work we describe a protocol by which one can secretly broadcast W-type state among three distant partners. This work is interesting in the sense that we introduce a new kind of local cloning operation to generate two W- type states between these partners from a W-type state initially shared by them.

id: 0803.3396
title: NMR implementation of Factoring Large Numbers with Gau?Sums: Suppression of Ghost Factors
authors: Xinhua Peng, Dieter Suter
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: EPL, 84 (2008) 40006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3396
abstract: Finding the factors of an integer can be achieved by various experimental techniques, based on an algorithm developed by Schleich et al., which uses specific properties of Gau\ss{}sums. Experimental limitations usually require truncation of these series, but if the truncation parameter is too small, it is no longer possible to distinguish between factors and so-called "ghost" factors. Here, we discuss two techniques for distinguishing between true factors and ghost factors while keeping the number of terms in the sum constant or only slowly increasing. We experimentally test these modified algorithms in a nuclear spin system, using NMR.

id: 0803.3398
title: Measuring complete quantum states with a single observable
authors: Xinhua Peng, Jiangfeng Du, Dieter Suter
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 76, 042117 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3398
abstract: Experimental determination of an unknown quantum state usually requires several incompatible measurements. However, it is also possible to determine the full quantum state from a single, repeated measurement. For this purpose, the quantum system whose state is to be determined is first coupled to a second quantum system (the "assistant") in such a way that part of the information in the quantum state is transferred to the assistant. The actual measurement is then performed on the enlarged system including the original system and the assistant. We discuss in detail the requirements of this procedure and experimentally implement it on a simple quantum system consisting of nuclear spins.

id: 0803.3407
title: Effect of conformations on charge transport in a thin elastic tube
authors: Radha Balakrishnan, Rossen Dandoloff
comments: 
journal: Nonlinearity, 21 (2008) p.1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3407
abstract: We study the effect of conformations on charge transport in a thin elastic tube. Using the Kirchhoff model for a tube with any given Poisson ratio, cross-sectional shape and intrinsic twist, we obtain a class of exact solutions for its conformation. The tube's torsion is found in terms of its intrinsic twist and its Poisson ratio, while its curvature satisfies a nonlinear differential equation which supports exact {\it periodic} solutions in the form of Jacobi elliptic functions, which we call {\it conformon lattice} solutions. These solutions typically describe conformations with loops. Each solution induces a corresponding quantum effective {\it periodic} potential in the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for an electron in the tube. The wave function describes the delocalization of the electron along the central axis of the tube. We discuss some possible applications of this novel mechanism of charge transport.

id: 0803.3446
title: Hitting time for the continuous quantum walk
authors: Martin Varbanov, Hari Krovi, Todd A. Brun
comments: 12 pages, 1figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022324 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3446
abstract: We define the hitting (or absorbing) time for the case of continuous quantum walks by measuring the walk at random times, according to a Poisson process with measurement rate $\lambda$. From this definition we derive an explicit formula for the hitting time, and explore its dependence on the measurement rate. As the measurement rate goes to either 0 or infinity the hitting time diverges; the first divergence reflects the weakness of the measurement, while the second limit results from the Quantum Zeno effect. Continuous-time quantum walks, like discrete-time quantum walks but unlike classical random walks, can have infinite hitting times. We present several conditions for existence of infinite hitting times, and discuss the connection between infinite hitting times and graph symmetry.

id: 0803.3459
title: The QWalk Simulator of Quantum Walks
authors: F.L. Marquezino, R. Portugal
comments: 21 pages, 11 figures. Accepted in Computer Physics Communications. Simulator can be downloaded from this http URL
journal: Computer Physics Communications, Volume 179, Issue 5, Pages 359-369. (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Software (cs.MS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3459
abstract: Several research groups are giving special attention to quantum walks recently, because this research area have been used with success in the development of new efficient quantum algorithms. A general simulator of quantum walks is very important for the development of this area, since it allows the researchers to focus on the mathematical and physical aspects of the research instead of deviating the efforts to the implementation of specific numerical simulations. In this paper we present QWalk, a quantum walk simulator for one- and two-dimensional lattices. Finite two-dimensional lattices with generic topologies can be used. Decoherence can be simulated by performing measurements or by breaking links of the lattice. We use examples to explain the usage of the software and to show some recent results of the literature that are easily reproduced by the simulator.

id: 0803.3461
title: To Explain Results of Position Measurement by Self-Induced Photon Emission and Absorption
authors: Shizhong Mei
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to lack of quantitative description
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3461
abstract: It is proposed in this paper that without a measurement, the wave function of a system periodically transits to a bound energy eigenfunction or the complementary wave function that is orthogonal to all the bound energy eigenfunctions. Applying this assumption to analyze results of position measurement shows that when the wave function of the entangled incident object and a position detector is a linear combination of the bound energy eigenfunctions of the entangled system prior to collapses, the detection rate essentially equals the probability flux of the incident object entering the detector. When the wave function of the entangled incident object and a position detector is not a linear combination of the bound energy eigenfunctions of the entangled system, results of position measurement can also be explained by the proposed self-induced photon emission and absorption.

id: 0803.3478
title: Casimir force calculations near the insulator-conductor transition in gold thin films
authors: R. Esquivel-Sirvent
comments: 5 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3478
abstract: We present theoretical calculations of the Casimir force for Au thin films near the insulator-conductor transition that has been observed experimentally. The dielectric function of the Au thin films is described by the Drude-Smith model. The parameters needed to model the dielectric function such as the relaxation time, plasma frequency and the backscattering constant depend on the thickness of the film. The Casimir force decreases as the film thickness decreases until it reaches a minimum after which the force increases again. The minimum of the force coincides with the critical film thickness where a percolation conductor-insulator occurs.

id: 0803.3545
title: Coherent energy manipulation in single-neutron interferometry
authors: S. Sponar, J. Klepp, R. Loidl, S. Filipp, G. Badurek, Y. Hasegawa, H. Rauch
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 78, 061604(R) 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3545
abstract: We have observed the stationary interference oscillations of a triple-entangled neutron state in an interferometric experiment. Time-dependent interaction with two radio-frequency (rf) fields enables coherent manipulation of an energy degree of freedom in a single neutron. The system is characterized by a multiply entangled state governed by a Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian. The experimental results confirm coherence of the manipulation as well as the validity of the description.

id: 0803.3588
title: Enhanced phase sensitivity and soliton formation in an integrated BEC interferometer
authors: Antonio Negretti, Carsten Henkel
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, Iop LaTex2e
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 37 No 23 (14 December 2004) L385-L390
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3588
abstract: We study the dynamics of Bose-Einstein condensates in time-dependent microtraps for the purpose of understanding the influence of the mean field interaction on the performance of interferometers. We identify conditions where the non-linearity due to atom interactions increases the sensitivity of interferometers to a phase shift. This feature is connected with the adiabatic generation of a dark soliton. We analyze the robustness of this phenomenon with respect to thermal fluctuations, due to excited near fields in an electromagnetic surface trap.

id: 0803.3643
title: Robust quantum cryptography with a heralded single-photon source based on the decoy-state method
authors: Qin Wang, Wei Chen, Guilherme Xavier, Marcin Swillo, Tao Zhang, Sebastien Sauge, Maria Tengner, Zheng-Fu Han, Guang-Can Guo, Anders Karlsson
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3643
abstract: In this paper, we describe a robust quantum cryptography scheme with a heralded single photon source based on the decoy-state method, which has been shown by numerical simulations to be advantageous compared with many other practical schemes not only with respect to the secure key generation rate but also to secure transmission distance. We have experimentally tested this scheme, and the results support the conclusions from numerical simulations well. Although there still exist many deficiencies in our present systems, it's still sufficient to demonstrate the advantages of the scheme. Besides, even when cost and technological feasibility are taken into account, our scheme is still quite promising in the implementation of tomorrow's quantum cryptography.

id: 0803.3682
title: Decoherence and asymptotic entanglement in open quantum dynamics
authors: Aurelian Isar
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures; talk at the X International Conference on Squeezed States and Uncertainty Relations (ICSSUR), Bradford, UK (2007)
journal: J. Russ. Laser Res. vol. 28, no. 5, 439-452 (2007) (topical issue on "Decoherence and entanglement in quantum systems" devoted to ICSSUR, Bradford, UK, 2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3682
abstract: In the framework of the theory of open systems based on completely positive quantum dynamical semigroups, we determine the degree of quantum decoherence of a harmonic oscillator interacting with a thermal bath. It is found that the system manifests a quantum decoherence which is more and more significant in time. We also calculate the decoherence time and show that it has the same scale as the time after which thermal fluctuations become comparable with quantum fluctuations. Then we solve the master equation for two independent harmonic oscillators interacting with an environment in the asymptotic long-time regime. We give a description of the continuous-variable asymptotic entanglement in terms of the covariance matrix of the quantum states of the considered system for an arbitrary Gaussian input state. Using the Peres-Simon necessary and sufficient condition for separability of two-mode Gaussian states, we show that the two non-interacting systems immersed in a common environment become asymptotically entangled for certain environments, so that in the long-time regime they manifest non-local quantum correlations.

id: 0803.3699
title: On the QKD relaying models
authors: Quoc-Cuong Le, Patrick Bellot
comments: 30 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3699
abstract: We investigate Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) relaying models. Firstly, we propose a novel quasi-trusted QKD relaying model. The quasi-trusted relays are defined as follows: (i) being honest enough to correctly follow a given multi-party finite-time communication protocol; (ii) however, being under the monitoring of eavesdroppers. We develop a simple 3-party quasi-trusted model, called Quantum Quasi-Trusted Bridge (QQTB) model, to show that we could securely extend up to two times the limited range of single-photon based QKD schemes. We also develop the Quantum Quasi-Trusted Relay (QQTR) model to show that we could securely distribute QKD keys over arbitrarily long distances. The QQTR model requires EPR pair sources, but does not use entanglement swapping and entanglement purification schemes. Secondly, we show that our quasi-trusted models could be improved to become untrusted models in which the security is not compromised even though attackers have full controls over some relaying nodes. We call our two improved models the Quantum Untrusted Bridge (QUB) and Quantum Untrusted Relay (QUR) ones. The QUB model works on single photons and allows securely extend up to two times the limited QKD range. The QUR model works on entangled photons but does not use entanglement swapping and entanglement purification operations. This model allows securely transmit shared keys over arbitrarily long distances without dramatically decreasing the key rate of the original QKD schemes.

id: 0803.3700
title: Indistinguishable photons from a diode
authors: A. J. Bennett, R. B. Patel, A. J. Shields, K. Cooper, P. Atkinson, C. A. Nicoll, D. A. Ritchie
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3700
abstract: We generate indistinguishable photons from a semiconductor diode containing a InAs/GaAs quantum dot. Using an all-electrical technique to populate and control a single-photon emitting state we filter-out dephasing by Stark-shifting the emission energy on timescales below the dephasing time of the state. Mixing consecutive photons on a beam-splitter we observe two-photon interference with a visibility of 64%.

id: 0803.3709
title: Nonadiabatic coherent evolution of two-level systems under spontaneous decay
authors: F. O. Prado, E. I. Duzzioni, M. H. Y. Moussa, N. G. de Almeida, C. J. Villas-Boas
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 073008 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3709
abstract: In this paper we extend current perspectives in engineering reservoirs by producing a time-dependent master equation leading to a nonstationary superposition equilibrium state that can be nonadiabatically controlled by the system-reservoir parameters. Working with an ion trapped inside a nonindeal cavity we first engineer effective Hamiltonians that couple the electronic states of the ion with the cavity mode. Subsequently, two classes of decoherence-free evolution of the superposition of the ground and decaying excited levels are achieved: those with time-dependent azimuthal or polar angle. As an application, we generalise the purpose of an earlier study [Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 150403 (2006)], showing how to observe the geometric phases acquired by the protected nonstationary states even under a nonadiabatic evolution.

id: 0803.3715
title: Fractional decay of quantum dots in real photonic crystals
authors: Philip Kristensen, A. Femius Koenderink, Peter Lodahl, Bjarne Tromborg, Jesper Mork
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3715
abstract: We show that fractional decay may be observable in experiments using quantum dots and photonic crystals with parameters that are currently achievable. We focus on the case of inverse opal photonic crystals and locate the position in the crystal where the effect is most pronounced. Furthermore, we quantify the influence of absorptive loss and show that it is a limiting but not prohibitive effect.

id: 0803.3721
title: Almost-periodic time observables for bound quantum systems
authors: Michael J. W. Hall
comments: v2: Bound for 'typical' entropy corrected (no more than 1 bit of 'time' information in a bound hydrogen atom) v3: minor clarifications, to appear in J Phys A
journal: J. Phys. A 41 (2008) 255301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3721
abstract: It is shown that a canonical time observable may be defined for any quantum system having a discrete set of energy eigenvalues, thus significantly generalising the known case of time observables for periodic quantum systems (such as the harmonic oscillator). The general case requires the introduction of almost-periodic probability operator measures (POMs), which allow the expectation value of any almost-periodic function to be calculated. An entropic uncertainty relation for energy and time is obtained which generalises the known uncertainty relation for periodic quantum systems. While non-periodic quantum systems with discrete energy spectra, such as hydrogen atoms, typically make poor clocks that yield no more than 1 bit of time information, the anisotropic oscillator provides an interesting exception. More generally, a canonically conjugate observable may be defined for any Hermitian operator having a discrete spectrum.

id: 0803.3760
title: Remark on laser linewidth hazard in opto-mechanical cooling
authors: Lajos Di¨®si
comments: 2pp; slightly modified, PRA accepted version
journal: Phys.Rev. A78 (2008) 021801-(2)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3760
abstract: I discuss the robustness of the pumped cavity dynamics against phase diffusion of the laser and conclude that opto-mechanical cooling has extreme sensitivity compared to laser cooling of atoms. Certain proposals of ground state opto-mechanical cooling by single cavity would require an unrealistic sharp laser linewidth or equivalently, a very low level of phase noise. A systematic way to cancel classical excess phase noise is the interferometric twin-cavity pumping, initiated for optically trapped macro-mirrors of future gravitational-wave detectors.

id: 0803.3784
title: Observation of entanglement between two light beams spanning an octave in optical frequency
authors: Nicolai B. Grosse, Syed Assad, Moritz Mehmet, Roman Schnabel, Thomas Symul, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3784
abstract: We have experimentally demonstrated how two beams of light separated by an octave in frequency can become entangled after their interaction in a second-order nonlinear medium. The entangler consisted of a nonlinear crystal placed within an optical resonator that was strongly driven by coherent light at the fundamental and second-harmonic wavelengths. An inter-conversion between the fields created quantum correlations in the amplitude and phase quadratures, which were measured by two independent homodyne detectors. Analysis of the resulting correlation matrix revealed a wavefunction inseparability of 0.74(1) < 1 thereby satisfying the criterion of entanglement.

id: 0803.3834
title: The meaning of 1 in l(l+1)
authors: E. Gomez
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3834
abstract: The magnitude of the angular momentum ($J^2$) in quantum mechanics is larger than expected from a classical model. We explain this deviation in terms of quantum fluctuations. A standard quantum mechanical calculation gives the correct interpretation of the components of the angular momentum in the vector model in terms of projections and fluctuations. We show that the addition of angular momentum in quantum mechanics gives results consistent with the classical intuition in this vector model.

id: 0803.3859
title: Quantum Control of Ultra-cold Atoms: Uncovering a Novel Connection between Two Paradigms of Quantum Nonlinear Dynamics
authors: Jiao Wang, Anders S. Mouritzen, Jiangbin Gong
comments: submitted to the special issue of "Quantum Control of Matter and Light", Journal of Modern Optics
journal: Journal of Modern Optics (Special Issue), Vol. 56, 722 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3859
abstract: Controlling the translational motion of cold atoms using optical lattice potentials is of both theoretical and experimental interest. By designing two on-resonance time sequences of kicking optical lattice potentials, a novel connection between two paradigms of nonlinear mapping systems, i.e., the kicked rotor model and the kicked Harper model, is established. In particular, it is shown that Hofstadter's butterfly quasi-energy spectrum in periodically driven quantum systems may soon be realized experimentally, with the effective Planck constant tunable by varying the time delay between two sequences of control fields. Extensions of this study are also discussed. The results are intended to open up a new generation of cold-atom experiments of quantum nonlinear dynamics

id: 0803.3867
title: Characterization of the Sequential Product on Quantum Effects
authors: Stan Gudder, Frederic Latremoliere
comments: 11 pages. Accepted for publication in the Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 49 (2008) 5, 7 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3867
abstract: We present a characterization of the standard sequential product of quantum effects. The characterization is in term of algebraic, continuity and duality conditions that can be physically motivated.

id: 0803.3883
title: Simulation of open quantum systems
authors: Florian Mintert, Eric J. Heller
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3883
abstract: We present an approach for the semiclassical treatment of open quantum systems. An expansion into localized states allows restriction of a simulation to a fraction of the environment that is located within a predefined vicinity of the system. Adding and dropping environmental particles during the simulation yields an effective reduction of the size of the system that is being treated.

id: 0803.3903
title: A general scheme for multiparty controlled quantum teleportation of an arbitrary N-particle state
authors: Ye Jun, Yue Li, Yu Liu, Sha Hua
comments: 8 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3903
abstract: There is much interest in the multiparty quantum communications where quantum teleportation using high dimensional entangled quantum channel is one of the promising tools. In this paper, we propose a more general scheme for M-party controlled teleportation of an arbitrary N-particle quantum state using N-1 identical Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs and one (M+2)-particle Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state together as quantum channel. Based on which a 2-party controlled teleportation of an arbitrary 3-particle state is tested with our scheme as an example.

id: 0803.3938
title: Biphoton interference with a quantum dot entangled light source
authors: R. M. Stevenson, A. J. Hudson, R. J. Young, P. Atkinson, K. Cooper, D. A. Ritchie, A. J. Shields
comments: Published with open access in Optics Express
journal: R. M. Stevenson et al., Optics Express 15, 6507 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3938
abstract: We demonstrate optical interferometry beyond the limits imposed by the photon wavelength using 'triggered' entangled photon pairs from a semiconductor quantum dot. Interference fringes of the entangled biphoton state reveals a periodicity half of that obtained with the single photon, and much less than that of the pump laser. High fringe visibility indicates that biphoton interference is less sensitive to decoherence than interference of two sequential single photons. The results suggest that quantum interferometry may be possible using a semiconductor LED-like device.

id: 0803.3947
title: Evolution of entanglement within classical light states
authors: R. Mark Stevenson, Andrew J. Hudson, Anthony J. Bennett, Robert J. Young, Christine A. Nicoll, David A. Ritchie, Andrew J. Shields
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3947
abstract: We investigate the evolution of quantum correlations over the lifetime of a multi-photon state. Measurements reveal time-dependent oscillations of the entanglement fidelity for photon pairs created by a single semiconductor quantum dot. The oscillations are attributed to the phase acquired in the intermediate, non-degenerate, exciton-photon state and are consistent with simulations. We conclude that emission of photon pairs by a typical quantum dot with finite polarisation splitting is in fact entangled in a time-evolving state, and not classically correlated as previously regarded.

id: 0803.3979
title: Multi-Qubit Systems: Highly Entangled States and Entanglement Distribution
authors: A. Borras, A.R. Plastino, J. Batle, C. Zander, M. Casas, A. Plastino
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 13407
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3979
abstract: A comparison is made of various searching procedures, based upon different entanglement measures or entanglement indicators, for highly entangled multi-qubits states. In particular, our present results are compared with those recently reported by Brown et al. [J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 1119]. The statistical distribution of entanglement values for the aforementioned multi-qubit systems is also explored.

id: 0803.4001
title: A route to observing ponderomotive entanglement with optically trapped mirrors
authors: Christopher Wipf, Thomas Corbitt, Yanbei Chen, Nergis Mavalvala
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4001
abstract: The radiation pressure of two detuned laser beams can create a stable trap for a suspended cavity mirror; here it is shown that such a configuration entangles the output light fields via interaction with the mirror. Intra-cavity, the opto-mechanical system can become entangled also. The degree of entanglement is quantified spectrally using the logarithmic negativity. Entanglement survives in the experimentally accessible regime of gram-scale masses subject to thermal noise at room temperature.

id: 0803.4013
title: Classical Origin of the Spin of Relativistic Pointlike Particles and Geometric interpretation of Dirac Solutions
authors: S. Savasta, O. Di Stefano
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4013
abstract: Spin of elementary particles is the only kinematic degree of freedom not having classical corre- spondence. It arises when seeking for the finite-dimensional representations of the Lorentz group, which is the only symmetry group of relativistic quantum field theory acting on multiple-component quantum fields non-unitarily. We study linear transformations, acting on the space of spatial and proper-time velocities rather than on coordinates. While ensuring the relativistic in- variance, they avoid these two exceptions: they describe the spin degree of freedom of a pointlike particle yet at a classical level and form a compact group hence with unitary finite-dimensional rep- resentations. Within this approach changes of the velocity modulus and direction can be accounted for by rotations of two independent unit vectors. Dirac spinors just provide the quantum description of these rotations.

id: 0803.4069
title: Engineering the quantum transport of atomic wavefunctions over macroscopic distances
authors: A. Alberti, V. V. Ivanov, G. M. Tino, G. Ferrari
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4069
abstract: The manipulation of matterwave represents a milestone in the history of quantum mechanics. It was at the basis of its experimental validation through the observation of diffraction of matter on crystals, as well as grating and Young's double-slit interference with electrons, neutron, atoms and molecules. More recently matterwave manipulation has become a building block in the implementation of quantum devices such as quantum sensors and it plays an essential role in many proposals for implementing quantum computers. In this letter we coherently control the spatial extent of the wavefunction by reversibly stretching and shrinking the wavefunction over a millimeter distance. The remarkable experimental simplicity of the scheme would ease applications in the field of quantum transport and quantum computing.

id: 0803.4102
title: Proposal for a loophole-free Bell test with electron spins of donors
authors: Fang-Yu Hong, Shi-Jie Xiong
comments: 4 pages,4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4102
abstract: So far, all experimental tests of Bell inequalities which must be satisfied by all local realistic hidden-variable theories and are violated by quantum mechanical predictions have left at least one loophole open. We propose a feasible setup allowing for a loophole-free test of the Bell inequalities. Two electron spin qubits of phosphorus donors in semiconductors in different cavities 300 m apart are entangled through a bright coherent light and postselections using homodyne measurements. The electron spins are then read out randomly and independently by Alice and Bob, respectively, with unity efficiency in less than 0.7$\mu$s by using optically induced spin to charge transduction detected by radio-frequency single electron transistor. A violation of Bell inequality larger than 37% and 18% is achievable provided that the detection accuracy is 0.99 and 0.95, respectively.

id: 0803.4107
title: Equivalence of Two Approaches for Quantum-Classical Hybrid Systems
authors: Fei Zhan, Yuan Lin, Biao Wu
comments: 9 pages
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 128, 204104 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4107
abstract: We discuss two approaches that are used frequently to describe quantum-classical hybrid system. One is the well-known mean-field theory and the other adopts a set of hybrid brackets which is a mixture of quantum commutators and classical Poisson brackets. We prove that these two approaches are equivalent.

id: 0803.4158
title: Symplectic tomography of ultracold gases in tight-waveguides
authors: A. del Campo, V. I. Man'ko, G. Marmo
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 025602 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4158
abstract: The phase space is the natural ground to smoothly extrapolate between local and non-local correlation functions. With this objective, we introduce the symplectic tomography of many-body quantum gases in tight-waveguides, and concentrate on the reduced single-particle symplectic tomogram (RSPST) whose marginals are the density profile and momentum distribution. We present an operational approach to measure the RSPST from the time evolution of the density profile after shutting off the interactions in a variety of relevant situations: free expansion, fall under gravity, and oscillations in a harmonic trap. From the RSPST, the one-body density matrix of the trapped state can be reconstructed.

id: 0803.4189
title: Atomic Zitterbewegung
authors: M. Merkl, F. E. Zimmer, G. Juzeliunas, P. ?hberg
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4189
abstract: Ultra-cold atoms which are subject to ultra-relativistic dynamics are investigated. By using optically induced gauge potentials we show that the dynamics of the atoms is governed by a Dirac type equation. To illustrate this we study the trembling motion of the centre of mass for an effective two level system, historically called Zitterbewegung. Its origin is described in detail, where in particular the role of the finite width of the atomic wave packets is seen to induce a damping of both the centre of mass dynamics and the dynamics of the populations of the two levels.

id: 0803.4226
title: Security proof for QKD systems with threshold detectors
authors: Toyohiro Tsurumaru, Kiyoshi Tamaki
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; references changed; revised argument for the security proof; typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032302 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4226
abstract: In this paper, we rigorously prove the intuition that in security proofs for BB84 one may regard an incoming signal to Bob as a qubit state. From this result, it follows that all security proofs for BB84 based on a virtual qubit entanglement distillation protocol, which was originally proposed by Lo and Chau [H.-K. Lo and H. F. Chau, Science 283, 2050 (1999)], and Shor and Preskill [P. W. Shor and J. Preskill, Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 441 (2000)], are all valid even if Bob's actual apparatus cannot distill a qubit state explicitly. As a consequence, especially, the well-known result that a higher bit error rate of 20% can be tolerated for BB84 protocol by using two-way classical communications is still valid even when Bob uses threshold detectors. Using the same technique, we also prove the security of the Bennett-Brassard-Mermin 1992 (BBM92) protocol where Alice and Bob both use threshold detectors.

id: 0803.4247
title: Comment on "Possible resolution of the Casimir force finite temperature correction "controversies""
authors: R. S. Decca, E. Fischbach, B. Geyer, G. L. Klimchitskaya, D. E.Krause, D. L¨®pez, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4247
abstract: The recently suggested modification of the transverse electric contribution to the Lifshitz formula (S. K. Lamoreaux, arXiv:0801.1283) is discussed. We show that this modification is inconsistent with the data of two precise experiments, and violates the Nernst heat theorem. The preprint's suggestion concerning the resolution of the "apparent violation of the Third Law of Thermodynamics" is shown to be incorrect.

id: 0803.4268
title: Distance Bounds on Quantum Dynamics
authors: D.A. Lidar, P. Zanardi, K. Khodjasteh
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012308 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4268
abstract: We derive rigorous upper bounds on the distance between quantum states in an open system setting, in terms of the operator norm between the Hamiltonians describing their evolution. We illustrate our results with an example taken from protection against decoherence using dynamical decoupling.

id: 0803.4284
title: Quantum Metrology Subject to Instrumentation Constraints
authors: Robert L. Kosut
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4284
abstract: Maximizing the precision in estimating parameters in a quantum system subject to instrumentation constraints is cast as a convex optimization problem. We account for prior knowledge about the parameter range by developing a worst-case and average case objective for optimizing the precision. Focusing on the single parameter case, we show that the optimization problems are {\em linear programs}. For the average case the solution to the linear program can be expressed analytically and involves a simple search: finding the largest element in a list. An example is presented which compares what is possible under constraints against the ideal with no constraints, the Quantum Fisher Information.

id: 0803.4290
title: A convergent hierarchy of semidefinite programs characterizing the set of quantum correlations
authors: Miguel Navascues, Stefano Pironio, Antonio Acin
comments: 33 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 073013 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4290
abstract: We are interested in the problem of characterizing the correlations that arise when performing local measurements on separate quantum systems. In a previous work [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 010401 (2007)], we introduced an infinite hierarchy of conditions necessarily satisfied by any set of quantum correlations. Each of these conditions could be tested using semidefinite programming. We present here new results concerning this hierarchy. We prove in particular that it is complete, in the sense that any set of correlations satisfying every condition in the hierarchy has a quantum representation in terms of commuting measurements. Although our tests are conceived to rule out non-quantum correlations, and can in principle certify that a set of correlations is quantum only in the asymptotic limit where all tests are satisfied, we show that in some cases it is possible to conclude that a given set of correlations is quantum after performing only a finite number of tests. We provide a criterion to detect when such a situation arises, and we explain how to reconstruct the quantum states and measurement operators reproducing the given correlations. Finally, we present several applications of our approach. We use it in particular to bound the quantum violation of various Bell inequalities.

id: 0803.4306
title: Comment on: "Introducing the Transmon: a new superconducting qubit from optimizing the Cooper Pair Box"
authors: J. Q. You, Xuedong Hu, S. Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: This Comment has been withdrawn according to a mutual agreement between the authors of the original paper and the authors of this Comment
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4306
abstract: This Comment has been withdrawn according to a mutual agreement between the authors of the original paper and the authors of this Comment.

id: 0803.4316
title: Two-mode excited entangled coherent states and their entanglement properties
authors: Dong-Lin Zhou, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 5 pages, no figure. v2: Revised version with corrections in equations and discussions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4316
abstract: We introduce two types of two-mode excited entangled coherent states (TMEECSs) $|\Psi_{\pm}(\alpha,m,n)>$, study their entanglement characteristics, and investigate the influence of photon excitations on quantum entanglement. It is shown that for the state $|\Psi_{+}(\alpha,m,n)>$ the two-mode photon excitations affect seriously entanglement character while the the state $|\Psi_{-}(\alpha,m,n)>$ is always a maximally entangled state. We show how such states can be produced by using cavity QED and quantum measurements. It is found that the entanglement amount of the TMEECSs is larger than that of the single-mode excited entangled coherent states with the same photon excitation number.

id: 0803.4317
title: Quantum logic gates with controllable and selective interaction for superconducting charge qubits via a nanomechanical resonator
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, Qin-Qin Wu, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4317
abstract: In this paper, we propose a scheme to implement two-qubit logic gates with a controllable and selective interaction in a scalable superconducting circuit of charge qubits. A nanomechanical resonator is used as a data bus to connect qubits. It is indicated that a controllable interaction between qubits can be obtained by making use of the data bus. It is shown that a selective interaction between qubits can be realized when many qubits are involved in the system under our consideration.

id: 0803.4320
title: Rigorous Bounds on the Performance of a Hybrid Dynamical Decoupling-Quantum Computing Scheme
authors: K. Khodjasteh, D.A. Lidar
comments: 15 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012355 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4320
abstract: We study dynamical decoupling in a multi-qubit setting, where it is combined with quantum logic gates. This is illustrated in terms of computation using Heisenberg interactions only, where global decoupling pulses commute with the computation. We derive a rigorous error bound on the trace distance or fidelity between the desired computational state and the actual time-evolved state, for a system subject to coupling to a bounded-strength bath. The bound is expressed in terms of the operator norm of the effective Hamiltonian generating the evolution in the presence of decoupling and logic operations. We apply the bound to the case of periodic pulse sequences and find that in order maintain a constant trace distance or fidelity, the number of cycles -- at fixed pulse interval and width -- scales in inverse proportion to the square of the number of qubits. This sets a scalability limit on the protection of quantum computation using periodic dynamical decoupling.

id: 0803.4337
title: Quantum mechanics not on manifold
authors: P. N. Bibikov, L. V. Prokhorov
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4337
abstract: The free scalar field is studied on the Y-junction of three semi infinite axes which is the simplest example of a non-manifold space. It is shown that under an assumption that the junction point can not gain a macroscopic amount of energy and charge the transmission rules for this system uniquely follow from conservation of energy and charge. This result is also obtained in the discrete version of the model. Some alternative approaches to the problem based on quantum mechanics of Hamiltonian systems with constrains are discussed.

id: 0803.4352
title: Experimental observation of oscillating and interacting matter wave dark solitons
authors: A. Weller, J.P. Ronzheimer, C. Gross, D.J. Frantzeskakis, G. Theocharis, P.G. Kevrekidis, J. Esteve, M.K. Oberthaler
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4352
abstract: We report on the generation, subsequent oscillation and interaction of a pair of matter wave dark solitons. These are created by releasing a Bose-Einstein condensate from a double well potential into a harmonic trap in the crossover regime between one dimension (1D) and three dimensions (3D). The oscillation of the solitons is observed and the frequency is in quantitative agreement with simulations using the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. An effective particle picture is developed and reveals that the deviation of the observed frequencies from the asymptotic prediction $\nu_{z}/\sqrt{2}$, where $\nu_{z}$ is the longitudinal trapping frequency, results from the dimensionality of the system and the interaction between the solitons.

id: 0803.4364
title: Decoherence and relaxation of qubits coupled to low- and medium-frequency Ohmic baths directly and via a harmonic oscillator
authors: Xian-Ting Liang
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Chemical Physics 352 (2008) 106-110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4364
abstract: Using the numerical path integral method we investigate the decoherence and relaxation of qubits in spin-boson (SB) and spin-intermediate harmonic oscillator (IHO)-bath (SIB) models. The cases that the environment baths with low and medium frequencies are investigated. It is shown that the qubits in SB and SIB models have the same decoherence and relaxation as the baths with low frequencies. However, the qubits in the two models have different decoherence and relaxation as the baths with medium frequencies. The decoherence and relaxation of the qubit in SIB model can be modulated through changing the coupling coefficients of the qubit-IHO and IHO-bath and the oscillation frequency of the IHO.

id: 0803.4365
title: Decoherence and purity of a driven solid-state qubit in Ohmic bath
authors: Zhi-Qiang Li, Xian-Ting Liang
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physica E 40 (2008) 2671-2676
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4365
abstract: In this paper we study the decoherence and purity of a driven solid-state qubit in the Ohmic bath by using the method based on the master equation. At first, instead of solving the master equation we investigate the coefficients of the equation which describe the shift in frequency, diffusive, decoherence, and so on. It is shown that one of the coefficients (we called it decoherence coefficient) is crucial to the decoherence of the qubit in the model. Then we investigate the evolution of the purity of the state in the model. From the analysis of the purity we see that the decoherence time of the qubit decrease with the increase of the amplitude of the driven fields and it is increase with the increase of the frequency of the driven fields.

id: 0803.4373
title: The quantum moment problem and bounds on entangled multi-prover games
authors: Andrew C. Doherty, Yeong-Cherng Liang, Ben Toner, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 33 pages, To appear at CCC'08
journal: Proceedings of IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity 2008, pages 199--210
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4373
abstract: We study the quantum moment problem: Given a conditional probability distribution together with some polynomial constraints, does there exist a quantum state rho and a collection of measurement operators such that (i) the probability of obtaining a particular outcome when a particular measurement is performed on rho is specified by the conditional probability distribution, and (ii) the measurement operators satisfy the constraints. For example, the constraints might specify that some measurement operators must commute. We show that if an instance of the quantum moment problem is unsatisfiable, then there exists a certificate of a particular form proving this. Our proof is based on a recent result in algebraic geometry, the noncommutative Positivstellensatz of Helton and McCullough [Trans. Amer. Math. Soc., 356(9):3721, 2004]. A special case of the quantum moment problem is to compute the value of one-round multi-prover games with entangled provers. Under the conjecture that the provers need only share states in finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces, we prove that a hierarchy of semidefinite programs similar to the one given by Navascues, Pironio and Acin [Phys. Rev. Lett., 98:010401, 2007] converges to the entangled value of the game. It follows that the class of languages recognized by a multi-prover interactive proof system where the provers share entanglement is recursive.

id: 0803.4377
title: Is the Heisenberg uncertainty relation really violated?
authors: Masao Kitano
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4377
abstract: It has been pointed out that for some types of measurement the Heisenberg uncertainty relation seems to be violated. In order to save the situation a new uncertainty relation was proposed by Ozawa. Here we introduce revised definitions of error and disturbance taking into account the gain associated with generalized measurement interactions. With these new definitions, the validity of the Heisenberg inequality is recovered for continuous linear measurement interactions. We also examine the changes in distribution functions caused by the general measurement interaction and clarify the physical meanings of infinitely large errors and disturbances.

id: 0803.4402
title: Photonic entanglement as a resource in quantum computation and quantum communication
authors: Robert Prevedel, Markus Aspelmeyer, Caslav Brukner, Thomas Jennewein, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 33 pages, 4 figures, OSA style
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 24, 241-248 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4402
abstract: Entanglement is an essential resource in current experimental implementations for quantum information processing. We review a class of experiments exploiting photonic entanglement, ranging from one-way quantum computing over quantum communication complexity to long-distance quantum communication. We then propose a set of feasible experiments that will underline the advantages of photonic entanglement for quantum information processing.

id: 0803.4409
title: Thermo-quantum diffusion
authors: Roumen Tsekov
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 48 (2009) 630-636
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4409
abstract: A new approach to thermo-quantum diffusion is proposed and a nonlinear quantum Smoluchowski equation is derived, which describes classical diffusion in the field of the Bohm quantum potential. A nonlinear thermo-quantum expression for the diffusion front is obtained, being a quantum generalization of the classical Einstein law. The quantum diffusion at zero temperature is also described and a new dependence of the position dispersion on time is derived. A stochastic Bohm-Langevin equation is also proposed.

id: 0803.4453
title: Symmetry-noise interplay in quantum walk on an n-cycle
authors: Subhashish Banerjee, R. Srikanth, C.M. Chandrashekar, Pranaw Rungta
comments: 4 pages and 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 78, 052316 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4453
abstract: Augmenting the unitary transformation which generates a quantum walk by a generalized phase gate G is a symmetry for both noisy and noiseless quantum walk on a line, in the sense that it leaves the position probability distribution invariant. However, this symmetry breaks down in the case of a quantum walk on an n-cycle, and hence can be regarded as a probe of the walk topology. Noise, modelled here as phase flip and generalized amplitude damping channels, tends to restore the symmetry because it classicalizes the walk. However, symmetry restoration happens even in the regime where the walker is not entirely classical, because noise also has the effect of desensitizing the operation G to the walk topology. We discuss methods for physical implementation, and talk about the wider implications to condensed matter systems.

id: 0803.4488
title: Schrodinger-Newton equation as a possible generator of quantum state reduction
authors: Jasper van Wezel, Jeroen van den Brink
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures; added references
journal: Phil. Mag., 88, 1659-1671 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4488
abstract: It has been suggested by Diosi and Penrose that the occurrence of quantum state reduction in macroscopic objects is related to a manifestation of gravitational effects in quantum mechanics. Although within Penrose's framework the dynamics of the quantum state reduction is not prescribed, it was suggested that the so called Schrodinger-Newton equation can be used to at least identify the resulting classical end states. Here we analyze the extent to which the Schrodinger-Newton equation can be used as a model to generate a full, time dependent description of the quantum state reduction process. We find that when supplied with an imaginary gravitational potential, the Schrodinger-Newton equation offers a rationalisation for some of the hitherto unexplained characteristics of quantum state reduction. The description remains incomplete however, because it is unclear how to fully recover Born's rule.

id: 0803.4498
title: Statistical mechanics of multipartite entanglement
authors: Paolo Facchi, Giuseppe Florio, Ugo Marzolino, Giorgio Parisi, Saverio Pascazio
comments: final version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 055304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4498
abstract: We characterize the multipartite entanglement of a system of n qubits in terms of the distribution function of the bipartite purity over all balanced bipartitions. We search for those (maximally multipartite entangled) states whose purity is minimum for all bipartitions and recast this optimization problem into a problem of statistical mechanics.

id: 0803.4508
title: Approaching the Ground State of a Quantum Spin Glass using a Zero-Temperature Quantum Monte Carlo
authors: Arnab Das, Bikas K. Chakrabarti
comments: 8 pages, 6 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4508
abstract: Here we discuss the annealing behavior of an infinite-range $\pm J$ Ising spin glass in presence of a transverse field using a zero-temperature quantum Monte Carlo. Within the simulation scheme, we demonstrate that quantum annealing not only helps finding the ground state of a classical spin glass, but can also help simulating the ground state of a quantum spin glass, in particularly, when the transverse field is low, much more efficiently.

id: 0803.4517
title: Q-spaces and the foundations of quantum mechanics
authors: G. Domenech, F. Holik, D. Krause
comments: submitted to the Foundations of Physics
journal: Foundations of Physics 38 (2008) 969-994
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4517
abstract: Our aim in this paper is to take quite seriously Heinz Post's claim that the non-individuality and the indiscernibility of quantum objects should be introduced right at the start, and not made a posteriori by introducing symmetry conditions. Using a different mathematical framework, namely, quasi-set theory, we avoid working within a label-tensor-product-vector-space-formalism, to use Redhead and Teller's words, and get a more intuitive way of dealing with the formalism of quantum mechanics, although the underlying logic should be modified. Thus, this paper can be regarded as a tentative to follow and enlarge Heinsenberg's suggestion that new phenomena require the formation of a new "closed" (that is, axiomatic) theory, coping also with the physical theory's underlying logic and mathematics.

id: 0803.0013
title: Block Entanglement Entropy of Ground States with Long-Range Magnetic Order
authors: Wenxin Ding, Nicholas E. Bonesteel, Kun Yang
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052109 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0013
abstract: In this paper we calculate the block entanglement entropies of spin models whose ground states have perfect antiferromagnetic or ferromagnetic long-range order. In the latter case the definition of entanglement entropy is extended to properly take into account the ground state degeneracy. We find in both cases the entropy grows logarithmically with the block size. Implication of our results on states with general long-range order will be discussed.

id: 0803.0149
title: Statistical Mechanics of the Quantum K-Satisfiability problem
authors: S. Knysh, V.N. Smelyanskiy
comments: 35 pages, 23 figures; changed abstract, improved discussion in the introduction, added references, corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0149
abstract: We study the quantum version of the random $K$-Satisfiability problem in the presence of the external magnetic field $\Gamma$ applied in the transverse direction. We derive the replica-symmetric free energy functional within static approximation and the saddle-point equation for the order parameter: the distribution $P[h(m)]$ of functions of magnetizations. The order parameter is interpreted as the histogram of probability distributions of individual magnetizations. In the limit of zero temperature and small transverse fields, to leading order in $\Gamma$ magnetizations $m \approx 0$ become relevant in addition to purely classical values of $m \approx \pm 1$. Self-consistency equations for the order parameter are solved numerically using Quasi Monte Carlo method for K=3. It is shown that for an arbitrarily small $\Gamma$ quantum fluctuations destroy the phase transition present in the classical limit $\Gamma=0$, replacing it with a smooth crossover transition. The implications of this result with respect to the expected performance of quantum optimization algorithms via adiabatic evolution are discussed. The replica-symmetric solution of the classical random $K$-Satisfiability problem is briefly revisited. It is shown that the phase transition at T=0 predicted by the replica-symmetric theory is of continuous type with atypical critical exponents.

id: 0803.0311
title: Non-linear dispersive regime of cavity QED: The dressed dephasing model
authors: Maxime Boissonneault, J. M. Gambetta, Alexandre Blais
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 060305(R) (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0311
abstract: Systems in the dispersive regime of cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) are approaching the limits of validity of the dispersive approximation. We present a model which takes into account nonlinear corrections to the dressing of the atom by the field. We find that in the presence of pure dephasing, photons populating the cavity act as a heat bath on the atom, inducing incoherent relaxation and excitation. These effects are shown to reduce the achievable signal-to-noise ratio in cavity QED realizations where the atom is measured indirectly through cavity transmission and in particular in circuit QED.

id: 0803.0364
title: Induced decoherence and entanglement by interacting quantum spin baths
authors: Cheng-Yan Lai, Jo-Tzu Hung, Chung-Yu Mou, Pochung Chen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 205419 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0364
abstract: The reduced dynamics of a single or two qubits coupled to an interacting quantum spin bath modeled by a XXZ spin chain is investigated. By using the method of time-dependent density matrix renormalization group (t-DMRG), we go beyond the uniform coupling central spin model and evaluate nonperturbatively the induced decoherence and entanglement. It is shown that both decoherence and entanglement strongly depend on the phase of the underlying spin bath. We show that in general, spin baths can induce entanglement for an initially disentangled pair of qubits. Furthermore, when the spin bath is in the ferromagnetic phase, because qubits directly couple to the order parameter, the reduced dynamics shows oscillatory type behavior. On the other hand, only for paramagnetic and antiferromagnetic phases, initially entangled states suffer from the entanglement sudden death. By calculating concurrence, the finite disentanglement time is mapped out for all phases in the phase diagram of the spin bath.

id: 0803.0397
title: Entanglement of superconducting qubits via microwave fields: classical and quantum regimes
authors: Jian Li, K. Chalapat, G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 064503 (2008)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0397
abstract: We study analytically and numerically the problem of two qubits with fixed coupling irradiated with quantum or classical fields. In the classical case, we derive an effective Hamiltonian, and construct composite pulse sequences leading to a CNOT gate. In the quantum case, we show that qubit-qubit-photon multiparticle entanglement and maximally entangled two-qubit state can be obtained by driving the system at very low powers (one quanta of excitation). Our results can be applied to a variety of systems of two superconducting qubits coupled to resonators.

id: 0803.0535
title: Quantum Markovian activated surface diffusion of interacting adsorbates
authors: R. Martinez-Casado, A. S. Sanz, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 129, 184704 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0535
abstract: A quantum Markovian activated atom-surface diffusion model with interacting adsorbates is proposed for the intermediate scattering function, which is shown to be complex-valued and factorizable into a classical-like and a quantum-mechanical factor. Applications to the diffusion of Na atoms on flat (weakly corrugated) and corrugated-Cu(001) surfaces at different coverages and surface temperatures are analyzed. Quantum effects are relevant to diffusion at low surface temperatures and coverages even for relatively heavy particles, such as Na atoms, where transport by tunneling is absent.

id: 0803.0541
title: Entanglement Dynamics in a Dispersively Coupled Qubit-Oscillator System
authors: D. W. Utami, A. A. Clerk
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042323 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0541
abstract: We study entanglement dynamics in a system consisting of a qubit dispersively coupled to a finite-temperature, dissipative, driven oscillator. We show that there are two generic ways to generate entanglement: one can entangle the qubit either with the phase or the amplitude of the oscillator's motion. Using an exact solution of the relevant quantum master equation, we study the robustness of both these kinds of entanglement against the effects of dissipation and temperature; in the limit of zero temperature (but finite damping), a simple analytic expression is derived for the logarithmic negativity. We also discuss how the generated entanglement may be detected via dephasing revivals, being mindful that revivals can occur even in the absence of any useful entanglement. Our results have relevance to quantum electromechanics, as well as to circuit QED systems.

id: 0803.0750
title: One-Dimensional Impenetrable Anyons in Thermal Equilibrium. II. Determinant Representation for the Dynamic Correlation Functions
authors: Ovidiu I. Patu, Vladimir E. Korepin, Dmitri V. Averin
comments: 16 pages, RevTeX 4
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 255205
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0750
abstract: We have obtained a determinant representation for the time- and temperature-dependent field-field correlation function of the impenetrable Lieb-Liniger gas of anyons through direct summation of the form factors. In the static case, the obtained results are shown to be equivalent to those that follow from the anyonic generalization of Lenard's formula.

id: 0803.0846
title: Ground State Properties of a Tonks-Girardeau Gas in a Split Trap
authors: J. Goold, Th. Busch
comments: 7 pages, 10 figures.New Fig. 8 added and text reference to figure in Sec IV C. New reference [15] added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 063601 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0846
abstract: We determine the exact many-body properties of a bosonic Tonks-Girardeau gas confined in a harmonic potential with a tunable $\delta$-function barrier at the trap center. This is done by calculating the reduced single particle density matrix, the pair-distribution function, and momentum distribution of the gas as a function of barrier strength and particle number. With increasing barrier height we find that the ground state occupation in a diagonal basis diverges from the $\sqrt N$ behavior that is expected for the case of a simple harmonic trap. In fact, the scaling of the occupation number depends on whether one has an even or odd number of particles. Since this quantity is a measure of the coherence of our sample we show how the odd-even effect manifests itself in both the momentum distribution of the Bose gas and interference fringe visibility during free temporal evolution.

id: 0803.1075
title: Resonance distribution in open quantum chaotic systems
authors: St¨¦phane Nonnenmacher, Emmanuel Schenck
comments: 4 pages. Compared with version 2, we have slightly modified the figures, corrected some misprints, and added the values for the fits in figure 3
journal: Physical Review E 78 (2008) 045202(R)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1075
abstract: In order to study the resonance spectra of chaotic cavities subject to some damping (which can be due to absorption or partial reflection at the boundaries), we use a model of damped quantum maps. In the high-frequency limit, the distribution of (quantum) decay rates is shown to cluster near a ``typical'' value, which is larger than the classical decay rate of the corresponding damped ray dynamics. The speed of this clustering may be quite slow, which could explain why it has not been detected in previous numerical data.

id: 0803.1091
title: A Primer in Quantum Mechanics for NMR Students
authors: V.V.Korostelev
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1091
abstract: An introduction in quantum mechanical theory for NMR students which covers basic concepts and calculations.

id: 0803.1196
title: Role of Single Qubit Decoherence Time in Adiabatic Quantum Computation
authors: M. H. S. Amin, C. J. S. Truncik, D. V. Averin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 022303 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1196
abstract: We have studied numerically the evolution of an adiabatic quantum computer in the presence of a Markovian ohmic environment by considering Ising spin glass systems with up to 20 qubits independently coupled to this environment via two conjugate degrees of freedom. The required computation time is demonstrated to be of the same order as that for an isolated system and is not limited by the single-qubit decoherence time $T_2^*$, even when the minimum gap is much smaller than the temperature and decoherence-induced level broadening. For small minimum gap, the system can be described by an effective two-state model coupled only longitudinally to environment.

id: 0803.1209
title: Single-artificial-atom lasing using a voltage-biased superconducting charge qubit
authors: S. Ashhab, J. R. Johansson, A. M. Zagoskin, Franco Nori
comments: 21 pages in preprint format, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 023030 (2009)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1209
abstract: We consider a system composed of a single artificial atom coupled to a cavity mode. The artificial atom is biased such that the most dominant relaxation process in the system takes the atom from its ground state to its excited state, thus ensuring population inversion. A recent experimental manifestation of this situation was achieved using a voltage-biased superconducting charge qubit. Even under the condition of `inverted relaxation', lasing action can be suppressed if the `relaxation' rate is larger than a certain threshold value. Using simple transition-rate arguments and a semiclassical calculation, we derive analytic expressions for the lasing suppression condition and the state of the cavity in both the lasing and suppressed-lasing regimes. The results of numerical calculations agree very well with the analytically derived results. We start by analyzing a simplified two-level-atom model, and we then analyze a three-level-atom model that should describe accurately the recently realized superconducting artificial-atom laser.

id: 0803.1330
title: Application of Quantum Darwinism to Diffusion during Cosmic Inflation
authors: Nicolas F. Lori, Alex H. Blin
comments: Latex, 15 pages. Alterations to improve clarity of text, added references
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1330
abstract: A baby-universe model of cosmic inflation is analyzed using quantum Darwinism. In this model cosmic inflation can be approximated as Brownian motion of a quantum field, and quantum Darwinism implies that decoherence is the result of quantum Brownian motion of the wave function. The quantum Darwinism approach to decoherence in the baby-universe cosmic-inflation model yields the decoherence times of the baby-universes. The result is the equation relating the baby-universe's decoherence time with the Hubble parameter. A brief discussion of the relation between Darwinism and determinism is provided in the Appendix.

id: 0803.1351
title: Defect generation in a spin-1/2 transverse XY chain under repeated quenching of the transverse field
authors: Victor Mukherjee, Amit Dutta, Diptiman Sen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 77, 214427 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1351
abstract: We study the quenching dynamics of a one-dimensional spin-1/2 $XY$ model in a transverse field when the transverse field $h(=t/\tau)$ is quenched repeatedly between $-\infty$ and $+\infty$. A single passage from $h \to - \infty$ to $h \to +\infty$ or the other way around is referred to as a half-period of quenching. For an even number of half-periods, the transverse field is brought back to the initial value of $-\infty$; in the case of an odd number of half-periods, the dynamics is stopped at $h \to +\infty$. The density of defects produced due to the non-adiabatic transitions is calculated by mapping the many-particle system to an equivalent Landau-Zener problem and is generally found to vary as $1/\sqrt{\tau}$ for large $\tau$; however, the magnitude is found to depend on the number of half-periods of quenching. For two successive half-periods, the defect density is found to decrease in comparison to a single half-period, suggesting the existence of a corrective mechanism in the reverse path. A similar behavior of the density of defects and the local entropy is observed for repeated quenching. The defect density decays as $1/{\sqrt\tau}$ for large $\tau$ for any number of half-periods, and shows a increase in kink density for small $\tau$ for an even number; the entropy shows qualitatively the same behavior for any number of half-periods. The probability of non-adiabatic transitions and the local entropy saturate to 1/2 and $\ln 2$, respectively, for a large number of repeated quenching.

id: 0803.1422
title: Flavor mixing in a Lee-type model
authors: C. C. Nishi, M. M. Guzzo
comments: v2: 25pp in preprint form, typos corrected and references added, one paragraph around Eq.(90) added in conclusions
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:033008,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1422
abstract: An exactly solvable Quantum Field Theory (QFT) model of Lee-type is constructed to study how neutrino flavor eigenstates are created through interactions and how the localization properties of neutrinos follows from the parent particle that decays. The two-particle states formed by the neutrino and the accompanying charged lepton can be calculated exactly as well as their creation probabilities. We can show that the coherent creation of neutrino flavor eigenstates follows from the common negligible contribution of neutrino masses to their creation probabilities. On the other hand, it is shown that it is not possible to associate a well defined "flavor" to mixed states of charged leptons.

id: 0803.1430
title: The thermostatistical aspect of Werner-type states and quantum entanglement
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe, A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 16 pages, no figures. The title, abstract and text have substantially been changed
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical Vol. 43 (2010) 045303
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1430
abstract: A general Werner-type state is studied from two viewpoints: (i) an application of dynamical interaction of the objective system with its environment, represented by a unital positive operator-valued measure (POVM), which ensures increase of entropy, makes the system evolve from an initial pure state to a mixed state of the Werner type, and (ii) the space of the objective system is constrained to have a given value of the fidelity. Then, the maximum entropy principle is shown to yield the Werner-type state as a canonical ensemble with the projector Hamiltonian. This novel observation is illustrated by examples of bipartite systems, the separability criteria on which are given in terms of the values of temperature. The present viewpoint may cast light on relevance of thermostatistics to the physics of quantum entanglement. In addition, the POVM scheme presented here offers a way of experimentally generating the Werner-type thermal states.

id: 0803.1501
title: Self-consistent crystalline condensate in chiral Gross-Neveu and Bogoliubov-de Gennes systems
authors: Gokce Basar, Gerald V. Dunne
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures; v2 minor corrections, version for PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.100:200404,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1501
abstract: We derive a new exact self-consistent crystalline condensate in the 1+1 dimensional chiral Gross-Neveu model. This also yields a new exact crystalline solution for the one dimensional Bogoliubov-de Gennes equations and the Eilenberger equation of semiclassical superconductivity. We show that the functional gap equation can be reduced to a solvable nonlinear equation, and discuss implications for the temperature-chemical potential phase diagram.

id: 0803.1533
title: Quantum gravity as the way from spacetime to space quantum states thermodynamics
authors: L. A. Glinka
comments: 65 pages, 12 figures
journal: New Advances in Physics, Vol. 2, No. 1, 1 - 62, 2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1533
abstract: Physical spacetime geometry follows from some effective thermodynamics of quantum states of all fields and particles described in frames of General Relativity. In the sense of pure field theoretical Einstein's point of view on gravitation the thermodynamic information is actually quantum gravity. We propose new realization of this old idea by studying the canonical 3+1 Dirac-ADM approach to pseudo-Riemannian (Lorentzian) manifold of General Relativity. We derive the Wheeler-DeWitt theory as the Global One-Dimensional classical field theory of the Bose field associated with embedded 3-space, where Wheeler's superspace metric is absent. The classical theory is discussed, some deductions on tachyon state, Dark Energy density and cosmological constant are included. Reduction to 1st order evolution is carried out, and quantum theory by the second quantization in the Fock space of creators and annihilators is constructed by employing the Heisenberg equation and the bosonic Bogoliubov transformation for diagonalization. In result we find the static reper with stable vacuum, where quantum states of 3-space can be considered, and finally space quantum states thermodynamics is formulated.

id: 0803.1551
title: Bound states of bosons and fermions in a mixed vector-scalar coupling with unequal shapes for the potentials
authors: Luis B. Castro, Antonio S. de Castro
comments: 3 figures
journal: Phys.Scripta77:045007,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1551
abstract: The Klein-Gordon and the Dirac equations with vector and scalar potentials are investigated under a more general condition, $V_{v}+V_{s}= \mathrm{constant}$. These intrinsically relativistic and isospectral problems are solved in a case of squared hyperbolic potential functions and bound states for either particles or antiparticles are found. The eigenvalues and eigenfuntions are discussed in some detail and the effective Compton wavelength is revealed to be an important physical quantity. It is revealed that a boson is better localized than a fermion when they have the same mass and are subjected to the same potentials.

id: 0803.1618
title: Magnetic field switching in parallel quantum dots
authors: Feng Li, Xin-Qi Li, Wei-Min Zhang, S.A. Gurvitz
comments: additional explanations added, Europhysics Letters, in press
journal: EPL 88, 37001 (2009)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1618
abstract: We show that the Coulomb blockade in parallel dots pierced by magnetic flux $\Phi$ completely blocks the resonant current for any value of $\Phi$ except for integer multiples of the flux quantum $\Phi_0$. This non-analytic (switching) dependence of the current on $\Phi$ arises only when the dot states that carry the current are of the same energy. The time needed to reach the steady state, however, diverges when $\Phi\to n\Phi_0$.

id: 0803.1734
title: Phonon-assisted tunneling between singlet states in two-electron quantum dot molecules
authors: A. Grodecka, P. Machnikowski, J. F?rstner
comments: Final extended version, 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 085302 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1734
abstract: We study phonon-assisted electron tunneling in semiconductor quantum dot molecules. In particular, singlet-singlet relaxation in a two-electron doped structure is considered. The influence of Coulomb interaction is discussed via comparison with a single electron system. We find that the relaxation rate reaches similar values in the two cases but the Coulomb interaction shifts the maximum rates towards larger separations between the dots. The difference in electron-phonon interaction between deformation potential and piezoelectric coupling is investigated. We show that the phonon-induced tunneling between two-electron singlet states is a fast process, taking place on the time scales of the order of a few tens of picoseconds.

id: 0803.1774
title: Disorder-induced trapping versus Anderson localization in Bose-Einstein condensates expanding in disordered potentials
authors: Laurent Sanchez-Palencia, David Cl¨¦ment, Pierre Lugan, Philippe Bouyer, Alain Aspect
comments: New Journal of Physics; focus issue "Quantum Correlations in Tailored Matter - Common perspectives of mesoscopic systems and quantum gases"; 30 pages, 10 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 10 (2008) 045019
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1774
abstract: We theoretically investigate the localization of an expanding Bose-Einstein condensate with repulsive atom-atom interactions in a disordered potential. We focus on the regime where the initial inter-atomic interactions dominate over the kinetic energy and the disorder. At equilibrium in a trapping potential and for small disorder, the condensate shows a Thomas-Fermi shape modified by the disorder. When the condensate is released from the trap, a strong suppression of the expansion is obtained in contrast to the situation in a periodic potential with similar characteristics. This effect crucially depends on both the momentum distribution of the expanding BEC and the strength of the disorder. For strong disorder, the suppression of the expansion results from the fragmentation of the core of the condensate and from classical reflections from large modulations of the disordered potential in the tails of the condensate. We identify the corresponding disorder-induced trapping scenario for which large atom-atom interactions and strong reflections from single modulations of the disordered potential play central roles. For weak disorder, the suppression of the expansion signals the onset of Anderson localization, which is due to multiple scattering from the modulations of the disordered potential. We compute analytically the localized density profile of the condensate and show that the localization crucially depends on the correlation function of the disorder. In particular, for speckle potentials the long-range correlations induce an effective mobility edge in 1D finite systems. Numerical calculations performed in the mean-field approximation support our analysis for both strong and weak disorder.

id: 0803.1794
title: Suppression of exciton dephasing in quantum dots through ultrafast multipulse control
authors: Thomas E. Hodgson, Lorenza Viola, Irene D'Amico
comments: submitted to PRB
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1794
abstract: We investigate the usefulness and viability of the scheme developed by Viola and Lloyd [Phys. Rev. A 58, 2733 (1998)] to control dephasing in the context of exciton-based quantum computation with self-assembled quantum dots. We demonstrate that optical coherence of a confined exciton qubit exposed to phonon-induced dephasing can be substantially enhanced through the application of a simple periodic sequence of control pulses. The shape of the quantum dot has a significant effect on the dephasing properties. Remarkably, we find that quantum dots with parameters optimized for implementing quantum computation are among the most susceptible to dephasing, yet periodic decoupling is most efficient for exactly that type of dot. We also show that the presence of an electric field, which is a necessary ingredient for many exciton-based quantum computing schemes, may further increase the control efficiency. Our results suggest that dynamical decoupling may be a method of choice for robust storage of exciton qubits during idle stages of quantum algorithms.

id: 0803.1829
title: Stability of the proton-to-electron mass ratio
authors: Alexander Shelkovnikov, Robert James Butcher, Christian Chardonnet, Anne Amy-Klein
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.100:150801,2008
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1829
abstract: We report a limit on the fractional temporal variation of the proton-to-electron mass ratio as, obtained by comparing the frequency of a rovibrational transition in SF6 with the fundamental hyperfine transition in Cs. The SF6 transition was accessed using a CO2 laser to interrogate spatial 2-photon Ramsey fringes. The atomic transition was accessed using a primary standard controlled with a Cs fountain. This result is direct and model-free.

id: 0803.1889
title: Atom-Pair Tunneling and Quantum Phase Transition in Strong Interaction Regime
authors: J.-Q. Liang, J.-L. Liu, W.-D. Li, Z.-J. Li
comments: 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79(3), 033617 (2009) [8 pages]
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1889
abstract: We propose a Hamiltonian of ultracold spinless atoms in optical lattices including the two-body interaction of nearest neighbors, which reduces to the Bose-Hubbard model in weak interaction limit. An atom-pair hoping term appearing in the new Hamiltonian explains naturally the recent experimental observation of correlated tunneling in a double-well trap with strong atom-atom interactions and moreover leads to a new dynamic process of atom-pair tunneling where strongly interacting atoms can tunnel back and forth as a fragmented pair. Finally a new dynamics of oscillations induced by the atom-pair tunneling is found in the strong interaction regime, where the Bose-Hubbard model gives rise to the insulator state with fixed time-averaged value of atom-occupation-number only. Quantum phase transitions between two quantum phases characterized by degenerate and non-degenerate ground states are shown to be coinciding with the Landau second-order phase transition theory. In the system of finite atom-number the degeneracy of ground states can be removed by quantum tunneling for the even-number of atoms but not for the odd-number.

id: 0803.1928
title: Holographic entanglement entropy probes (non)locality
authors: Jose L.F. Barbon, Carlos A. Fuertes
comments: 24 pages and 8 figures; added references, corrected some typos and added a full NEW SECTION with an explicit result linking holography, Lorentz invariance and area law of entanglement entropy
journal: JHEP 0804:096,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1928
abstract: We study the short-distance structure of geometric entanglement entropy in certain theories with a built-in scale of nonlocality. In particular we examine the cases of Little String Theory and Noncommutative Yang-Mills theory, using their AdS/CFT descriptions. We compute the entanglement entropy via the holographic ansatz of Ryu and Takayanagi to conclude that the area law is violated at distance scales that sample the nonlocality of these models, being replaced by an extensive volume law. In the case of the noncommutative model, the critical length scale that reveals the area/volume law transition is strongly affected by UV/IR mixing effects. We also present an argument showing that Lorentz symmetry tends to protect the area law for theories with field-theoretical density of states.

id: 0803.1980
title: Enhanced Black Hole Horizon Fluctuations
authors: R. T. Thompson, L. H. Ford
comments: 35 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:024014,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1980
abstract: We discuss the possible role of quantum horizon fluctuations on black hole radiance, especially whether they can invalidate Hawking's analysis based upon transplanckian modes. We are particularly concerned with ``enhanced'' fluctuations produced by gravitons or matter fields in squeezed vacuum states sent into the black hole after the collapse process. This allows for the possibility of increasing the fluctuations well above the vacuum level. We find that these enhanced fluctuations could significantly alter stimulated emission but have little effect upon the spontaneous emission. Thus the thermal character of the Hawking radiation is remarkably robust.

id: 0803.2151
title: Two-dimensional array of microtraps with atomic shift register on a chip
authors: S. Whitlock, R. Gerritsma, T. Fernholz, R. J. C. Spreeuw
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 11 (2009) 023021
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2151
abstract: Arrays of trapped atoms are the ideal starting point for developing registers comprising large numbers of physical qubits for storing and processing quantum information. One very promising approach involves neutral atom traps produced on microfabricated devices known as atom chips, as almost arbitrary trap configurations can be realised in a robust and compact package. Until now, however, atom chip experiments have focused on small systems incorporating single or only a few individual traps. Here we report experiments on a two-dimensional array of trapped ultracold atom clouds prepared using a simple magnetic-film atom chip. We are able to load atoms into hundreds of tightly confining and optically resolved array sites. We then cool the individual atom clouds in parallel to the critical temperature required for quantum degeneracy. Atoms are shuttled across the chip surface utilising the atom chip as an atomic shift register and local manipulation of atoms is implemented using a focused laser to rapidly empty individual traps.

id: 0803.2272
title: Quantum Measurement Information as a key to Energy Release from Local Vacuums
authors: Masahiro Hotta
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures, to be published in Phys.Rev.D
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:045006,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2272
abstract: In this paper, a protocol is proposed in which energy extraction from local vacuum states is possible by using quantum measurement information for the vacuum state of quantum fields. In the protocol, Alice, who stays at a spatial point, excites the ground state of the fields by a local measurement. Consequently, wavepackects generated by A' measurement propagate the vacuum to spatial infinity. Let us assume that Bob stays away from Alice and fails to catch the excitation energy when the wavepackets pass in front of him. Next Alice announces her local measurement result to Bob by classical communication. Bob performs a local unitary operation depending on the measurement result. In this process, positive energy is released from the fields to Bob's apparatus of the unitary operation. In the field systems, wavepackets are generated with negative energy around Bob's location. Soon afterwards, the negative -energy wavepackets begin to chase after the positive-energy wavepackets generated by Alice and form loosely bound states.

id: 0803.2328
title: Quantum Phase Extraction in Isospectral Electronic Nanostructures
authors: Christopher R. Moon, Laila S. Mattos, Brian K. Foster, Gabriel Zeltzer, Wonhee Ko, Hari C. Manoharan
comments: Published 8 February 2008 in Science; 13 page manuscript (including 4 figures) + 13 page supplement (including 6 figures); supplementary movies available at this http URL
journal: Science 319, 782-787 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2328
abstract: Quantum phase is not a direct observable and is usually determined by interferometric methods. We present a method to map complete electron wave functions, including internal quantum phase information, from measured single-state probability densities. We harness the mathematical discovery of drum-like manifolds bearing different shapes but identical resonances, and construct quantum isospectral nanostructures possessing matching electronic structure but divergent physical structure. Quantum measurement (scanning tunneling microscopy) of these "quantum drums" [degenerate two-dimensional electron states on the Cu(111) surface confined by individually positioned CO molecules] reveals that isospectrality provides an extra topological degree of freedom enabling robust quantum state transplantation and phase extraction.

id: 0803.2439
title: Joule expansion of a pure many-body state
authors: S. Camalet
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 180401 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2439
abstract: We derive the Joule expansion of an isolated perfect gas from the principles of quantum mechanics. Contrary to most studies of irreversible processes which consider composite systems, the gas many-body Hilbert space cannot be factorised into Hilbert spaces corresponding to interesting and ignored degrees of freedom. Moreover, the expansion of the gas into the entire accessible volume is obtained for pure states. Still, the number particle density is characterised by a chemical potential and a temperature. We discuss the special case of a boson gas below the Bose condensation temperature.

id: 0803.2531
title: Classical oscillator with position-dependent mass in a complex domain
authors: Subir Ghosh, Sujoy Kumar Modak
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures, title is changed, some new features have been discussed, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys.Lett.A373:1212-1217,2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2531
abstract: We study complexified Harmonic Oscillator with a position-dependent mass, termed as Complex Exotic Oscillator (CEO). The complexification induces a gauge invariance [19,11]. The role of PT -symmetry is discussed from the perspective of classical trajectories of CEO for real energy. Some trajectories of CEO are similar to those for the particle in a quartic potential in the complex domain [10, 32].

id: 0803.2633
title: Can the quark model be relativistic enough to include the parton model?
authors: Y.S.Kim, Marilyn E. Noz
comments: 32pages, 9 figures, chapter in edited volume "New Ideas in the Quark Model" (Nova Publishing)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2633
abstract: Since quarks are regarded as the most fundamental particles which constitute hadrons that we observe in the real world, there are many theories about how many of them are needed and what quantum numbers they carry. Another important question is what keeps them inside the hadron, which is known to have space-time extension. Since they are relativistic objects, how would the hadron appear to observers in different Lorentz frames? The hadron moving with speed close to that of light appears as a collection of Feynman's partons. In other words, the same object looks differently to observers in two different frames, as Einstein's energy-momentum relation takes different forms for those observers. In order to explain this, it is necessary to construct a quantum bound-state picture valid in all Lorentz frames. It is noted that Paul A. M. Dirac studied this problem of constructing relativistic quantum mechanics beginning in 1927. It is noted further that he published major papers in this field in 1945, 1949, 1953, and in 1963. By combining these works by Dirac, it is possible to construct a Lorentz-covariant theory which can explain hadronic phenomena in the static and high-speed limits, as well as in between. It is shown also that this Lorentz-covariant bound-state picture can explain what we observe in high-energy laboratories, including the parton distribution function and the behavior of the proton form factor.

id: 0803.2643
title: Poisson and Diffusion Approximation of Stochastic Schrodinger equations with Control
authors: Clement Pellegrini
comments: 38 pages
journal: 
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2643
abstract: "Quantum trajectories" are solutions of stochastic differential equations of non-usual type. Such equations are called "Belavkin" or "Stochastic Schr\"odinger Equations" and describe random phenomena in continuous measurement theory of Open Quantum System. Many recent investigations deal with the control theory in such model. In this article, stochastic models are mathematically and physically justified as limit of concrete discrete procedures called "Quantum Repeated Measurements". In particular, this gives a rigorous justification of the Poisson and diffusion approximation in quantum measurement theory with control. Furthermore we investigate some examples using control in quantum mechanics.

id: 0803.2929
title: Quasi-exactly solvable models based on special functions
authors: S. N. Dolya
comments: 15 pages. Typos corrected
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 053524 (2008)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2929
abstract: We suggest a systematic method of extension of quasi-exactly solvable (QES) systems. We construct finite-dimensional subspaces on the basis of special functions (hypergeometric, Airy, Bessel ones) invariant with respect to the action of differential operators of the second order with polynomial coefficients. As a example of physical applications, we show that the known two-photon Rabi Hamiltonian becomes quasi-exactly solvable at certain values of parameters when it can be expressed in terms of corresponding QES operators related to the hypergeometric function.

id: 0803.2968
title: Some features of the statistical complexity, Fisher-Shannon information, and Bohr-like orbits in the Quantum Isotropic Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Jaime Sanudo, Ricardo Lopez-Ruiz
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2968
abstract: The Fisher-Shannon information and a statistical measure of complexity are calculated in the position and momentum spaces for the wave functions of the quantum isotropic harmonic oscillator. We show that these magnitudes are independent of the strength of the harmonic potential. Moreover, for each level of energy, it is found that these two indicators take their minimum values on the orbitals that correspond to the classical (circular) orbits in the Bohr-like quantum image, just those with the highest orbital angular momentum.

id: 0803.3123
title: Casimir Effect for spherical boundaries: A thermofield dynamics approach
authors: D.U. Matrasulov, Kh.T. Butanov, Kh.Yu. Rakhimov, F.C. Khanna, A.E. Santana
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3123
abstract: The Casimir effect for spherical geometry is calculated using generalized Thermofield Dynamics for the case of scalar field. Casimir force and Casimir pressure are presented. It is found that for high temperatures the Casimir force does change sign.

id: 0803.3151
title: Equivalence of critical scaling laws for many-body entanglement in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model
authors: R. Orus, S. Dusuel, J. Vidal
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 025701 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3151
abstract: We establish a relation between several entanglement properties in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model, which is a system of mutually interacting spins embedded in a magnetic field. We provide analytical proofs that the single-copy entanglement and the global geometric entanglement of the ground state close to and at criticality behave as the entanglement entropy. These results are in deep contrast to what is found in one- dimensional spin systems where these three entanglement measures behave differently.

id: 0803.3447
title: Intrinsic and Fundamental Decoherence: Issues and Problems
authors: C. Anastopoulos, B. L. Hu
comments: 16 pages
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.25:154003,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3447
abstract: We investigate the meaning of gravity-induced decoherence in quantum theory, known as `intrinsic' or `fundamental' decoherence in the literature. We explore a range of issues relevant to this problem, including the meaning of modified uncertainty relations, the interpretations of the Planck scale, the distinction between quantum and stochastic fluctuations and the role of the time variable in quantum mechanics. We examine the specific physical assumptions that enter into different approaches to the subject. In particular, we critique two representative approaches that identify time fluctuations as the origin of intrinsic or fundamental decoherence: one that models the fluctuations by stochastic process and one that purports to derive decoherence from the quantum fluctuations of real clocks.

id: 0803.3452
title: Quantum decoherence of a charge qubit in a spin-fermion model
authors: R. M. Lutchyn, L. Cywinski, Cody P. Nave, S. Das Sarma
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures; extended version (accepted to Phys. Rev. B)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 024508 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3452
abstract: We consider quantum decoherence in solid-state systems by studying the transverse dynamics of a single qubit interacting with a fermionic bath and driven by external pulses. Our interest is in investigating the extent to which the lost coherence can be restored by the application of external pulses to the qubit. We show that the qubit evolution under various pulse sequences can be mapped onto Keldysh path integrals. This approach allows a simple diagrammatic treatment of different bath excitation processes contributing to qubit decoherence. We apply this theory to the evolution of the qubit coupled to the Andreev fluctuator bath in the context of widely studied superconducting qubits. We show that charge fluctuations within the Andreev-fluctuator model lead to a 1/f noise spectrum with a characteristic temperature depedence. We discuss the strategy for suppression of decoherence by the application of higher-order (beyond spin echo) pulse sequences.

id: 0803.3610
title: Finite-size scaling of the entanglement entropy of the quantum Ising chain with homogeneous, periodically modulated and random couplings
authors: Ferenc Igloi, Yu-Cheng Lin
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, v2: references added+updated
journal: J. Stat. Mech. P06004 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3610
abstract: Using free-fermionic techniques we study the entanglement entropy of a block of contiguous spins in a large finite quantum Ising chain in a transverse field, with couplings of different types: homogeneous, periodically modulated and random. We carry out a systematic study of finite-size effects at the quantum critical point, and evaluate subleading corrections both for open and for periodic boundary conditions. For a block corresponding to a half of a finite chain, the position of the maximum of the entropy as a function of the control parameter (e.g. the transverse field) can define the effective critical point in the finite sample. On the basis of homogeneous chains, we demonstrate that the scaling behavior of the entropy near the quantum phase transition is in agreement with the universality hypothesis, and calculate the shift of the effective critical point, which has different scaling behaviors for open and for periodic boundary conditions.

id: 0803.3714
title: The optomechanical instability in the quantum regime
authors: Max Ludwig, Bj?rn Kubala, Florian Marquardt
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures, subm. to focus issue of New Journal of Physics on "Mechanical Systems at the Quantum Limit"
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3714
abstract: We consider a generic optomechanical system, consisting of a driven optical cavity and a movable mirror attached to a cantilever. Systems of this kind (and analogues) have been realized in many recent experiments. It is well known that those systems can exhibit an instability towards a regime where the cantilever settles into self-sustained oscillations. In this paper, we briefly review the classical theory of the optomechanical instability, and then discuss the features arising in the quantum regime. We solve numerically a full quantum master equation for the coupled system, and use it to analyze the photon number, the cantilever's mechanical energy, the phonon probability distribution and the mechanical Wigner density, as a function of experimentally accessible control parameters. We observe and discuss the quantum-to-classical transition as a function of a suitable dimensionless quantum parameter.

id: 0803.3971
title: Size dependence of the minimum excitation gap in the Quantum Adiabatic Algorithm
authors: A.P. Young, S. Knysh, V. N. Smelyanskiy
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 170503 (2008)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3971
abstract: We study the typical (median) value of the minimum gap in the quantum version of the Exact Cover problem using Quantum Monte Carlo simulations, in order to understand the complexity of the quantum adiabatic algorithm (QAA) for much larger sizes than before. For a range of sizes, N <= 128, where the classical Davis-Putnam algorithm shows exponential median complexity, the QAA shows polynomial median complexity. The bottleneck of the algorithm is an isolated avoided crossing point of a Landau-Zener type (collision between the two lowest energy levels only).

id: 0803.3995
title: Disentanglement of two harmonic oscillators in relativistic motion
authors: Shih-Yuin Lin, Chung-Hsien Chou, B. L. Hu
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures; typos added, minor changes in Secs. I and V
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:125025,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3995
abstract: We study the dynamics of quantum entanglement between two Unruh-DeWitt detectors, one stationary (Alice), and another uniformly accelerating (Rob), with no direct interaction but coupled to a common quantum field in (3+1)D Minkowski space. We find that for all cases studied the initial entanglement between the detectors disappears in a finite time ("sudden death"). After the moment of total disentanglement the correlations between the two detectors remain nonzero until late times. The relation between the disentanglement time and Rob's proper acceleration is observer dependent. The larger the acceleration is, the longer the disentanglement time in Alice's coordinate, but the shorter in Rob's coordinate.

id: 0803.4067
title: Energetics of quantum correlations
authors: Raoul Dillenschneider, Eric Lutz
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Title and introduction modified
journal: EPL 88 (2009) 50003.
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4067
abstract: We consider a photo--Carnot engine that consists of a single--mode radiation field in an optical cavity. One the heat reservoirs is made of a beam of thermally entangled pairs of two--level atoms that interact resonantly with the cavity. We express the thermodynamic efficiency of the engine in terms of the quantum discord of the atomic pair and find that it can exceed its classical value. Our results show that useful work can be extracted from quantum correlations, indicating that the latter are a valuable resource in quantum thermodynamics.

id: 0803.4087
title: Renormalized Thermal Entropy in Field Theory
authors: Sergio Cacciatori, Fabio Costa, Federico Piazza
comments: 27 pages, final version
journal: Phys.Rev.D79:025006,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4087
abstract: Standard entropy calculations in quantum field theory, when applied to a subsystem of definite volume, exhibit area-dependent UV divergences that make a thermodynamic interpretation troublesome. In this paper we define a renormalized entropy which is related with the Newton-Wigner position operator. Accordingly, whenever we trace over a region of space, we trace away degrees of freedom that are localized according to Newton-Wigner localization but not in the usual sense. We consider a free scalar field in d+1 spacetime dimensions prepared in a thermal state and we show that our entropy is free of divergences and has a perfectly sound thermodynamic behavior. In the high temperature/big volume limit our results agree with the standard QFT calculations once the divergent contributions are subtracted from the latter. In the limit of low temperature/small volume the entropy goes to zero but with a different dependence on the temperature.

id: 0803.4174
title: Universal and nonuniversal contributions to block-block entanglement in many-fermion systems
authors: Vivian V. Franca, Klaus Capelle
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062324 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4174
abstract: We calculate the entanglement entropy of blocks of size x embedded in a larger system of size L, by means of a combination of analytical and numerical techniques. The complete entanglement entropy in this case is a sum of three terms. One is a universal x and L-dependent term, first predicted by Calabrese and Cardy, the second is a nonuniversal term arising from the thermodynamic limit, and the third is a finite size correction. We give an explicit expression for the second, nonuniversal, term for the one-dimensional Hubbard model, and numerically assess the importance of all three contributions by comparing to the entropy obtained from fully numerical diagonalization of the many-body Hamiltonian. We find that finite-size corrections are very small. The universal Calabrese-Cardy term is equally small for small blocks, but becomes larger for x>1. In all investigated situations, however, the by far dominating contribution is the nonuniversal term steming from the thermodynamic limit.

id: 0803.4197
title: Optimization of Enzymatic Biochemical Logic for Noise Reduction and Scalability: How Many Biocomputing Gates Can Be Interconnected in a Circuit?
authors: V. Privman, G. Strack, D. Solenov, M. Pita, E. Katz
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. Chem. B 112, 11777-11784 (2008)
subjects: Molecular Networks (q-bio.MN); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4197
abstract: We report an experimental evaluation of the "input-output surface" for a biochemical AND gate. The obtained data are modeled within the rate-equation approach, with the aim to map out the gate function and cast it in the language of logic variables appropriate for analysis of Boolean logic for scalability. In order to minimize "analog" noise, we consider a theoretical approach for determining an optimal set for the process parameters to minimize "analog" noise amplification for gate concatenation. We establish that under optimized conditions, presently studied biochemical gates can be concatenated for up to order 10 processing steps. Beyond that, new paradigms for avoiding noise build-up will have to be developed. We offer a general discussion of the ideas and possible future challenges for both experimental and theoretical research for advancing scalable biochemical computing.

id: 0803.4299
title: Nested Topological Order
authors: H. Bombin, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: revtex4, 4 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 13 125001 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4299
abstract: We introduce the concept of nested topological order in a class of exact quantum lattice Hamiltonian models with non-abelian discrete gauge symmetry. The topological order present in the models can be partially destroyed by introducing a gauge symmetry reduction mechanism. When symmetry is reduced in several islands only, this imposes boundary conditions to the rest of the system giving rise to topological ground state degeneracy. This degeneracy is related to the existence of topological fluxes in between islands or, alternatively, hidden charges at islands. Additionally, island deformations give rise to an extension of topological quantum computation beyond quasiparticles.

id: 0803.4436
title: Twin "Fano-Snowflakes" Over the Smallest Ring of Ternions
authors: Metod Saniga, Hans Havlicek, Michel Planat, Petr Pracna
comments: 6 pages, 1 table, 1 figure; v2 -- standard representation of the ring of ternions given, 1 figure and 3 references added; v3 -- published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 4 (2008) 050, 7 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4436
abstract: Given a finite associative ring with unity, $R$, any free (left) cyclic submodule (FCS) generated by a $uni$modular ($n+1$)-tuple of elements of $R$ represents a point of the $n$-dimensional projective space over $R$. Suppose that $R$ also features FCSs generated by ($n+1$)-tuples that are $not$ unimodular: what kind of geometry can be ascribed to such FCSs? Here, we (partially) answer this question for $n=2$ when $R$ is the (unique) non-commutative ring of order eight. The corresponding geometry is dubbed a "Fano-Snowflake" due to its diagrammatic appearance and the fact that it contains the Fano plane in its center. There exist, in fact, two such configurations -- each being tied to either of the two maximal ideals of the ring -- which have the Fano plane in common and can, therefore, be viewed as twins. Potential relevance of these noteworthy configurations to quantum information theory and stringy black holes is also outlined.

id: 0803.4483
title: Numerical techniques for solving the quantum constraint equation of generic lattice-refined models in loop quantum cosmology
authors: William Nelson, Mairi Sakellariadou
comments: 17 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:024030,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4483
abstract: To avoid instabilities in the continuum semi-classical limit of loop quantum cosmology models, refinement of the underlying lattice is necessary. The lattice refinement leads to new dynamical difference equations which, in general, do not have a uniform step-size, implying complications in their analysis and solutions. We propose a numerical method based on Taylor expansions, which can give us the necessary information to calculate the wave-function at any given lattice point. The method we propose can be applied in any lattice-refined model, while in addition the accuracy of the method can be estimated. Moreover, we confirm numerically the stability criterion which was earlier found following a von Neumann analysis. Finally, the `motion' of the wave-function due to the underlying discreteness of the space-time is investigated, for both a constant lattice, as well as lattice refinement models.

id: 0803.4490
title: Controlling the spontaneous emission of a superconducting transmon qubit
authors: A. A. Houck, J. A. Schreier, B. R. Johnson, J. M. Chow, Jens Koch, J. M. Gambetta, D. I. Schuster, L. Frunzio, M. H. Devoret, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 080502 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.4490
abstract: We present a detailed characterization of coherence in seven transmon qubits in a circuit QED architecture. We find that spontaneous emission rates are strongly influenced by far off-resonant modes of the cavity and can be understood within a semiclassical circuit model. A careful analysis of the spontaneous qubit decay into a microwave transmission-line cavity can accurately predict the qubit lifetimes over two orders of magnitude in time and more than an octave in frequency. Coherence times $T_1$ and $T_2^*$ of more than a microsecond are reproducibly demonstrated.

id: 0803.3963
title: Quantum Fluctuations, Temperature and Detuning Effects in Solid-Light Systems
authors: Markus Aichhorn, Martin Hohenadler, Charles Tahan, Peter B. Littlewood
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 216401 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.3963
abstract: The superfluid to Mott insulator transition in cavity polariton arrays is analyzed using the variational cluster approach, taking into account quantum fluctuations exactly on finite length scales. Phase diagrams in one and two dimensions exhibit important non-mean-field features. Single-particle excitation spectra in the Mott phase are dominated by particle and hole bands separated by a Mott gap. In contrast to Bose-Hubbard models, detuning allows for changing the nature of the bosonic particles from quasi-localized excitons to polaritons to weakly interacting photons. The Mott state with density one exists up to temperatures $T/g\gtrsim0.03$, implying experimentally accessible temperatures for realistic cavity couplings $g$.

id: 0803.0564
title: Non-Markovian qubit dynamics in the presence of 1/f noise
authors: Guido Burkard
comments: v2: 6.2 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 125317 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0564
abstract: Within the lowest-order Born approximation, we calculate the exact dynamics of a single qubit in the presence of 1/f noise, without making any Markov approximation. We show that the non-Markovian qubit time-evolution exhibits asymmetries and beatings that cannot be explained within a Markovian theory. The present theory for 1/f noise is relevant for both spin- and superconducting qubit realizations in solid-state devices, where 1/f noise is ubiquitous.

id: 0803.2015
title: Noise correlation spectroscopy of the broken order of a Mott insulating phase
authors: V. Guarrera, N. Fabbri, L. Fallani, C. Fort, K. M. R. van der Stam, M. Inguscio
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 250403 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2015
abstract: We use a two-color lattice to break the homogeneous site occupation of an atomic Mott Insulator of bosonic 87Rb. We detect the disruption of the ordered Mott domains via noise correlation analysis of the atomic density distribution after time-of-flight. The appearance of additional correlation peaks evidences the redistribution of the atoms into a strongly inhomogeneous insulating state, in quantitative agreement with the predictions.

