id: 0804.0011
title: Classical and Quantum Tensor Product Expanders
authors: M. B. Hastings, A. W. Harrow
comments: 18 pages. v2 fixed proof and slightly changed statement of Lemma 1. v3 clarified discussion of state randomization, non-Hermitian expanders, and various proof details. Journal version
journal: QIC 9, 336 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0011
abstract: We introduce the concept of quantum tensor product expanders. These are expanders that act on several copies of a given system, where the Kraus operators are tensor products of the Kraus operator on a single system. We begin with the classical case, and show that a classical two-copy expander can be used to produce a quantum expander. We then discuss the quantum case and give applications to the Solovay-Kitaev problem. We give probabilistic constructions in both classical and quantum cases, giving tight bounds on the expectation value of the largest nontrivial eigenvalue in the quantum case.

id: 0804.0022
title: Quantum Bit Strings and Prefix-Free Hilbert Spaces
authors: Markus Mueller, Caroline Rogers
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: ITSL '08 (Information Theory and Statistical Learning) conference proceedings (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0022
abstract: We give a mathematical framework for manipulating indeterminate-length quantum bit strings. In particular, we define prefixes, fragments, tensor products and concatenation of such strings of qubits, and study their properties and relationships. The results are then used to define prefix-free Hilbert spaces in a more general way than in previous work, without assuming the existence of a basis of length eigenstates. We prove a quantum analogue of the Kraft inequality, illustrate the results with some examples and discuss the relevance of prefix-free Hilbert spaces for lossless compression.

id: 0804.0082
title: Realization of the quantum Toffoli gate with trapped ions
authors: T. Monz, K. Kim, W. H?nsel, M. Riebe, A. Villar, P. Schindler, M. Chwalla, M. Hennrich, R. Blatt
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0082
abstract: Algorithms for quantum information processing are usually decomposed into sequences of quantum gate operations, most often realized with single- and two- qubit gates[1]. While such operations constitute a universal set for quantum computation, gates acting on more than two qubits can simplify the implementation of complex quantum algorithms[2]. Thus, a single three-qubit operation can replace a complex sequence of two-qubit gates, which in turn promises faster execution with potentially higher Fidelity. One important three-qubit operation is the quantum Toffoli gate which performs a NOT operation on a target qubit depending on the state of two control qubits. Here we present the first experimental realization of the quantum Toffoli gate in an ion trap quantum computer. Our implementation is particular effcient as we directly encode the relevant logic information in the motion of the ion string. [1] DiVincenzo, D. P. Two-bit gates are universal for quantum computation. cond-mat/9407022, Phys.Rev. A 51, 1015-1022 (1995). [2] Chiaverini, J. et al. Realization of quantum error correction. Nature 432, 602-605 (2004).

id: 0804.0085
title: Feedback control of the fluorescence light squeezing
authors: A. Barchielli, M. Gregoratti, M. Licciardo
comments: RevTeX4, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: EPL, 85 (2009) 14006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0085
abstract: We consider a two-level atom stimulated by a coherent monochromatic laser and we study how to enhance the squeezing of the fluorescence light and of the atom itself in the presence of a Wiseman-Milburn feedback mechanism, based on the homodyne detection of a fraction of the emitted light. Besides analyzing the effect of the control parameters on the squeezing properties of the light and of the atom, we also discuss the relations among these. The problem is tackled inside the framework of quantum trajectory theory.

id: 0804.0087
title: Beating the standard quantum limit: Phase super-sensitivity of N-photon interferometers
authors: Ryo Okamoto, Holger F. Hofmann, Tomohisa Nagata, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Keiji Sasaki, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: submitted for publication Oct 2007, 5pages, 3figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0087
abstract: Quantum metrology promises greater sensitivity for optical phase measurements than could ever be achieved classically. Here we present a theory of the phase sensitivity for the general case where the detection probability is given by an $N$ photon interference fringe. We find that the phase sensitivity has a complex dependence on both the intrinsic efficiency of detection $\eta$ and the interference fringe visibility $V$. Most importantly, the phase that gives maximum phase sensitivity is in general not the same as the phase at which the slope of the interference fringe is a maximum, as has previously been assumed. We determine the parameter range where quantum enhanced sensitivity can be achieved. In order to illustrate these theoretical results, we perform a four photon experiment with $\eta=3/4$ and $V=82\pm6$% (an extension of our previous work [Science \textbf{316}, 726 (2007)]) and find a phase sensitivity 1.3 times greater than the standard quantum limit at a phase different to that which gives maximum slope of the interference fringe.

id: 0804.0122
title: Outline of the SECOQC Quantum-Key-Distribution Network in Vienna
authors: Andreas Poppe, Momtchil Peev, Oliver Maurhart
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information IJQI, Volume 6, 209-218 (April 2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0122
abstract: A Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) network is currently implemented in Vienna by integrating seven QKD-Link devices that connect five subsidiaries of SIEMENS Austria. We give an architectural overview of the network and present the enabling QKD-technologies, as well as the novel QKD network protocols.

id: 0804.0129
title: Optimal cloning of unitary transformations
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 180504 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0129
abstract: After proving a general no-cloning theorem for black boxes, we derive the optimal universal cloning of unitary transformations, from one to two copies. The optimal cloner is realized by quantum channels with memory, and greately outperforms the optimal measure-and-reprepare cloning strategy. Applications are outlined, including two-way quantum cryptographic protocols.

id: 0804.0180
title: Transforming quantum operations: quantum supermaps
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Europhysics Letters 83, 30004 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0180
abstract: We introduce the concept of quantum supermap, describing the most general transformation that maps an input quantum operation into an output quantum operation. Since quantum operations include as special cases quantum states, effects, and measurements, quantum supermaps describe all possible transformations between elementary quantum objects (quantum systems as well as quantum devices). After giving the axiomatic definition of supermap, we prove a realization theorem, which shows that any supermap can be physically implemented as a simple quantum circuit. Applications to quantum programming, cloning, discrimination, estimation, information-disturbance trade-off, and tomography of channels are outlined.

id: 0804.0181
title: Monogamy equality in $2\otimes 2 \otimes d$ quantum systems
authors: Dong Pyo Chi, Jeong Woon Choi, Kabgyun Jeong, Jeong San Kim, Taewan Kim, Soojoon Lee
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 112102 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0181
abstract: There is an interesting property about multipartite entanglement, called the monogamy of entanglement. The property can be shown by the monogamy inequality, called the Coffman-Kundu-Wootters inequality [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 61}, 052306 (2000); Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 96}, 220503 (2006)], and more explicitly by the monogamy equality in terms of the concurrence and the concurrence of assistance, $\mathcal{C}_{A(BC)}^2=\mathcal{C}_{AB}^2+(\mathcal{C}_{AC}^a)^2$, in the three-qubit system. In this paper, we consider the monogamy equality in $2\otimes 2 \otimes d$ quantum systems. We show that $\mathcal{C}_{A(BC)}=\mathcal{C}_{AB}$ if and only if $\mathcal{C}_{AC}^a=0$, and also show that if $\mathcal{C}_{A(BC)}=\mathcal{C}_{AC}^a$ then $\mathcal{C}_{AB}=0$, while there exists a state in a $2\otimes 2 \otimes d$ system such that $\mathcal{C}_{AB}=0$ but $\mathcal{C}_{A(BC)}>\mathcal{C}_{AC}^a$.

id: 0804.0206
title: A Proposal of Testing Imaginary Time in a Total Reflection
authors: Zhong Chao Wu
comments: 5 pages, exactly the same as that published 10 years ago
journal: Journal of University of Science and Technology of China, No. 5, 4-7 (1998)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0206
abstract: All paradoxes concerning faster-than-light signal propagation reported in recent experiments can be dispelled by using imaginary time in a quantum framework. I present a proposal of testing imaginary time in a total reflection.

id: 0804.0208
title: Entanglement evolution in finite dimensions
authors: Markus Tiersch, Fernando de Melo, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; new title and introduction, added references, some makeup; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 170502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0208
abstract: We provide a relation which describes how the entanglement of two d-level systems evolves as either system undergoes an arbitrary physical process. The dynamics of the entanglement turns out to be of a simple form, and is fully captured by a single quantity.

id: 0804.0210
title: The Imaginary Time in the Tunneling Process
authors: Zhong Chao Wu
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0210
abstract: By using techniques developed in quantum cosmology, it is found that a tunneling particle spends purely imaginary time on a barrier region. The {\it imaginary} time is associated with the stochastic acausal behaviour of a state, while the {\it real} time is associated with the deterministic causal evolution of a state. For the tunneling case the nonzero imaginary time is associated with the transmission rate of the tunneling process, which is related to the thickness of the barrier. The physical meaning of the zero real time is that the particle instantly jumps from one side of the barrier to the other regardless of the thickness. This leads to the illusion that tunneling particles could actually travel faster than light. The results of recent experiments in quantum optics concerning tunneling time can be thought of as the first experimental confirmation of the existence of imaginary time. Relativity is not violated.

id: 0804.0241
title: Decoherence of Bell states by local interactions with a dynamic spin environment
authors: Cecilia Cormick, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: Replaced with published version (minor changes). 8 pages, 7 figures. Continues work of arXiv:0709.2643
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012357 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0241
abstract: We study the evolution of a system of two qubits, each of which interacts locally with a spin chain with nontrivial internal Hamiltonian. We present an exact solution to this problem and analyze the dependence of decoherence on the distance between the interaction sites. In the strong coupling regime we find that decoherence increases with increasing distance. In the weak coupling regime the dependence of decoherence with distance is not generic (i.e., it varies according to the initial state). Decoherence becomes independent of distance when the latter is over a saturation length $l$. Numerical results for the Ising chain suggest that the saturation scale is related to the correlation length $\xi$. For strong coupling we display evidence of the existence of non--Markovian effects (such as environment--induced interactions between the qubits). As a consequence the system can undergo a quasiperiodic sequence of ``sudden deaths and revivals'' of entanglement, with a time scale related to the distance between qubits.

id: 0804.0254
title: Quantum State Engineering and Precision Metrology using State-Insensitive Light Traps
authors: Jun Ye, H. J. Kimble, Hidetoshi Katori
comments: 23 pages of main text, 4 figures, and 12 pages of Supporting Online Material (SOM)
journal: Science 320, 1734-1738 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0254
abstract: Precision metrology and quantum measurement often demand matter be prepared in well defined quantum states for both internal and external degrees of freedom. Laser-cooled neutral atoms localized in a deeply confining optical potential satisfy this requirement. With an appropriate choice of wavelength and polarization for the optical trap, two electronic states of an atom can experience the same trapping potential, permitting coherent control of electronic transitions independent of the atomic center-of-mass motion. We review a number of recent experiments that use this approach to investigate precision quantum metrology for optical atomic clocks and coherent control of optical interactions of single atoms and photons within the context of cavity quantum electrodynamics. We also provide a brief survey of promising prospects for future work.

id: 0804.0272
title: Quantum computing using shortcuts through higher dimensions
authors: B. P. Lanyon, M. Barbieri, M. P. Almeida, T. Jennewein, T. C. Ralph, K. J. Resch, G. J. Pryde, J. L. O'Brien, A. Gilchrist, A. G. White
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nature Physics 5, 134 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0272
abstract: Quantum computation offers the potential to solve fundamental yet otherwise intractable problems across a range of active fields of research. Recently, universal quantum-logic gate sets - the building blocks for a quantum computer - have been demonstrated in several physical architectures. A serious obstacle to a full-scale implementation is the sheer number of these gates required to implement even small quantum algorithms. Here we present and demonstrate a general technique that harnesses higher dimensions of quantum systems to significantly reduce this number, allowing the construction of key quantum circuits with existing technology. We are thereby able to present the first implementation of two key quantum circuits: the three-qubit Toffoli and the two-qubit controlled-unitary. The gates are realised in a linear optical architecture, which would otherwise be absolutely infeasible with current technology.

id: 0804.0289
title: Experimental generation of four-mode continuous-variable cluster states
authors: Mitsuyoshi Yukawa, Ryuji Ukai, Peter van Loock, Akira Furusawa
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78,012301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0289
abstract: Continuous-variable Gaussian cluster states are a potential resource for universal quantum computation. They can be efficiently and unconditionally built from sources of squeezed light using beam splitters. Here we report on the generation of three different kinds of continuous-variable four-mode cluster states. In our realization, the resulting cluster-type correlations are such that no corrections other than simple phase-space displacements would be needed when quantum information propagates through these states. At the same time, the inevitable imperfections from the finitely squeezed resource states and from additional thermal noise are minimized, as no antisqueezing components are left in the cluster states.

id: 0804.0341
title: Entanglement and Non-locality in a Micro-Macroscopic system
authors: Francesco De Martini, Fabio Sciarrino, Chiara Vitelli
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0341
abstract: In recent years two fundamental aspects of quantum mechanics have attracted a great deal of interest, namely the investigation on the irreducible nonlocal properties of Nature implied by quantum entanglement and the physical realization of the 'Schroedinger Cat'. In the present work a macro - state consisting of about 3.5 x 10^4 photons in a quantum superposition and entangled with a far apart single - photon state is generated. Then, the non-separability of the overall micro-macro system is demonstrated and the corresponding Bell's inequalities are found to be violated. Precisely, an entangled photon pair is created by a nonlinear optical process, then one photon of the pair is injected into an optical parametric amplifier operating for any input polarization state, i.e. into a phase-covariant cloning machine. Such transformation establishes a connection between the single photon and the multi particle fields. We then demonstrate the non-separability of the bipartite system by adopting a local filtering technique within a positive operator valued measurement.

id: 0804.0354
title: Temporally multiplexed superposition states of continuous variables
authors: Masahide Sasaki, Masahiro Takeoka, Hiroki Takahashi
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0354
abstract: We study non-Gaussian states generated by two-photon subtraction from a cw squeezed light source. In a cw scheme one can subtract two photons from the source with a designated time separation and can genarate temporally multiplexed superposition states of continuous variables. We numerically study the properties of these states in the light of bosonic interference in the time domain. In an appropriate temporal mode amplified kittens are produced in a region where the time separation is comparable with the correlation time of squeezed packets.

id: 0804.0365
title: Quantum Computation in a radio single mode cavity: the dissipative Jaynes and Cummings Model
authors: P. Ferrante, S. Nicolosi, G. Schiaccianoce, G. Rizzo
comments: submitted to 40th symposium on mathematical physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0365
abstract: Our aim is to give an account, trough an analysis of a number of papers by F.Petruccione, H.J.Charmicael, J.C. Raimond and their contemporaries, of the specific answer that we gave to the problem of Open Quantum Systems dynamical evolution and how this idea evolves and develops in physical research and in the scientific debate of the following decades. Permanent solution should not been accepted from physical research, but analysis of the real work of scientists, of the difficulties they face and the ever changing solutions they offer is, we believe, part of our understanding of science and an indispensable basis for further methodological inquiries. In this paper we have chosen to analyze a dissipative Jaynes-Cummings model assuming the common electrodynamics free field for the bipartite system and an another independent bath for the cavity, so taking into account loosing of energy because of the imperfect mirrors. The Nud theorem application leads to predict new cooperative effects between the atom and the cavity mode as the creation of conditional transient entanglement, tending to become stationary as the coupling constant take a well defined value.

id: 0804.0367
title: Anomalous quantum reflection as a quasi-dynamical damping effect
authors: Alexander Jurisch, Jan-Michael Rost
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0367
abstract: We develop a quasi-analytical theory for the quantum reflection amplitude of Bose-Einstein condensates. We derive and calculate the decay-width of a Bose-Einstein condensate. A general relation between the time-dependent decay-law of the system and its quantum reflection amplitude allows us to explain the quantum reflection anomaly of Bose-Einstein condensates present in BEC-surface systems as a direct consequence of the repulsive particle interaction.

id: 0804.0371
title: Efficient positronium laser excitation for antihydrogen production in a magnetic field
authors: F. Castelli, I. Boscolo, S. Cialdi, M.G. Giammarchi, D. Comparat
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures; changed content (with erasing of section 2), adding a new figure and new references
journal: published on Physical Review A vol.78, p.052512 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0371
abstract: Antihydrogen production by charge exchange reaction between Positronium (Ps) atoms and antiprotons requires an efficient excitation of Ps atoms up to high-n levels (Rydberg levels). In this study it is assumed that a Ps cloud is produced within a relatively strong uniform magnetic field (1 Tesla) and with a relatively high temperature (100 K). Consequently, the structure of energy levels are deeply modified by Zeeman and motional Stark effects. A two-step laser light excitation, the first one from ground to n=3 and the second from this level to a Rydberg level, is proposed and the physics of the problem is discussed. We derive a simple formula giving the absorption probability with substantially incoherent laser pulses. A 30% population deposition in high-$n$ states can be reached with feasible lasers suitably tailored in power and spectral bandwidth.

id: 0804.0421
title: Backward retrieval in optical quantum memory controlled by an external field
authors: Alexey Kalachev, Stefan Kroll
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; v2: added references, comments and efficiency analysis; v3: minor changes - final version as published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 043808 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0421
abstract: A scheme for backward retrieval in optical quantum memories in which information is stored in collective states of an extended resonant atomic ensemble is developed such that phase conjugation can be implemented by application of an external nonuniform electric (magnetic) field without use of coherent exciting pulses. The possibilities of realizing such a scheme using resonant solid-state materials are discussed.

id: 0804.0459
title: Some remarks on point split commutators
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 11 pages, Corrected equation 47
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0459
abstract: Point splitting has been suggested as a way to deal with anomalous commutators in quantum field theory. It has been pointed out by D.G. Boulware[4] that in order to obtain a mathematically consistent theory the Hamiltonian operator must be point split also. We will examine the effect of point splitting the Hamiltonian for a free fermion field in 1-1D space-time. It will be shown that when the Hamiltonian operator is point split then quantum states will exist with less energy than the normal vacuum state. This requires the vacuum state to be redefined.

id: 0804.0463
title: Quantum theory of optical temporal phase and instantaneous frequency
authors: Mankei Tsang, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Seth Lloyd
comments: 16 pages, v3: rewritten and extended, v4: some minor mistakes corrected, accepted by Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 78, 053820 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0463
abstract: We propose a general quantum theory of optical phase and instantaneous frequency in the time domain for slowly varying optical signals. Guided by classical estimation theory, we design homodyne phase-locked loops that enable quantum-limited measurements of temporal phase and instantaneous frequency. Standard and Heisenberg quantum limits to such measurements are then derived. For optical sensing applications, we propose multipass and Fabry-P\'erot position and velocity sensors that take advantage of the signal-to-noise-ratio enhancement effect of wideband angle modulation without requiring nonclassical light. We also generalize our theory to three spatial dimensions for nonrelativistic bosons and define an Hermitian fluid velocity operator, which provides a theoretical underpinning to the current-algebra approach of quantum hydrodynamics.

id: 0804.0464
title: Large amplitude coherent state superposition generated by a time-separated two-photon subtraction from a continuous wave squeezed vacuum
authors: Masahiro Takeoka, Hiroki Takahashi, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062315 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0464
abstract: Theoretical analysis is given for a two-photon subtraction from a continuous wave (CW) squeezed vacuum with finite time separation between two detection events. In the CW photon subtraction process, the generated states are inevitably described by temporal mutimode states. Our approach is based on Schr\"{o}dinger picture which provides mathematically simple forms and an intuitive understanding of its multimode structure. We show that, in our process, the photon subtracted squeezed vacuum is generated in two temporal modes and one of these modes acts as an ancillary mode to make the other one a large amplitude coherent state superposition.

id: 0804.0471
title: Atomic noise spectra in nonlinear magneto-optical rotation in a rubidium vapor
authors: Hebin Li, Vladimir A. Sautenkov, Tigran S. Varzhapetyan, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 25, 1702-1707 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0471
abstract: We have studied the noise spectra in a nonlinear magneto-optical rotation experiment in a rubidium vapor. We observed the reduction of noise in the intensity difference of two orthogonally polarized components of the laser beam. The dependence of the noise level on both the frequency and the longitudinal magnetic field has been studied. We found that the optimal condition for the noise reduction is to work around zero longitudinal magnetic field, where the intensity correlation between the two orthogonally polarized components is maximum. Our results can be used to reduce or eliminate the atomic excess noise, therefore improving the sensitivity of nonlinear magneto-optical rotation magnetometers and other atom-optical based applications.

id: 0804.0501
title: Bohmian approach to spin-dependent time of arrival for particles in a uniform field and for particles passing through a barrier
authors: S. V. Mousavi, M. Golshani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0501
abstract: It is known that Lorentz covariance fixes uniquely the current and the associated guidance law in the trajectory interpretation of quantum mechanics for spin-1/2 particles. In the nonrelativistic domain this implies a guidance law for electrons which differs by an additional spin-dependent term from the one originally proposed by de Broglie and Bohm. Although the additional term in the guidance equation may not be detectable in the quantum measurements derived solely from the probability density $\rho$, it plays a role in the case of arrival-time measurements. In this paper we compute the arrival time distribution and the mean arrival time at a given location, with and without the spin contribution, for two problems: 1) a symmetrical Gaussian packet in a uniform field and 2) a symmetrical Gaussian packet passing through a 1D barrier. Using the Runge-Kutta method for integration of the guidance law, Bohmian paths of these problems are also computed.

id: 0804.0505
title: Interaction of a two-level atom with a classical field in the context of Bohmian mechanics
authors: S. V. Mousavi, M. Golshani
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 78 (2008) 035007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0505
abstract: We discuss Bohmian paths of the two-level atoms moving in a waveguide through an external resonance-producing field, perpendicular to the waveguide, and localized in a region of finite diameter. The time spent by a particle in a potential region is not well-defined in the standard quantum mechanics, but it is well-defined in the Bohmian mechanics. Bohm's theory is used for calculating the average time spent by a transmitted particle inside the field region and the arrival-time distributions at the edges of the field region. Using the Runge-Kutta method for the integration of the guidance law, some Bohmian trajectories were also calculated. Numerical results are presented for the special case of a Gaussian wave packet.

id: 0804.0508
title: Experimental demonstration of frequency-degenerate bright EPR beams with a self-phase-locked optical parametric oscillator
authors: Gaelle Keller, Virginia D'Auria, Nicolas Treps, Thomas Coudreau, Julien Laurat, Claude Fabre
comments: 
journal: Optics express 16 (2008) 9351
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0508
abstract: We report the first experimental observation of bright EPR beams produced by a type-II optical parametric oscillator operating above threshold at frequency degeneracy. The degenerate operation is obtained by introducing a birefringent plate inside the cavity resulting in phase locking. After filtering the pump noise, which plays a critical role, continuous-variable EPR correlations between the orthogonally polarized signal and idler beams are demonstrated.

id: 0804.0511
title: Multi-mode bosonic Gaussian channels
authors: F. Caruso, J. Eisert, V. Giovannetti, A.S. Holevo
comments: 37 pages, 3 figures (minor editing), accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics
journal: New Journal of Physics 10, 083030 (33pp) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0511
abstract: A complete analysis of multi-mode bosonic Gaussian channels is proposed. We clarify the structure of unitary dilations of general Gaussian channels involving any number of bosonic modes and present a normal form. The maximum number of auxiliary modes that is needed is identified, including all rank deficient cases, and the specific role of additive classical noise is highlighted. By using this analysis, we derive a canonical matrix form of the noisy evolution of n-mode bosonic Gaussian channels and of their weak complementary counterparts, based on a recent generalization of the normal mode decomposition for non-symmetric or locality constrained situations. It allows us to simplify the weak-degradability classification. Moreover, we investigate the structure of some singular multi-mode channels, like the additive classical noise channel that can be used to decompose a noisy channel in terms of a less noisy one in order to find new sets of maps with zero quantum capacity. Finally, the two-mode case is analyzed in detail. By exploiting the composition rules of two-mode maps and the fact that anti-degradable channels cannot be used to transfer quantum information, we identify sets of two-mode bosonic channels with zero capacity.

id: 0804.0520
title: Quantum MERA Channels
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Simone Montangero, Rosario Fazio
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 180503 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0520
abstract: Tensor networks representations of many-body quantum systems can be described in terms of quantum channels. We focus on channels associated with the Multi-scale Entanglement Renormalization Ansatz (MERA) tensor network that has been recently introduced to efficiently describe critical systems. Our approach allows us to compute the MERA correspondent to the thermodynamic limit of a critical system introducing a transfer matrix formalism, and to relate the system critical exponents to the convergence rates of the associated channels.

id: 0804.0529
title: Extensions of the quantum Fano inequality
authors: Naresh Sharma
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, took care of referees' comments, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 78, no. 1, p. 012322, July 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0529
abstract: Quantum Fano inequality (QFI) in quantum information theory provides an upper bound to the entropy exchange by a function of the entanglement fidelity. We give various Fano-like upper bounds to the entropy exchange and QFI is a special case of these bounds. These bounds also give an alternate derivation of the QFI.

id: 0804.0537
title: Fidelity approach to Gaussian transitions
authors: Yu-Chin Tzeng, Hsiang-Hsuan Hung, Yung-Chung Chen, Min-Fong Yang
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062321 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0537
abstract: The fidelity approach to the Gaussian transitions in spin-one XXZ spin chains with three different values of Ising-like anisotropy lambda is analyzed by means of the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) technique for systems of large sizes. We find that, despite the success in the cases of lambda=2.59 and 1, the fidelity susceptibility fails to detect the Gaussian transition for lambda=0.5. Thus our results demonstrate the limitation of the fidelity susceptibility in characterizing quantum phase transitions, which was proposed recently in general frameworks.

id: 0804.0567
title: Ionisation of hydrogen molecule in intense ultrashort laser pulses: parallel versus perpendicular orientation
authors: Yulian V. Vanne, Alejandro Saenz
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0567
abstract: A theoretical comparison of the electronic excitation and ionisation behaviour of molecular hydrogen oriented either parallel or perpendicular to a linear polarised laser pulse is performed. The investigation is based on a non-perturbative treatment that solves the full time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation of both correlated electrons within the fixed-nuclei approximation and the dipole. Results are shown for two different laser pulse lengths and intensities as well as for a large variety of photon frequencies starting in the 1- and reaching into the 6-photon regime. In order to investigate the influence of the intrinsic diatomic two-center problem even further, two values of the internuclear separation and a newly developed atomic model are considered.

id: 0804.0575
title: Improving resolution by means of ghost imaging
authors: Pengli Zhang, Wenlin Gong, Xia Shen, Dajie Huang, Shensheng Han
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0575
abstract: As one of important analysis tools, microscopes with high spatial resolution are indispensable for scientific research and medical diagnosis, and much attention is always focused on the improvement of resolution. Over the past decade, a novel technique called ghost imaging has been developed that may provide a new approach toward increasing the resolution of an imaging system. In this paper, we introduce this technique into microscopes for the first time and report a proof-of-principle experimental demonstration of a microscope scheme based on ghost imaging.

id: 0804.0586
title: Fractional Heisenberg Equation
authors: Vasily E. Tarasov
comments: 11 pahes, LaTeX
journal: Physics Letters A 372 (2006) 2984-2988
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0586
abstract: Fractional derivative can be defined as a fractional power of derivative. The commutator (i/h)[H, ], which is used in the Heisenberg equation, is a derivation on a set of observables. A derivation is a map that satisfies the Leibnitz rule. In this paper, we consider a fractional derivative on a set of quantum observables as a fractional power of the commutator (i/h)[H, ]. As a result, we obtain a fractional generalization of the Heisenberg equation. The fractional Heisenberg equation is exactly solved for the Hamiltonians of free particle and harmonic oscillator. The suggested Heisenberg equation generalize a notion of quantum Hamiltonian systems to describe quantum dissipative processes.

id: 0804.0587
title: Optimal eavesdropping on noisy states in quantum key distribution
authors: Z. Shadman, H. Kampermann, T. Meyer, D. Bruss
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inform. 7, 297 - 306 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0587
abstract: We study eavesdropping in quantum key distribution with the six state protocol,when the signal states are mixed with white noise. This situation may arise either when Alice deliberately adds noise to the signal states before they leave her lab, or in a realistic scenario where Eve cannot replace the noisy quantum channel by a noiseless one. We find Eve's optimal mutual information with Alice, for individual attacks, as a function of the qubit error rate. Our result is that added quantum noise can make quantum key distribution more robust against eavesdropping.

id: 0804.0604
title: Adiabatic approximation for many body systems and quantum computation
authors: Alioscia Hamma, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: This paper has been withdrawn as it has been superseded by 0808.2697
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0604
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn as it has been superseded by 0808.2697

id: 0804.0686
title: Discrimination of two channels by adaptive methods and its application to quantum system
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: 
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Volume 55, Issue 8, 3807 - 3820 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0686
abstract: The optimal exponential error rate for adaptive discrimination of two channels is discussed. In this problem, adaptive choice of input signal is allowed. This problem is discussed in various settings. It is proved that adaptive choice does not improve the exponential error rate in these settings. These results are applied to quantum state discrimination.

id: 0804.0710
title: Two Qubit Entanglement in Magnetic Chains with DM Antisymmetric Anisotropic Exchange Interaction
authors: Zeynep Nilhan Gurkan, Oktay K. Pashaev
comments: 22 pages, 14 figures. Substantially modified and extended version of quant-ph:0705.0679v1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0710
abstract: In the present paper an influence of the anisotropic antisymmetric exchange interaction, the Dzialoshinskii-Moriya (DM) interaction, on entanglement of two qubits in various magnetic spin models, including the pure DM model and the most general XYZ model are studied. We find that the time evolution generated by DM interaction can implement the SWAP gate and discuss realistic quasi-one-dimensional magnets where it can be realized. It is shown that inclusion of the DM interaction to any Heisenberg model creates, when it does not exist, or strengthens, when it exists, the entanglement. We give physical explanation of these results by studying the ground state of the systems at T=0. Nonanalytic dependence of the concurrence on the DM interaction and its relation with quantum phase transition is indicated. Our results show that spin models with the DM coupling have some potential applications in quantum computations and the DM interaction could be an efficient control parameter of entanglement.

id: 0804.0714
title: Combined local implementation of nonlocal operations using GHZ states
authors: Ning Bo Zhao, An Min Wang
comments: 8 pages 1 figue
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0714
abstract: We propose a protocol for local implementation of two consecutive nonlocal operations by three parters. It consumes one shared GHZ state in this protocol. We also demonstrate that these resources are sufficient and necessary to locally implement two consecutive CNOT operations.

id: 0804.0716
title: Bell-inequality violation with a triggered photon-pair source
authors: R. J. Young, R. M. Stevenson, A. J. Hudson, C. A. Nicoll, D. A. Ritchie, A. J. Shields
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.102:030406,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0716
abstract: Here we demonstrate, for the first time, violation of Bell's inequality using a triggered quantum dot photon-pair source without post-selection. Furthermore, the fidelity to the expected Bell state can be increased above 90% using temporal gating to reject photons emitted at times when collection of uncorrelated light is more probable. A direct measurement of a CHSH Bell inequality is made showing a clear violation, highlighting that a quantum dot entangled photon source is suitable for communication exploiting non-local quantum correlations.

id: 0804.0720
title: Dispersive CQED interactions between matter qubits and bright squeezed light
authors: Fang-Yu Hong, Shi-Jie Xiong
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0720
abstract: Dispersive interactions of matter qubits with bright squeezed light in a high-Q cavity is studied. Numerical simulation shows that higher fidelity of operations to obtain a certain phase shift of the pulse through the dispersive light-matter interaction may be reached using bright squeezed light than that using bright coherent light.

id: 0804.0721
title: Bell correlations and equal time measurements
authors: Frederick H. Willeboordse
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0721
abstract: According to the Bell theorem, local hidden variable theories cannot reproduce all the predictions of quantum mechanics. An important consequence is that under physically reasonable assumptions quantum mechanics predicts correlations that seem impossible to obtain from a realistic system. In this paper, two simple binary apparatuses are discussed that can accurately mimic correlations predicted by quantum mechanics \textit{if} the correlations are determined by a coincidence measurement as is commonly done. It is argued that in order to exclude local hidden variables, coincidence monitors should be avoided.

id: 0804.0729
title: Many-qubit network employing cavity QED in a decoherence-free subspace
authors: Hua Wei, Wan Li Yang, Zhi Jiao Deng, Mang Feng
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 014304 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0729
abstract: We propose a many-qubit network with cavity QED by encoding qubits in decoherence-free subspace, based on which we can implement many-logic-qubit conditional gates by means of cavity assisted interaction with single-photon pulses. Our scheme could not only resist collective dephasing errors, but also much reduce the implementational steps compared to conventional methods doing the same job, and we can also complete communications between two arbitrary nodes. We show the details by implementing a three-logic-qubit Toffoli gate, and explore the experimental feasibility and challenge based on currently achievable cavity QED technologies.

id: 0804.0740
title: Photon Number Statistics of Multimode Parametric Down-Conversion
authors: M. Avenhaus, H. B. Coldenstrodt-Ronge, K. Laiho, W. Mauerer, I. A. Walmsley, C. Silberhorn
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 053601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0740
abstract: We experimentally analyze the complete photon number statistics of parametric downconversion and ascertain the influence of multimode effects. Our results clearly reveal a difference between single mode theoretical description and the measured distributions. Further investigations assure the applicability of loss-tolerant photon number reconstruction and prove strict photon number correlation between signal and idler modes.

id: 0804.0802
title: The Power of Unentanglement
authors: Scott Aaronson, Salman Beigi, Andrew Drucker, Bill Fefferman, Peter Shor
comments: Several errors fixed; based amplification result on "Weak Additivity Conjecture" rather than now-falsified Additivity Conjecture; added some new observations due to F. Brandao. To appear in Theory of Computing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0802
abstract: The class QMA(k), introduced by Kobayashi et al., consists of all languages that can be verified using k unentangled quantum proofs. Many of the simplest questions about this class have remained embarrassingly open: for example, can we give any evidence that k quantum proofs are more powerful than one? Does QMA(k)=QMA(2) for k>=2? Can QMA(k) protocols be amplified to exponentially small error? In this paper, we make progress on all of the above questions. First, we give a protocol by which a verifier can be convinced that a 3SAT formula of size n is satisfiable, with constant soundness, given ~O(sqrt(n)) unentangled quantum witnesses with O(log n) qubits each. Our protocol relies on the existence of very short PCPs. Second, we show that assuming a weak version of the Additivity Conjecture from quantum information theory, any QMA(2) protocol can be amplified to exponentially small error, and QMA(k)=QMA(2) for all k>=2. Third, we prove the nonexistence of "perfect disentanglers" for simulating multiple Merlins with one.

id: 0804.0806
title: A quantum stochastic calculus approach to modeling double-pass atom-field coupling
authors: Gopal Sarma, Andrew Silberfarb, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: Minor corrections to Section III
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0806
abstract: We examine a proposal by Sherson and Moelmer to generate polarization-squeezed light in terms of the quantum stochastic calculus (QSC). We investigate the statistics of the output field and confirm their results using the QSC formalism. In addition, we study the atomic dynamics of the system and find that this setup can produce up to 3 dB of atomic spin squeezing.

id: 0804.0871
title: Quantum randomness can be controlled by free will -a consequence of the before-before experiment
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0871
abstract: The before-before experiment demonstrates that quantum randomness can be controlled by influences from outside spacetime, and therefore by immaterial free will. Rather than looking at quantum physics as the model for explaining free will, one should look at free will as a primitive principle for explaining why the laws of Nature are quantum.

id: 0804.0884
title: Breakdown of Bell's Theorem for incompatible measurements
authors: Karl Hess
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0884
abstract: Bell's theorem contains the proposition that the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) theory (hypothesis) of the existence of elements of reality together with Einstein locality permits a mathematical description of EPR experiments by functions that are all defined on one common probability space. This proposition leads in turn to restrictions for possible experimental outcomes that Bell expressed in terms of his well known inequalities and that Vorob'ev and others had investigated before Bell. Summarizing several previous publications and adding new material, the above proposition is refuted by Einstein-local counterexamples from classical physics and shown to involve additional assumptions that can not be justified for mutually exclusive (incompatible) measurements and experiments. Moreover, criticism of our work by Mermin who invoked "standard sampling arguments" is shown to be false.

id: 0804.0890
title: Advantages of Randomization in Coherent Quantum Dynamical Control
authors: Lea F. Santos, Lorenza Viola
comments: 27 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0890
abstract: Control scenarios have been identified where the use of randomized design may substantially improve the performance of dynamical decoupling methods [L. F. Santos and L. Viola, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 97}, 150501 (2006)]. Here, by focusing on the suppression of internal unwanted interactions in closed quantum systems, we review and further elaborate on the advantages of randomization at long evolution times. By way of illustration, special emphasis is devoted to isolated Heisenberg-coupled chains of spin-1/2 particles. In particular, for nearest-neighbor interactions, two types of decoupling cycles are contrasted: inefficient averaging, whereby the number of control actions increases exponentially with the system size, and efficient averaging associated to a fixed-size control group. The latter allows for analytical and numerical studies of efficient decoupling schemes created by exploiting and merging together randomization and deterministic strategies, such as symmetrization, concatenation, and cyclic permutations. Notably, sequences capable to remove interactions up to third order are explicitly constructed. The consequences of faulty controls are also analyzed.

id: 0804.0891
title: Security of entanglement-based quantum key distribution with practical detectors
authors: Masato Koashi, Yoritoshi Adachi, Takashi Yamamoto, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0891
abstract: We prove the unconditional security of an entanglement-based quantum-key-distribution protocol using detectors that respond to multiple modes of light and cannot distinguish between one from two or more photons. Even with such practical detectors, any defect in the source is automatically detected as an increase in the error rate or in the rate of double clicks.

id: 0804.0906
title: Controlling transition probability from matter-wave soliton to chaos
authors: Qianquan Zhu, Wenhua Hai, Shiguang Rong
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 80, 016203 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0906
abstract: For a Bose-Einstein condensate loaded into a weak traveling optical superlattice it is demonstrated that under a stochastic initial set and in a given parameter region the solitonic chaos appears with a certain probability. Effects of the lattice depths and wave vectors on the chaos probability are investigated analytically and numerically, and different chaotic regions associated with different chaos probabilities are found. The results suggest a feasible method for eliminating or strengthening chaos by modulating the moving superlattice experimentally.

id: 0804.0928
title: Electromagnetic radiation by gravitating bodies
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Zofia Bialynicka-Birula
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052103 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0928
abstract: Gravitating bodies in motion, regardless of their constitution, always produce electromagnetic radiation in the form of photon pairs. This phenomenon is an analog of the radiation caused by the motion of dielectric (or magnetic) bodies. It is a member of a wide class of phenomena named dynamical Casimir effects, and it may be viewed as the squeezing of the electromagnetic vacuum. Production of photon pairs is a purely quantum-mechanical effect. Unfortunately, as we show, the emitted radiation is extremely weak as compared to radiation produced by other mechanisms.

id: 0804.0962
title: Scalable quantum computing with atomic ensembles
authors: S. D. Barrett, P. P. Rohde, T. M. Stace
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0962
abstract: Atomic ensembles, comprising clouds of atoms addressed by laser fields, provide an attractive system for both the storage of quantum information, and the coherent conversion of quantum information between atomic and optical degrees of freedom. In a landmark paper, Duan et al. (DLCZ) [1] showed that atomic ensembles could be used as nodes of a quantum repeater network capable of sharing pairwise quantum entanglement between systems separated by arbitrarily large distances. In recent years, a number of promising experiments have demonstrated key aspects of this proposal [2-7]. Here, we describe a scheme for full scale quantum computing with atomic ensembles. Our scheme uses similar methods to those already demonstrated experimentally, and yet has information processing capabilities far beyond those of a quantum repeater.

id: 0804.0992
title: Methods for linear optical quantum Fredkin gate
authors: Yan-Xiao Gong, Guang-Can Guo, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012305 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0992
abstract: We consider the realization of quantum Fredkin gate with only linear optics and single photons. First we construct a heralded Fredkin gate using four heralded controlled-not (CNOT) gates. Then we simplify this method to a post-selected one utilizing only two CNOT gates. We also give a possible realization of this method which is feasible with current experimental technology. Another post-selected scheme requires time entanglement of the input photons but needs no ancillary photons.

id: 0804.1016
title: Experimental determination of a nonclassical Glauber-Sudarshan P function
authors: T. Kiesel, W. Vogel, V. Parigi, A. Zavatta, M. Bellini
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 78, 021804 R (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1016
abstract: A quantum state is nonclassical if its Glauber-Sudarshan P function fails to be interpreted as a probability density. This quantity is often highly singular, so that its reconstruction is a demanding task. Here we present the experimental determination of a well-behaved P function showing negativities for a single-photon-added thermal state. This is a direct visualization of the original definition of nonclassicality. The method can be useful under conditions for which many other signatures of nonclassicality would not persist.

id: 0804.1022
title: Observation of Geometric Phases for Three-Level Systems using NMR Interferometry
authors: Hongwei Chen, Mingguang Hu, Jingling Chen, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1022
abstract: Geometric phase (GP) independent of energy and time rely only on the geometry of state space. It has been argued to have potential fault tolerance and plays an important role in quantum information and quantum computation. We present the first experiment for producing and measuring an Abelian geometric phase shift in a three-level system by using NMR interferometry. In contrast to existing experiments, based on the geometry of $S^2$, our experiment concerns the geometric phase with the geometry of $SU(3)/U(2)$. Two interacting qubits have been used to provide such a three-dimensional Hilbert space.

id: 0804.1059
title: Composing Quantum Protocols in a Classical Environment
authors: Serge Fehr, Christian Schaffner
comments: 24 pages. v2: 25 pages, minor improvements, added clarifications, updated references
journal: Theory of Cryptography Conference (TCC '09), Springer LNCS 5444, pages 350-367 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1059
abstract: We propose a general security definition for cryptographic quantum protocols that implement classical non-reactive two-party tasks. The definition is expressed in terms of simple quantum-information-theoretic conditions which must be satisfied by the protocol to be secure. The conditions are uniquely determined by the ideal functionality F defining the cryptographic task to be implemented. We then show the following composition result. If quantum protocols pi_1,...,pi_k securely implement ideal functionalities F_1,...,F_k according to our security definition, then any purely classical two-party protocol, which makes sequential calls to F_1,...,F_k, is equally secure as the protocol obtained by replacing the calls to F_1,...,F_k with the respective quantum protocols pi_1,...,pi_k. Hence, our approach yields the minimal security requirements which are strong enough for the typical use of quantum protocols as subroutines within larger classical schemes. Finally, we show that recently proposed quantum protocols for oblivious transfer and secure identification in the bounded-quantum-storage model satisfy our security definition, and thus compose in the above sense.

id: 0804.1061
title: Scaling of the von Neumann entropy across a finite temperature phase transition
authors: Vladislav Popkov, Mario Salerno
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Europhys.Lett., 84, 30007 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1061
abstract: The spectrum of the reduced density matrix and the temperature dependence of the von Neumann entropy (VNE) are analytically obtained for a system of hard core bosons on a complete graph which exhibits a phase transition to a Bose-Einstein condensate at $T=T_c$. It is demonstrated that the VNE undergoes a crossover from purely logarithmic at T=0 to purely linear in block size $n$ behaviour for $T\geq T_{c}$. For intermediate temperatures, VNE is a sum of two contributions which are identified as the classical (Gibbs) and the quantum (due to entanglement) parts of the von Neumann entropy.

id: 0804.1103
title: The globally stable solution of a stochastic Nonlinear Schrodinger Equation
authors: M. Khasin, R. Kosloff
comments: 10 pages, comments are very welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1103
abstract: Weak measurement of a subset of noncommuting observables of a quantum system can be modeled by the open-system evolution, governed by the master equation in the Lindblad form. The open-system density operator can be represented as statistical mixture over non unitarily evolving pure states, driven by the stochastic Nonlinear Schrodinger equation (sNLSE). The globally stable solution of the sNLSE is obtained in the case where the measured subset of observables comprises the spectrum-generating algebra of the system. This solution is a generalized coherent state (GCS), associated with the algebra. The result is based on proving that GCS minimize the trace-norm of the covariance matrix, associated with the spectrum-generating algebra.

id: 0804.1109
title: Classical and Quantum Algorithms for Exponential Congruences
authors: Wim van Dam, Igor E. Shparlinski
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1109
abstract: We discuss classical and quantum algorithms for solvability testing and finding integer solutions x,y of equations of the form af^x + bg^y = c over finite fields GF(q). A quantum algorithm with time complexity q^(3/8) (log q)^O(1) is presented. While still superpolynomial in log q, this quantum algorithm is significantly faster than the best known classical algorithm, which has time complexity q^(9/8) (log q)^O(1). Thus it gives an example of a natural problem where quantum algorithms provide about a cubic speed-up over classical ones.

id: 0804.1136
title: Quantum ergodicity and entanglement in kicked coupled-tops
authors: C. Trail, V. Madhok, I. Deutsch
comments: 12 pages with 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1136
abstract: We study the dynamical generation of entanglement as a signature of chaos in a system of periodically kicked coupled-tops, where chaos and entanglement arise from the same physical mechanism. The long-time averaged entanglement as a function of the position of an initially localized wave packet very closely correlates with the classical phase space surface of section -- it is nearly uniform in the chaotic sea, and reproduces the detailed structure of the regular islands. The uniform value in the chaotic sea is explained by the random state conjecture. As classically chaotic dynamics take localized distributions in phase space to random distributions, quantized versions take localized coherent states to pseudo-random states in Hilbert space. Such random states are highly entangled, with an average value near that of the maximally entangled state. For a map with global chaos, we derive that value based on new analytic results for the typical entanglement in a subspace defined by the symmetries of the system. For a mixed phase space, we use the Percival conjecture to identify a "chaotic subspace" of the Hilbert space. The typical entanglement, averaged over the unitarily invariant Haar measure in this subspace, agrees with the long-time averaged entanglement for initial states in the chaotic sea. In all cases the dynamically generated entanglement is predicted by a unitary ensemble of random states, even though the system is time-reversal invariant, and the Floquet operator is a member of the circular orthogonal ensemble.

id: 0804.1146
title: Reply to "Comment on "On a new definition of quantum entropy""
authors: Michele Campisi
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1146
abstract: The example provided in the comment [arXiv:0803.2241] concerns a situation where the system is initially at negative temperature. It is known that in such cases the Law of Entropy Decrease holds. Nevertheless, this does not challenge the validity of the Second Law of Thermodynamics.

id: 0804.1153
title: Groups of Operators for Evolution Equations of Quantum Many-Particle Systems
authors: V.I. Gerasimenko
comments: 16 pages
journal: Oper. Theory Adv. Appl. 191 (2009) 341-355
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1153
abstract: The aim of this work is to study the properties of groups of operators for evolution equations of quantum many-particle systems, namely, the von Neumann hierarchy for correlation operators, the BBGKY hierarchy for marginal density operators and the dual BBGKY hierarchy for marginal observables. We show that the concept of cumulants (semi-invariants) of groups of operators for the von Neumann equations forms the basis of the expansions for one-parametric families of operators for evolution equations of infinitely many particles.

id: 0804.1190
title: Multiple membrane cavity optomechanics
authors: M. Bhattacharya, P. Meystre
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1190
abstract: We investigate theoretically the extension of cavity optomechanics to multiple membrane systems. We describe such a system in terms of the coupling of the collective normal modes of the membrane array to the light fields. We show these modes can be optically addressed individually and be cooled, trapped and characterized, e.g. via quantum nondemolition measurements. Analogies between this system and a linear chain of trapped ions or dipolar molecules imply the possibility of related applications in the quantum regime.

id: 0804.1203
title: Quantum improvement of time transfer between remote clocks
authors: Brahim Lamine, Claude Fabre, Nicolas Treps
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 101 (2008) 123601
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1203
abstract: Exchanging light pulses to perform accurate space-time positioning is a paradigmatic issue of physics. It is ultimately limited by the quantum nature of light, which introduces fluctuations in the optical measurements and leads to the so-called Standard Quantum Limit (SQL). We propose a new scheme combining homodyne detection and mode-locked femtosecond lasers that lead to a new SQL in time transfer, potentially reaching the yoctosecond range (10^-21-10^-24 s). We prove that no other measurement strategy can lead to better sensitivity with shot noise limited light. We then demonstrate that this already very low SQL can be overcome using appropriately multimode squeezed light. Benefitting from the large number of photons used in the experiment and from the optimal choice of both the detection strategy and of the quantum resource, the proposed scheme represents a significant potential improvement in space-time positioning.

id: 0804.1247
title: Quartic quantum theory: an extension of the standard quantum mechanics
authors: Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 30 pages in latex with 6 figures included; ver.2: several improvements, new references added
journal: J. Phys. A 41, 355302-23 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1247
abstract: We propose an extended quantum theory, in which the number K of parameters necessary to characterize a quantum state behaves as fourth power of the number N of distinguishable states. As the simplex of classical N-point probability distributions can be embedded inside a higher dimensional convex body of mixed quantum states, one can further increase the dimensionality constructing the set of extended quantum states. The embedding proposed corresponds to an assumption that the physical system described in N dimensional Hilbert space is coupled with an auxiliary subsystem of the same dimensionality. The extended theory works for simple quantum systems and is shown to be a non-trivial generalisation of the standard quantum theory for which K=N^2. Imposing certain restrictions on initial conditions and dynamics allowed in the quartic theory one obtains quadratic theory as a special case. By imposing even stronger constraints one arrives at the classical theory, for which K=N.

id: 0804.1255
title: Quantum corrections to static solutions of phi-in-quadro and Sin-Gordon models via generalized zeta-function
authors: Sergey Leble, Anatolij Zaitsev
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, partially should br published in RDND2008 - Proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1255
abstract: A general algebraic method of quantum corrections evaluation is presented. Quantum corrections to a few classical solutions (kinks and periodic) of Ginzburg-Landau (phi-in-quadro) and Sin-Gordon models are calculated in arbitrary dimensions. The Green function for heat equation with a soliton potential is constructed by means of Laplace transformation theory and Hermit equation for the Green function transform. The generalized zeta-function is used to evaluate the functional integral and quantum corrections to mass in quasiclassical approximation.

id: 0804.1261
title: Experimental quantum information processing with 43Ca+ ions
authors: J. Benhelm, G. Kirchmair, C. F. Roos, R. Blatt
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062306 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1261
abstract: For quantum information processing (QIP) with trapped ions, the isotope 43Ca+ offers the combined advantages of a quantum memory with long coherence time, a high fidelity read out and the possibility of performing two qubit gates on a quadrupole transition with a narrow-band laser. Compared to other ions used for quantum computing, 43Ca+ has a relatively complicated level structure. In this paper we discuss how to meet the basic requirements for QIP and demonstrate ground state cooling, robust state initialization and efficient read out for the hyperfine qubit with a single 43Ca+ ion. A microwave field and a Raman light field are used to drive qubit transitions, and the coherence times for both fields are compared. Phase errors due to interferometric instabilities in the Raman field generation do not limit the experiments on a time scale of 100 ms. We find a quantum information storage time of many seconds for the hyperfine qubit.

id: 0804.1377
title: Quantum Noise as an Entanglement Meter
authors: Israel Klich, Leonid Levitov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 100502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1377
abstract: Entanglement entropy, which is a measure of quantum correlations between separate parts of a many-body system, has emerged recently as a fundamental quantity in broad areas of theoretical physics, from cosmology and field theory to condensed matter theory and quantum information. The universal appeal of the entanglement entropy concept is related, in part, to the fact that it is defined solely in terms of the many-body density matrix of the system, with no relation to any particular observables. However, for the same reason, it has not been clear how to access this quantity experimentally. Here we derive a universal relation between entanglement entropy and the fluctuations of current flowing through a quantum point contact (QPC) which opens a way to perform a direct measurement of entanglement entropy. In particular, by utilizing space-time duality of 1d systems, we relate electric noise generated by opening and closing the QPC periodically in time with the seminal S = 1/3 log L prediction of conformal field theory.

id: 0804.1404
title: Optimal Entanglement Formulas for Entanglement-Assisted Quantum Coding
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Todd A. Brun
comments: 4 pages, Changed "Formulae to Formulas" in title, published in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 77, 064302 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1404
abstract: We provide several formulas that determine the optimal number of entangled bits (ebits) that a general entanglement-assisted quantum code requires. Our first theorem gives a formula that applies to an arbitrary entanglement-assisted block code. Corollaries of this theorem give formulas that apply to a code imported from two classical binary block codes, to a code imported from a classical quaternary block code, and to a continuous-variable entanglement-assisted quantum block code. Finally, we conjecture two formulas that apply to entanglement-assisted quantum convolutional codes.

id: 0804.1423
title: Theories of systems with limited information content
authors: Tomasz Paterek, Borivoje Dakic, Caslav Brukner
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures, published version, includes gedanken experiments testing quantum mechanics versus some generalized probabilistic theories
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 053037 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1423
abstract: We introduce a hierarchical classification of theories that describe systems with fundamentally limited information content. This property is introduced in an operational way and gives rise to the existence of mutually complementary measurements, i.e. a complete knowledge of future outcome in one measurement is at the expense of complete uncertainty in the others. This is characteristic feature of the theories and they can be ordered according to the number of mutually complementary measurements which is also shown to define their computational abilities. In the theories multipartite states may contain entanglement and tomography with local measurements is possible. The classification includes both classical and quantum theory and also generalized probabilistic theories with higher number of degrees of freedom, for which operational meaning is given. We also discuss thought experiments discriminating standard quantum theory from the generalizations.

id: 0804.1427
title: On the Quantization Procedure in Classical Mechanics and the Reality of Bohm's Psi-Field
authors: V. D. Rusov
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1427
abstract: Using Chetaev's theorem on stable trajectories in dynamics in the presence of perturbation forces we obtain a generalized stability condition for Hamiltonian systems that has the form of the Schrodinger equation. We show that the energy of the perturbation forces generating generalized Chetaev's stability condition is of electromagnetic nature and exactly coincides with Bohm's "quantum" potential. We stress that not taking into account the reality of Bohm's electromagnetic Psi-field turns out to be the fundamental reason of violation of the famous Bell inequality, in the recent most precise direct experiments, as well as in theoretical calculations based on the simple Wigner model. We discuss the possibility of direct experiments, alternative to Bell's ideology and related, e.g. with observation of nuclear stochastic resonance during the alpha-decay process, which cannot occur in the framework of the probabilistic interpretation of quantum mechanics, but has to occur in the alternative Bohm interpretation.

id: 0804.1442
title: Super quantum mechanics, spacetime and quantum information
authors: Jaroslav Hruby
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1442
abstract: In the paper it is shown the connection between spacetime and quantum information using an information spacetime as superspace. The connection of quantum information with anticommuting variables is given . Also a solitonic bag is presented where the information is confined.

id: 0804.1450
title: Proposed experiment for testing quantum contextuality with neutrons
authors: Adan Cabello, Stefan Filipp, Helmut Rauch, Yuji Hasegawa
comments: REVTeX4, 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100 (2008) 130404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1450
abstract: We show that an experimental demonstration of quantum contextuality using 2 degrees of freedom of single neutrons based on a violation of an inequality derived from the Peres-Mermin proof of the Kochen-Specker theorem would be more conclusive than those obtained from previous experiments involving pairs of ions [M. A. Rowe et al., Nature (London) 409, 791 (2001)] and single neutron [Y. Hasegawa et al., Nature (London) 425, 45 (2003)] based on violations of Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt-like inequalities.

id: 0804.1451
title: Bosonic CNOT gates with Quantum Interrogation
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, preliminar version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1451
abstract: We put forward a new CNOT gate scheme with atoms and ions based on quantum interrogation and a bosonic particle extension of the models of linear optics quantum computation. We show how the possibility of particle collision can provide the strong interaction that is needed for universal quantum gates. Two atom optics proposals are provided. Unlike previous schemes, these gates are at the same time nondestructive, valid for arbitrary inputs and can work with a probability as close to unity as desired in the lossless case. Data is encoded into position modes and the gates only require basic atom optics elements, which gives potentially simpler quantum computer implementations.

id: 0804.1453
title: Macroscopic Quantum Superposition and Entanglement in light reflection from Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Francesco S. Cataliotti, Francesco De Martini
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1453
abstract: The multiphoton quantum superposition generated by a quantum-injected optical parametric amplifier (QI-OPA) seeded by a single-photon belonging to an EPR entangled pair is made to interact with a Mirror-BEC shaped as a Bragg interference structure. The effect can be greatly enhanced if the mirror is part of a cavity structure or is used within an optical interferometer. The overall process will realize an Entangled Macroscopic Quantum Superposition involving a ''microscopic'' singe-photon state of polarization and the coherent ''macroscopic'' displacement of the BEC structure acting in space-like separated distant places.

id: 0804.1482
title: Dynamical Casimir effect for a massless scalar field between two concentric spherical shells
authors: F. Pascoal, L. C. Cleri, S. S. Mizrahi, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: Final version. To apear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1482
abstract: In this work we consider the dynamical Casimir effect for a massless scalar field -- under Dirichlet boundary conditions -- between two concentric spherical shells. We obtain a general expression for the average number of particle creation, for an arbitrary law of radial motion of the spherical shells, using two distinct methods: by computing the density operator of the system and by calculating the Bogoliubov coefficients. We apply our general expression to breathing modes: when only one of the shells oscillates and when both shells oscillate in or out of phase. We also analyze the number of particle production and compare it with the results for the case of plane geometry.

id: 0804.1525
title: Bound entanglement in the magic simplex of two--qutrits
authors: Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Philipp Krammer
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 014303 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1525
abstract: We investigate the entanglement properties of a three--parameter family of states that are part of the magic simplex of two qutrits, which is a simplex of states that are mixtures of maximally entangled two--qutrit Bell states. Using entanglement witnesses we reveal large regions of bound entangled and separable states.

id: 0804.1537
title: Quenching Spin Decoherence in Diamond through Spin Bath Polarization
authors: Susumu Takahashi, Ronald Hanson, Johan van Tol, Mark S. Sherwin, David D. Awschalom
comments: 5 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1537
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate that the decoherence of a spin by a spin bath can be completely eliminated by fully polarizing the spin bath. We use electron paramagnetic resonance at 240 gigahertz and 8 Tesla to study the spin coherence time $T_2$ of nitrogen-vacancy centers and nitrogen impurities in diamond from room temperature down to 1.3 K. A sharp increase of $T_2$ is observed below the Zeeman energy (11.5 K). The data are well described by a suppression of the flip-flop induced spin bath fluctuations due to thermal spin polarization. $T_2$ saturates at $\sim 250 \mu s$ below 2 K, where the spin bath polarization is 99.4 %.

id: 0804.1538
title: More Efficient Purifying scheme via Controlled- Controlled NOT Gate
authors: Nasser Metwally, Abdel-Shafy F. Obada
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 352 Pages:45-48 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1538
abstract: A new modified version of the Oxford purification protocol is proposed. This version is based on the controlled-controlled NOT gate instead of controlled NOT in the original one. Comparisons between the results of the new version and the original and an earlier modification are given. It is found that the new version converges faster and consumes fewer initial qubit pairs of low fidelity per final qubit pair of high fidelity.

id: 0804.1571
title: Quantum Simulations of Classical Annealing Processes
authors: R. D. Somma, S. Boixo, H. Barnum, E. Knill
comments: 4 pages - 1 figure. This work differs from arXiv:0712.1008 in that the quantum Zeno effect is implemented via randomization in the evolution
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 130504 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1571
abstract: We describe a quantum algorithm that solves combinatorial optimization problems by quantum simulation of a classical simulated annealing process. Our algorithm exploits quantum walks and the quantum Zeno effect induced by evolution randomization. It requires order $1/\sqrt{\delta}$ steps to find an optimal solution with bounded error probability, where $\delta$ is the minimum spectral gap of the stochastic matrices used in the classical annealing process. This is a quadratic improvement over the order $1/\delta$ steps required by the latter.

id: 0804.1600
title: Multipartite entanglement of three trapped ions in a cavity and W- State generation
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, Eduardo de Almeida, Naresh K. Sharma
comments: 17 pages, 07 figures, improvments to introduction and typo errors corrected
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41 (2008) 165503.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1600
abstract: A scheme to generate three qubit maximally entangled W-states, using three trapped ions interacting with red sideband tuned single mode field of a high finesse cavity, is proposed. For the cavity field initially prepared in a number state, the probability of generating three ion W-state is calculated. By using the ion-cavity coupling strengths achieved in experimental realizations, the interaction time needed for W-state generation is found to be of the order of 10 $\mu $ sec. It is found that for a fixed number of photons in the cavity the nature of entanglement of ionic internal states can be manipulated by appropriate choice of initial state phonon number. The ionic qubits in W-like state are found to be entangled to cavity photons. Analytical expressions for global negativity and partial $K-$way negativities (K=2 to 4) are obtained to study the evolution of entanglement distribution as a function of interaction parameter. Reversible entanglement exchange between different entanglement modes is observed. For specific values of interaction parameter, the three ions and photon-phonon system are found to have four partite entanglement, generated by 2-way and 3-way correlations.

id: 0804.1609
title: The quantum-to-classical transition: Bohr's doctrine of classical concepts, emergent classicality, and decoherence
authors: Maximilian Schlosshauer, Kristian Camilleri
comments: 37 pages, uses elsart.bst. Submitted to Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1609
abstract: It is now widely accepted that environmental entanglement and the resulting decoherence processes play a crucial role in the quantum-to-classical transition and the emergence of "classicality" from quantum mechanics. To this extent, decoherence is often understood as signifying a break with the Copenhagen interpretation, and in particular with Bohr's view of the indispensability of classical concepts. This paper analyzes the relationship between Bohr's understanding of the quantum-classical divide and his doctrine of classical concepts and the decoherence-based program of emergent classicality. By drawing on Howard's reconstruction of Bohr's doctrine of classical concepts, and by paying careful attention to a hitherto overlooked disagreement between Heisenberg and Bohr in the 1930s about the placement of the quantum-classical "cut," we show that Bohr's view of the quantum-classical divide can be physically justified by appealing to decoherence. We also discuss early anticipations of the role of the environment in the quantum-classical problem in Heisenberg's writings. Finally, we distinguish four different formulations of the doctrine of classical concepts in an effort to present a more nuanced assessment of the relationship between Bohr's views and decoherence that challenges oversimplified statements frequently found in the literature.

id: 0804.1643
title: Employing feedback in adiabatic quantum dynamics
authors: Armen E. Allahverdyan, Guenter Mahler
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1643
abstract: We study quantum adiabatic dynamics, where the slowly moving field is influenced by system's state (feedback). The information for the feedback is gained from non-disturbating measurements done on an ensemble of identical non-interacting systems. The situation without feedback is governed by the adiabatic theorem: adiabatic energy level populations stay constant, while the adiabatic eigenvectors get a specific phase contribution (Berry phase). However, under feedback the adiabatic theorem does not hold: the adiabatic populations satisfy a closed equation of motion that coincides with the replicator dynamics well-known by its applications in evolutionary game theory. The feedback generates a new gauge-invariant adiabatic phase, which is free of the constraints on the Berry phase (e.g., the new phase is non-zero even for real adiabatic eigenfunctions).

id: 0804.1646
title: Experimental test of nonclassicality for a single particle
authors: G.Brida, I. Degiovanni, M. Genovese, V. Schettini, S. Polyakov, A. Migdall
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, 16, 11750-11758, (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1646
abstract: In a recent paper [R. Alicki and N. Van Ryn, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor., 41, 062001 (2008)] a test of nonclassicality for a single qubit was proposed. Here, we discuss the class of local realistic theories to which this test applies and present an experimental realization.

id: 0804.1661
title: On polynomial invariants of several qubits
authors: Andreas Osterloh, Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: 29 pages, 3 eps figures, aipproc. Minor modifications and corrections. Length change only due to style change
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 033509 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1661
abstract: It is a recent observation that entanglement classification for qubits is closely related to local $SL(2,\CC)$-invariants including the invariance under qubit permutations, which has been termed $SL^*$ invariance. In order to single out the $SL^*$ invariants, we analyze the $SL(2,\CC)$-invariants of four resp. five qubits and decompose them into irreducible modules for the symmetric group $S_4$ resp. $S_5$ of qubit permutations. A classifying set of measures of genuine multipartite entanglement is given by the ideal of the algebra of $SL^*$-invariants vanishing on arbitrary product states. We find that low degree homogeneous components of this ideal can be constructed in full by using the approach introduced in [Phys. Rev. A 72, 012337 (2005)]. Our analysis highlights an intimate connection between this latter procedure and the standard methods to create invariants, such as the $\Omega$-process. As the degrees of invariants increase, the alternative method proves to be particularly efficient.

id: 0804.1705
title: Optimal estimation of entanglement
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Paolo Giorda, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, v2: minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78 032303 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1705
abstract: Entanglement does not correspond to any observable and its evaluation always corresponds to an estimation procedure where the amount of entanglement is inferred from the measurements of one or more proper observables. Here we address optimal estimation of entanglement in the framework of local quantum estimation theory and derive the optimal observable in terms of the symmetric logarithmic derivative. We evaluate the quantum Fisher information and, in turn, the ultimate bound to precision for several families of bipartite states, either for qubits or continuous variable systems, and for different measures of entanglement. We found that for discrete variables, entanglement may be efficiently estimated when it is large, whereas the estimation of weakly entangled states is an inherently inefficient procedure. For continuous variable Gaussian systems the effectiveness of entanglement estimation strongly depends on the chosen entanglement measure. Our analysis makes an important point of principle and may be relevant in the design of quantum information protocols based on the entanglement content of quantum states.

id: 0804.1712
title: A quantum information-theoretic proof of the relation between Horn's problem and the Littlewood-Richardson coefficients
authors: Matthias Christandl
comments: 9 pages
journal: Proceedings of CiE 2008, Lecture Notes in Computer Science vol. 5028, pp. 120-128, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1712
abstract: Horn's problem asks for the conditions on sets of integers mu, nu and lambda that ensure the existence of Hermitian operators A, B and A+B with spectra mu, nu and lambda, respectively. It has been shown that this problem is equivalent to deciding whether the irreducible representation of GL(d) with highest weight lambda is contained in the tensor product of irreducible representations with highest weight mu and nu. In this paper we present a quantum information-theoretic proof of the relation between the two problems that is asymptotic in one direction. This result has previously been obtained by Klyachko using geometric invariant theory. The work presented in this paper does not, however, touch upon the non-asymptotic equivalence between the two problems, a result that rests on the recently proven saturation conjecture for GL(d).

id: 0804.1741
title: Block Spin Density Matrix of the Inhomogeneous AKLT Model
authors: Ying Xu, Hosho Katsura, Takaaki Hirano, Vladimir E. Korepin
comments: 20 pages
journal: Quantum Information Processing, vol. 7, no. 4, pp.153-174 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1741
abstract: We study the inhomogeneous generalization of a 1-dimensional AKLT spin chain model. Spins at each lattice site could be different. Under certain conditions, the ground state of this AKLT model is unique and is described by the Valence-Bond-Solid (VBS) state. We calculate the density matrix of a contiguous block of bulk spins in this ground state. The density matrix is independent of spins outside the block. It is diagonalized and shown to be a projector onto a subspace. We prove that for large block the density matrix behaves as the identity in the subspace. The von Neumann entropy coincides with Renyi entropy and is equal to the saturated value.

id: 0804.1786
title: Entanglement-Seeded-Dual Optical Parametric Amplification: Applications to Quantum Communication, Imaging, and Metrology
authors: Ryan T. Glasser, Hugo Cable, Jonathan P. Dowling, Francesco De Martini, Fabio Sciarrino, Chiara Vitelli
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012339 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1786
abstract: The study of optical parametric amplifiers (OPAs) has been successful in describing and creating nonclassical light for use in fields such as quantum metrology and quantum lithography [Agarwal, et al., J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, 24, 2 (2007)]. In this paper we present the theory of an OPA scheme utilizing an entangled state input. The scheme involves two identical OPAs seeded with the maximally path-entangled N00N state (|2,0>+|0,2>)/sqrt{2}. The stimulated amplification results in output state probability amplitudes that have a dependence on the number of photons in each mode, which differs greatly from two-mode squeezed vacuum. The output contains a family of entangled states directly applicable to quantum key distribution. Specific output states allow for the heralded creation of N=4 N00N states, which may be used for quantum lithography, to write sub-Rayleigh fringe patterns, and for quantum interferometry, to achieve Heisenberg-limited phase measurement sensitivity.

id: 0804.1829
title: Massive parallel generation of indistinguishable single photons via polaritonic superfluid to Mott-insulator quantum phase transition
authors: Neil Na, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 123001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1829
abstract: We propose the superfluid to Mott-insulator quantum phase transition in an array of exciton-polariton traps can be utilized for massive parallel generation of indistinguishable single photons. By means of analytical and numerical methods, the device operations and system properties are studied using realistic experimental parameters. Such a deterministic, fault-tolerant, massive parallel generation may open up a new perspective in photonic quantum information processing.

id: 0804.1865
title: Amplification of polarization NOON states
authors: Chiara Vitelli, Nicolo' Spagnolo, Fabio Sciarrino, Francesco De Martini
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1865
abstract: NOON states are path entangled states which can be exploited to enhance phase resolution in interferometric measurements. In the present paper we analyze the quantum states obtained by optical parametric amplification of polarization NOON states. First we study, theoretically and experimentally, the amplification of a 2-photon state by a collinear Quantum Injected Optical Parametric Amplifier (QIOPA). We compared the stimulated emission regime with the spontaneous one, studied by Sciarrino et al. (PRA 77, 012324), finding comparable visibilities between the two cases but an enhancement of the signal in the stimulated case. As a second step, we show that the collinear amplifier cannot be successfully used for amplifying N-photon states with N>2 due to the intrinsic \lambda/4 oscillation pattern of the crystal. To overcome this limitation, we propose to adopt a scheme for the amplification of a generic state based on a non-collinear QIOPA and we show that the state obtained by the amplification process preserves \lambda/N feature and exhibits a high resilience to losses. Furthermore, an asymptotic unity visibility can be obtained when correlation functions with sufficiently high order M are analyzed.

id: 0804.1888
title: Quantum circuits for strongly correlated quantum systems
authors: Frank Verstraete, J. Ignacio Cirac, Jose I. Latorre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1888
abstract: In recent years, we have witnessed an explosion of experimental tools by which quantum systems can be manipulated in a controlled and coherent way. One of the most important goals now is to build quantum simulators, which would open up the possibility of exciting experiments probing various theories in regimes that are not achievable under normal lab circumstances. Here we present a novel approach to gain detailed control on the quantum simulation of strongly correlated quantum many-body systems by constructing the explicit quantum circuits that diagonalize their dynamics. We show that the exact quantum circuits underlying some of the most relevant many-body Hamiltonians only need a finite amount of local gates. As a particularly simple instance, the full dynamics of a one-dimensional Quantum Ising model in a transverse field with four spins is shown to be reproduced using a quantum circuit of only six local gates. This opens up the possibility of experimentally producing strongly correlated states, their time evolution at zero time and even thermal superpositions at zero temperature. Our method also allows to uncover the exact circuits corresponding to models that exhibit topological order and to stabilizer states.

id: 0804.1897
title: Post-selective two-photon interference from a continuous non-classical stream of photons emitted by a quantum dot
authors: R. B. Patel, A. J. Bennett, K. Cooper, P. Atkinson, C. A. Nicoll, D. A. Ritchie, A. J. Shields
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures: for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1897
abstract: We report an electrically driven semiconductor single photon source capable of emitting photons with a coherence time of up to 400 ps under fixed bias. It is shown that increasing the injection current causes the coherence time to reduce and this effect is well explained by the fast modulation of a fluctuating environment. Hong-Ou-Mandel type two-photon interference using a Mach-Zehnder interferometer is demonstrated using this source to test the indistinguishability of individual photons by post-selecting events where two photons collide at a beamsplitter. Finally, we consider how improvements in our detection system can be used to achieve a higher interference visibility.

id: 0804.1936
title: Additivity and Distinguishability of Random Unitary Channels
authors: Bill Rosgen
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures, typos fixed, introduction expanded
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 102107 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1936
abstract: A random unitary channel is one that is given by a convex combination of unitary channels. It is shown that the conjectures on the additivity of the minimum output entropy and the multiplicativity of the maximum output $p$-norm can be equivalently restated in terms of random unitary channels. This is done by constructing a random unitary approximation to a general quantum channel. This approximation can be constructed efficiently, and so it is also applied to the computational problem of distinguishing quantum circuits. It is shown that the problem of distinguishing random unitary circuits is as hard as the problem of distinguishing general mixed state circuits, which is complete for the class of problems that have quantum interactive proof systems.

id: 0804.1944
title: Counting statistics of interfering Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: A. L. Shelankov, J. Rammer
comments: Some changes in presentation, as published, 6 pages, LaTeX
journal: EPL, 83, (2008) 60002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1944
abstract: A method is presented that is able to predict the probability of outcomes of snapshot measurements, such as the images of the instantaneous particle density distribution in a quantum many-body system. It is shown that a gauge-like transformation of the phase of the many-body wave function allows one to construct a probability generating functional, the Fourier transform of which with respect to the "gauge" field returns the joint probability distribution to detect any given number of particles at various locations. The method is applied to the problem of interference of two independent clouds of Bose-Einstein condensates, where the initially separated clouds with fixed boson numbers expand and the density profile image of the overlapping clouds is registered. In the limit of large particle numbers, the probability to observe a particular image of the density profile is shown to be given by a sum of partial probability distributions, each of which corresponds to a noisy image of interference of two matter waves with definite phase difference. In agreement with earlier theoretical arguments, interference fringes are, therefore, expected in any single shot measurement, the fringe pattern randomly varying from run to run. These results conform to the physical picture where the Bose-Einstein clouds are in spontaneously symmetry broken states, the hidden phases of which are revealed by the density profile measurement via the position of the interference fringes.

id: 0804.1969
title: Quantum systems under the influence of external conditions: fluctuations and decoherence
authors: Paula I. Villar
comments: 184 pages, PhD Thesis, University of Buenos Aires (in Spanish). Some figures are in low quality due to submission size requirements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1969
abstract: In this Thesis we study the quantum to classical transition process in the context of quantum mechanics and quantum field theory. We shall analyze the effects that general environments, namely ohmic and non-ohmic, at zero and high temperature induce over a quantum Brownian particle. We state that the evolution of the system can be summarized in terms of two main environmental induced physical phenomena: decoherence and energy activation. In this Thesis, we shall show that the latter is a post-decoherence phenomenon. As the energy is an observable, the excitation process can be consider a direct indicator of the system-environment entanglement particularly useful at zero temperature. From other point of view, we shall study different attempts to show the decoherence process in double-slit-like experiments both for charged particles (electrons) and for neutral particles with permanent dipole moments. In this context, we shall show that the interaction between the particles and time-dependent fields induces a time-varying Aharonov phase. In this context, we shall apply our results to a real matter wave interferometry experiment. We shall also show under which general conditions the geometry phase of a quantum open system can be observed.Finally, we shall study the decoherence process during a quantum phase transition. In this framework, we shall show that it can be phrased easily in terms of the decoherence functional, without having to use the master equation. To demonstrate this, we shall consider the decohering effects due to the displacement of domain boundaries, with implications for the displacement of defects, in general. We shall see that decoherence arises so quickly in this event, that it is negligible in comparison to decoherence due to field fluctuations in the way defined in previous papers.

id: 0804.1971
title: Scalability of quantum computation with addressable optical lattices
authors: Travis R. Beals, Jiri Vala, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures. Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052309 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1971
abstract: We make a detailed analysis of error mechanisms, gate fidelity, and scalability of proposals for quantum computation with neutral atoms in addressable (large lattice constant) optical lattices. We have identified possible limits to the size of quantum computations, arising in 3D optical lattices from current limitations on the ability to perform single qubit gates in parallel and in 2D lattices from constraints on laser power. Our results suggest that 3D arrays as large as 100 x 100 x 100 sites (i.e., $\sim 10^6$ qubits) may be achievable, provided two-qubit gates can be performed with sufficiently high precision and degree of parallelizability. Parallelizability of long range interaction-based two-qubit gates is qualitatively compared to that of collisional gates. Different methods of performing single qubit gates are compared, and a lower bound of $1 \times 10^{-5}$ is determined on the error rate for the error mechanisms affecting $^{133}$Cs in a blue-detuned lattice with Raman transition-based single qubit gates, given reasonable limits on experimental parameters.

id: 0804.2006
title: On the problem of completeness of QM: von Neumann against Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: At the very end of the paper: coupling of our arguments against EPR with Legget's inequality and the recent experiment of S. Groblacher, T. Paterik, R. Kaltenbaek, C. Brukner, M. Zukowski, A. Aspelmeyer, and A. Zeilinger. Reply to supporters of Copenhagen and Vaxjo interpretations - sections 1.2, 1.3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2006
abstract: We performed a comparative analysis of the arguments of Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen -- EPR, 1935 (against the completeness of QM) and the theoretical formalism of QM (due to von Neumann, 1932). We found that the EPR considerations do not match at all with the von Neumann's theory. Thus EPR did not criticize the real theoretical model of QM. The root of EPR's paradoxical conclusion on incompleteness of QM is the misuse of von Neumann's projection postulate. EPR applied this postulate to observables with degenerate spectra (which is totally forbidden by the axiomatics of QM).

id: 0804.2011
title: Linked $\mathcal{PT }$-symmetry to Supersymmetry in a class of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians
authors: Abouzeid Shalaby
comments: 11 pages, we added susy study of the class and stressed the link between susy and PT-symmetry
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics A Vol. 27, No. 10 (2012) 1250046
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2011
abstract: We introduce and study a class of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians which have velocity dependent potentials. Since stability can not be advocated directly from the classical potential, we show that the energy spectra are real and bounded from below which proves the stability of the spectra of all members in the class. We find that the introduced class of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians do have a corresponding superpartner class of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians. We were able to introduce supercharges which in conjunction with the corresponding super Hamiltonians constitute a closed super algebra. Among the introduced Hamiltonians, we show that non-$\mathcal{PT }$-symmetric Hamiltonians can be transformed into their corresponding superpartner Hamiltonians via a specific canonical transformation while the $\mathcal{PT }$-symmetric ones failed to be mapped to their corresponding superpartner Hamiltonians via the same canonical transformation. Since canonical transformations preserve the spectrum, we conclude that non-$\mathcal{PT }$-symmetric Hamiltonians out of the introduced class of Hamiltonians have the same spectrum as the corresponding superpartner Hamiltonians and thus Susy is broken for such Hamiltonians. This kind of intertwining of $\mathcal{PT }$-symmetry and Supersymmetry is new as all the so far discussed cases concentrate on Hamiltonians of broken $\mathcal{PT }% $-symmetry that have broken Supersymmetry too while we showed that Susy can be also broken for non-$\mathcal{PT }$-symmetric and non-Hermitian Hamiltonians .

id: 0804.2047
title: Quantum Bayesianism: A Study
authors: Christopher G. Timpson
comments: LaTex, 43pp. Forthcoming in Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2047
abstract: The Bayesian approach to quantum mechanics of Caves, Fuchs and Schack is presented. Its conjunction of realism about physics along with anti-realism about much of the structure of quantum theory is elaborated; and the position defended from common objections: that it is solipsist; that it is too instrumentalist; that it cannot deal with Wigner's friend scenarios. Three more substantive problems are raised: Can a reasonable ontology be found for the approach? Can it account for explanation in quantum theory? Are subjective probabilities on their own adequate in the quantum domain? The first question is answered in the affirmative, drawing on elements from Nancy Cartwright's philosophy of science. The second two are not: it is argued that these present outstanding difficulties for the project. A quantum Bayesian version of Moore's paradox is developed to illustrate difficulties with the subjectivist account of pure state assignments.

id: 0804.2051
title: On "non-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics"
authors: Mark J. Everitt, Shaaban Khalil, Alexandre M. Zagoskin
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2051
abstract: A series of recent papers ``Faster than Hermitian Quantum Mechanics'' and related articles made a point of the possibility of a non-Hermitian, but PT-symmetric, operator to play the role of a Hamiltonian. In particular, they show that with an appropriate choice of an inner product, the evolution generated by such an operator will conserve the norm and scalar product. Here we observe that if one chooses such an inner product then the Hamiltonian in question is actually Hermitian, and the whole exercise is to a certain degree redundant.

id: 0804.2062
title: An Experimentally accessible geometric measure for entanglement in $N$-qubit pure states
authors: Ali Saif M. Hassan, Pramod S. Joag
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures, presented in part at ISCQI (Bhubaneswar, India), comments are welcome
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 77, 062334 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2062
abstract: We present a multipartite entanglement measure for $N$-qubit pure states, using the norm of the correlation tensor which occurs in the Bloch representation of the state. We compute this measure for several important classes of $N$-qubit pure states such as GHZ states, W states and their superpositions. We compute this measure for interesting applications like one dimensional Heisenberg antiferromagnet. We use this measure to follow the entanglement dynamics of Grover's algorithm. We prove that this measure possesses almost all the properties expected of a good entanglement measure, including monotonicity. Finally, we extend this measure to $N$-qubit mixed states via convex roof construction and establish its various properties, including its monotonicity. We also introduce a related measure which has all properties of the above measure and is also additive.

id: 0804.2068
title: Self-trapping of Bose-Einstein condensates expanding into shallow optical lattices
authors: M. Rosenkranz, D. Jaksch, F. Y. Lim, W. Bao
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, RevTeX4. Published version. Changed title, minor clarifications, added two references, also added arXiv ids for most references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 063607 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2068
abstract: We observe a sudden breakdown of the transport of a strongly repulsive Bose-Einstein condensate through a shallow optical lattice of finite width. We are able to attribute this behavior to the development of a self-trapped state by using accurate numerical methods and an analytical description in terms of nonlinear Bloch waves. The dependence of the breakdown on the lattice depth and the interaction strength is investigated. We show that it is possible to prohibit the self-trapping by applying a constant offset potential to the lattice region. Furthermore, we observe the disappearance of the self-trapped state after a finite time as a result of the revived expansion of the condensate through the lattice. This revived expansion is due to the finite width of the lattice.

id: 0804.2135
title: Sagnac-loop phase shifter with polarization-independent operation
authors: Tien Tjuen Ng, Darwin Gosal, Antia Lamas-Linares, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 82, 013106 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2135
abstract: A bulk-optics, polarization-independent phase shifter for photonic quantum information applications is demonstrated. A transverse mode electro-optic modulator using lithium niobate is placed in a Sagnac-like loop containing Faraday rotators. This direction-dependent polarization rotation in the loop is combined with a Mach-Zehnder interferometer to form an optical switch with an on/off contrast of 96% and a switching time of 1.6 ns.

id: 0804.2139
title: Robust adiabatic approach to optical spin entangling in coupled quantum dots
authors: Erik M. Gauger, Ahsan Nazir, Simon C. Benjamin, Thomas M. Stace, Brendon W. Lovett
comments: 26 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10 No 7 (July 2008) 073016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2139
abstract: Excitonic transitions offer a possible route to ultrafast optical spin manipulation in coupled nanostructures. We perform here a detailed study of the three principal exciton-mediated decoherence channels for optically-controlled electron spin qubits in coupled quantum dots: radiative decay of the excitonic state, exciton-phonon interactions, and Landau-Zener transitions between laser-dressed states. We consider a scheme to produce an entangling controlled-phase gate on a pair of coupled spins which, in its simplest dynamic form, renders the system subject to fast decoherence rates associated with exciton creation during the gating operation. In contrast, we show that an adiabatic approach employing off-resonant laser excitation allows us to suppress all sources of decoherence simultaneously, significantly increasing the fidelity of operations at only a relatively small gating time cost. We find that controlled-phase gates accurate to one part in 10^2 can realistically be achieved with the adiabatic approach, whereas the conventional dynamic approach does not appear to support a fidelity suitable for scalable quantum computation. Our predictions could be demonstrated experimentally in the near future.

id: 0804.2178
title: Thermodynamical Control by Frequent Quantum Measurements
authors: Noam Erez, Goren Gordon, Mathias Nest, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 10 Pages. Pre-submission version of Nature {\bf 452}, 724 (2008). Includes Supplementary Information
journal: Nature 452, 724 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2178
abstract: Heat flow between a large ``bath'' and a smaller system brings them progressively closer to thermal equilibrium while increasing their entropy. Deviations from this trend are fluctuations involving a small fraction of a statistical ensemble of systems interacting with the bath: in this respect, quantum and classical thermodynamics are in agreement. Can there be drastic differences between them? Here we address a distinctly quantum mechanical setting that displays such differences: disturbances of thermal equilibrium between two-level systems (TLS) and a bath by frequent and brief quantum (non-demolishing) measurements of the TLS energy-states. If the measurements are frequent enough to induce either the Zeno or the anti-Zeno regime, namely, the slowdown or speedup of the TLS relaxation, then the resulting entropy and temperature of both the system and the bath are found to be completely unrelated to what is expected by standard thermodynamical rules that hold for memoryless baths. The practical advantage of these anomalies is the possibility of very fast control of heat and entropy, allowing cooling and state-purification of quantum systems much sooner than their thermal equilibration time.

id: 0804.2179
title: Probing the quantum coherence of a nanomechanical resonator using a superconducting qubit II: Implementation
authors: M.P. Blencowe, A.D. Armour
comments: Submitted to New Journal of Physics: Special Issue "Mechanical Systems at the Quantum Limit"
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 095005 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2179
abstract: We describe a possible implementation of the nanomechanical quantum superposition generation and detection scheme described in the preceding, companion paper [Armour A D and Blencowe M P 2008 New. J. Phys. Submitted]. The implementation is based on the circuit quantum electrodynamics (QED) set-up, with the addition of a mechanical degree of freedom formed out of a suspended, doubly-clamped segment of the superconducting loop of a dc SQUID located directly opposite the centre conductor of a coplanar waveguide (CPW). The relative merits of two SQUID based qubit realizations are addressed, in particular a capacitively coupled charge qubit and inductively coupled flux qubit. It is found that both realizations are equally promising, with comparable qubit-mechanical resonator mode as well as qubit-microwave resonator mode coupling strengths.

id: 0804.2193
title: Mutually unbiased bases, orthogonal Latin squares, and hidden-variable models
authors: Tomasz Paterek, Borivoje Dakic, Caslav Brukner
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012109 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2193
abstract: Mutually unbiased bases encapsulate the concept of complementarity - the impossibility of simultaneous knowledge of certain observables - in the formalism of quantum theory. Although this concept is at the heart of quantum mechanics, the number of these bases is unknown except for systems of dimension being a power of a prime. We develop the relation between this physical problem and the mathematical problem of finding the number of mutually orthogonal Latin squares. We derive in a simple way all known results about the unbiased bases, find their lower number, and disprove the existence of certain forms of the bases in dimensions different than power of a prime. Using the Latin squares, we construct hidden-variable models which efficiently simulate results of complementary quantum measurements.

id: 0804.2194
title: Probing the quantum coherence of a nanomechanical resonator using a superconducting qubit: I. Echo scheme
authors: A.D. Armour, M.P. Blencowe
comments: Submitted to New Journal of Physics: Special Issue "Mechanical Systems at the Quantum Limit"
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 095004 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2194
abstract: We propose a scheme in which the quantum coherence of a nanomechanical resonator can be probed using a superconducting qubit. We consider a mechanical resonator coupled capacitively to a Cooper-pair box and assume that the superconducting qubit is tuned to the degeneracy point so that its coherence time is maximised and the electro-mechanical coupling can be approximated by a dispersive Hamiltonian. When the qubit is prepared in a superposition of states this drives the mechanical resonator progressively into a superposition which in turn leads to apparent decoherence of the qubit. Applying a suitable control pulse to the qubit allows its population to be inverted resulting in a reversal of the resonator dynamics. However, the resonator's interactions with its environment mean that the dynamics is not completely reversible. We show that this irreversibility is largely due to the decoherence of the mechanical resonator and can be inferred from appropriate measurements on the qubit alone. Using estimates for the parameters involved based on a specific realization of the system we show that it should be possible to carry out this scheme with existing device technology.

id: 0804.2198
title: Microphysical analogues of flyby anomalies
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2198
abstract: We discuss Doppler shift and interferometric measurements in analogy to the recently reported macroscopic flyby anomalies.

id: 0804.2246
title: Novel Schemes for Directly Measuring Entanglement of General States
authors: Jianming Cai, Wei Song
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 190503 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2246
abstract: An intrinsic relation between maximally entangled states and entanglement measures is revealed, which plays a role in establishing connections for different entanglement quantifiers. We exploit the basic idea and propose a framework to construct schemes for directly measuring entanglement of general states. In particular, we demonstrate that rank-1 local factorizable projective measurements, which are achievable with only one copy of entangled state involved at a time in a sequential way, are sufficient to directly determine the concurrence of arbitrary two-qubit entangled state.

id: 0804.2264
title: An Overview of Quantum Computing for Technology Managers
authors: Eleanor G. Rieffel
comments: Final version of entry on quantum computing for Wiley's Handbook of Technology Management. Glossary added. Many relatively minor changes throughout. Many thanks to the excellent referees!
journal: The Handbook of Technology Management, Volume 3, Wiley, pp.384-392, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2264
abstract: Faster algorithms, novel cryptographic mechanisms, and alternative methods of communication become possible when the model underlying information and computation changes from a classical mechanical model to a quantum mechanical one. Quantum algorithms perform a select set of tasks vastly more efficiently than any classical algorithm, but for many tasks it has been proved that quantum algorithms provide no advantage. The breadth of quantum computing applications is still being explored. Major application areas include security and the many fields that would benefit from efficient quantum simulation. The quantum information processing viewpoint provides insight into classical algorithmic issues as well as a deeper understanding of entanglement and other non-classical aspects of quantum physics. This overview is aimed at technology managers who wish to gain a high level understanding of quantum information processing, particularly quantum computing.

id: 0804.2268
title: Experimental quantum coding against qubit loss error
authors: Chao-Yang Lu, Wei-Bo Gao, Jin Zhang, Xiao-Qi Zhou, Tao Yang, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, revTex format. manuscript submitted
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 105, 11050-11054 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2268
abstract: A significant obstacle for practical quantum computation is the loss of physical qubits in quantum computers, a decoherence mechanism most notably in optical systems. Here we experimentally demonstrate, both in the quantum circuit model and in the one-way quantum computer model, the smallest non-trivial quantum codes to tackle this problem. In the experiment, we encode single-qubit input states into highly-entangled multiparticle codewords, and we test their ability to protect encoded quantum information from detected one-qubit loss error. Our results prove the in-principle feasibility of overcoming the qubit loss error by quantum codes.

id: 0804.2291
title: Classification of the Entangled States of $2 \times N \times N$
authors: Shuo Cheng, Junli Li, Cong-Feng Qiao
comments: 29 pages, 5 figures
journal: J.Phys.A43:055303,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2291
abstract: We develop a novel method in classifying the multipartite entanglement state of $2\times N\times N$ under stochastic local operation and classical communication. In this method, all inequivalent classes of true entangled state can be assorted directly without knowing the classification information of lower dimension ones for any given dimension $N$. It also gives a nature explanation for the non-local parameters remaining in the entanglement classes while $N\geq 4$ .

id: 0804.2304
title: Probabilistic analysis of three-player symmetric quantum games played using the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm setting
authors: Azhar Iqbal, Taksu Cheon, Derek Abbott
comments: 21 pages, one figure, revised in light of referees' comments, accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A 372 (2008), pp. 6564-6577
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2304
abstract: This paper extends our probabilistic framework for two-player quantum games to the mutliplayer case, while giving a unified perspective for both classical and quantum games. Considering joint probabilities in the standard Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm (EPR-Bohm) setting for three observers, we use this setting in order to play general three-player non-cooperative symmetric games. We analyze how the peculiar non-factorizable joint probabilities provided by the EPR-Bohm setting can change the outcome of a game, while requiring that the quantum game attains a classical interpretation for factorizable joint probabilities. In this framework, our analysis of the three-player generalized Prisoner's Dilemma (PD) shows that the players can indeed escape from the classical outcome of the game, because of non-factorizable joint probabilities that the EPR setting can provide. This surprising result for three-player PD contrasts strikingly with our earlier result for two-player PD, played in the same framework, in which even non-factorizable joint probabilities do not result in escaping from the classical consequence of the game.

id: 0804.2306
title: Optical bistability at low light level due to collective atomic recoil
authors: M. Vengalattore, M. Hafezi, M. D. Lukin, M. Prentiss
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 063901 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2306
abstract: We demonstrate optical nonlinearities due to the interaction of weak optical fields with the collective motion of a strongly dispersive ultracold gas. The combination of a recoil-induced resonance (RIR) in the high gain regime and optical waveguiding within the dispersive medium enables us to achieve a collective atomic cooperativity of $275 \pm 50$ even in the absence of a cavity. As a result, we observe optical bistability at input powers as low as 20 pW. The present scheme allows for dynamic optical control of the dispersive properties of the ultracold gas using very weak pulses of light. The experimental observations are in good agreement with a theoretical model.

id: 0804.2323
title: Theory Of Radiation And Absorption Of Deformed Field Quanta
authors: I. O. Vakarchuk
comments: This paper is dedicated to Professor Igor Stasyuk on the occasion of his 70th birthday. 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2323
abstract: We calculate the intensity of spontaneous radiation of a system of non-linear quantum field, where the non-linearity is due to deformations of the Poison brackets of the generalized coordinates and momenta.

id: 0804.2374
title: Preservation of Positivity by Dynamical Coarse-Graining
authors: Gernot Schaller, Tobias Brandes
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures, reviewers suggestions included and tightened presentation; accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Physical Review A 78, 022106, (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2374
abstract: We compare different quantum Master equations for the time evolution of the reduced density matrix. The widely applied secular approximation (rotating wave approximation) applied in combination with the Born-Markov approximation generates a Lindblad type master equation ensuring for completely positive and stable evolution and is typically well applicable for optical baths. For phonon baths however, the secular approximation is expected to be invalid. The usual Markovian master equation does not generally preserve positivity of the density matrix. As a solution we propose a coarse-graining approach with a dynamically adapted coarse graining time scale. For some simple examples we demonstrate that this preserves the accuracy of the integro-differential Born equation. For large times we analytically show that the secular approximation master equation is recovered. The method can in principle be extended to systems with a dynamically changing system Hamiltonian, which is of special interest for adiabatic quantum computation. We give some numerical examples for the spin-boson model of cases where a spin system thermalizes rapidly, and other examples where thermalization is not reached.

id: 0804.2377
title: Non-Markovian effects on the dynamics of entanglement
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Rosario Lo Franco, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 99, 160502 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2377
abstract: A procedure that allows to obtain the dynamics of $N$ independent bodies each locally interacting with its own reservoir is presented. It relies on the knowledge of single body dynamics and it is valid for any form of environment noise. It is then applied to the study of non-Markovian dynamics of two independent qubits, each locally interacting with a zero temperature reservoir. It is shown that, although no interaction is present or mediated between the qubits, there is a revival of their entanglement, after a finite period of time of its complete disappearance.

id: 0804.2384
title: Heralded generation of multiphoton entanglement
authors: Philip Walther, Markus Aspelmeyer, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 75, 012313 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2384
abstract: We present a scheme, based only on linear optics and standard photon detection, that allows to generate heralded multiphoton entangled states of arbitrary photon number from spontaneous parametric downconversion (PDC) in the weak interaction regime. The scheme also works in the strong interaction regime, i.e., for the production of large photon numbers, when photon-number resolving detectors with nearly perfect quantum efficiency are used. In addition, the same setup can be used for quantum metrology as multiphoton interferometer with sensitivity at the Heisenberg limit.

id: 0804.2390
title: Quantum teleportation in superconducting charge qubits
authors: R. M. Gomes, W. B. Cardoso, A. T. Avelar, B. Baseia
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2390
abstract: In this paper we propose a scheme to implement a quantum teleportation based on the current experimental design [Nature (London) 431, 162 (2004); ibid 445, 515 (2007)] in which superconducting charge qubits are capacitively coupled to a single high-Q superconducting coplanar resonator. As advantage of this architecture, it permits the use of multiqubit gates between non-nearest qubits and the realization of parallel gates. We consider the case of two qubits inside the resonator, where the teleportation is accomplished.

id: 0804.2391
title: The propagator for the step potential and delta function potential using the path decomposition expansion
authors: James M. Yearsley
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A 41, 285301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2391
abstract: We present a derivation of the propagator for a particle in the presence of the step and delta function potentials. These propagators are known, but we present a direct path integral derivation, based on the path decomposition expansion and the Brownian motion definition of the path integral. The derivation exploits properties of the Catalan numbers, which enumerate certain classes of lattice paths.

id: 0804.2396
title: Entangled photon pairs produced by a quantum dot strongly coupled to a microcavity
authors: R. Johne, N.A. Gippius, G. Pavlovic, D.D. Solnyshkov, I.A. Shelykh, G. Malpuech
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 240404 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2396
abstract: We show theoretically that entangled photon pairs can be produced on demand through the biexciton decay of a quantum dot strongly coupled to the modes of a photonic crystal. The strong coupling allows to tune the energy of the mixed exciton-photon (polariton) eigenmodes, and to overcome the natural splitting existing between the exciton states coupled with different linear polarizations of light. Polariton states are moreover well protected against dephasing due to their lifetime ten to hundred times shorter than that of a bare exciton. Our analysis shows that the scheme proposed can be achievable with the present technology.

id: 0804.2398
title: On the probabilistic description of a multipartite correlation scenario with arbitrary numbers of settings and outcomes per site
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: 26 pages; added section Conclusions and some references for section 3
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008), 445303 (23pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2398
abstract: We consistently formalize the probabilistic description of multipartite joint measurements performed on systems of any nature. This allows us: (1) to specify in probabilistic terms the difference between nonsignaling, the Einstein- Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) locality and Bell's locality; (2) to introduce the notion of an LHV model for an S_{1}x...xS_{N}-setting N-partite correlation experiment, with outcomes of any spectral type, discrete or continuous, and to prove both general and specific "quantum" statements on an LHV simulation in an arbitrary multipartite case; (3) to classify LHV models for a multipartite quantum state, in particular, to show that any N-partite quantum state, pure or mixed, admits an Sx1x...x1 -setting LHV description; (4) to evaluate a threshold visibility for a noisy bipartite quantum state to admit an S_{1}xS_ {2}-setting LHV description under any generalized quantum measurements of two parties. In a sequel to this paper, we shall introduce a single general representation incorporating in a unique manner all Bell-type inequalities for either joint probabilities or correlation functions that have been introduced or will be introduced in the literature.

id: 0804.2425
title: Spatiotemporal correlations in entangled photons generated by spontaneous parametric down conversion
authors: Clara I. Osorio, Alejandra Valencia, Juan P. Torres
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures.Comparison between theoretical model and previous experiment was added. One new figure, and two more references. Submitted to New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 113012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2425
abstract: In most configurations aimed at generating entangled photons based on spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC), the generated pairs of photons are required to be entangled in only one degree of freedom. Any distinguishing information coming from the other degrees of freedom that characterize the photon should be suppressed to avoid correlations with the degree of freedom of interest. However, this suppression is not always possible. Here, we show how the frequency information available affects the purity of the two-photon state in space, revealing a correlation between the frequency and the space degrees of freedom. This correlation should be taken into account to calculate the total amount of entanglement between the photons.

id: 0804.2426
title: Quantum catalysis of information
authors: Koji Azuma, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2426
abstract: Heisenberg's uncertainty principle and recently derived many no-go theorems including the no-cloning theorem and the no-deleting theorem have corroborated the idea that we can never access quantum information without causing disturbance. Here we disprove this presumption by predicting a novel phenomenon, `quantum catalysis of information,' where a system enables an otherwise impossible task by exchanging information through a quantum communication channel. This fact implies that making use of quantum information does not always cause disturbance.

id: 0804.2467
title: Partial Description of Quantum States
authors: Olivier Brunet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2467
abstract: One of the most central and controversial element of quantum mechanics is the use of non zero vectors of a Hilbert space (or, more generally, of one dimension subspaces) for representing the state of a quantum system. In particular, the question whether such a representation is complete has been debated since almost the early days of quantum mechanics. In this article, we develop an alternate way to formalize knowledge about the state of quantum systems, based solely on experimentally accessible elements, namely on outcomes of finite measurements. We introduce what we call partial description which, given a feasible measurement, indicates some outcomes which are known to be impossible (i.e. known to have a probability equal to 0 to occur) and hence have to be discarded. Then, we introduce partial states (which are partial descriptions providing as much information as possible) and compare this way to describe quantum states to the orthodox one, using vector rays. Finally, we show that partial states allow to describe quantum states in a strictly more expressive way that the orthodox description does.

id: 0804.2498
title: Fractional dynamics in the Lvy quantum kicked rotor
authors: Alejandro Romanelli
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2498
abstract: We investigate the quantum kicked rotor in resonance subjected to momentum measurements with a L\'evy waiting time distribution. We find that the system has a sub-ballistic behavior. We obtain an analytical expression for the exponent of the power law of the variance as a function of the characteristic parameter of the L\'evy distribution and connect this anomalous diffusion with a fractional dynamics.

id: 0804.2505
title: Consistent classical and quantum mixed dynamics
authors: Michael J.W. Hall
comments: revtex, 9.2 pages; v2: Sec. III corrected & rewritten, to discuss `configuration separability' (which holds) vs `strong separability' (which doesn't); v3: Ehrenfest's theorem demonstrated - thus Peres-Terno benchmark for acceptable mixed dynamics is satisfied, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78 (2008) 042104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2505
abstract: A recent proposal for mixed dynamics of classical and quantum ensembles is shown, in contrast to other proposals, to satisfy the minimal algebraic requirements proposed by Salcedo for any consistent formulation of such dynamics. Generalised Ehrenfest relations for the expectation values of classical and quantum observables are also obtained. It is further shown that additional desirable requirements, related to separability, may be satisfied under the assumption that only the configuration of the classical component is directly accessible to measurement, eg, via a classical pointer. Although the mixed dynamics is formulated in terms of ensembles on configuration space, thermodynamic mixtures of such ensembles may be defined which are equivalent to canonical phase space ensembles on the classical sector. Hence, the formulation appears to be both consistent and physically complete.

id: 0804.2516
title: Preparation of a Stable and Maximally Entangled State of Two Distant Qutrits Trapped in Separate Cavities
authors: Chang-shui Yu, X. X. Yi, He-shan Song, D. Mei
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: European Journal of Physics D 48, 411(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2516
abstract: We have proposed a simple scheme to entangle two distant qutrits trapped in separate optical cavities. The quantum information of each qutrit is skillfully encoded on the degenerate ground states of a pair of atoms, hence the entanglement between them is relatively stable against spontaneous emission. In Lamb-Dicke limits, it is not necessary to require coincidence detections, which will relax the conditions for the experimental realization. The scheme is robust against the inefficient detections.

id: 0804.2554
title: Frequency spectrum of the Casimir force: interpretation and a paradox
authors: Simen A. Ellingsen
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures. Final version accepted with Europhysics Letters
journal: Europhys. Lett. 83 53001 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2554
abstract: The frequency spectrum of the Casimir force between two plates separated by vacuum as it appears in the Lifshitz formalism is reexamined and generalised as compared to previous works to allow for imperfectly reflecting plates. As previously reported by Ford [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{48} (1993) 2962], the highly oscillatory nature of the frequency dependence of the Casimir force points to possibilities for very large and indeed negative Casimir forces if the frequency-dependent dielectric response, $\epsilon(\omega)$, of the materials could be tuned. A paradox occurs, however, because an alternative calculation of the effect of a perturbation of $\epsilon(\omega)$ involving a Wick rotation to imaginary frequencies indicate only very modest effects. A recent experiment appears to convincingly rule out the reality of Ford's optimistic predictions, although given the enormous technological promise of such frequency effects, further theoretical and experimental study is called for.

id: 0804.2568
title: Secretly Broadcasting Five Qubit Entangled state among three parties from W- type states
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, B.S.Choudhury
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2568
abstract: In this work we investigate the problem of secretly broadcasting five qubit entangled state between three different partners We implement the protocol described in ref [16] on three particle W-state shared by three distant partners Alice,Bob and Charlie. The problem is interesting in the sense it is the first attempt to broadcast five qubit entangled state between three parties.

id: 0804.2577
title: Cold Fermi atomic gases in a pumped optical resonator
authors: Jonas Larson, Giovanna Morigi, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: Two column, three figures. Replaced with final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 023815 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2577
abstract: We study systems of fully polarized ultracold atomic gases obeying Fermi statistics. The atomic transition interacts dispersively with a mode of a standing-wave cavity, which is coherently pumped by a laser. In this setup, the intensity of the intracavity field is determined by the refractive index of the atomic medium, and thus by the atomic density distribution. Vice versa, the density distribution of the atom is determined by the cavity field potential, whose depth is proportional to the intracavity field amplitude. In this work we show that this nonlinearity leads to an instability in the intracavity intensity that differs substantially from dispersive optical bistability, as this effect is already present in the regime, where the atomic dipole is proportional to the cavity field. Such instability is driven by the matter waves fluctuations and exhibits a peculiar dependence on the fluctuations in the atomic density distribution.

id: 0804.2653
title: Gaussian-State Theory of Two-Photon Imaging
authors: Baris I. Erkmen, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2653
abstract: Biphoton states of signal and idler fields--obtained from spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC) in the low-brightness, low-flux regime--have been utilized in several quantum imaging configurations to exceed the resolution performance of conventional imagers that employ coherent-state or thermal light. Recent work--using the full Gaussian-state description of SPDC--has shown that the same resolution performance seen in quantum optical coherence tomography and the same imaging characteristics found in quantum ghost imaging can be realized by classical-state imagers that make use of phase-sensitive cross correlations. This paper extends the Gaussian-state analysis to two additional biphoton-state quantum imaging scenarios: far field diffraction-pattern imaging; and broadband thin-lens imaging. It is shown that the spatial resolution behavior in both cases is controlled by the nonzero phase-sensitive cross correlation between the signal and idler fields. Thus, the same resolution can be achieved in these two configurations with classical-state signal and idler fields possessing a nonzero phase-sensitive cross correlation.

id: 0804.2665
title: Temperature Dependence of Electric Field Noise Above Gold Surfaces
authors: Jaroslaw Labaziewicz, Yufei Ge, David Leibrandt, Shannon X. Wang, Ruth Shewmon, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2665
abstract: Electric field noise from fluctuating patch potentials is a significant problem for a broad range of precision experiments, including trapped ion quantum computation and single spin detection. Recent results demonstrated strong suppression of this noise by cryogenic cooling, suggesting an underlying thermal process. We present measurements characterizing the temperature and frequency dependence of the noise from 7 to 100 K, using a single Sr+ ion trapped 75 um above the surface of a gold plated surface electrode ion trap. The noise amplitude is observed to have an approximate 1/f spectrum around 1 MHz, and grows rapidly with temperature as T^beta for beta from 2 to 4. The data are consistent with microfabricated cantilever measurements of non-contact friction but do not extrapolate to the DC measurements with neutral atoms or contact potential probes.

id: 0804.2684
title: Generation of arbitrary Fock states via resonant interactions in cavity QED
authors: Gisana C. A. Bueno, W. B. Cardoso, A. T. Avelar, B. Baseia
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures;
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2684
abstract: We propose a scheme to generate arbitrary Fock states |N> in a cavity QED using N resonant Rydberg atoms. The atom-field interaction times are controlled via Stark-shifts adjusted in a way that each atom transfers a photon to the cavity, turning atomic detections useless. Fluctuations affecting the control of the atom-field interactions are also considered.

id: 0804.2687
title: Partial teleportation of entangled atomic states
authors: W. B. Cardoso, N. G. de Almeida
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009) 201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2687
abstract: In this paper we propose a scheme for partially teleporting entangled atomic states. Our scheme can be implemented using only four two-level atoms interacting either resonantly or off-resonantly with a single cavity-QED. The estimative of losses occurring during this partial teleportation process is accomplished through the phenomenological operator approach technique.

id: 0804.2691
title: Optimal Dynamical Decoherence Control of a Qubit
authors: Goren Gordon, Gershon Kurizki, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 6 pages, including 2 figures and an appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 010403 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2691
abstract: A theory of dynamical control by modulation for optimal decoherence reduction is developed. It is based on the non-Markovian Euler-Lagrange equation for the energy-constrained field that minimizes the average dephasing rate of a qubit for any given dephasing spectrum.

id: 0804.2703
title: Propagation of Squeezed Vacuum under Electromagnetically Induced Transparency
authors: Eden Figueroa, Mirko Lobino, Dmitry Korystov, Juergen Appel, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 11 No 1 (January 2009) 013044 (12pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2703
abstract: We experimentally and theoretically analyze the transmission of continuous-wave and pulsed squeezed vacuum through rubidium vapor under the conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency. Frequency- and time-domain homodyne tomography is used to measure the quadrature noise and reconstruct the quantum states of the transmitted light. A simple theoretical model explains the spectrum and degradation of the transmitted squeezing with high precision.

id: 0804.2740
title: Coherent generation of nonclassical light on a chip via photon-induced tunneling and blockade
authors: Andrei Faraon, Ilya Fushman, Dirk Englund, Nick Stoltz, Pierre Petroff, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2740
abstract: We report the observation of nonclassical light generated via photon blockade in a photonic crystal cavity with a strongly coupled quantum dot. By tuning the frequency of the probe laser with respect to the cavity and quantum dot resonance we can probe the system in either photon blockade or photon-induced tunneling regime. The transition from one regime to the other is confirmed by the measurement of the second order correlation that changes from anti-bunching to bunching.

id: 0804.2874
title: Analytical solution for optimal squeezing of wave packet of a trapped quantum particle
authors: Ilya Grigorenko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2874
abstract: Optimal control problem with a goal to squeeze wave packet of a trapped quantum particle is considered and solved analytically using adiabatic approximation. The analytical solution that drives the particle into a highly localized final state is presented for a case of an infinite well trapping potential. The presented solution may be applied to increase the resolution of atom lithography.

id: 0804.2875
title: Sub-Rayleigh Quantum Imaging
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 4 pages, two figures
journal: V. Giovannetti, S. Lloyd, L. Maccone, J. H. Shapiro, Phys. Rev. A 79, 013827 (2009).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2875
abstract: No imaging apparatus can produce perfect images: spatial resolution is limited by the Rayleigh diffraction bound that is a consequence of the imager's finite spatial extent. We show some N-photon strategies that permit resolution of details that are smaller than this bound, attaining either a 1/sqrt(N) enhancement (standard quantum limit) or a 1/N enhancement (Heisenberg limit) over standard techniques. In the incoherent imaging regime, the methods presented are loss resistant, because they can be implemented with classical-state light sources. Our results may be of importance in many applications: microscopy, telescopy, lithography, metrology, etc.

id: 0804.2882
title: Dynamics in a coupled-cavity array
authors: C. D. Ogden, E. K. Irish, M. S. Kim
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 063805 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2882
abstract: The dynamics of a system composed of two coupled optical cavities, each containing a single two-level atom, is studied over a wide range of detuning and coupling values. A description of the field in terms of delocalized modes reveals that the detuning between the atoms and these modes is controlled by the coupling between the cavities; this detuning in turn governs the nature of the dynamics. If the atoms are highly detuned from both delocalized field modes, the dynamics becomes dispersive and an excitation may be transferred from the first atom to the second without populating the field. In the case of resonance between the atoms and one of the delocalized modes, state transfer between the atoms requires intermediate excitation of the field. Thus the interaction between the two atoms can be controlled by adjusting the coupling between the cavities.

id: 0804.2920
title: Quantum control of the hyperfine-coupled electron and nuclear spins in alkali atoms
authors: Seth T. Merkel, Poul S. Jessen, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures; corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2920
abstract: We study quantum control of the full hyperfine manifold in the ground-electronic state of alkali atoms based on applied radio frequency and microwave fields. Such interactions should allow essentially decoherence-free dynamics and the application of techniques for robust control developed for NMR spectroscopy. We establish the conditions under which the system is controllable in the sense that one can generate an arbitrary unitary on the system. We apply this to the case of $^{133}$Cs with its $d=16$ dimensional Hilbert space of magnetic sublevels in the $6S_{1/2}$ state, and design control waveforms that generate an arbitrary target state from an initial fiducial state. We develop a generalized Wigner function representation for this space consisting of the direct sum of two irreducible representation of SU(2), allowing us to visualize these states. The performance of different control scenarios is evaluated based on the ability to generate high-fidelity operation in an allotted time with the available resources. We find good operating points commensurate with modest laboratory requirements.

id: 0804.2943
title: Proposal for direct measurement of concurrence via visibility in a cavity QED system
authors: Sang Min Lee, Se-Wan Ji, Hai-Woong Lee, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: To appear in Physical Review A as a Rapid Comminication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2943
abstract: An experimental scheme is proposed that allows direct measurement of the concurrence of a two-qubit cavity system. It is based on the cavity-QED technology using atoms as flying qubits and relies on the identity of the two-particle visibility of the atomic probability with the concurrence of the cavity system. The scheme works for any arbitrary pure initial state of the two-qubit cavity system.

id: 0804.2955
title: Broadband squeezed light from phase-locked single-mode sub-Poissonian lasers
authors: T. Golubeva, D. Ivanov, Yu. Golubev
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2955
abstract: We consider sub-Poissonian single-mode laser with external synchronization and analyze its applicability to the problems of quantum information. Using Heisenberg-Langevin theory we calculate the quadrature variances of the field emitted by this laser. It is shown that such systems can demonstrate strong quadrature squeezing. Taking into account that the emitted field is temporally multi-mode the application of such sources to multichannel quantum teleportation and dense coding protocols is discussed.

id: 0804.2981
title: Quantum estimation for quantum technology
authors: Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 1 figure, published version
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 7, 125 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2981
abstract: Several quantities of interest in quantum information, including entanglement and purity, are nonlinear functions of the density matrix and cannot, even in principle, correspond to proper quantum observables. Any method aimed to determine the value of these quantities should resort to indirect measurements and thus corresponds to a parameter estimation problem whose solution, i.e the determination of the most precise estimator, unavoidably involves an optimization procedure. We review local quantum estimation theory and present explicit formulas for the symmetric logarithmic derivative and the quantum Fisher information of relevant families of quantum states. Estimability of a parameter is defined in terms of the quantum signal-to-noise ratio and the number of measurements needed to achieve a given relative error. The connections between the optmization procedure and the geometry of quantum statistical models are discussed. Our analysis allows to quantify quantum noise in the measurements of non observable quantities and provides a tools for the characterization of signals and devices in quantum technology.

id: 0804.2997
title: Helicity correlations of vector bosons
authors: Pawel Caban
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 062101 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2997
abstract: We calculate the helicity and polarization correlation functions in the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-type experiments with relativistic vector bosons. We show that the linear polarization correlation function in the appriopriately chosen state in the massless limit is the same as the correlation function in the scalar two-photon state. We show also that the polarization correlation function violate the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality and that the degree of this violation can increase with the particle momentum.

id: 0804.3005
title: Establishing EPR-channels between Nanomechanics and Atomic Ensembles
authors: K. Hammerer, M. Aspelmeyer, E.S. Polzik, P. Zoller
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; accepted by PRL
journal: PRL 102, 020501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3005
abstract: We suggest to interface nanomechanical systems via an optical quantum bus to atomic ensembles, for which means of high precision state preparation, manipulation and measurement are available. This allows in particular for a Quantum Non-Demolition Bell measurement, projecting the coupled system, atomic ensemble - nanomechanical resonator, into an entangled EPR-state. The entanglement is observable even for nanoresonators initially well above their ground states and can be utilized for teleportation of states from an atomic ensemble to the mechanical system.

id: 0804.3006
title: Theory of near-field matter wave interference beyond the eikonal approximation
authors: Stefan Nimmrichter, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures; published version (minor corrections)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 023612 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3006
abstract: A generalized description of Talbot-Lau interference with matter waves is presented, which accounts for arbitrary grating interactions and realistic beam characteristics. The dispersion interaction between the beam particles and the optical elements strongly influences the interference pattern in this near-field effect, and it is known to dominate the fringe visibility if increasingly massive and complex particles are used. We provide a general description of the grating interaction process by combining semiclassical scattering theory with a phase space formulation. It serves to systematically improve the eikonal approximation used so far, and to assess its regime of validity.

id: 0804.3054
title: Gravitation as a Casimir interaction
authors: Bo E. Sernelius
comments: 
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A24:1804-1812,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3054
abstract: Gravitation is considered to be one of the four fundamental interactions in nature. However, one has so far failed to observe the graviton, the quantum particle that is believed to transmit the gravitational force at a distance - the analogue to the photon in electromagnetism. Maybe it is now time to re-evaluate the status of the gravitation as a fundamental interaction. Here, we propose a completely new interpretation of gravitation. In this description the gravitational force is no longer a fundamental force. It is an induced force, a dispersion force, and the analogue to the Casimir force in electromagnetism. The fundamental force is in our description a force between particles with a parabolic interaction potential. In our model the nucleons are made up from these particles. We find the retarded dispersion force between these composite particles has the correct distance dependence, 1/r. If this interpretation is correct it has a broad range of implications. Our view on the fundamental concept mass is altered; our view on the expansion of the Universe may change.

id: 0804.3070
title: On Exchangeable Continuous Variable Systems
authors: Robert Koenig, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 4 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 012102 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3070
abstract: We investigate permutation-invariant continuous variable quantum states and their covariance matrices. We provide a complete characterization of the latter with respect to permutation-invariance, exchangeability and representing convex combinations of tensor power states. On the level of the respective density operators this leads to necessary criteria for all these properties which become necessary and sufficient for Gaussian states. For these we use the derived results to provide de Finetti-type theorems for various distance measures.

id: 0804.3076
title: Operator Imprecision and Scaling of Shor's Algorithm
authors: C. Ray Hill, George F. Viamontes
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3076
abstract: Shor's algorithm (SA) is a quantum algorithm for factoring integers. Since SA has polynomial complexity while the best classical factoring algorithms are sub-exponential, SA is cited as evidence that quantum computers are more powerful than classical computers. SA is critically dependent on the Quantum Fourier Transform (QFT) and it is known that the QFT is sensitive to errors in the quantum state input to it. In this paper, we show that the polynomial scaling of SA is destroyed by input errors to the QFT part of the algorithm. We also show that Quantum Error Correcting Codes (QECC) are not capable of suppressing errors due to operator imprecision and that propagation of operator precision errors is sufficient to severely degrade the effectiveness of SA. Additionally we show that operator imprecision in the error correction circuit for the Calderbank-Shor-Steane QECC is mathematically equivalent to decoherence on every physical qubit in a register. We conclude that, because of the effect of operator precision errors, it is likely that physically realizable quantum computers will be capable of factoring integers no more efficiently than classical computers.

id: 0804.3082
title: Squashing Models for Optical Measurements in Quantum Communication
authors: Normand J. Beaudry, Tobias Moroder, Norbert Ltkenhaus
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Fixed a typographical error. Replaced the six-state protocol counter-example. Conclusions of the paper are unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 093601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3082
abstract: Measurements with photodetectors necessarily need to be described in the infinite dimensional Fock space of one or several modes. For some measurements a model has been postulated which describes the full mode measurement as a composition of a mapping (squashing) of the signal into a small dimensional Hilbert space followed by a specified target measurement. We present a formalism to investigate whether a given measurement pair of mode and target measurements can be connected by a squashing model. We show that the measurements used in the BB84 protocol do allow a squashing description, although the six-state protocol does not. As a result, security proofs for the BB84 protocol can be based on the assumption that the eavesdropper forwards at most one photon, while the same does not hold for the six-state protocol.

id: 0804.3100
title: Geometry of depolarizing channels
authors: Kuldeep Dixit, E. C. G. Sudarshan
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3100
abstract: Depolarizing maps acting on an N dimensional system are completely positive maps resulting into compression of the Bloch ball along the different polarization directions. In the qubit case these maps are a convex sum of four extremal maps and form a simplex in the space of compression coefficients along the three polarization directions. We calculate the compression domain for three and four level systems. For a three level system the region has curved surfaces, but it is a simplex for a four level system. We conjecture that it is a simplex in the case of 2^n level systems.

id: 0804.3127
title: Minimum Disturbance Measurement without Post-Selection
authors: So-Young Baek, Yong Wook Cheong, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3127
abstract: We propose and demonstrate a linear optical device which deterministically performs optimal quantum measurement or minimum disturbance measurement on a single-photon polarization qubit with the help of an ancillary path qubit introduced to the same photon. We show theoretically and experimentally that this device satisfies the minimum disturbance measurement condition by investigating the relation between the information gain (estimation fidelity) and the state disturbance due to measurement (operation fidelity). Our implementation of minimum disturbance measurement is postselection-free in the sense that all detection events are counted toward evaluation of the estimation fidelity and the operation fidelity, i.e., there is no need for coincidence postselection of the detection events.

id: 0804.3153
title: Thermodynamics of quasianti-Hermitian quaternionic systems
authors: S. A. Alavi
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Universal Journal of Physics and Application 1(2013)26-31
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3153
abstract: Thermodynamics of quasianti-Hermitian quaternionic systems with constant number of particles in equilibrium is studied. A toy model is introduced and the physically relevant quantities are derived. The energy fluctuation which shows that for large N the relative r.m.s fluctuation in the values of E is quite negligible is derived. The negative temperature for such systems is also studied. Finally a physical example is discussed and physical explanations in the context of quantum physics are given.

id: 0804.3154
title: Discriminating multi-partite entangled states
authors: Christian Schmid, Nikolai Kiesel, Wies?aw Laskowski, Witlef Wieczorek, Marek ?ukowski, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 200407 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3154
abstract: The variety of multi-partite entangled states enables numerous applications in novel quantum information tasks. In order to compare the suitability of different states from a theoretical point of view classifications have been introduced. Accordingly, here we derive criteria and demonstrate how to experimentally discriminate an observed state against the ones of certain other classes of multi-partite entangled states. Our method, originating in Bell inequalities, adds an important tool for the characterization of multi-party entanglement.

id: 0804.3158
title: Wires with Quantum Memory
authors: C. Chryssomalakos, H. Hernandez, D. Gelbwaser-Klimovsky, E. Okon
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A23:3087-3094,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3158
abstract: We show that quantum particles constrained to move along curves undergoing cyclic deformations acquire, in general, geometric phases. We treat explicitly an example, involving particular deformations of a circle, and ponder on potential applications.

id: 0804.3159
title: Maximally entangling tripartite protocols for Josephson phase qubits
authors: Andrei Galiautdinov, John M. Martinis
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3159
abstract: We introduce a suit of simple entangling protocols for generating tripartite GHZ and W states in systems with anisotropic exchange interaction g(XX+YY)+g'ZZ. An interesting example is provided by macroscopic entanglement in Josephson phase qubits with capacitive (g'=0) and inductive (0<|g'/g|<0.1) couplings.

id: 0804.3187
title: Generation of quantum-dot cluster states with superconducting transmission line resonator
authors: Zhi-Rong Lin, Guo-Ping Guo, Tao Tu, Fei-Yun Zhu, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 230501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3187
abstract: We propose an efficient method to generate cluster states in spatially separated double quantum dots with a superconducting transmission line resonator (TLR). When the detuning between the double-dot qubits transition frequency and the frequency of the full wave mode in the TLR satisfies some conditions, an Ising-like operator between arbitrary two separated qubits can be achieved. Even including the main noise sources, it's shown that the high fidelity cluster states could be generated in this solid system in just one step.

id: 0804.3206
title: Spacetime path formalism for massive particles of any spin
authors: Ed Seidewitz
comments: RevTex draft format, 36 pages; v2, per reviewer comments, added additional explanatory material on group theoretic concepts; accepted for publication in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals Phys.324:309-331,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3206
abstract: Earlier work presented a spacetime path formalism for relativistic quantum mechanics arising naturally from the fundamental principles of the Born probability rule, superposition, and spacetime translation invariance. The resulting formalism can be seen as a foundation for a number of previous parameterized approaches to relativistic quantum mechanics in the literature. Because time is treated similarly to the three space coordinates, rather than as an evolution parameter, such approaches have proved particularly useful in the study of quantum gravity and cosmology. The present paper extends the foundational spacetime path formalism to include massive, nonscalar particles of any (integer or half-integer) spin. This is done by generalizing the principle of translational invariance used in the scalar case to the principle of full Poincare invariance, leading to a formulation for the nonscalar propagator in terms of a path integral over the Poincare group. Once the difficulty of the non-compactness of the component Lorentz group is dealt with, the subsequent development is remarkably parallel to the scalar case. This allows the formalism to retain a clear probabilistic interpretation throughout, with a natural reduction to non-relativistic quantum mechanics closely related to the well known generalized Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation.

id: 0804.3212
title: Relation between phase and dwell times for quantum tunneling of a relativistically propagating particle
authors: Alex E. Bernardini
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 82 (2008) 60005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3212
abstract: The general and explicit relation between the phase time and the dwell time for quantum tunneling of a relativistically propagating particle is investigated and quantified. In analogy with previously obtained non-relativistic results, it is shown that the group delay can be described in terms of the dwell time and a self-interference delay. Lessons concerning the phenomenology of the relativistic tunneling are drawn.

id: 0804.3240
title: Loss in hybrid qubit-bus couplings and gates
authors: Sebastien G.R. Louis, W.J. Munro, T.P. Spiller, Kae Nemoto
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022326 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3240
abstract: We provide a characterization and analysis of the effects of dissipation on oscillator assisted (qubus) quantum gates. The effects can be understood and minimized by looking at the dynamics of the signal coherence and its entanglement with the continuous variable probe. Adding loss in between successive interactions we obtain the effective quantum operations, providing a novel approach to loss analysis in such hybrid settings. We find that in the presence of moderate dissipation the gate can operate with a high fidelity. We also show how a simple iteration scheme leads to independent single qubit dephasing, while retaining the conditional phase operation regardless of the amount of loss incurred by the probe.

id: 0804.3245
title: Intensity of parametric fluorescence pumped by ultrashort pulses
authors: Jan Chwedeczuk, Wojciech Wasilewski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3245
abstract: We investigate intensity of the parametric down conversion of ultrashort, ultraviolet pulse both in a low- and high-conversion regime. In the first regime, we develop a simple analytical expressions for the photon flux of the fluorescence. Numerical simulations using three-dimensional stochastic Wigner method provide results in the latter regime. We find that the perturbative approximation for the photon flux as a function of the wavelength of the signal and the observation angle, quantitatively describes even the non-perturbative regime. For short pump pulses the intensity of the fluorescence is highest at frequencies where the group velocities of the pump and the down-conversion are equal. For longer pump pulses this requirement is gradually relaxed. Additionally, for small pump beams, the intensity strongly depends on the spatial divergence between interacting fields.

id: 0804.3257
title: Spatial entanglement of paired photons generated in cold atomic ensembles
authors: Clara I. Osorio, Sergio Barreiro, Morgan W. Mitchell, Juan P. Torres
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Submitted to Phys. Rev. A.; one figure (Fig. 3) was added, typos and labels in figure 2 were corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3257
abstract: Cold atomic ensembles can mediate the generation of entanglement between pairs of photons. Photons with specific directions of propagation are detected, and the entanglement can reside in any of the degrees of freedom that describe the whole quantum state of the photons: polarization, spatial shape or frequency. We show that the direction of propagation of the generated photons determines the spatial quantum state of the photons and therefore, the amount of entanglement generated. When photons generated in different directions are combined, this spatial distinguishing information can degrade the quantum purity of the polarization or frequency entanglement.

id: 0804.3273
title: Giant electro-optic effect using polarizable dark states
authors: A. K. Mohapatra, M. G. Bason, B. Butscher, K. J. Weatherill, C. S. Adams
comments: To appear in Nature Physics
journal: Nature Physics. 4, 890 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3273
abstract: The electro-optic effect, where the refractive index of a medium is modified by an electric field, is of central importance in non-linear optics, laser technology, quantum optics and optical communications. In general, electro-optic coefficients are very weak and a medium with a giant electro-optic coefficient would have profound implications for non-linear optics, especially at the single photon level, enabling single photon entanglement and switching. Here we propose and demonstrate a giant electro-optic effect based on polarizable dark states. We demonstrate phase modulation of the light field in the dark state medium and measure an electro-optic coefficient that is more than 12 orders of magnitude larger than in other gases. This enormous Kerr non-linearity also creates the potential for precision electrometry and photon entanglement.

id: 0804.3294
title: Grover's algorithm and human memory
authors: Riccardo Franco
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3294
abstract: In this article we consider an experimental study showing the influence of emotion regulation strategies on human memory performance: part of such experimental results are difficult to explain within a classic cognitive allocation model. We provide a first attempt to build a model of human memory processes based on a quantum algorithm, the Grover's algorithm, which allows to search a particular item within an unsorted set of items more efficiently than any classic search algorithm. Based on Grover's algorithm paradigm, this new memory model results to have interesting features: it is an iterative process, it uses parallelism and interference effects. Moreover, the strength of such interference effects depends on a parameter of the generalized Grover's algorithm, called the phase, which admits an interpretation in terms of the emotions involved by the items and by the emotion regulation strategies. Thus we show that a reasonable choice of the phase is able to describe correctly the experimental results we consider.

id: 0804.3306
title: The quantum systems control and the optimal control theory
authors: V. F. Krotov
comments: 12 pages, in Russian, reference No.15 was corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3306
abstract: Mathematical theory of the quantum systems control is based on some ideas of the optimal control theory. These ideas are developed here as applied to these systems. The results obtained meet the deficiencies in the basis and algorithms of the control synthesis and expand the application of these methods.

id: 0804.3315
title: Resonant excitation amidst dephasing: An exact analytic solution
authors: E. S. Kyoseva, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 71, 054102 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3315
abstract: An exact analytic solution is presented for coherent resonant excitation of a two-state quantum system driven by a time-dependent pulsed external field with a hyperbolic-secant shape in the presence of dephasing. Analytic results are derived for the amplitude and the phase shift of the damped Rabi oscillations.

id: 0804.3317
title: A quantum decay model with exact explicit analytical solution
authors: Avi Marchewka, Er'el Granot
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3317
abstract: A simple decay model is introduced. The model comprises of a point potential well, which experiences an abrupt change. Due to the temporal variation the initial quantum state can either escape from the well or stay localized as a new bound state. The model allows for an exact analytical solution while having the necessary features of a decay process. The results show that the decay is never exponential, as classical dynamics predicts. Moreover, at short times the decay has a \textit{fractional} power law, which differs from perturbation quantum methods predictions.

id: 0804.3327
title: Preparation and characterization of arbitrary states of four-dimensional qudits based on biphotons
authors: So-Young Baek, Stanislav S. Straupe, Alexander P. Shurupov, Sergei P. Kulik, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3327
abstract: We report interferometric schemes to prepare arbitrary states of four-dimensional qudits (ququarts) based on biphoton states of ultrafast-pumped frequency-nondegenerate spontaneous parametric down-conversion. Preparation and tomographic characterization of a few examples of general single-ququart states, a pure state, a completely mixed state, and a partially-mixed state, are experimentally demonstrated.

id: 0804.3348
title: Feynman's interpretation of quantum theory
authors: H. D. Zeh
comments: Published version for Eur.Phys.J. H. 15 pages pdf. Final version available at this http URL&id=doi:10.1140/epjh/e2011-10035-2
journal: Eur. Phys. J. H 36, 147-158 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3348
abstract: A historically important but little known debate regarding the necessity and meaning of macroscopic superpositions, in particular those containing different gravitational fields, is discussed from a modern perspective.

id: 0804.3368
title: Noise excess free record/upload of non-classical states to continuous-variable quantum memory
authors: Radim Filip
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, submitted September 11, 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3368
abstract: In a recent continuous-variable quantum memory experiment, one quadrature of light pulse is directly uploaded by the light-atom coupling whereas complementary quadrature is obtained by homodyne measurement of the out-coupled light. Subsequently, information from homodyne mea- surement is written into the memory by feed-back electro-optical control of the atomic state. Using the same experimental set-up, a deterministic noise excess free record of unknown quantum states to continuous-variable quantum atomic memory is proposed. Further, the memory experiment is extended by the pre-squeezing of the recorded state of light and squeezing post-correction of the recorded state. To upload a resource to the memory, as single-photon state or superposition of co- herent states, the post-selection of the measurement results from homodyne detection is suggested. Then such the probabilistic upload approaches even a lossless transfer of these highly nonclassical states into the quantum memory.

id: 0804.3401
title: Quantum Computational Complexity
authors: John Watrous
comments: 44 pages, 14 figures. To appear in the Springer Encyclopedia of Complexity and Systems Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3401
abstract: This article surveys quantum computational complexity, with a focus on three fundamental notions: polynomial-time quantum computations, the efficient verification of quantum proofs, and quantum interactive proof systems. Properties of quantum complexity classes based on these notions, such as BQP, QMA, and QIP, are presented. Other topics in quantum complexity, including quantum advice, space-bounded quantum computation, and bounded-depth quantum circuits, are also discussed.

id: 0804.3427
title: Stress Tensor for Quantized Random Field and Wave Function Collapse
authors: Philip Pearle
comments: 16 pages. To be published in Phys. Rev. A78. Changes are in response to referee comments, and include an example involving the gravitational interaction of the random field's energy density with the particle energy density
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3427
abstract: The continuous spontaneous localization (CSL) theory of dynamical wave function collapse is an experimentally testable alternative to non-relativistic quantum mechanics. In it, collapse occurs because particles interact with a classical random field. However, particles gain energy from this field, i.e., particle energy is not conserved. Recently, it has been shown how to construct a theory dubbed "completely quantized collapse" (CQC) which is predictively equivalent to CSL. In CQC, a quantized random field is introduced, and CSL's classical random field becomes its eigenvalue. In CQC, energy is conserved, which allows one to understand that energy is conserved in CSL, as the particle's energy gain is compensated by the random field's energy loss. Since the random field has energy, it should have gravitational consequences. For that, one needs to know the random field's energy density. In this paper, it is shown how to construct a symmetric, conserved, energy-momentum-stress-density tensor associated with the quantized random field, even though this field obeys no dynamical equation and has no Lagrangian. Then, three examples are given involving the random field's energy density. One considers interacting particles, the second treats a "cosmological" particle creation model, the third involves the gravity of the random field.

id: 0804.3442
title: Quantum Feedback Networks: Hamiltonian Formulation
authors: J. Gough, M.R. James
comments: 27 pages (Final version). to appear Commun. Math. Phys
journal: Commun. Math. Phys., 1109-1132, Volume 287, Number 3 / May, 2009.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3442
abstract: A quantum network is an open system consisting of several component Markovian input-output subsystems interconnected by boson field channels carrying quantum stochastic signals. Generalizing the work of Chebotarev and Gregoratti, we formulate the model description by prescribing a candidate Hamiltonian for the network including details the component systems, the field channels, their interconnections, interactions and any time delays arising from the geometry of the network. (We show that the candidate is a symmetric operator and proceed modulo the proof of self-adjointness.) The model is non-Markovian for finite time delays, but in the limit where these delays vanish we recover a Markov model and thereby deduce the rules for introducing feedback into arbitrary quantum networks. The type of feedback considered includes that mediated by the use of beam splitters. We are therefore able to give a system-theoretic approach to introducing connections between quantum mechanical state-based input-output systems, and give a unifying treatment using non-commutative fractional linear, or Mobius, transformations.

id: 0804.3461
title: Permutation-invariant monotones for multipartite entanglement characterization
authors: Xi-Jun Ren, Wei Jiang, Xingxiang Zhou, Zheng-Wei Zhou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Submitted to Phys.Rev.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3461
abstract: In this work we consider the permutational properties of multipartite entanglement monotones. Based on the fact that genuine multipartite entanglement is a property of the entire multi-qubit system, we argue that ideal definitions for its characterizing quantities must be permutation-invariant. Using this criterion, we examine the three 4-qubit entanglement monotones introduced by Osterloh and Siewert [Phys. Rev. A. 72, 012337]. By expressing them in terms of quantities whose permutational properties can be easily derived, we find that one of these monotones is not permutation-invariant. We propose a permutation-invariant entanglement monotone to replace it, and show that our new monotone properly measures the genuine 4-qubit entanglement in 4-qubit cluster-class states. Our results provide some useful insights in understanding multipartite entanglement.

id: 0804.3487
title: Comment on the Quantum Brachistochrone Problem
authors: C. M. Bender, D. C. Brody, H. F. Jones, B. K. Meister
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3487
abstract: In this brief comment we attempt to clarify the apparent discrepancy between the papers [1] and [2] on the quantum brachistochrone, namely whether it is possible to use a judicious mixture of Hermitian and non-Hermitian quantum mechanics to evade the standard lower limit on the time taken for evolution by a Hermitian Hamiltonian with given energy dispersion between two given states.

id: 0804.3503
title: Quantum Zeno Effect in Radical-Ion-Pair Recombination Reactions
authors: I. K. Kominis
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3503
abstract: Radical-ion pairs are ubiquitous in a wide range of biochemical reactions, ranging from photosynthesis to magnetic sensitive chemical reactions underlying avian magnetic navigation. We here show that the charge recombination of a radical-ion-pair is a continuous quantum measurement process that interrogates the spin state of the pair. This naturally leads to the appearance of the quantum Zeno effect, explaining a large amount of data on unusually long-lived radical-ion-pairs.

id: 0804.3523
title: Dynamics of saturated Bragg diffraction in a stored light grating in cold atoms
authors: D. Moretti, N. Gonzalez, D. Felinto, J. W. R. Tabosa
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3523
abstract: We report on a detailed investigation of the dynamics and the saturation of a light grating stored in a sample of cold cesium atoms. We employ Bragg diffraction to retrieve the stored optical information impressed into the atomic coherence by the incident light fields. The diffracted efficiency is studied as a function of the intensities of both writing and reading laser beams. A theoretical model is developed to predict the temporal pulse shape of the retrieved signal and compares reasonably well with the observed results.

id: 0804.3531
title: Practically secure quantum bit commitment based on quantum seals
authors: Guang Ping He, Z. D. Wang
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3531
abstract: The relationship between the quantum bit commitment (QBC) and quantum seal (QS) is studied. It is elaborated that QBC and QS are not equivalent, but QS protocols satisfying a stronger unconditional security requirement can lead to an unconditionally secure QBC. In this sense, QS is strictly stronger than QBC in security requirements. Based on an earlier proposal on sealing a single bit, a feasible QBC protocol is also put forward, which is secure in practice even if the cheater has a strong quantum computational power.

id: 0804.3542
title: Experimental entanglement restoration on entanglement-breaking channels
authors: Fabio Sciarrino, Eleonora Nagali, Francesco De Martini, Miroslav Gavenda, Radim Filip
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3542
abstract: Quantum entanglement, a fundamental property ensuring security of key distribution and efficiency of quantum computing, is extremely sensitive to decoherence. Different procedures have been developed in order to recover entanglement after propagation over a noisy channel. However, besides a certain amount of noise, entanglement is completely lost. In this case the channel is called entanglement breaking and any multi-copy distillation methods cannot help to restore even a bit of entanglement. We report the experimental realization of a new method which restores entanglement from a single photon entanglement breaking channel. The method based on measurement of environmental light and quantum feed-forward correction can reveal entanglement even if this one completely disappeared. This protocol provides new elements to overcome decoherence effects.

id: 0804.3552
title: Magnetic response enhancement via electrically induced magnetic moments
authors: B. Jungnitsch, J. Evers
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 043817 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3552
abstract: The realization of negative refraction in atomic gases requires a strong magnetic response of the atoms. Current proposals for such systems achieve an enhancement of the magnetic response by a suitable laser field configuration, but still rely on high gas densities. Thus further progress is desirable, and this requires an understanding of the precise mechanism for the enhancement. Therefore, here we study the magnetic and electric response to a probe field interacting with three-level atoms in ladder configuration. In our first model, the three transitions are driven by a control field and the electric and magnetic component of the probe field, giving rise to a closed interaction loop. In a reference model, the coherent driving is replaced by an incoherent pump field. A time-dependent analysis of the closed-loop system enables us to identify the different contributions to the medium response. A comparison with the reference system then allows one to identify the physical mechanism that leads to the enhancement. It is found that the enhancement occurs at so-called multiphoton resonance by a scattering of the coupling field and the electric probe field mode into the magnetic probe field mode. Based on these results, conditions for the enhancement are discussed.

id: 0804.3606
title: Some Entanglement Features of Highly Entangled Multiqubit States
authors: A. Borras, M. Casas, A.R. Plastino, A. Plastino
comments: To appear in the special issue of IJQI "Noise, Information and Complexity at Quantum Scale", eds. S. Mancini and F. Marchesoni (2008)
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf. 6, 605 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3606
abstract: We explore some basic entanglement features of multiqubit systems that are relevant for the development of algorithms for searching highly entangled states. In particular, we compare the behaviours of multiqubit entanglement measures based (i) on the von Neumann entropy of marginal density matrices and (ii) on the linear entropy of those matrices.

id: 0804.3618
title: Quantum noise in a nano mechanical Duffing resonator
authors: E. Babourina-Brooks, A. Doherty, G. J. Milburn
comments: submitted to the Focus Issue on 'Mechanical Systems at the Quantum Limit', edited by Markus Aspelmeyer and Keith Schwab
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3618
abstract: We determine the small signal gain and noise response of an amplifier based on the nonlinear response of a quantum nanomechanical resonator. The resonator is biased in the nonlinear regime by a strong harmonic bias force and we determine the response to a small additional driving signal detuned with respect to the bias force.

id: 0804.3620
title: A note on generalized concurrences and entanglement detection
authors: Laura Cattaneo, Domenico D'Alessandro
comments: It replaces two previous versions. The new version incorporates important references on the topic. It corrects a mistake. Title has changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3620
abstract: We study generalized concurrences as a tool to detect the entanglement of bipartite quantum systems. By considering the case of 2 X 4 states of rank 2, we prove that generalized concurrences do not, in general, give a necessary and sufficient condition of separability. We identify a set of entangled states which are undetected by this method.

id: 0804.3660
title: Efficient scheme for atomic entangled states with cavity QED system
authors: Pengbo Li
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3660
abstract: A protocol is proposed to generate atomic entangled states in a cavity QED system. It utilizes Raman transitions or stimulated Raman adiabatic passages between two systems to entangle the ground states of two three-state $\Lambda$-type atoms trapped in a single mode cavity. It does not need the measurements on cavity field nor atomic detection and can be implemented in a deterministic fashion. Since the present protocol is insensitive to both cavity decay and atomic spontaneous emission, the produced entangled states may have some interesting applications in quantum information processing.

id: 0804.3662
title: Jensen Shannon divergence as a measure of the degree of entanglement
authors: A.P. Majtey, A. Borras, M. Casas, P.W. Lamberti, A. Plastino
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, to appear in the special issue of IJQI "Noise, Information and Complexity at Quantum Scale", eds. S. Mancini and F. Marchesoni
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3662
abstract: The notion of distance in Hilbert space is relevant in many scenarios. In particular, distances between quantum states play a central role in quantum information theory. An appropriate measure of distance is the quantum Jensen Shannon divergence (QJSD) between quantum states. Here we study this distance as a geometrical measure of entanglement and apply it to different families of states.

id: 0804.3673
title: Landau levels on the 2D torus: a numerical approach
authors: Enrico Onofri
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3673
abstract: A numerical method is presented which allows to compute the spectrum of the Schroedinger operator for a particle constrained on a two dimensional flat torus under the combined action of a transverse magnetic field and any conservative force. The method employs a fast Fourier transform to accurately represent the momentum variables and takes into account the twisted boundary conditions required by the presence of the magnetic field. An accuracy of twelve digits is attained even with coarse grids. Landau levels are reproduced in the case of a uniform field satisfying Dirac's condition. A new fine structure of levels within the single Landau level is formed when the field has a sinusoidal component with period commensurable to the integer magnetic charge.

id: 0804.3683
title: An additive and operational entanglement measure: conditional entanglement of mutual information
authors: Dong Yang, Michal Horodecki, Z. D. Wang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 140501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3683
abstract: Based on the monogamy of entanglement, we develop the technique of quantum conditioning to build an {\it additive} entanglement measure: the conditional entanglement of mutual information. Its {\it operational} meaning is elaborated to be the minimal net "flow of qubits" in the process of partial state merging. The result and conclusion can also be generalized to multipartite entanglement cases.

id: 0804.3686
title: Hidden variable models for entanglements can or cannot have a local component?
authors: Sofia Wechsler
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Substantial modification, an improved experiment proposed for examination, additional argumentation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3686
abstract: A recent article of Colbeck and Renner tackled the problem whether entanglements may be explained by combined models of local and non-local hidden variables. To the difference from previous works they considered models in which each pair of entangled particles behaves in the same way, and the particles in the pair are equivalent, i.e. each of them produces its response to a measurement according to both local and non-local hidden variables. Their article aimed at proving that the local hidden variable component in such models has no effect on the measurement results, i.e. only the non-local variables are relevant. However, their proof deals with a very restrictive case and assumes questionable constraints on the hidden variables. The present text studies the Colbeck and Renner class of models on a less restrictive case and under no constraints on the hidden variables. It is shown again that the local component cannot have any influence on the results. However, the Colbeck and Renner class of models is not the only one possible. A different class is described, and it admits local hidden variables by the side of the non-local influence. This class presents a couple of advantages.

id: 0804.3708
title: Effective Hamiltonian for piecewise flat potentials and masses
authors: Lis Dekar
comments: 10 pages, Submitted to Phys.Lett.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3708
abstract: We consider a class of Hermitian Hamiltonians with position-dependent mass $H=((m^alpha)p(m^beta)p(m^alpha))/2+\V$ with $2(alpha)+\beta=-1$. We apply these Hamiltonians to different piecewise flat potentials and masses (step, barrier, well and multibarrier). To raise the ordering ambiguity we impose that the transmission coefficient tends to the unity as the energy increases indefinitely. We arrive at the conclusion that the form $H_flat=(m^(-1/4)pm^(-1/2)pm^(-1/4))/2+\V$ of the effective Hamiltonian is the most adequate to describe such flat potentials and masses systems.

id: 0804.3710
title: Ultralong quantum optical storage using reversible inhomogeneous spin ensembles with an optical locking method
authors: Byoung S. Ham
comments: 4 pages included 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3710
abstract: A novel method of multi-bit quantum optical data storage is presented, where the storage time can be lengthened far beyond the spin phase-decay time in a reversible spin inhomogeneous system excited by consecutive resonant Raman optical data pulses. The ultralong storage time is obtained by an optical population locking mechanism of modified rephasing process. This gives potentials to quantum repeaters utilizing quantum memories for long distance quantum communications, in which ultralong storage time plays a major role.

id: 0804.3773
title: Lorentz invariant photon number density
authors: Margaret Hawton
comments: As published in Phys. Rev. A 78, 012111 (2008). Two sentences following Eq. (19) deleted
journal: Phys.Rev.A78:012111,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3773
abstract: A Lorentz invariant positive definite expression for photon number density is derived as the absolute square of the invariant scalar product of a polarization sensitive position eigenvector and the photon wave function. It is found that this scalar product is independent of the form chosen for the wave function and that the normalized positive frequency vector potential-electric field pair is a convenient choice of wave function in the presence of matter. The number amplitude describing a localized state is a delta-function at the instant at which localization and detection are seen as simultaneous.

id: 0804.3794
title: Abruption decay of entanglement and quantum communication through noise channels
authors: Nasser Metwally
comments: 
journal: Quantum information processing, Volume 9, Number 4, 429-440 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3794
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of two qubits state through the Bloch channel. It is found that the degradation and sudden-death of the entanglement depend on the channel's parameters and the structure of the input state. Starting from partially entangled states as input state, the output states are more robust compared with those obtained from initial maximally entangled states. Also the survivability of entanglement increased as the absolute equilibrium values of the channel increased or the ratio between the longitudinal and transverse relaxation times gets smaller. Ability of using the output states as quantum channels to perform quantum teleportation is investigated. The idea that the useful output states are used to achieve the original quantum teleportation protocol is discussed.

id: 0804.3799
title: Collinear source of polarization-entangled photon pairs at non-degenerate wavelengths
authors: Pavel Trojek, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, accepted in Applied Physics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3799
abstract: We report on a simple but highly efficient source of polarization-entangled photon pairs at non-degenerate wavelengths. The fully collinear configuration of the source enables very high coupling efficiency into a single optical mode and allows the use of long nonlinear crystals. With optimized dispersion compensation it is possible to use a free-running laser diode as pump source and to reach an entanglement fidelity of 99.4 % at rates as high as 27000 pairs/s per mW of pump power. This greatly enhances the practicality of the source for applications in quantum communication and metrology.

id: 0804.3857
title: PT-symmetric Sturmians
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 13 pp
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3857
abstract: Sturmian bound states emerging at a fixed energy and numbered by a complete set of real eigencouplings are considered. For Sturm-Schroedinger equations which are manifestly non-Hermitian we outline the way along which the correct probabilistic interpretation of the system can constructively be re-established via a new formula for the metric. PT-symmetrized Coulomb potential is chosen for illustration purposes.

id: 0804.3876
title: Local asymptotic normality for finite dimensional quantum systems
authors: Jonas Kahn, Madalin Guta
comments: 64 pages
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 289, 597-652 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3876
abstract: We extend our previous results on local asymptotic normality (LAN) for qubits, to quantum systems of arbitrary finite dimension $d$. LAN means that the quantum statistical model consisting of $n$ identically prepared $d$-dimensional systems with joint state $\rho^{\otimes n}$ converges as $n\to\infty$ to a statistical model consisting of classical and quantum Gaussian variables with fixed and known covariance matrix, and unknown means related to the parameters of the density matrix $\rho$. Remarkably, the limit model splits into a product of a classical Gaussian with mean equal to the diagonal parameters, and independent harmonic oscillators prepared in thermal equilibrium states displaced by an amount proportional to the off-diagonal elements. As in the qubits case, LAN is the main ingredient in devising a general two step adaptive procedure for the optimal estimation of completely unknown $d$-dimensional quantum states. This measurement strategy shall be described in a forthcoming paper.

id: 0804.3957
title: Distribution of continuous-variable entanglement by separable Gaussian states
authors: Ladislav Mi?ta, Jr., Natalia Korolkova
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3957
abstract: Entangling two systems at distant locations using a {\it separable} mediating ancilla is a counterintuitive phenomenon proposed for qubits by T. Cubitt {\it et al}. [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 91}, 037902 (2003)]. We show that such entanglement distribution is possible with Gaussian states, using a certain three-mode fully separable mixed Gaussian state and linear optics elements readily available in experiments. Two modes of the state become entangled by sequentially mixing them on two beam splitters, while the third one remains separable in all stages of the protocol.

id: 0804.3976
title: Matrix product operator representations
authors: V. Murg, J.I. Cirac, B. Pirvu, F. Verstraete
comments: comment welcome
journal: New J. Phys. 12 025012 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3976
abstract: We show how to construct relevant families of matrix product operators in one and higher dimensions. Those form the building blocks for the numerical simulation methods based on matrix product states and projected entangled pair states. In particular, we construct translational invariant matrix product operators suitable for time evolution, and show how such descriptions are possible for Hamiltonians with long-range interactions. We illustrate how those tools can be exploited for constructing new algorithms for simulating quantum spin systems.

id: 0804.3981
title: Narrow-Band Biphoton Generation near Atomic Resonance
authors: Shengwang Du, Jianming Wen, Morton H. Rubin
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, a review on narrow-band paired photons generated from an atomic-gase medium near resonance, submitted to JOSA B (2008)
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 25, Issue 12, pp. C98-C108 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3981
abstract: Generating nonclassical light offers a benchmark tool for the fundamental research and potential applications in quantum optics. Conventionally, it has become a standard technique to produce the nonclassical light through the nonlinear optical processes occurring in nonlinear crystals. In this review we describe using cold atomic-gas media to generate such nonclassical light, especially focusing on narrow-band biphoton generation. Compared with the standard procedure, the new biphoton source has such properties as long coherence time, long coherence length, high spectral brightness, and high conversion efficiency. In this paper we concentrate on the theoretical aspect of the entangled two-photon state produced from the four-wave mixing in a multilevel atomic ensemble. We show that both linear and nonlinear optical responses to the generated fields play an important role in determining the biphoton waveform and, consequently on the two-photon temporal correlation. There are two characteristic regimes determined by whether the linear or nonlinear coherence time is dominant. In addition, our model provides a clear physical picture that brings insight into understanding biphoton optics with this new source. We apply our model to recent work on generating narrow-band (and even subnatural linewidth) paired photons using the technique of electromagnetically induced transparency and slow-light effect in cold atoms, and find good agreements with experimental results.

id: 0804.4013
title: Effective electromagnetic theory for dielectric media
authors: Finn Ravndal
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX; two new references added; shortened for letter and minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4013
abstract: Light in a dielectric medium moves slower than in vacuum. The corresponding electromagnetic field equations are then no longer invariant under ordinary Lorentz transformations, but only under such transformations corresponding to this reduced velocity. Based on this physical symmetry, an effective theory for low-energy electromagnetic phenomena in dielectrics is constructed. It has none of the problems of the old formulations of Minkowski and Abraham. Dispersion in the optical regime and the Kerr effect arise in a natural way from higher order interaction terms. The effective field theory is quantized by standard methods and quantum corrections can be calculated in a systematic way. Thus it relates many different classical and quantum optical phenomena into a unified description.

id: 0804.4022
title: Quantum-inspired interferometry with chirped laser pulses
authors: R. Kaltenbaek, J. Lavoie, D. N. Biggerstaff, K. J. Resch
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 4, 864-868 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4022
abstract: We introduce and implement an interferometric technique based on chirped femtosecond laser pulses and nonlinear optics. The interference manifests as a high-visibility (> 85%) phase-insensitive dip in the intensity of an optical beam when the two interferometer arms are equal to within the coherence length of the light. This signature is unique in classical interferometry, but is a direct analogue to Hong-Ou-Mandel quantum interference. Our technique exhibits all the metrological advantages of the quantum interferometer, but with signals at least 10^7 times greater. In particular we demonstrate enhanced resolution, robustness against loss, and automatic dispersion cancellation. Our interferometer offers significant advantages over previous technologies, both quantum and classical, in precision time delay measurements and biomedical imaging.

id: 0804.4045
title: A classification of phenomena in a two double-slit experiment in terms of symmetries of permutations of particle labels and attributes
authors: Genta Ito
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4045
abstract: Permutations of particle labels are usually used to illustrate the relationship between classical and quantum statistics. We use permutations of attributes/properties of particles to express properties of waves. We express events of the well-known two-double-slit experiment (in regimes that are appropriate to quantum interference and classical interference) in terms of symmetries of permutations of particle labels and attributes. We also obtain a new system called residual interference, and suggest an experiment to detect it.

id: 0804.4046
title: Multipartite Bell-type inequalities for arbitrary numbers of settings and outcomes per site
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: 21 pages, this paper is a sequel to arxiv:0804.2398 [quant-ph]; v.3 is edited
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor 41 (2008), 445304 (18pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4046
abstract: For a multipartite correlation experiment with an arbitrary number of settings and any spectral type of outcomes at each site, we introduce a single general representation incorporating in a unique manner all Bell-type inequalities for either correlation functions or joint probabilities that have been introduced or will be introduced in the literature. Specifying this general representation for correlation functions, we prove that the form of any correlation Bell-type inequality does not depend on a spectral type of observed outcomes, in particular, on their numbers at different sites, and is determined only by extremal values of outcomes at each site. We also specify the general form of bounds in Bell-type inequalities on joint probabilities. Our approach to the derivation of Bell-type inequalities is universal, concise and can be applied to a multipartite correlation experiment with outcomes of any spectral type, discrete or continuous. We, in particular, prove that, for an N-partite quantum state, possibly, infinite dimensional, admitting the 2x...x2-setting LHV description, the Mermin-Klyshko inequality holds for any two bounded quantum observables per site, not necessarily dichotomic.

id: 0804.4050
title: Matchgates and classical simulation of quantum circuits
authors: Richard Jozsa, Akimasa Miyake
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 464, 3089-3106 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4050
abstract: Let G(A,B) denote the 2-qubit gate which acts as the 1-qubit SU(2) gates A and B in the even and odd parity subspaces respectively, of two qubits. Using a Clifford algebra formalism we show that arbitrary uniform families of circuits of these gates, restricted to act only on nearest neighbour (n.n.) qubit lines, can be classically efficiently simulated. This reproduces a result originally proved by Valiant using his matchgate formalism, and subsequently related by others to free fermionic physics. We further show that if the n.n. condition is slightly relaxed, to allowing the same gates to act only on n.n. and next-n.n. qubit lines, then the resulting circuits can efficiently perform universal quantum computation. From this point of view, the gap between efficient classical and quantum computational power is bridged by a very modest use of a seemingly innocuous resource (qubit swapping). We also extend the simulation result above in various ways. In particular, by exploiting properties of Clifford operations in conjunction with the Jordan-Wigner representation of a Clifford algebra, we show how one may generalise the simulation result above to provide further classes of classically efficiently simulatable quantum circuits, which we call Gaussian quantum circuits.

id: 0804.4063
title: Dynamical symmetries of two-dimensional systems in relativistic quantum mechanics
authors: Fu-Lin Zhang, Ci Song, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 3 pages, Accepted by Annals of Physics (New York)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4063
abstract: The two-dimensional Dirac Hamiltonian with equal scalar and vector potentials has been proved commuting with the deformed orbital angular momentum $L$. When the potential takes the Coulomb form, the system has an SO(3) symmetry, and similarly the harmonic oscillator potential possesses an SU(2) symmetry. The generators of the symmetric groups are derived for these two systems separately. The corresponding energy spectra are yielded naturally from the Casimir operators. Their non-relativistic limits are also discussed.

id: 0804.4077
title: Adiabatic Theorem in the Case of Continuous Spectra
authors: M. Maamache, Y. Saadi
comments: 7pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4077
abstract: In this paper,we present a rigorous demonstration and discussion of the quantum adiabatic theorem for systems having a non degenerate continuous spectrum. A new strategy is initiated by defining a kind of gap, "a virtual gap", for the continuous spectrum through the notion of eigendifferential (Weyl's packet) and using the differential projector operator. Finally we obtain the validity condition of the adiabatic approximation.

id: 0804.4082
title: Generalized Geometrical Phase in the Case of Continuous Spectra
authors: M. Maamache, Y. Saadi
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4082
abstract: A quantal system in an eigenstate, of operators with a continuous nondegenerate eigenvalue spectrum, slowly transported round a circuit C by varing parameters in its Hamiltonian, will acquire a generalized geometrical phase factor. An explicit formula for a generalized geometrical phase is derived in terms of the eigenstates of the Hamiltonian. As an illustration the generalized geometrical phase is calculated for relativistic spinning particles in slowly-changing electromagnetic fields. It is shown that the the S-matrix and the usual scattering (with negligible reflexion) phase shift can be interpreted as a generalized geometrical phase.

id: 0804.4088
title: Causal signal transmission by quantum fields. I. Response of the harmonic oscillator
authors: L.I. Plimak, S. Stenholm
comments: Accepted to Annals of Physics
journal: AnnalsPhys.323:1963-1988,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4088
abstract: It is shown that response properties of a quantum harmonic oscillator are in essence those of a classical oscillator, and that, paradoxical as it may be, these classical properties underlie all quantum dynamical properties of the system. The results are extended to non-interacting bosonic fields, both neutral and charged.

id: 0804.4091
title: Causal signal transmission by quantum fields. II. Quantum-statistical response of interacting bosons
authors: L.I. Plimak, S. Stenholm
comments: Accepted to Annals of Physics
journal: AnnalsPhys.323:1989-2017,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4091
abstract: We analyse nonperturbatively signal transmission patterns in Green's functions of interacting quantum fields. Quantum field theory is re-formulated in terms of the nonlinear quantum-statistical response of the field. This formulation applies equally to interacting relativistic fields and nonrelativistic models. Of crucial importance is that all causality properties to be expected of a response formulation indeed hold. Being by construction equivalent to Schwinger's closed-time-loop formalism, this formulation is also shown to be related naturally to both Kubo's linear response and Glauber's macroscopic photodetection theories, being a unification of the two with generalisation to the nonlinear quantum-statistical response problem. In this paper we introduce response formulation of bosons; response reformulation of fermions will be subject of a separate paper.

id: 0804.4117
title: Slow Excitation Trapping in Quantum Transport with Long-Range Interactions
authors: Oliver Muelken, Volker Pernice, Alexander Blumen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 78, 021115 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4117
abstract: Long-range interactions slow down the excitation trapping in quantum transport processes on a one-dimensional chain with traps at both ends. This is counter intuitive and in contrast to the corresponding classical processes with long-range interactions, which lead to faster excitation trapping. We give a pertubation theoretical explanation of this effect.

id: 0804.4118
title: Coherent state exchange in multi-prover quantum interactive proof systems
authors: Debbie Leung, Ben Toner, John Watrous
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4118
abstract: We show that any number of parties can coherently exchange any one pure quantum state for another, without communication, given prior shared entanglement. Two applications of this fact to the study of multi-prover quantum interactive proof systems are given. First, we prove that there exists a one-round two-prover quantum interactive proof system for which no finite amount of shared entanglement allows the provers to implement an optimal strategy. More specifically, for every fixed input string, there exists a sequence of strategies for the provers, with each strategy requiring more entanglement than the last, for which the probability for the provers to convince the verifier to accept approaches 1. It is not possible, however, for the provers to convince the verifier to accept with certainty with a finite amount of shared entanglement. The second application is a simple proof that multi-prover quantum interactive proofs can be transformed to have near-perfect completeness by the addition of one round of communication.

id: 0804.4151
title: Observation of narrow Autler-Townes components in the resonant response of a dense atomic gas
authors: Vladimir A. Sautenkov, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, Eric R. Eliel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4151
abstract: We have experimentally studied the reflection of a weak probe beam from a dense atomic potassium vapor in the presence of a strong laser field tuned to the atomic resonance transition. We have observed an Autler-Townes doublet under hitherto unexplored conditions, namely that the Rabi frequency induced by the strong laser field is much smaller than the self-broadened width of the resonance transition of the unexcited vapor. We attribute our observation to a reduction of the atomic decoherence by the strong drive field. We present a theoretical model of nonlinear processes in a dense atomic gas to explain the observed results.

id: 0804.4206
title: $2N$ qubit "mirror states" for optimal quantum communication
authors: Sreraman Muralidharan, Siddharth Karumanchi, Sakshi Jain, R. Srikanth, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: To be published in EPJD
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4206
abstract: We introduce a new genuinely 2N qubit state, known as the "mirror state" with interesting entanglement properties. The well known Bell and the cluster states form a special case of these "mirror states", for N=1 and N=2 respectively. It can be experimentally realized using $SWAP$ and multiply controlled phase shift operations. After establishing the general conditions for a state to be useful for various communicational protocols involving quantum and classical information, it is shown that the present state can optimally implement algorithms for the quantum teleportation of an arbitrary N qubit state and achieve quantum information splitting in all possible ways. With regard to superdense coding, one can send 2N classical bits by sending only N qubits and consuming N ebits of entanglement. Explicit comparison of the mirror state with the rearranged N Bell pairs and the linear cluster states is considered for these quantum protocols. We also show that mirror states are more robust than the rearranged Bell pairs with respect to a certain class of collisional decoherence.

id: 0804.4207
title: Unified Approach to Universal Cloning and Phase-Covariant Cloning
authors: Jia-Zhong Hu, Zong-Wen Yu, Xiang-Bin Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4207
abstract: We analyze the problem of approximate quantum cloning when the quantum state is between two latitudes on the Bloch's sphere. We present an analytical formula for the optimized 1-to-2 cloning. The formula unifies the universal quantum cloning (UQCM) and the phase covariant quantum cloning.

id: 0804.4215
title: Minimal classical communication and measurement complexity for quantum information splitting of a two qubit state
authors: Siddharth Karumanchi, Sreraman Muralidharan, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 3 pages, Brief report
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4215
abstract: We provide explicit schemes for quantum information splitting (QIS) of real or equatorial two qubit states among two parties, through the five particle cluster and Brown states respectively. The schemes introduced are neither fully deterministic nor completely probabilistic and are carried out in the case where, the information that is to be shared is partially or fully known to the sender. We show that, QIS can be accomplished with just two classical bits, as against four classical bits, when the information is unknown to the sender.

id: 0804.4243
title: Character of Locally Inequivalent Classes of States and Entropy of Entanglement
authors: Indrani Chattopadhyay, Debasis Sarkar
comments: 4 pages, revtex4, no figure, accepted in Physical Review A (rapid communications)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 050305(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4243
abstract: In this letter we have established the physical character of pure bipartite states with the same amount of entanglement in the same Schmidt rank that either they are local unitarily connected or they are incomparable. There exist infinite number of deterministically locally inequivalent classes of pure bipartite states in the same Schmidt rank (starting from three) having same amount of entanglement. Further, if there exists incomparable states with same entanglement in higher Schmidt ranks (greater than three), then they should differ in at least three Schmidt coefficients.

id: 0804.4259
title: Speed-up via Quantum Sampling
authors: Pawel Wocjan, Anura Abeyesinghe
comments: 8 pages, fixed some minor typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4259
abstract: The Markov Chain Monte Carlo method is at the heart of efficient approximation schemes for a wide range of problems in combinatorial enumeration and statistical physics. It is therefore very natural and important to determine whether quantum computers can speed-up classical mixing processes based on Markov chains. To this end, we present a new quantum algorithm, making it possible to prepare a quantum sample, i.e., a coherent version of the stationary distribution of a reversible Markov chain. Our algorithm has a significantly better running time than that of a previous algorithm based on adiabatic state generation. We also show that our methods provide a speed-up over a recently proposed method for obtaining ground states of (classical) Hamiltonians.

id: 0804.4278
title: A new solution of the Schrodinger equation
authors: Yoshio Kishi, SeiIchiro Umehara
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4278
abstract: We obtained a new solution of Schrodinger equation by the method of Euclidean approach (Wick rotation). This is a wave motion which is fluctuating.

id: 0804.4289
title: Solutions to the time-dependent Schrodinger equation in the continuous spectrum case
authors: M. Maamache, Y. Saadi
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4289
abstract: We generalize the Lewis-Riesenfeld technique of solving the time-dependent Schrodinger equation to cases where the invariant has continuous eigenvalues. An explicit formula for a generalized Lewis-Riesenfeld phase is derived in terms of the eigenstates of the invariant. As an illustration the generalized phase is calculated for a particle in a time-dependent linear potential.

id: 0804.4304
title: The Fibonacci Model and the Temperley-Lieb Algebra
authors: Louis H. Kauffman, Samuel J. Lomonaco, Jr
comments: 19 pages, 11 figures, LaTeX document
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4304
abstract: We give an elementary construction of the Fibonacci model, a unitary braid group representation that is universal for quantum computation. This paper is dedicated to Professor C. N. Yang, on his 85-th birthday.

id: 0804.4311
title: The Limiting Distribution of Decoherent Quantum Random Walks
authors: Kai Zhang
comments: 38 pages. 3 figures. Based on a Ph.D. thesis at Temple University
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4311
abstract: The behaviors of one-dimensional quantum random walks are strikingly different from those of classical ones. However, when decoherence is involved, the limiting distributions take on many classical features over time. In this paper, we study the decoherence on both position and ``coin'' spaces of the particle. We propose a new analytical approach to investigate these phenomena and obtain the generating functions which encode all the features of these walks. Specifically, from these generating functions, we find exact analytic expressions of several moments for the time and noise dependence of position. Moreover, the limiting position distributions of decoherent quantum random walks are shown to be Gaussian in an analytical manner. These results explicitly describe the relationship between the system and the level of decoherence.

id: 0804.4316
title: Asymmetric Quantum LDPC Codes
authors: Pradeep Kiran Sarvepalli, Martin Roetteler, Andreas Klappenecker
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, 1 table, to appear in the Proceedings of the 2008 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory
journal: Proceedings 2008 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2008), Toronto, Canada, pp. 305-309, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4316
abstract: Recently, quantum error-correcting codes were proposed that capitalize on the fact that many physical error models lead to a significant asymmetry between the probabilities for bit flip and phase flip errors. An example for a channel which exhibits such asymmetry is the combined amplitude damping and dephasing channel, where the probabilities of bit flips and phase flips can be related to relaxation and dephasing time, respectively. We give systematic constructions of asymmetric quantum stabilizer codes that exploit this asymmetry. Our approach is based on a CSS construction that combines BCH and finite geometry LDPC codes.

id: 0804.4333
title: Measuring position and moment together
authors: Paul Busch, Jukka Kiukas, Pekka Lahti
comments: 4 pages, no figures, to be published in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Physics Letters A 372 (2008) 4379-4380
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4333
abstract: We describe an operational scheme for determining both the position and momentum distributions in a large class of quantum states, together with an experimental implementation.

id: 0804.4334
title: Wave packet Rabi oscillations from phase-space flow in mesoscopic cavity QED
authors: Omri Gat
comments: 4 Pages, 2 figures, REVTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4334
abstract: The dynamics of the Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian is studied in the semiclassical limit by reducing it to quantum normal form and deriving the phase space dynamics of classically smooth observables. The resulting systematic semiclassical approximation is used to analyze the Rabi oscillations of a photon wave packet revealing subtle consequences of the uncertainty principle.

id: 0804.4344
title: Computation with Coherent States via Teleportations to and from a Quantum Bus
authors: Marcus Silva, Casey R. Myers
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062314 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4344
abstract: In this paper we present results illustrating the power and flexibility of one-bit teleportations in quantum bus computation. We first show a scheme to perform a universal set of gates on continuous variable modes, which we call a quantum bus or qubus, using controlled phase-space rotations, homodyne detection, ancilla qubits and single qubit measurement. The resource usage for this scheme is lower than any previous scheme to date. We then illustrate how one-bit teleportations into a qubus can be used to encode qubit states into a quantum repetition code, which in turn can be used as an efficient method for producing GHZ states that can be used to create large cluster states. Each of these schemes can be modified so that teleportation measurements are post-selected to yield outputs with higher fidelity, without changing the physical parameters of the system.

id: 0804.4349
title: State discrimination with error margin and its locality
authors: A. Hayashi, T. Hashimoto, M. Horibe
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, typos corrected, references and an appendix added, to appear in Phys. Rev. A 78
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012333 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4349
abstract: There are two common settings in a quantum-state discrimination problem. One is minimum-error discrimination where a wrong guess (error) is allowed and the discrimination success probability is maximized. The other is unambiguous discrimination where errors are not allowed but the inconclusive result "I don't know" is possible. We investigate discrimination problem with a finite margin imposed on the error probability. The two common settings correspond to the error margins 1 and 0. For arbitrary error margin, we determine the optimal discrimination probability for two pure states with equal occurrence probabilities. We also consider the case where the states to be discriminated are multipartite, and show that the optimal discrimination probability can be achieved by local operations and classical communication.

id: 0804.4374
title: Wave function of particle and the coordinates distribution in relativistic quantum theory
authors: V. F. Krotov
comments: 14 pages, in Russian; English translation (14 pages) have been added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4374
abstract: The conditions for observation of the particle coordinates, required by logic of the Special Relativity and filtering the quantum field effects, are described. A general relation between the corresponding density of probability and the wave function is found. It is a relativistic invariant describing probability of the particle emergences in space -time. This density is concretized for bosons, both scalar and vector (including photon), charged and neutral, also electron. The Heisenberg's uncertainty relations have been approved in regards to relativistic particle. As applied to the quantum field, this new construction is transformed to new characteristic of the particles distribution in space-time, which complete distribution throughout impulses. The operators of these distributions and the invariant relativistic description for free quantum fields have been obtained. These new properties of the particles and fields are proposed for experimental investigations.

id: 0804.4379
title: A unique quasi-probability for projective yes-no measurements
authors: Lars M. Johansen
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4379
abstract: From an analysis of projective measurements, it is shown that the Wigner rule is the unique operational quasi-probability for the post-measurement state. A unique pre-measurement quasi-probability is derived from a principle of invariance of measurement disturbance under orthogonal projector complementation. Physical arguments for this principle are given. The informationally complete complex extension of the quasi-probability is also derived. Nonclassicality of this quasi-probability is due to measurement disturbance. The same quasi-probability follows from weak measurements.

id: 0804.4406
title: Evolution of spin entanglement and an entanglement witness in multiple-quantum NMR experiments
authors: E. B. Fel'dman, A. N. Pyrkov
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: JETP Letters, Vol. 88, pp. 398--401 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4406
abstract: We investigate the evolution of entanglement in multiple-quantum (MQ) NMR experiments in crystals with pairs of close nuclear spins-1/2. The initial thermodynamic equilibrium state of the system in a strong external magnetic field evolves under the non-secular part of the dipolar Hamiltonian. As a result, MQ coherences of the zeroth and plus/minus second orders appear. A simple condition for the emergence of entanglement is obtained. We show that the measure of the spin pair entanglement, concurrence, coincides qualitatively with the intensity of MQ coherences of the plus/minus second order and hence the entanglement can be studied with MQ NMR methods. We introduce an Entanglement Witness using MQ NMR coherences of the plus/minus second order.

id: 0804.4411
title: Experimental quantum tossing of a single coin
authors: A.T. Nguyen, J. Frison, K. Phan Huy, S. Massar
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4411
abstract: The cryptographic protocol of coin tossing consists of two parties, Alice and Bob, that do not trust each other, but want to generate a random bit. If the parties use a classical communication channel and have unlimited computational resources, one of them can always cheat perfectly. Here we analyze in detail how the performance of a quantum coin tossing experiment should be compared to classical protocols, taking into account the inevitable experimental imperfections. We then report an all-optical fiber experiment in which a single coin is tossed whose randomness is higher than achievable by any classical protocol and present some easily realisable cheating strategies by Alice and Bob.

id: 0804.4416
title: Jahn-Teller systems from a cavity QED perspective
authors: Jonas Larson
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures. Replaced with final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 033833 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4416
abstract: Jahn-Teller systems and the Jahn-Teller effect are discussed in terms of cavity QED models. By expressing the field modes in a quadrature representation, it is shown that certain setups of a two-level system interacting with a bimodal cavity is described by the Jahn-Teller $E\times\epsilon$ Hamiltonian. We identify the corresponding adiabatic potential surfaces and the conical intersection. The effects of a non-zero geometrical Berry phase, governed by encircling the conical intersection, are studied in detail both theoretically and numerically. The numerical analysis is carried out by applying a wave packet propagation method, more commonly used in molecular or chemical physics, and analytic expressions for the characteristic time scales are presented. It is found that the collapse-revival structure is greatly influenced by the geometrical phase and as a consequence, the field intensities contain direct information about this phase. We also mention the link between the Jahn-Teller effect and the Dicke phase transition in cavity QED.

id: 0804.4447
title: On the structure of Clifford quantum cellular automata
authors: Dirk-M. Schlingemann, Holger Vogts, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: 28 pages, 2 figures, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4447
abstract: We study reversible quantum cellular automata with the restriction that these are also Clifford operations. This means that tensor products of Pauli operators (or discrete Weyl operators) are mapped to tensor products of Pauli operators. Therefore Clifford quantum cellular automata are induced by symplectic cellular automata in phase space. We characterize these symplectic cellular automata and find that all possible local rules must be, up to some global shift, reflection invariant with respect to the origin. In the one dimensional case we also find that every uniquely determined and translationally invariant stabilizer state can be prepared from a product state by a single Clifford cellular automaton timestep, thereby characterizing these class of stabilizer states, and we show that all 1D Clifford quantum cellular automata are generated by a few elementary operations. We also show that the correspondence between translationally invariant stabilizer states and translationally invariant Clifford operations holds for periodic boundary conditions.

id: 0804.4457
title: Image recognition with an adiabatic quantum computer I. Mapping to quadratic unconstrained binary optimization
authors: Hartmut Neven, Geordie Rose, William G. Macready
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4457
abstract: Many artificial intelligence (AI) problems naturally map to NP-hard optimization problems. This has the interesting consequence that enabling human-level capability in machines often requires systems that can handle formally intractable problems. This issue can sometimes (but possibly not always) be resolved by building special-purpose heuristic algorithms, tailored to the problem in question. Because of the continued difficulties in automating certain tasks that are natural for humans, there remains a strong motivation for AI researchers to investigate and apply new algorithms and techniques to hard AI problems. Recently a novel class of relevant algorithms that require quantum mechanical hardware have been proposed. These algorithms, referred to as quantum adiabatic algorithms, represent a new approach to designing both complete and heuristic solvers for NP-hard optimization problems. In this work we describe how to formulate image recognition, which is a canonical NP-hard AI problem, as a Quadratic Unconstrained Binary Optimization (QUBO) problem. The QUBO format corresponds to the input format required for D-Wave superconducting adiabatic quantum computing (AQC) processors.

id: 0804.4468
title: One-Way Quantum Computing in the Optical Frequency Comb
authors: Nicolas C. Menicucci, Steven T. Flammia, Olivier Pfister
comments: v2: changed author order; 4 pages, 3 figures; supplemental movie available at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 130501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4468
abstract: One-way quantum computing allows any quantum algorithm to be implemented easily using just measurements. The difficult part is creating the universal resource, a cluster state, on which the measurements are made. We propose a radically new approach: a scalable method that uses a single, multimode optical parametric oscillator (OPO). The method is very efficient and generates a continuous-variable cluster state, universal for quantum computation, with quantum information encoded in the quadratures of the optical frequency comb of the OPO.

id: 0804.4479
title: Geometrical Properties of Feynman Path Integrals
authors: Timur F. Kamalov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4479
abstract: This model is one of the possible geometrical interpretations of Quantum Mechanics where found to every image Path correspondence the geodesic trajectory of classical test particles in the random geometry of the stochastic fields background. We are finding to the imagined Feynman Path a classical model of test particles as geodesic trajectory in the curved space of Projected Hilbert space on Bloch's sphere.

id: 0804.4499
title: Coherent states engineering with linear optics: Possible and impossible tasks
authors: Bing He, Jnos A. Bergou
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 053818 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4499
abstract: The general transformation of the product of coherent states $\prod_{i=1}^N|\alpha_i>$ to the output state $\prod_{i=1}^M|\beta_i>$ ($N=M$ or $N\neq M$), which is realizable with linear optical circuit, is characterized with a linear map from the vector $(\alpha^{\ast}_1,...,\alpha^{\ast}_N)$ to $(\beta^{\ast}_1,...,\beta^{\ast}_M)$. A correspondence between the transformations of a product of coherent states and those of a single photon state is established with such linear maps. It is convenient to apply this linear transformation method to design any linear optical scheme working with coherent states. The examples include message encoding and quantum database searching. The limitation of manipulating entangled coherent states with linear optics is also discussed.

id: 0804.4513
title: Tuning the quantum tunneling and quantum information properties among the trion states in coupled quantum dots
authors: Y.B. Wen, W.-X. Yan
comments: 10 figures, 16pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 052332 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4513
abstract: Quantum transition and information properties of the Coulomb coupled trion (electron-electron-hole) in the double quantum dots under the influence of the time-dependent electric field have been studied. Tuning the Hubbard interaction strength amongst the states of electron-hole complexes and the parameters of the ac field, two strikingly different kinds of approximate qubit can be constructed within the eight trion states. The similarity and difference between the electron dynamic entanglement and overlapping of the wavefunction with the Bell state have been elucidated through analyzing these two kinds of qubit.

id: 0804.4523
title: A non-distillability criterion for secret correlations
authors: Lluis Masanes, Andreas Winter
comments: 5 pages
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol.10, No.1&2, pp0152 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4523
abstract: Within entanglement theory there are criteria which certify that some quantum states cannot be distilled into pure entanglement. An example is the positive partial transposition criterion. Here we present, for the first time, the analogous thing for secret correlations. We introduce a computable criterion which certifies that a probability distribution between two honest parties and an eavesdropper cannot be (asymptotically) distilled into a secret key. The existence of non-distillable correlations with positive secrecy cost, also known as bound information, is an open question. This criterion may be the key for finding bound information. However, if it turns out that this criterion does not detect bound information, then, a very interesting consequence follows: any distribution with positive secrecy cost can increase the secrecy content of another distribution. In other words, all correlations with positive secrecy cost constitute a useful resource.

id: 0804.4540
title: Nonlinear quantum metrology using coupled nanomechanical resonators
authors: M.J.Woolley, G.J.Milburn, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, submitted to New Journal of Physics: Special Issue "Mechanical Systems at the Quantum Limit"
journal: New J. Phys. 10 No 12, 125018 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4540
abstract: We consider a nanomechanical analogue of a nonlinear interferometer, consisting of two parallel, flexural nanomechanical resonators, each with an intrinsic Duffing nonlinearity and with a switchable beamsplitter-like coupling between them. We calculate the precision with which the strength of the nonlinearity can be estimated and show that it scales as $1/n^{3/2}$, where $n$ is the mean phonon number of the initial state. This result holds even in the presence of dissipation, but assumes the ability to make measurements of the quadrature components of the nanoresonators.

id: 0804.4556
title: Experimental investigation of the dynamics of entanglement: Sudden death, complementarity, and continuous monitoring of the environment
authors: A. Salles, F. Melo, M. P. Almeida, M. Hor-Meyll, S. P. Walborn, P. H. Souto Ribeiro, L. Davidovich
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures; only .ps was working, now .pdf is also available
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022322 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4556
abstract: We report on an experimental investigation of the dynamics of entanglement between a single qubit and its environment, as well as for pairs of qubits interacting independently with individual environments, using photons obtained from parametric down-conversion. The qubits are encoded in the polarizations of single photons, while the interaction with the environment is implemented by coupling the polarization of each photon with its momentum. A convenient Sagnac interferometer allows for the implementation of several decoherence channels and for the continuous monitoring of the environment. For an initially-entangled photon pair, one observes the vanishing of entanglement before coherence disappears. For a single qubit interacting with an environment, the dynamics of complementarity relations connecting single-qubit properties and its entanglement with the environment is experimentally determined. The evolution of a single qubit under continuous monitoring of the environment is investigated, demonstrating that a qubit may decay even when the environment is found in the unexcited state. This implies that entanglement can be increased by local continuous monitoring, which is equivalent to entanglement distillation. We also present a detailed analysis of the transfer of entanglement from the two-qubit system to the two corresponding environments, between which entanglement may suddenly appear, and show instances for which no entanglement is created between dephasing environments, nor between each of them and the corresponding qubit: the initial two-qubit entanglement gets transformed into legitimate multiqubit entanglement of the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) type.

id: 0804.4564
title: Probability in relativistic Bohmian mechanics of particles and strings
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 12 pages, version accepted for publication in Found. Phys
journal: Found.Phys.38:869-881,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4564
abstract: Even though the Bohmian trajectories given by integral curves of the conserved Klein-Gordon current may involve motions backwards in time, the natural relativistic probability density of particle positions is well-defined. The Bohmian theory predicts subtle deviations from the statistical predictions of more conventional formulations of quantum theory, but it seems that no present experiment rules this theory out. The generalization to the case of many particles or strings is straightforward, provided that a preferred foliation of spacetime is given.

id: 0804.4589
title: Loading of large ion Coulomb crystals into a linear Paul trap incorporating an optical cavity for cavity QED studies
authors: P. Herskind, A. Dantan, M. B. Langkilde-Lauesen, A. Mortensen, J. L. Sorensen, M. Drewsen
comments: 
journal: Appl Phys B 93, 373 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4589
abstract: We report on the loading of large ion Coulomb crystals into a linear Paul trap incorporating a high-Finesse optical cavity (F~3200). We show that, even though the 3-mm diameter dielectric cavity mirrors are placed between the trap electrodes and separated by only 12 mm, it is possible to produce in situ ion Coulomb crystals containing more than 100.000 calcium ions of various isotopes and with lengths of up to several millimeters along the cavity axis. We show that the number of ions inside the cavity mode is in principle high enough to achieve strong collective coupling between the ion Coulomb crystal and the cavity field. The results thus represent an important step towards ion trap based Cavity Quantum ElectroDynamics (CQED) experiments using cold ion Coulomb crystals.

id: 0804.4595
title: Mixed-State Entanglement and Quantum Teleportation through Noisy Channels
authors: Eylee Jung, Mi-Ra Hwang, DaeKil Park, Jin-Woo Son, S. Tamaryan
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A : Mathematical and Theoretical 41 (2008) 385302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4595
abstract: The quantum teleportation with noisy EPR state is discussed. Using an optimal decomposition technique, we compute the concurrence, entanglement of formation and Groverian measure for various noisy EPR resources. It is shown analytically that all entanglement measures reduce to zero when $\bar{F} \leq 2/3$, where $\bar{F}$ is an average fidelity between Alice and Bob. This fact indicates that the entanglement is a genuine physical resource for the teleportation process. This fact gives valuable clues on the optimal decomposition for higher-qubit mixed states. As an example, the optimal decompositions for the three-qubit mixed states are discussed by adopting a teleportation with W-state

id: 0804.4618
title: Fleming's bound for the decay of mixed states
authors: Florian Fr?wis, Gebhard Grbl, Markus Penz
comments: 12 pages
journal: Journ Physics A 41 (2008) 405201 (11pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4618
abstract: Fleming's inequality is generalized to the decay function of mixed states. We show that for any symmetric hamiltonian $h$ and for any density operator $\rho$ on a finite dimensional Hilbert space with the orthogonal projection $\Pi$ onto the range of $\rho$ there holds the estimate $\Tr(\Pi \rme^{-\rmi ht}\rho \rme^{\rmi ht}) \geq\cos^{2}((\Delta h)_{\rho}t) $ for all real $t$ with $(\Delta h)_{\rho}| t| \leq\pi/2.$ We show that equality either holds for all $t\in\mathbb{R}$ or it does not hold for a single $t$ with $0<(\Delta h)_{\rho}| t| \leq\pi/2.$ All the density operators saturating the bound for all $t\in\mathbb{R},$ i.e. the mixed intelligent states, are determined.

id: 0804.4627
title: Quantitative study of desctructive quantum interference effect on the linklin CPT
authors: E. Breschi, G. Kazakov, R. Lammegger, G. Mileti, B. Matisov, L. Windholz
comments: 10 pages, 9 figure, re-submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 063837 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4627
abstract: We investigate experimentally and theoretically the Coherent Population Trapping (CPT) effect occurring in 87Rb D1 line due to the interaction with linearly polarized laser light (lin||lin CPT). In this configuration the coherence has a quadrupol like nature and is strongly influenced by the hyperfine structure of the excited state; consequently the quantum interference between CPT states is an essential feature of this interaction scheme. We study the lin||lin CPT signal as a function of the laser optical detuning. The comparison between experimental and theoretical results allows us to quantify the contribution from different CPT states to the total signal. Based on these results we investigate the signal depending on both the pressure broadening of the optical transition and the laser linewidth, and we find in which conditions the laser linewidth does not degrade the amplitude of the lin||lin CPT.

id: 0804.4641
title: Generation of atom-atom correlations inside and outside the mutual light cone
authors: Juan Len, Carlos Sabn
comments: v2: Minor changes, references added. v3: full revision, appendix added. v4: Minor changes. Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4641
abstract: We analyze whether a pair of neutral two level atoms can become entangled in a finite time while they remain causally disconnected. The interaction with the e. m. field is treated perturbatively in the electric dipole approximation. We start from an initial vacuum state and obtain the final atomic correlations for the cases where n = 0, 1, or 2 photons are produced in a time t, and also when the final field state is unknown. Our results show that correlations are sizable inside and outside the mutual light cone for n= 1 and 2, and also that quantum correlations become classical by tracing over the field state. For n = 0 we obtain entanglement generation by photon propagation between the atoms, the correlations come from the indistinguishability of the source for n = 1, and may give rise to entanglement swapping for n = 2.

id: 0804.4669
title: Measuring the Complete Transverse Spatial Mode Spectrum of a Wave Field
authors: Gabriel F. Calvo, Antonio Picn, Roberta Zambrini
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 173902 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4669
abstract: We put forward a method that allows the experimental determination of the entire spatial mode spectrum of any arbitrary monochromatic wave field in a plane normal to its propagation direction. For coherent optical fields, our spatial spectrum analyzer can be implemented with a small number of benchmark refractive elements embedded in a single Mach-Zehnder interferometer. We detail an efficient setup for measuring in the Hermite-Gaussian mode basis. Our scheme should also be feasible in the context of atom optics for analyzing the spatial profiles of macroscopic matter waves.

id: 0804.4677
title: Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians of Lie algebraic type
authors: Paulo E.G. Assis, Andreas Fring
comments: 27 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 015203
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4677
abstract: We analyse a class of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians, which can be expressed bilinearly in terms of generators of a sl(2,R)-Lie algebra or their isomorphic su(1,1)-counterparts. The Hamlitonians are prototypes for solvable models of Lie algebraic type. Demanding a real spectrum and the existence of a well defined metric, we systematically investigate the constraints these requirements impose on the coupling constants of the model and the parameters in the metric operator. We compute isospectral Hermitian counterparts for some of the original non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. Alternatively we employ a generalized Bogoliubov transformation, which allows to compute explicitly real energy eigenvalue spectra for these type of Hamiltonians, together with their eigenstates. We compare the two approaches.

id: 0804.4703
title: Quantum Non-locality and Partial Transposition for Continuous-Variable Systems
authors: Alejo Salles, Daniel Cavalcanti, Antonio Acn
comments: 4 pages, no figures; reference added, minor changes, close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 040404 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4703
abstract: A continuous-variable Bell inequality, valid for an arbitrary number of observers measuring observables with an arbitrary number of outcomes, was recently introduced in [Cavalcanti \emph{et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 99}, 210405 (2007)]. We prove that any $n$-mode quantum state violating this inequality with quadrature measurements necessarily has a negative partial transposition. Our results thus establish the first link between nonlocality and bound entanglement for continuous-variable systems.

id: 0804.4725
title: Running a Quantum Circuit at the Speed of Data
authors: Nemanja Isailovic, Mark Whitney, Yatish Patel, John Kubiatowicz
comments: To appear in 35th International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA '08)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4725
abstract: We analyze circuits for a number of kernels from popular quantum computing applications, characterizing the hardware resources necessary to take ancilla preparation off the critical path. The result is a chip entirely dominated by ancilla generation circuits. To address this issue, we introduce optimized ancilla factories and analyze their structure and physical layout for ion trap technology. We introduce a new quantum computing architecture with highly concentrated data-only regions surrounded by shared ancilla factories. The results are a reduced dependence on costly teleportation, more efficient distribution of generated ancillae and more than five times speedup over previous proposals.

id: 0804.4727
title: Complete conditions for legitimate Wigner distributions
authors: Hyunchul Nha
comments: 6 pages, published version with improved presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012103 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4727
abstract: Given a real-valued phase-space function, it is a nontrivial task to determine whether it corresponds to a Wigner distribution for a physically acceptable quantum state. This topic has been of fundamental interest for long, and in a modern application, it can be related to the problem of entanglement detection for multi-mode cases. In this paper, we present a hierarchy of complete conditions for a physically realizable Wigner distribution. Our derivation is based on the normally-ordered expansion, in terms of annihilation andcreation operators, of the quasi-density operator corresponding to the phase-space function in question. As a by-product, it is shown that the phase-space distributions with elliptical symmetry can be readily diagonalized in our representation, facilitating the test of physical realizability. We also illustrate how the current formulation can be connected to the detection of bipartite entanglement for continuous variables.

id: 0804.4755
title: On Hamiltonians Generating Optimal-Speed Evolutions
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 014101 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4755
abstract: We present a simple derivation of the formula for the Hamiltonian operator(s) that achieve the fastest possible unitary evolution between given initial and final states. We discuss how this formula is modified in pseudo-Hermitian quantum mechanics and provide an explicit expression for the most general optimal-speed quasi-Hermitian Hamiltonian. Our approach allows for an explicit description of the metric- (inner product-) dependence of the lower bound on the travel time and the universality (metric-independence) of the upper bound on the speed of unitary evolutions.

id: 0804.4766
title: Quantum Theory of Transmission Line Resonator-Assisted Cooling of a Micromechanical Resonator
authors: Yong Li, Ying-Dan Wang, Fei Xue, C. Bruder
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 134301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4766
abstract: We propose a quantum description of the cooling of a micromechanical flexural oscillator by a one-dimensional transmission line resonator via a force that resembles cavity radiation pressure. The mechanical oscillator is capacitively coupled to the central conductor of the transmission line resonator. At the optimal point, the micromechanical oscillator can be cooled close to the ground state, and the cooling can be measured by homodyne detection of the output microwave signal.

id: 0804.4769
title: Quantum motion effects in an ultracold-atom Mach-Zehnder interferometer
authors: I. Lizuain, S. V. Mousavi, D. Seidel, J. G. Muga
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 013633 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4769
abstract: We study the effect of quantum motion in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer where ultracold, two-level atoms cross a $\pi/2 $-$\pi $-$\pi/2$ configuration of separated, laser illuminated regions. Explicit and exact expressions are obtained for transmission amplitudes of monochromatic, incident atomic waves using recurrence relations which take into account all possible paths: the direct ones usually considered in the simple semiclassical treatment, but including quantum motion corrections, and the paths in which the atoms are repeatedly reflected at the fields.

id: 0804.4797
title: Quantum states for perfectly secure secret sharing
authors: Dong Pyo Chi, Jeong Woon Choi, Jeong San Kim, Taewan Kim, Soojoon Lee
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phy. Rev. A 78, 012351 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4797
abstract: In this work, we investigate what kinds of quantum states are feasible to perform perfectly secure secret sharing, and present its necessary and sufficient conditions. We also show that the states are bipartite distillable for all bipartite splits, and hence the states could be distillable into the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state. We finally exhibit a class of secret-sharing states, which have an arbitrarily small amount of bipartite distillable entanglement for a certain split.

id: 0804.4820
title: Thermal entanglement in the anisotropic Heisenberg XXZ model with the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction
authors: Da-Chuang Li, Xian-Ping Wang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, a revised version
journal: J. Phys. Condens. Matter 20 (2008) 325229
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4820
abstract: The thermal entanglement is investigated in a two-qubit Heisenberg XXZ system with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) interaction. It is shown that the entanglement can be efficiently controlled by the DM interaction parameter and coupling coefficient $J_{z}$. $D_{x}$(the x-component parameter of the DM interaction) has a more remarkable influence on the entanglement and the critical temperature than $D_{z}$(the z-component parameter of the DM interaction). Thus, by the change of DM interaction direction, we can get a more efficient control parameter to increase the entanglement and the critical temperature.

id: 0804.4844
title: Polarization preserving ultra fast optical shutter for quantum information processing
authors: Nicolo' Spagnolo, Chiara Vitelli, Sandro Giacomini, Fabio Sciarrino, Francesco De Martini
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Optics Express 16, 17609 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4844
abstract: We present the realization of a ultra fast shutter for optical fields, which allows to preserve a generic polarization state, based on a self-stabilized interferometer. It exhibits high (or low) transmittivity when turned on (or inactive), while the fidelity of the polarization state is high. The shutter is realized through two beam displacing prisms and a longitudinal Pockels cell. This can represent a useful tool for controlling light-atom interfaces in quantum information processing.

id: 0804.4849
title: Macroscopic observables and the Born rule
authors: N.P. Landsman
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4849
abstract: We clarify the role of the Born rule in the Copenhagen Interpretation of quantum mechanics by deriving it from Bohr's doctrine of classical concepts, translated into the following mathematical statement: a quantum system described by a noncommutative C*-algebra of observables is empirically accessible only through associated commutative C*-algebras. The Born probabilities emerge as the relative frequencies of outcomes in long runs of measurements on a quantum system; it is not necessary to adopt the frequency interpretation of single-case probabilities (which will be the subject of a sequel paper). Our derivation of the Born rule uses ideas from a program begun by Finkelstein (1965) and Hartle (1968), intending to remove the Born rule as a separate postulate of quantum mechanics. Mathematically speaking, our approach refines previous elaborations of this program - notably the one due to Farhi, Goldstone, and Gutmann (1989) as completed by Van Wesep (2006) - in replacing infinite tensor products of Hilbert spaces by continuous fields of C*-algebras. In combination with our interpretational context, this technical improvement circumvents valid criticisms that earlier derivations of the Born rule have provoked, especially to the effect that such derivations were mathematically flawed as well as circular. Furthermore, instead of relying on the controversial eigenvector-eigenvalue link in quantum theory, our derivation just assumes that pure states in classical physics have the usual interpretation as truthmakers that assign sharp values to observables.

id: 0804.4859
title: The communication complexity of non-signaling distributions
authors: Julien Degorre, Marc Kaplan, Sophie Laplante, Jrmie Roland
comments: 23 pages. V2: major modifications, extensions and additions compared to V1. V3 (21 pages): proofs have been updated and simplified, particularly Theorem 10 and Theorem 22. V4 (23 pages): Section 3.1 has been rewritten (in particular Lemma 10 and its proof), and various minor modifications have been made. V5 (24 pages): various modifications in the presentation
journal: In MFCS'09, LNCS, vol 5734, 270-281 (2009). Quantum Information & Computation, 11(7&8):649-676 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4859
abstract: We study a model of communication complexity that encompasses many well-studied problems, including classical and quantum communication complexity, the complexity of simulating distributions arising from bipartite measurements of shared quantum states, and XOR games. In this model, Alice gets an input x, Bob gets an input y, and their goal is to each produce an output a,b distributed according to some pre-specified joint distribution p(a,b|x,y). We introduce a new technique based on affine combinations of lower-complexity distributions. Specifically, we introduce two complexity measures, one which gives lower bounds on classical communication, and one for quantum communication. These measures can be expressed as convex optimization problems. We show that the dual formulations have a striking interpretation, since they coincide with maximum violations of Bell and Tsirelson inequalities. The dual expressions are closely related to the winning probability of XOR games. These lower bounds subsume many known communication complexity lower bound methods, most notably the recent lower bounds of Linial and Shraibman for the special case of Boolean functions. We show that the gap between the quantum and classical lower bounds is at most linear in the size of the support of the distribution, and does not depend on the size of the inputs. This translates into a bound on the gap between maximal Bell and Tsirelson inequality violations, which was previously known only for the case of distributions with Boolean outcomes and uniform marginals. Finally, we give an exponential upper bound on quantum and classical communication complexity in the simultaneous messages model, for any non-signaling distribution. One consequence is a simple proof that any quantum distribution can be approximated with a constant number of bits of communication.

id: 0804.4860
title: Synthesis of maximally entangled mixed states and disentanglement in coupled Josephson charge qubits
authors: Mahmoud Abdel-Aty
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D Vol. 46, pp. 537-543 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4860
abstract: We analyze a controllable generation of maximally entangled mixed states of a circuit containing two-coupled superconducting charge qubits. Each qubit is based on a Cooper pair box connected to a reservoir electrode through a Josephson junction. Illustrative variational calculations were performed to demonstrate the effect on the two-qubits entanglement. At sufficiently deviation between the Josephson energies of the qubits and/or strong coupling regime, maximally entangled mixed states at certain instances of time is synthesized. We show that entanglement has an interesting subsequent time evolution, including the sudden death effect. This enables us to completely characterize the phenomenon of entanglement sharing in the coupling of two superconducting charge qubits, a system of both theoretical and experimental interest.

id: 0804.4861
title: Interfacing light and single atoms with a lens
authors: Meng Khoon Tey, Gleb Maslennikov, Timothy C.H. Liew, Syed Abdullah Aljunid, Florian Huber, Brenda Chng, Zilong Chen, Valerio Scarani, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures; we provide now a closed solution for field at focus and coupling to single mode optical fibers, and included interference between excitation and scattered light
journal: New J. Phys. 11, 043011 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4861
abstract: We characterize the interaction between a single atom or similar microscopic system and a light field via the scattering ratio. For that, we first derive the electrical field in a strongly focused Gaussian light beam, and then consider the atomic response. Following the simple scattering model, the fraction of scattered optical power for a weak coherent probe field leads to unphysical scattering ratios above 1 in the strong focusing regime. A refined model considering interference between exciting and scattered field into finite-sized detectors or optical fibers is presented, and compared to experimental extinction measurements for various focusing strengths.

id: 0804.4867
title: Thermal bound entanglement in macroscopic systems and area laws
authors: A. Ferraro, D. Cavalcanti, A. Garcia-Saez, A. Acin
comments: Short version of arXiv:0705.3762
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 080502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4867
abstract: Does bound entanglement naturally appear in quantum many-body systems? We address this question by showing the existence of bound-entangled thermal states for harmonic oscillator systems consisting of an arbitrary number of particles. By explicit calculations of the negativity for different partitions, we find a range of temperatures for which no entanglement can be distilled by means of local operations, despite the system being globally entangled. We offer an interpretation of this result in terms of entanglement-area laws, typical of these systems. Finally, we discuss generalizations of this result to other systems, including spin chains.

id: 0804.4872
title: Quantum Zeno effect in atomic spin-exchange collisions
authors: I. K. Kominis
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372, 4877 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4872
abstract: The suppression of spin-exchange relaxation in dense alkali-metal vapors discovered in 1973 and governing modern atomic magnetometers is here reformulated in terms of quantum measurement theory and the quantum Zeno effect. This provides a new perspective of understanding decoherence in spin-polarized atomic vapors.

id: 0804.4884
title: Minor-Embedding in Adiabatic Quantum Computation: I. The Parameter Setting Problem
authors: Vicky Choi
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, submitted
journal: Quantum Information Processing, 7, pp193--209, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4884
abstract: We show that the NP-hard quadratic unconstrained binary optimization (QUBO) problem on a graph $G$ can be solved using an adiabatic quantum computer that implements an Ising spin-1/2 Hamiltonian, by reduction through minor-embedding of $G$ in the quantum hardware graph $U$. There are two components to this reduction: embedding and parameter setting. The embedding problem is to find a minor-embedding $G^{emb}$ of a graph $G$ in $U$, which is a subgraph of $U$ such that $G$ can be obtained from $G^{emb}$ by contracting edges. The parameter setting problem is to determine the corresponding parameters, qubit biases and coupler strengths, of the embedded Ising Hamiltonian. In this paper, we focus on the parameter setting problem. As an example, we demonstrate the embedded Ising Hamiltonian for solving the maximum independent set (MIS) problem via adiabatic quantum computation (AQC) using an Ising spin-1/2 system. We close by discussing several related algorithmic problems that need to be investigated in order to facilitate the design of adiabatic algorithms and AQC architectures.

id: 0804.0012
title: Theory of ground state factorization in quantum cooperative systems
authors: S. M. Giampaolo, G. Adesso, F. Illuminati
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 197201 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0012
abstract: We introduce a general analytic approach to the study of factorization points and factorized ground states in quantum cooperative systems. The method allows to determine rigorously existence, location, and exact form of separable ground states in a large variety of, generally non-exactly solvable, spin models belonging to different universality classes. The theory applies to translationally invariant systems, irrespective of spatial dimensionality, and for spin-spin interactions of arbitrary range.

id: 0804.0054
title: Formalism Locality in Quantum Theory and Quantum Gravity
authors: Lucien Hardy
comments: To appear in "Philosophy of Quantum Information and Entanglement" Eds A. Bokulich and G. Jaeger (CUP)
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0054
abstract: We expect a theory of Quantum Gravity to be both probabilistic and have indefinite causal structure. Indefinite causal structure poses particular problems for theory formulation since many of the core ideas used in the usual approaches to theory construction depend on having definite causal structure. For example, the notion of a state across space evolving in time requires that we have some definite causal structure so we can define a state on a space-like hypersurface. We will see that many of these problems are mitigated if we are able to formulate the theory in a "formalism local" (or F-local) fashion. A formulation of a physical theory is said to be F-local if, in making predictions for any given arbitrary space-time region, we need only refer to mathematical objects pertaining to that region. This is a desirable property both on the grounds of efficiency and since, if we have indefinite causal structure, it is not clear how to select some other space-time region on which our calculations may depend. The usual ways of formulating physical theories (the time evolving state picture, the histories approach, and the local equations approach) are not F-local. We set up a framework for probabilistic theories with indefinite causal structure. This, the causaloid framework, is F-local. We describe how Quantum Theory can be formulated in the causaloid framework (in an F-local fashion). This provides yet another formulation of Quantum Theory. This formulation, however, may be particularly relevant to the problem of finding a theory of Quantum Gravity.

id: 0804.0169
title: A note on the quantum of time
authors: J.M. Isidro, J.L. Gonzalez-Santander, P. Fernandez de Cordoba
comments: 4 pages, some refs added
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A23:1161-1165,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0169
abstract: Quantum mechanics rests on the assumption that time is a classical variable. As such, classical time is assumed to be measurable with infinite accuracy. However, all real clocks are subject to quantum fluctuations, which leads to the existence of a nonzero uncertainty in the time variable. The existence of a quantum of time modifies the Heisenberg evolution equation for observables. In this letter we propose and analyse a generalisation of Heisenberg's equation for observables evolving in real time (the time variable measured by real clocks), that takes the existence of a quantum of time into account. This generalisation of Heisenberg's equation turns out to be a delay-differential equation.

id: 0804.0234
title: Fock-space quantum particle approach for the two-mode boson model describing BEC trapped in a double-well potential
authors: V. S. Shchesnovich, M. Trippenbach
comments: 14 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0234
abstract: We develop the Fock-space many-body quantum approach for large number of bosons, when the bosons occupy significantly only few modes. The approach is based on an analogy with the dynamics of a single particle of either positive or negative mass in a quantum potential, where the inverse number of bosons plays the role of Planck constant. As application of the method we consider the Bose-Einstein condensate in a double-well trap. The ground state of positive mass particle corresponds to the mean-field fixed point of lower energy, while that of negative mass to the excited fixed point. In the case of attractive BEC above the threshold for symmetry breaking, the ground state is a cat state and we relate this fact to the double-well shape of the quantum potential for the positive mass quantum particle. The tunneling energy splitting between the local Fock states of the cat state is shown to be extremely small for the nonlinearity parameter just above the critical value and exponentially decreasing with the number of atoms. In the repulsive case, the phase locked ($\pi$-phase) macroscopic quantum self-trapping of BEC is related to the double-well structure of the potential for the negative mass quantum particle. We also analyze the running phase macroscopic quantum self-trapping state and show that it is subject to quantum collapses and revivals. Moreover, the quantum dynamics just before the first collapse of the running phase shows exponential growth of dispersion of the quantum phase distribution which may explain the growth of the phase fluctuations seen in the experiment on the macroscopic quantum self-trapping.

id: 0804.0243
title: Dynamics of Collective Decoherence and Thermalization
authors: M. Merkli, G.P. Berman, I.M. Sigal
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0243
abstract: We analyze the dynamics of N interacting spins (quantum register) collectively coupled to a thermal environment. Each spin experiences the same environment interaction, consisting of an energy conserving and an energy exchange part. We find the decay rates of the reduced density matrix elements in the energy basis. We show that if the spins do not interact among each other, then the fastest decay rates of off-diagonal matrix elements induced by the energy conserving interaction is of order N^2, while that one induced by the energy exchange interaction is of the order N only. Moreover, the diagonal matrix elements approach their limiting values at a rate independent of N. For a general spin system the decay rates depend in a rather complicated (but explicit) way on the size N and the interaction between the spins. Our method is based on a dynamical quantum resonance theory valid for small, fixed values of the couplings. We do not make Markov-, Born- or weak coupling (van Hove) approximations.

id: 0804.0523
title: Interaction-free measurements with superconducting qubits
authors: G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 180406 (2006)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0523
abstract: An interaction-free measurement protocol is described for a quantum circuit consisting of a superconducting qubit and a read-out Josephson junction. By measuring the state of the qubit one can ascertain the presence of a current pulse through the circuit at a previous time without any energy exchange between the qubit and the pulse.

id: 0804.0603
title: Ground state cooling of a nanomechanical resonator via a Cooper pair box qubit
authors: Konstanze Jaehne, Klemens Hammerer, Margareta Wallquist
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures, accepted for publication in NJP special issue 'Mechanical Systems at the Quantum Limit'
journal: New J. Phys. 10 (2008) 095019
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0603
abstract: In this paper we present a scheme for ground state cooling of a flexural mode of a nanomechanical beam incorporated in a loop-shaped Cooper-pair box (CPB) circuit. Via the Lorentz force coupling of the beam motion to circulating CPB-circuit currents, energy is transferred to the CPB qubit which acts as a dissipative two-level system. The cooling process is driven by a detuned gate-voltage drive acting on the CPB. We analyze the cooling force spectrum and present analytical expressions for the cooling rate and final occupation number for a wide parameter regime. In particular, we find that cooling is optimized in a strong drive regime, and we present the necessary conditions for ground-state cooling.

id: 0804.0625
title: Topological order from quantum loops and nets
authors: Paul Fendley
comments: 
journal: Annals of Physics 323 (2008) 3113
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0625
abstract: I define models of quantum loops and nets which have ground states with topological order. These make possible excited states comprised of deconfined anyons with non-abelian braiding. With the appropriate inner product, these quantum loop models are equivalent to net models whose topological weight involves the chromatic polynomial. A useful consequence is that the models have a quantum self-duality, making it possible to find a simple Hamiltonian preserving the topological order. For the square lattice, this Hamiltonian has only four-spin interactions.

id: 0804.0634
title: Initial Conditions of Closed Classical Orbits from Quantum Spectra
authors: Michael Courtney
comments: 
journal: Chaos 6, 63 (1996)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0634
abstract: A method is presented for determining the initial conditions of classical orbits from the quantum spectra of the diamagnetic hydrogen atom. Each classical trajectory which is closed at the nucleus produces a sinusoidal fluctuation in the photoabsorption spectrum. The amplitude of each orbit's contribution appears in the Fourier transform of a spectrum computed at constant scaled energy. For a given initial state, closed-orbit theory gives the dependence of this recurrence amplitude on the initial angle of an orbit. By comparing the recurrence amplitudes for different initial states, the initial conditions of closed classical orbits are determined from quantum spectra.

id: 0804.0663
title: Cavity-enhanced radiative emission rate in a single-photon-emitting diode operating at 0.5 GHz
authors: David J. P. Ellis, Anthony J. Bennett, Samuel J. Dewhurst, Christine A. Nicoll, David A. Ritchie, Andrew J. Shields
comments: 11 pages, 4 Figures. To be published in New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0663
abstract: We report the observation of a Purcell enhancement in the electroluminescence decay rate of a single quantum dot, embedded in a microcavity light-emitting-diode structure. Lateral confinement of the optical mode was achieved using an annulus of low-refractive-index aluminium oxide, formed by wet oxidation. The same layer acts as a current aperture, reducing the active area of the device without impeding the electrical properties of the p-i-n diode. This allowed single photon electroluminescence to be demonstrated at repetition rates up to 0.5 GHz.

id: 0804.0771
title: Spin Lifetimes in Quantum Dots from Noise Measurements
authors: J. Wabnig, B. W. Lovett, J. H. Jefferson, G. A. D. Briggs
comments: 4 Pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 016802 (2009).
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0771
abstract: We present a method of obtaining information about spin lifetimes in quantum dots from measurements of electrical transport. The dot is under resonant microwave irradiation and at temperatures comparable to or larger than the Zeeman energy. We find that the ratio of the spin coherence times T_{1}/T_{2} can be deduced from a measurement of current through the quantum dot as a function the applied magnetic field. We calculate the noise power spectrum of the dot current and show that a dip occurs at the Rabi frequency with a line width given by 1/T_{1}+1/T_{2}.

id: 0804.0931
title: Non-abelian statistics from an abelian model
authors: James R. Wootton, Ville Lahtinen, Zhenghan Wang, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 161102(R) (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.0931
abstract: It is well known that the abelian $Z_2$ anyonic model (toric code) can be realized on a highly entangled two-dimensional spin lattice, where the anyons are quasiparticles located at the endpoints of string-like concatenations of Pauli operators. Here we show that the same entangled states of the same lattice are capable of supporting the non-abelian Ising model, where the concatenated operators are elements of the Clifford group. The Ising anyons are shown to be essentially superpositions of the abelian toric code anyons, reproducing the required fusion, braiding and statistical properties. We propose a string framing and ancillary qubits to implement the non-trivial chirality of this model.

id: 0804.1077
title: Quantum enveloping algebras with von Neumann regular Cartan-like generators and the Pierce decomposition
authors: Steven Duplij, Sergey Sinel'shchikov
comments: 18 pages, minor corrections after the referee report, retyped in journal format, svjour style, to appear in Communications in Mathematical Physics (2008), dedicated to the memory of L. L. Vaksman (1951-2007), see this http URL
journal: Commun.Math.Phys.287:769-785,2009
subjects: Quantum Algebra (math.QA); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1077
abstract: Quantum bialgebras derivable from Uq(sl2) which contain idempotents and von Neumann regular Cartan-like generators are introduced and investigated. Various types of antipodes (invertible and von Neumann regular) on these bialgebras are constructed, which leads to a Hopf algebra structure and a von Neumann-Hopf algebra structure, respectively. For them, explicit forms of some particular R-matrices (also, invertible and von Neumann regular) are presented, and the latter respects the Pierce decomposition.

id: 0804.1140
title: Maximal vectors in Hilbert space and quantum entanglement
authors: William Arveson
comments: Significant clarification of results on multipartite tensor products
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1140
abstract: Let $V$ be a norm-closed subset of the unit sphere of a Hilbert space $H$ that is stable under multiplication by scalars of absolute value 1. A {\em maximal vector} (for $V$) is a unit vector $\xi\in H$ whose distance to $V$ is maximum $d(\xi,V)=\sup_{\|\eta\|=1}d(\eta,V)$, $d(\xi,V)$ denoting the distance from $\xi$ to the set $V$. Maximal vectors generalize the {\em maximally entangled} unit vectors of quantum theory. In general, under a mild regularity hypothesis on $V$, there is a {\em norm} on $H$ whose restriction to the unit sphere achieves its minimum precisely on $V$ and its maximum precisely on the set of maximal vectors. This "entanglement-measuring norm" is unique. There is a corresponding "entanglement-measuring norm" on the predual of $\mathcal B(H)$ that faithfully detects entanglement of normal states. We apply these abstract results to the analysis of entanglement in multipartite tensor products $H=H_1\otimes ...\otimes H_N$, and we calculate both entanglement-measuring norms. In cases for which $\dim H_N$ is relatively large with respect to the others, we describe the set of maximal vectors in explicit terms and show that it does not depend on the number of factors of the Hilbert space $H_1\otimes...\otimes H_{N-1}$.

id: 0804.1312
title: Microscopic Work Distribution of Small System in Quantum Isothermal Process
authors: H. T. Quan, S. Yang, C. P. Sun
comments: LAUR 08-2152, 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 78, 021116 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1312
abstract: For a two-level quantum mechanical system, we derive microscopically the exact expression for the fluctuation of microscopic work in a multi-step non-equilibrium process, and we rigorously prove that in an isothermal process, the fluctuation is vanishingly small, and the most probabilistic work just equals to the difference of the free energy. Our study demonstrates that the convergence of the microscopic work in the isothermal process is due to the nature of isothermal process rather than usual thermodynamic limit condition. Our investigation justifies the validity of "minimum work principle" formulation of the second law even for a small system far from thermodynamic limit.

id: 0804.1360
title: Brownian Motion in Robertson-Walker Space-Times from electromagnetic Vacuum Fluctuations
authors: Carlos H. G. Bessa, Valdir B. Bezerra, L. H. Ford
comments: 29 pages, 7 figures
journal: J.Math.Phys.50:062501,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1360
abstract: We consider classical particles coupled to the quantized electromagnetic field in the background of a spatially flat Robertson-Walker universe. We find that these particles typically undergo Brownian motion and acquire a non-zero mean squared velocity which depends upon the scale factor of the universe. This Brownian motion can be interpreted as due to non-cancellation of anti-correlated vacuum fluctuations in the time dependent background space-time. We consider several types of coupling to the electromagnetic field, including particles with net electric charge, a magnetic dipole moment, and electric polarizability. We also investigate several different model scale factors.

id: 0804.1440
title: Adversary lower bounds for nonadaptive quantum algorithms
authors: Pacal Koiran, Jrgen Landes, Natacha Portier, Penghui Yao
comments: 
journal: Dans proceedings of WoLLIC 2008 - WoLLIC 2008 15th Workshop on Logic, Language, Information and Computation, Edinburgh : Royaume-Uni
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1440
abstract: We present general methods for proving lower bounds on the query complexity of nonadaptive quantum algorithms. Our results are based on the adversary method of Ambainis.

id: 0804.1515
title: On properties of the space of quantum states and their application to construction of entanglement monotones
authors: M. E. Shirokov
comments: 34 pages, the minor corrections have been made
journal: Izvestiya: Mathematics, 2010, 74:4, 849-882
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1515
abstract: We consider two properties of the set of quantum states as a convex topological space and some their implications concerning the notions of a convex hull and of a convex roof of a function defined on a subset of quantum states. By using these results we analyze two infinite-dimensional versions (discrete and continuous) of the convex roof construction of entanglement monotones, which is widely used in finite dimensions. It is shown that the discrete version may be 'false' in the sense that the resulting functions may not possess the main property of entanglement monotones while the continuous version can be considered as a 'true' generalized convex roof construction. We give several examples of entanglement monotones produced by this construction. In particular, we consider an infinite-dimensional generalization of the notion of Entanglement of Formation and study its properties.

id: 0804.1836
title: Phase coherence and fragmentation in weakly interacting bosonic gases
authors: G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 041605(R) (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1836
abstract: We present a theory of measurement-induced interference for weakly interacting Bose-Einstein condensed (BEC) gases. The many-body state resulting from the evolution of an initial fragmented (Fock) state can be approximated as a continuous superposition of Gross-Pitaevskii (GP) states; the measurement breaks the initial phase symmetry, producing a distribution pattern corresponding to only one of the GP solutions. We discuss also analytically solvable models, such as two-mode on-chip adiabatic recombination and soliton generation in quasi one-dimensional condensates.

id: 0804.2162
title: The secret world of shrimps: polarisation vision at its best
authors: Sonja Kleinlogel, Andrew G. White
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, 2 tables
journal: PLoS ONE 3, e2190 (2008)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2162
abstract: Animal vision spans a great range of complexity, with systems evolving to detect variations in optical intensity, distribution, colour, and polarisation. Polarisation vision systems studied to date detect one to four channels of linear polarisation, combining them in opponent pairs to provide intensity-independent operation. Circular polarisation vision has never been seen, and is widely believed to play no part in animal vision. Polarisation is fully measured via Stokes' parameters--obtained by combined linear and circular polarisation measurements. Optimal polarisation vision is the ability to see Stokes' parameters: here we show that the crustacean \emph{Gonodactylus smithii} measures the exact components required. This vision provides optimal contrast-enhancement, and precise determination of polarisation with no confusion-states or neutral-points--significant advantages. We emphasise that linear and circular polarisation vision are not different modalities--both are necessary for optimal polarisation vision, regardless of the presence of strongly linear or circularly polarised features in the animal's environment.

id: 0804.2182
title: Relative entropy and the Bekenstein bound
authors: H. Casini
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure, minor changes and references added
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.25:205021,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2182
abstract: Elaborating on a previous work by Marolf et al, we relate some exact results in quantum field theory and statistical mechanics to the Bekenstein universal bound on entropy. Specifically, we consider the relative entropy between the vacuum and another state, both reduced to a local region. We propose that, with the adequate interpretation, the positivity of the relative entropy in this case constitutes a well defined statement of the bound in flat space. We show that this version arises naturally from the original derivation of the bound from the generalized second law when quantum effects are taken into account. In this formulation the bound holds automatically, and in particular it does not suffer from the proliferation of the species problem. The results suggest that while the bound is relevant at the classical level, it does not introduce new physical constraints semiclassically.

id: 0804.2361
title: Random Quantum Operations
authors: Wojciech Bruzda, Valerio Cappellini, Hans-Jrgen Sommers, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 373, 320-324 (2009).
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2361
abstract: We define a natural ensemble of trace preserving, completely positive quantum maps and present algorithms to generate them at random. Spectral properties of the superoperator Phi associated with a given quantum map are investigated and a quantum analogue of the Frobenius-Perron theorem is proved. We derive a general formula for the density of eigenvalues of Phi and show the connection with the Ginibre ensemble of real non-symmetric random matrices. Numerical investigations of the spectral gap imply that a generic state of the system iterated several times by a fixed generic map converges exponentially to an invariant state.

id: 0804.2429
title: Universal Quantum Circuits
authors: Debajyoti Bera, Stephen Fenner, Frederic Green, Steve Homer
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2429
abstract: We define and construct efficient depth-universal and almost-size-universal quantum circuits. Such circuits can be viewed as general-purpose simulators for central classes of quantum circuits and can be used to capture the computational power of the circuit class being simulated. For depth we construct universal circuits whose depth is the same order as the circuits being simulated. For size, there is a log factor blow-up in the universal circuits constructed here. We prove that this construction is nearly optimal.

id: 0804.2504
title: Applying matrix product operators to model systems with long-range interactions
authors: Gregory M. Crosswhite, Andrew C. Doherty, Guifre Vidal
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures; manuscript has been expanded and restructured in order to improve presentation of the algorithm
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 035116 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2504
abstract: An algorithm is presented which computes a translationally invariant matrix product state approximation of the ground state of an infinite 1D system; it does this by embedding sites into an approximation of the infinite ``environment'' of the chain, allowing the sites to relax, and then merging them with the environment in order to refine the approximation. By making use of matrix product operators, our approach is able to directly model any long-range interaction that can be systematically approximated by a series of decaying exponentials. We apply our techniques to compute the ground state of the Haldane-Shastry model and present results.

id: 0804.2646
title: Quantum Zeno Effect Underpinning the Radical-Ion-Pair Mechanism of Avian Magnetoreception
authors: I. K. Kominis
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2646
abstract: The intricate biochemical processes underlying avian magnetoreception, the sensory ability of migratory birds to navigate using earths magnetic field, have been narrowed down to spin-dependent recombination of radical-ion pairs to be found in avian species retinal proteins. The avian magnetic field detection is governed by the interplay between magnetic interactions of the radicals unpaired electrons and the radicals recombination dynamics. Critical to this mechanism is the long lifetime of the radical-pair spin coherence, so that the weak geomagnetic field will have a chance to signal its presence. It is here shown that a fundamental quantum phenomenon, the quantum Zeno effect, is at the basis of the radical-ion-pair magnetoreception mechanism. The quantum Zeno effect naturally leads to long spin coherence lifetimes, without any constraints on the systems physical parameters, ensuring the robustness of this sensory mechanism. Basic experimental observations regarding avian magnetic sensitivity are seamlessly derived. These include the magnetic sensitivity functional window and the heading error of oriented bird ensembles, which so far evaded theoretical justification. The findings presented here could be highly relevant to similar mechanisms at work in photosynthetic reactions. They also trigger fundamental questions about the evolutionary mechanisms that enabled avian species to make optimal use of quantum measurement laws.

id: 0804.2705
title: Phase Separation in Bose-Fermi-Fermi Mixtures as a Probe of Fermi Superfluidity
authors: S. G. Bhongale, Han Pu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 061606 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2705
abstract: We study the phase diagram of a mixture of Bose-Einstein condensate and a two-component Fermi gas. In particular, we identify the regime where the homogeneous system becomes unstable against phase separation. We show that, under proper conditions, the phase separation phenomenon can be exploited as a robust probe of Fermi superfluid.

id: 0804.2953
title: Towards quantum optics and entanglement with electron spin ensembles in semiconductors
authors: C. H. van der Wal, M. Sladkov
comments: Proceedings E-MRS 2007, session on solid-state quantum information, 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Solid State Sciences 11, 935 (2009) [special issue on Solid state approaches to quantum information processing and communication]
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2953
abstract: We discuss a technique and a material system that enable the controlled realization of quantum entanglement between spin-wave modes of electron ensembles in two spatially separated pieces of semiconductor material. The approach uses electron ensembles in GaAs quantum wells that are located inside optical waveguides. Bringing the electron ensembles in a quantum Hall state gives selection rules for optical transitions across the gap that can selectively address the two electron spin states. Long-lived superpositions of these electron spin states can then be controlled with a pair of optical fields that form a resonant Raman system. Entangled states of spin-wave modes are prepared by applying quantum-optical measurement techniques to optical signal pulses that result from Raman transitions in the electron ensembles.

id: 0804.2999
title: Combining The Tunneling And Anomaly Phenomena In Deriving the Gravitational Anomaly
authors: Subir Ghosh
comments: Title and abstract changed, paper thoroughly rewritten, no change in basic idea and framework, to appear in Mod.Phys.Lett.A
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.2999
abstract: In this Letter we have derived the gravitational anomaly leading to the Hawking radiation from a fundamentally different perspective: it emerges due to the {\it{complimentary}} roles played by tunneling and (gravitational) anomaly. We have used the analogy of an early idea \cite{niel1} of visualizing chiral gauge anomaly as an effect of {\it{spectral flow}} of the energy levels, from the negative energy Dirac sea, across zero energy level in presence of gauge interactions. This was extended to conformal anomaly in \cite{fumita}. In the present work, we exploit the latter formalism in black hole physics where we interpret crossing the horizon of black hole (the zero energy level) as a spectral flow since it is also accompanied by a change of sign in the energy of the particle. Hence in our formulation the negative energy states below horizon play a similar role as the Dirac sea. We successfully recover the gravitational anomaly.

id: 0804.3026
title: Quantum Dynamics in the Thermodynamic Limit
authors: Jasper van Wezel
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures; typos corrected, references updated, minor changes in text
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 78, 054301 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3026
abstract: The description of spontaneous symmetry breaking that underlies the connection between classically ordered objects in the thermodynamic limit and their individual quantum mechanical building blocks is one of the cornerstones of modern condensed matter theory and has found applications in many different areas of physics. The theory of spontaneous symmetry breaking however, is inherently an equilibrium theory, which does not address the dynamics of quantum systems in the thermodynamic limit. Here, we will use the example of a particular antiferromagnetic model system to show that the presence of a so-called thin spectrum of collective excitations with vanishing energy -one of the well-known characteristic properties shared by all symmetry-breaking objects- can allow these objects to also spontaneously break time-translation symmetry in the thermodynamic limit. As a result, that limit is found to be able, not only to reduce quantum mechanical equilibrium averages to their classical counterparts, but also to turn individual-state quantum dynamics into classical physics. In the process, we find that the dynamical description of spontaneous symmetry breaking can also be used to shed some light on the possible origins of Born's rule. We conclude by describing an experiment on a condensate of exciton polaritons which could potentially be used to experimentally test the proposed mechanism.

id: 0804.3086
title: Teaching superfluidity at the introductory level
authors: Alexander J.M. Schmets, Wouter Montfrooij
comments: This paper was written to compensate for the lack of any useful treatment of superfluidity in standard (introduction) modern physics textbooks. The paper contains some interesting estimates that might be of interest to people involved in superfluid research
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3086
abstract: Standard introductory modern physics textbooks do not exactly dwell on superfluidity in 4He. Typically, Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) is mentioned in the context of an ideal Bose gas, followed by the statement that BEC happens in 4He and that the ground state of 4He exhibits many interesting properties such as having zero viscosity. Not only does this approach not explain in any way why 4He becomes a superfluid, it denies students the opportunity to learn about the far reaching consequences of energy gaps as they develop in both superfluids and superconductors. We revisit superfluid 4He by starting with Feynman's explanation of superfluidity based on Bose statistics as opposed to BEC, and we present exercises for the students that allow them to arrive at a very accurate estimate of the superfluid transition temperature and of the energy gap separating the ground state from the first excited state. This paper represents a self-contained account of superfluidity, which can be covered in one or two lessons in class.

id: 0804.3514
title: Time reversal of Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: J. Martin, B. Georgeot, D. L. Shepelyansky
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. References and discussion added. Research done at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 074102 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3514
abstract: Using Gross-Pitaevskii equation, we study the time reversibility of Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) in kicked optical lattices, showing that inside the regime of quantum chaos the dynamics can be inverted from explosion to collapse. The accuracy of time reversal decreases with the increase of atom interactions inside BEC, until it is completely lost. Surprisingly, quantum chaos helps to restore time reversibility. These predictions can be tested with existing experimental setups.

id: 0804.3516
title: Bosonic Quantum Gravity According to the Global One-Dimensionality Conjecture
authors: Lukasz Andrzej Glinka
comments: 17 pages
journal: in L.A. Glinka (Ed.) "Towards New Cosmology From Quantum Gravity & Particle Physics", Applied Mathematics and Physics, vol. 2, no. 3 (2014): 59-65
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3516
abstract: In this paper, making use of the global one-dimensionality conjecture, we discuss the reduction of the Wheeler-DeWitt quantum geometrodynamics to the Klein-Gordon equation describing the scalar bosonic particle. The method of second quantization in the appropriate Fock space is applied, and, employing both the Bogoliubov transformation as well as Heisenberg equations of motion, the quantum gravity is expressed as evolution of the creators and annihilators related to the initial data. It is shown that this procedure leads to the understanding of the boson mass, through the one-point two-boson quantum correlations, as a scaled initial data mass.

id: 0804.3559
title: Evolution of entanglement entropy following a quantum quench: Analytic results for the XY chain in a transverse magnetic field
authors: Maurizio Fagotti, Pasquale Calabrese
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 010306(R) (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3559
abstract: The non-equilibrium evolution of the block entanglement entropy is investigated in the XY chain in a transverse magnetic field after the Hamiltonian parameters are suddenly changed from and to arbitrary values. Using Toeplitz matrix representation and multidimensional phase methods, we provide analytic results for large blocks and for all times, showing explicitly the linear growth in time followed by saturation. The consequences of these analytic results are discussed and the effects of a finite block length is taken into account numerically.

id: 0804.3591
title: Topological order in a 3D toric code at finite temperature
authors: Claudio Castelnovo, Claudio Chamon
comments: (28 pages, 9 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 155120 (2008)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3591
abstract: We study topological order in a toric code in three spatial dimensions, or a 3+1D Z_2 gauge theory, at finite temperature. We compute exactly the topological entropy of the system, and show that it drops, for any infinitesimal temperature, to half its value at zero temperature. The remaining half of the entropy stays constant up to a critical temperature Tc, dropping to zero above Tc. These results show that topologically ordered phases exist at finite temperatures, and we give a simple interpretation of the order in terms of fluctuating strings and membranes, and how thermally induced point defects affect these extended structures. Finally, we discuss the nature of the topological order at finite temperature, and its quantum and classical aspects.

id: 0804.3674
title: Entanglement production with Bose atoms in optical lattices
authors: V.I. Yukalov, E.P. Yukalova
comments: Latex file, 14 pages
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 104 (2008) 012003
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3674
abstract: A method of entanglement production is suggested, based on the resonant generation of topological modes in systems with Bose-Einstein condensates trapped in optical or magnetic lattices. The method makes it possible to regulate the strength of entanglement production as well as to govern its time variation. This method can serve as a practical tool for quantum information processing and quantum computing.

id: 0804.3721
title: F(R) gravity equation of state
authors: Emilio Elizalde, Pedro J. Silva
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:061501,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3721
abstract: The ${\bf f}(R)$ gravity field equations are derived as an equation of state of local space-time thermodynamics. Jacobson's arguments are non-trivially extended, by means of a more general definition of local entropy, for which Wald's definition of dynamic black hole entropy is used, as well as the concept of an effective Newton constant for graviton exchange, recently appeared in the literature.

id: 0804.3977
title: Incommensurate superfluidity of bosons in a double-well optical lattice
authors: Vladimir M. Stojanovic, Congjun Wu, W. Vincent Liu, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures;
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 125301 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3977
abstract: We study bosons in the first excited Bloch band of a double-well optical lattice, recently realized at NIST. By calculating the relevant parameters from a realistic nonseparable lattice potential, we find that in the most favorable cases the boson lifetime in the first excited band can be several orders of magnitude longer than the typical nearest-neighbor tunnelling timescales, in contrast to that of a simple single-well lattice. In addition, for sufficiently small lattice depths the excited band has minima at nonzero momenta incommensurate with the lattice period, which opens a possibility to realize an exotic superfluid state that spontaneously breaks the time-reversal, rotational, and translational symmetries. We discuss possible experimental signatures of this novel state.

id: 0804.4167
title: Effects of decoherence and errors on Bell-inequality violation
authors: Abraham G. Kofman
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4167
abstract: We study optimal conditions for violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt form of the Bell inequality in the presence of decoherence and measurement errors. We obtain all detector configurations providing the maximal Bell inequality violation for a general (pure or mixed) state. We consider local decoherence which includes energy relaxation at the zero temperature and arbitrary dephasing. Conditions for the maximal Bell-inequality violation in the presence of decoherence are analyzed both analytically and numerically for the general case and for a number of important special cases. Combined effects of measurement errors and decoherence are also discussed.

id: 0804.4169
title: Quantum effects in classical systems having complex energy
authors: Carl M. Bender, Dorje C. Brody, Daniel W. Hook
comments: 16 pages, 12 figures
journal: J.Phys.A41:352003,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4169
abstract: On the basis of extensive numerical studies it is argued that there are strong analogies between the probabilistic behavior of quantum systems defined by Hermitian Hamiltonians and the deterministic behavior of classical mechanical systems extended into the complex domain. Three models are examined: the quartic double-well potential $V(x)=x^4-5x^2$, the cubic potential $V(x)=frac{1}{2}x^2-gx^3$, and the periodic potential $V(x)=-\cos x$. For the quartic potential a wave packet that is initially localized in one side of the double-well can tunnel to the other side. Complex solutions to the classical equations of motion exhibit a remarkably analogous behavior. Furthermore, classical solutions come in two varieties, which resemble the even-parity and odd-parity quantum-mechanical bound states. For the cubic potential, a quantum wave packet that is initially in the quadratic portion of the potential near the origin will tunnel through the barrier and give rise to a probability current that flows out to infinity. The complex solutions to the corresponding classical equations of motion exhibit strongly analogous behavior. For the periodic potential a quantum particle whose energy lies between -1 and 1 can tunnel repeatedly between adjacent classically allowed regions and thus execute a localized random walk as it hops from region to region. Furthermore, if the energy of the quantum particle lies in a conduction band, then the particle delocalizes and drifts freely through the periodic potential. A classical particle having complex energy executes a qualitatively analogous local random walk, and there exists a narrow energy band for which the classical particle becomes delocalized and moves freely through the potential.

id: 0804.4216
title: Quantum Mechanics, is it magic?
authors: M. Ferrero, D. Salgado, J.L. Sanchez-Gomez
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure. Typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4216
abstract: We show that quantum mechanics is the first theory in human history that violates the basic a priori principles that have shaped human thought since immemorial times. Therefore although it is more contrary to magic than any body of knowledge could be, what could be called its magic precisely resides in this violation.

id: 0804.4656
title: De Broglie-Bohm Prediction of Quantum Violations for Cosmological Super-Hubble Modes
authors: Antony Valentini
comments: 36 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4656
abstract: The hypothesis of quantum nonequilibrium at the big bang is shown to have observable consequences. For a scalar field on expanding space, we show that relaxation to quantum equilibrium (in de Broglie-Bohm theory) is suppressed for field modes whose quantum time evolution satisfies a certain inequality, resulting in a 'freezing' of early quantum nonequilibrium for these particular modes. For an early radiation-dominated expansion, the inequality implies a corresponding physical wavelength that is larger than the (instantaneous) Hubble radius. These results make it possible, for the first time, to make quantitative predictions for nonequilibrium deviations from quantum theory, in the context of specific cosmological models. We discuss some possible consequences: corrections to inflationary predictions for the cosmic microwave background, non-inflationary super-Hubble field correlations, and relic nonequilibrium particles.

id: 0804.4775
title: Perturbative study of the Kitaev model with spontaneous time-reversal symmetry breaking
authors: S. Dusuel, K. P. Schmidt, J. Vidal, R. L. Zaffino
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 125102 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.4775
abstract: We analyze the Kitaev model on the triangle-honeycomb lattice whose ground state has recently been shown to be a chiral spin liquid. We consider two perturbative expansions: the isolated-dimer limit containing Abelian anyons and the isolated-triangle limit. In the former case, we derive the low-energy effective theory and discuss the role played by multi-plaquette interactions. In this phase, we also compute the spin-spin correlation functions for any vortex configuration. In the isolated-triangle limit, we show that the effective theory is, at lowest nontrivial order, the Kitaev honeycomb model at the isotropic point. We also compute the next-order correction which opens a gap and yields non-Abelian anyons.

id: 0804.1298
title: Valid for Much of "Realistic" Fields: A Non-Generational Conjecture For Deriving All First-Class Constraints at Once
authors: K. Rasem Qandalji
comments: replaced due to major changes
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.1298
abstract: We propose a single-step non-generational conjecture of all first class constraints,(involving only variables compatible with canonical Poisson brackets), for a realistic gauge singular field theory. We verify our proposal for the free electromagnetic field, Yang-Mills fields in interaction with spinor and scalar fields, and we also verify our proposal in the case gravitational field. We show that the first class constraints which were reached at using the standard Dirac's multi-generational algorithm will be reproduced using the proposed conjecture. We make no claim that our conjecture will be valid for all mathematically plausible Lagrangians; but, nevertheless the examples we consider here show that this conjecture is valid for wide range or much of realistic fields of physical interest that are know to exist and are manifested in nature

