id: 0805.0007
title: Superpolynomial speedups based on almost any quantum circuit
authors: Sean Hallgren, Aram W. Harrow
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure, to appear in ICALP '08. v2 includes references and acknowledgments
journal: Proc. of the 35th International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming (ICALP 2008), LNCS 5125, pp. 782-795
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0007
abstract: The first separation between quantum polynomial time and classical bounded-error polynomial time was due to Bernstein and Vazirani in 1993. They first showed a O(1) vs. Omega(n) quantum-classical oracle separation based on the quantum Hadamard transform, and then showed how to amplify this into a n^{O(1)} time quantum algorithm and a n^{Omega(log n)} classical query lower bound. We generalize both aspects of this speedup. We show that a wide class of unitary circuits (which we call dispersing circuits) can be used in place of Hadamards to obtain a O(1) vs. Omega(n) separation. The class of dispersing circuits includes all quantum Fourier transforms (including over nonabelian groups) as well as nearly all sufficiently long random circuits. Second, we give a general method for amplifying quantum-classical separations that allows us to achieve a n^{O(1)} vs. n^{Omega(log n)} separation from any dispersing circuit.

id: 0805.0029
title: How to simulate a quantum computer using negative probabilities
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 11 pages, including one figure and one table. Full paper version for publication in Journal of Physics A. Clarifications of basic concepts and discussions of possible implications have been added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 275304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0029
abstract: The concept of negative probabilities can be used to decompose the interaction of two qubits mediated by a quantum controlled-NOT into three operations that require only classical interactions (that is, local operations and classical communication) between the qubits. For a single gate, the probabilities of the three operations are 1, 1, and -1. This decomposition can be applied in a probabilistic simulation of quantum computation by randomly choosing one of the three operations for each gate and assigning a negative statistical weight to the outcomes of sequences with an odd number of negative probability operations. The exponential speed-up of a quantum computer can then be evaluated in terms of the increase in the number of sequences needed to simulate a single operation of the quantum circuit.

id: 0805.0032
title: Efficient polarization entanglement purification based on parametric down-conversion sources with cross-Kerr nonlinearity
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Fu-Guo Deng, Hong-Yu Zhou
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 042308 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0032
abstract: We present a way for entanglement purification based on two parametric down-conversion (PDC) sources with cross-Kerr nonlinearities. It is comprised of two processes. The first one is a primary entanglement purification protocol for PDC sources with nondestructive quantum nondemolition (QND) detectors by transferring the spatial entanglement of photon pairs to their polarization. In this time, the QND detectors act as the role of controlled-not (CNot) gates. Also they can distinguish the photon number of the spatial modes, which provides a good way for the next process to purify the entanglement of the photon pairs kept more. In the second process for entanglement purification, new QND detectors are designed to act as the role of CNot gates. This protocol has the advantage of high yield and it requires neither CNot gates based on linear optical elements nor sophisticated single-photon detectors, which makes it more convenient in practical applications.

id: 0805.0040
title: Quantum computation and the evaluation of tensor networks
authors: Itai Arad, Zeph Landau
comments: 35 pages, 11 figures, 3rd version includes: the section presenting statistical mechanical algorithms has been changed to clarify the relationship to other recent work. To appear in SICOMP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0040
abstract: We present a quantum algorithm that additively approximates the value of a tensor network to a certain scale. When combined with existing results, this provides a complete problem for quantum computation. The result is a simple new way of looking at quantum computation in which unitary gates are replaced by tensors and time is replaced by the order in which the tensor-network is "swallowed". We use this result to derive new quantum algorithms that approximate the partition function of a variety of classical statistical mechanics models, including the Potts model.

id: 0805.0057
title: Indirect quantum control for finite-dimensional coupled systems
authors: J. Nie, H. C. Fu, X. X. Yi
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: QIC 10, 0087(2010).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0057
abstract: We present a new analysis on the quantum control for a quantum system coupled to a quantum probe. This analysis is based on the coherent control for the quantum system and a hyperthesis that the probe can be prepared in specified initial states. The results show that a quantum system can be manipulated by probe state-dependent coherent control. In this sense, the present analysis provides a new control scheme which combines the coherent control and state preparation technology.

id: 0805.0069
title: Multiparticle Entanglement in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick Model
authors: H. T. Cui
comments: 7 pages and 5 figures
journal: Physcial Review A 77,052105 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0069
abstract: The multiparticle entanglement in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model has been discussed extensively in this paper. Measured by the global entanglement and its generalization, our calculation shows that the multiparticle entanglement can faithfully detect quantum phase transitions. For an antiferromagnetic case the multiparticle entanglement reaches the maximum at the transition point, whereas for ferromagnetic coupling, two different behaviors of multiparticle entanglement can be identified, dependent on the anisotropic parameter in the coupling.

id: 0805.0099
title: Analysis of SM quantum information
authors: Caleb J O'Loan
comments: 15 pages, submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0099
abstract: Morozova and Chentsov (Morozova and Chentsov 90) studied Riemannian metrics on the set of probability measures. They showed that, up to a constant factor, the Fisher information is the only Riemannian metric which is monotone under stochastic transformation. Sarovar and Milburn (Sarovar and Milburn 06) computed an upper bound on the Fisher information for one-parameter channels. In (O'Loan 07) we extended their bound to an upper bound on the Fisher information of multi-parameter families of states; we call this the SM quantum information. Petz and Sud\'ar (Petz 95) characterized fully the set of monotone metrics on the space of all density matrices. We analyse the SM quantum information in light of their work. We show that the SM quantum information is not a well-defined metric on the space of density matrices: different choices of phase of the eigenvectors lead to different metrics. We define a new metric C_L as a lower bound among the SM quantum informations. We look at properties of C_L and show that it is invariant but not monotone.

id: 0805.0105
title: Interference of Bose-Einstein condensates: quantum non-local effects
authors: William W.J. Mullin, Franck Lalo?
comments: version published in Phys Rev
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics A78 (2008) 061605
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0105
abstract: Quantum systems in Fock states do not have a phase. When two or more Bose-Einstein condensates are sent into interferometers, they nevertheless acquire a relative phase under the effect of quantum measurements. The usual explanation relies on spontaneous symmetry breaking, where phases are ascribed to all condensates and treated as unknown classical quantities. However, this image is not always sufficient: when all particles are measured, quantum mechanics predicts probabilities that are sometimes in contradiction with it, as illustrated by quantum violations of local realism. In this letter, we show that interferometers can be used to demonstrate a large variety of violations with an arbitrarily large number of particles. With two independent condensates, we find violations of the BCHSH inequalities, as well as new N-body Hardy impossibilities. With three condensates, we obtain new GHZ (Greenberger, Horne and Zeilinger) type contradictions.

id: 0805.0130
title: On statements of experimental results expressed in the mathematical language of quantum theory
authors: John M. Myers, F. Hadi Madjid
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. Edited version of SPIE paper 6976-9 presented at the 2008 SPIE Defense & Security Conference on Quantum Information and Computation VI, March 17-20, 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0130
abstract: We note the separation of a quantum description of an experiment into a statement of results (as probabilities) and an explanation of these results (in terms of linear operators). The inverse problem of choosing an explanation to fit given results is analyzed, leading to the conclusion that any quantum description comes as an element of a family of related descriptions, entailing multiple statements of results and multiple explanations. Facing this multiplicity opens avenues for exploration and consequences that are only beginning to be explored. Among the consequences are these: (1) statements of results impose topologies on control parameters, without resort to any quantum explanation; (2) an endless source of distinct explanations forces an open cycle of exploration and description bringing more and more control parameters into play, and (3) ambiguity of description is essential to the concept of invariance in physics.

id: 0805.0132
title: Numerical study of two-body correlation in a 1D lattice with perfect blockade
authors: B. Sun, F. Robicheaux
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 045032 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0132
abstract: We compute the dynamics of excitation and two-body correlation for two-level "pseudoatoms" in a 1D lattice. We adopt a simplified model where pair excitation within a finite range is perfectly blocked. Each superatom is initially in the ground state, and then subjected to an external driving laser with Rabi frequency satisfying a Poissonian distribution, mimicking the scenario as in Rydberg gases. We find that two-body quantum correlation drops very fast with the distance between pseudoatoms. However, the total correlation decays slowly even at large distance. Our results may be useful to the understanding of Rydberg gases in the strong blockade regime.

id: 0805.0217
title: Why Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen did not prove that quantum mechanics is `incomplete'
authors: J.H.Field
comments: 11 pages. Improved and extended version of quant-ph/0702018
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0217
abstract: It is shown that the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen conclusion concerning the `incompleteness' of Quantum Mechanics is invalidated by two logical errors in their argument. If it were possible to perform the proposed gedanken experiment it would, in fact, show that Quantum Mechanics is `complete' for the observables discussed. Because, however, of the non square-integrable nature of the wave function, the proposed experiment gives vanishing probabilities for measurements performed in finite intervals of configuration or momentum space. Hence no conclusion as to the `completeness', or otherwise, of Quantum Mechanics can be drawn from the experiment.

id: 0805.0262
title: Experimental continuous variable cloning of partial quantum information
authors: Metin Sabuncu, Gerd Leuchs, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: Submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0262
abstract: The fidelity of a quantum transformation is strongly linked with the prior partial information of the state to be transformed. We illustrate this interesting point by proposing and demonstrating the superior cloning of coherent states with prior partial information. More specifically, we propose two simple transformations that under the Gaussian assumption optimally clone symmetric Gaussian distributions of coherent states as well as coherent states with known phases. Furthermore, we implement for the first time near-optimal state-dependent cloning schemes relying on simple linear optics and feedforward.

id: 0805.0267
title: Eigenvalues, Separability and Absolute Separability of Two-Qubit States
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 30 pages, 7 figures, formula (48) for the Haar measure corrected by changing sin x_3 to sin^ x_3
journal: Journal of Geometry and Physics 59 (2009), pp. 17-31
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0267
abstract: Substantial progress has recently been reported in the determination of the Hilbert-Schmidt (HS) separability probabilities for two-qubit and qubit-qutrit (real, complex and quaternionic) systems. An important theoretical concept employed has been that of a separability function. It appears that if one could analogously obtain separability functions parameterized by the eigenvalues of the density matrices in question--rather than the diagonal entries, as originally used--comparable progress could be achieved in obtaining separability probabilities based on the broad, interesting class of monotone metrics (the Bures, being its most prominent [minimal] member). Though large-scale numerical estimations of such eigenvalue-parameterized functions have been undertaken, it seems desirable also to study them in lower-dimensional specialized scenarios in which they can be exactly obtained. In this regard, we employ an Euler-angle parameterization of SO(4) derived by S. Cacciatori (reported in an Appendix)--in the manner of the SU(4)-density matrix parameterization of Tilma, Byrd and Sudarshan. We are, thus, able to find simple exact separability (inverse-sine-like) functions for two real two-qubit (rebit) systems, both having three free eigenvalues and one free Euler angle. We also employ the important Verstraete-Audenaert-de Moor bound to obtain exact HS probabilities that a generic two-qubit state is absolutely separable (that is, can not be entangled by unitary transformations). In this regard, we make copious use of trigonometric identities involving the tetrahedral dihedral angle arccos(1/3).

id: 0805.0285
title: Generalizations of quantum statistics
authors: O.W. Greenberg
comments: 5 pages, to appear in the Compendium of Quantum Physics, ed. F. Weinert, et al
journal: Compendium of Quantum Physics, ed. D. Greenberger, K. Hentschel and F. Weinert, (Springer-Verlag, Berlin Heidelberg, 2009) pp255-258.
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0285
abstract: We review generalizations of quantum statistics, including parabose, parafermi, and quon statistics, but not including anyon statistics, which is special to two dimensions.

id: 0805.0296
title: Entangled Fock states for Robust Quantum Optical Metrology, Imaging, and Sensing
authors: Sean D. Huver, Christoph F. Wildfeuer, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, extended introduction and minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 063828 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0296
abstract: We propose a class of path-entangled photon Fock states for robust quantum optical metrology, imaging, and sensing in the presence of loss. We model propagation loss with beam-splitters and derive a reduced density matrix formalism from which we examine how photon loss affects coherence. It is shown that particular entangled number states, which contain a special superposition of photons in both arms of a Mach-Zehnder interferometer, are resilient to environmental decoherence. We demonstrate an order of magnitude greater visibility with loss, than possible with N00N states. We also show that the effectiveness of a detection scheme is related to super-resolution visibility.

id: 0805.0328
title: Quantum Data Compression and Relative Entropy Revisited
authors: Alexei Kaltchenko
comments: 7 pages, no figures, minor revision
journal: Phys.Rev.A. 78 (2008) 022311
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0328
abstract: B. Schumacher and M. Westmoreland have established a quantum analog of a well-known classical information theory result on a role of relative entropy as a measure of non-optimality in (classical) data compression. In this paper, we provide an alternative, simple and constructive proof of this result by constructing quantum compression codes (schemes) from classical data compression codes. Moreover, as the quantum data compression/coding task can be effectively reduced to a (quasi-)classical one, we show that relevant results from classical information theory and data compression become applicable and therefore can be extended to the quantum domain.

id: 0805.0339
title: Quantum Knots and Mosaics
authors: Samuel J. Lomonaco Jr, Louis H. Kauffman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Geometric Topology (math.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0339
abstract: In this paper, we give a precise and workable definition of a quantum knot system, the states of which are called quantum knots. This definition can be viewed as a blueprint for the construction of an actual physical quantum system. Moreover, this definition of a quantum knot system is intended to represent the "quantum embodiment" of a closed knotted physical piece of rope. A quantum knot, as a state of this system, represents the state of such a knotted closed piece of rope, i.e., the particular spatial configuration of the knot tied in the rope. Associated with a quantum knot system is a group of unitary transformations, called the ambient group, which represents all possible ways of moving the rope around (without cutting the rope, and without letting the rope pass through itself.) Of course, unlike a classical closed piece of rope, a quantum knot can exhibit non-classical behavior, such as quantum superposition and quantum entanglement. This raises some interesting and puzzling questions about the relation between topological and quantum entanglement. The knot type of a quantum knot is simply the orbit of the quantum knot under the action of the ambient group. We investigate quantum observables which are invariants of quantum knot type. We also study the Hamiltonians associated with the generators of the ambient group, and briefly look at the quantum tunneling of overcrossings into undercrossings. A basic building block in this paper is a mosaic system which is a formal (rewriting) system of symbol strings. We conjecture that this formal system fully captures in an axiomatic way all of the properties of tame knot theory.

id: 0805.0387
title: Using Linear Programming to Construct Better Criteria for Closing the Detection Loophole in Epr Experiments
authors: James H. Bigelow
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0387
abstract: I formulate the problem of closing the detection loophole as a constrained optimization problem. Numerical methods can then be used to maximize the detector efficiency subject to the constraint that there exists a local realist explanation for the quantum correlations observed in the EPR experiment in question. Any detector efficiency larger than this maximum rules out all local realist explanations, and hence closes the detection loophole.

id: 0805.0409
title: Gaussian wave packet solution of the Schrodinger equation in the presence of a time-dependent linear potential
authors: M. Maamache, Y. Saadi
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0409
abstract: We argue that the way to get the general solution of a Schrodinger equation in the presence of a time-dependent linear potential based on the Lewis-Riesenfeld framework is to use a Hermitian linear invariant operator. We demonstrate that the linear invariant proposed in p and q is an Hermitian operator which has the Gaussian wave packet as its eigenfunction.

id: 0805.0423
title: Tripartite entanglement dynamics for atom in a two-mode nonlinear cavity
authors: Mahmoud Abdel-Aty, M. Sebawe Abdalla, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 373, Issue 3, 12 January 2009, Pages 315-319
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0423
abstract: In this communication we introduce a new model which represents the interaction between an atom and two fields injected simultaneously within a cavity including the nonlinear couplers. By using the canonical transformation the model can be regarded as a generalization of several well-known models. We calculate and discuss entanglement between the tripartite system of one atom and the two cavity modes. For a short interaction time, similarities between the behavior based on our solution compared with the other simulation based on a numerical linear algebra solution of the original Hamiltonian with truncated Fock bases for each mode, is shown. For a specific value of the Kerr-like medium defined in this letter, we find that the entanglement, as measured by concurrence, may terminate abruptly in a finite time.

id: 0805.0432
title: Categorical formulation of quantum algebras
authors: Jamie Vicary
comments: 34 pages, to appear in Communications in Mathematical Physics
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics (2011), 204 (3), 765-796
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0432
abstract: We describe how dagger-Frobenius monoids give the correct categorical description of certain kinds of finite-dimensional 'quantum algebras'. We develop the concept of an involution monoid, and use it to construct a correspondence between finite-dimensional C*-algebras and certain types of dagger-Frobenius monoids in the category of Hilbert spaces. Using this technology, we recast the spectral theorems for commutative C*-algebras and for normal operators into an explicitly categorical language, and we examine the case that the results of measurements do not form finite sets, but rather objects in a finite Boolean topos. We describe the relevance of these results for topological quantum field theory.

id: 0805.0440
title: Scaling the neutral atom Rydberg gate quantum computer by collective encoding in Holmium atoms
authors: M. Saffman, K. Molmer
comments: 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012336 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0440
abstract: We discuss a method for scaling a neutral atom Rydberg gate quantum processor to a large number of qubits. Limits are derived showing that the number of qubits that can be directly connected by entangling gates with errors at the $10^{-3}$ level using long range Rydberg interactions between sites in an optical lattice, without mechanical motion or swap chains, is about 500 in two dimensions and 7500 in three dimensions. A scaling factor of 60 at a smaller number of sites can be obtained using collective register encoding in the hyperfine ground states of the rare earth atom Holmium. We present a detailed analysis of operation of the 60 qubit register in Holmium. Combining a lattice of multi-qubit ensembles with collective encoding results in a feasible design for a 1000 qubit fully connected quantum processor.

id: 0805.0482
title: Atomic spin squeezing in an optical cavity
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, Klaus Molmer
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 063811 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0482
abstract: We consider squeezing of one component of the collective spin vector of an atomic ensemble inside an optical cavity. The atoms interact with a cavity mode, and the squeezing is obtained by probing the state of the light field that is transmitted through the cavity. Starting from the stochastic master equation, we derive the time evolution of the state of the atoms and the cavity field, and we compute expectation values and variances of the atomic spin components and the quadratures of the cavity mode. The performance of the setup is compared to spin squeezing of atoms by probing of a light field transmitted only once through the sample.

id: 0805.0523
title: Initial-state randomness as a universal source of decoherence
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022105 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0523
abstract: We study time evolution of entanglement between two qubits, which are part of a larger system, after starting from a random initial product state. We show that, due to randomness in the initial product state, entanglement is present only between directly coupled qubits and only for short times. Time dependence of the entanglement appears essentially independent of the specific hamiltonian used for time evolution and is well reproduced by a parameter-free two-body random matrix model.

id: 0805.0528
title: The conversion of phase to amplitude fluctuations of a light beam by an optical cavity
authors: Alessandro S. Villar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0528
abstract: Very low intensity and phase fluctuations are present in a bright light field such as a laser beam. These subtle quantum fluctuations may be used to encode quantum information. Although intensity is easily measured with common photodetectors, accessing the phase information requires interference experiments. We introduce one such technique, the rotation of the noise ellipse of light, which employs an optical cavity to achieve the conversion of phase to intensity fluctuations. We describe the quantum noise of light and how it can be manipulated by employing an optical resonance technique and compare it to similar techniques, such as Pound-Drever-Hall laser stabilization and homodyne detection.

id: 0805.0561
title: Non-Markovian dynamics for bipartite systems
authors: Bassano Vacchini
comments: published version, 15 pages, revtex, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022112 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0561
abstract: We analyze the appearance of non-Markovian effects in the dynamics of a bipartite system coupled to a reservoir, which can be described within a class of non-Markovian equations given by a generalized Lindblad structure. A novel master equation, which we term quantum Bloch-Boltzmann equation, is derived, describing both motional and internal states of a test particle in a quantum framework. When due to the preparation of the system or to decoherence effects one of the two degrees of freedom is amenable to a classical treatment and not resolved in the final measurement, though relevant for the interaction with the reservoir, non-Markovian behaviors such as stretched exponential or power law decay of coherences can be put into evidence.

id: 0805.0604
title: Quantum interferometry using coherent beam stimulated parametric down-conversion
authors: Aziz Kolkiran, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Opt. Express 16, 6479-6485 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0604
abstract: We show how stimulated parametric processes can be employed in experiments on beyond the diffraction limit to overcome the problem of low visibility obtained by using spontaneous down conversion operating in the high gain regime. We further show enhancement of the count rate by several orders when stimulated parametric processes are used. Both the two photon counts and the visibility can be controlled by the phase of the stimulating coherent beam.

id: 0805.0609
title: Indirect evidence for the Gouy phase for matter waves
authors: I. G. da Paz, M. C. Nemes, C. H. Monken, S. Padua, J. G. Peixoto de Faria
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0609
abstract: We show that the well known geometric phase, the Gouy phase in optics can be defined for matter waves in vacuum as well. In particular we show that the underlying physics for the "matter waves" Gouy phase is the generalized Schroedinger-Robertson uncertainty principle, more specifically, the off diagonal elements of the covariance matrix. Recent experiments involving the diffraction of fullerene molecules and the uncertainty principle are shown to be quantitatively consistent with the existence of a Gouy phase for matter waves.

id: 0805.0619
title: Uncertainty inequalities as entanglement criteria for negative partial-transpose states
authors: Hyunchul Nha, M. Suhail Zubairy
comments: 4 pages, published version with minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 130402 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0619
abstract: In this Letter, we show that the fulfillment of uncertainty relations is a sufficient criterion for a quantum-mechanically permissible state. We specifically construct two pseudo-spin observables for an arbitrary non-positive Hermitian matrix whose uncertainty relation is violated. This method enables us to systematically derive separability conditions for all negative partial-transpose states in experimentally accessible forms. In particular, generalized entanglement criteria are derived from the Schrodinger-Robertson inequalities for bipartite continuous-variable states.

id: 0805.0641
title: Spatial coherence effects on second- and fourth-order temporal interference
authors: Timothy Yarnall, Ayman F. Abouraddy, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin C. Teich
comments: 
journal: Opt. Express 16, 7634-7640 (May 2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0641
abstract: We report the results of two experiments performed with two-photon light, produced via collinear degenerate optical spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC), in which both second-order (one-photon) and fourth-order (two-photon) interferograms are recorded in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer (MZI). In the first experiment, high-visibility fringes are obtained for both the second- and fourth-order interferograms. In the second experiment, the MZI is modified by the removal of a mirror from one of its arms; this leaves the fourth-order interferogram unchanged, but extinguishes the second-order interferogram. A theoretical model that takes into consideration both the temporal and spatial degrees-of-freedom of the two-photon state successfully explains the results. While the temporal interference in the MZI is independent of the spatial coherence of the source, that of the modified MZI is not.

id: 0805.0645
title: Geometric phase of a two-level system in a dissipative environment
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa, Ming-Guang Hu
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052107 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0645
abstract: The geometric (Berry) phase of a two-level system in a dissipative environment is analyzed by using the second-quantized formulation, which provides a unified and gauge-invariant treatment of adiabatic and nonadiabatic phases and is thus applicable to a quantitative analysis of transitional regions away from ideal adiabaticity. In view of the recent experimental observation of the Berry phase in a superconducting qubit, we illustrate our formulation for a concrete adiabatic case in the Ohmic dissipation. The correction to the total phase together with the geometry-dependent dephasing time is given in a transparent way. The behavior of the geometric phase away from ideal adiabaticity is also analyzed in some detail.

id: 0805.0655
title: Photon-Mediated Interaction between Two Distant Atoms
authors: Stefan Rist, J¨¹rgen Eschner, Markus Hennrich, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 18 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 013808 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0655
abstract: We study the photonic interactions between two distant atoms which are coupled by an optical element (a lens or an optical fiber) focussing part of their emitted radiation onto each other. Two regimes are distinguished depending on the ratio between the radiative lifetime of the atomic excited state and the propagation time of a photon between the two atoms. In the two regimes, well below saturation the dynamics exhibit either typical features of a bad resonator, where the atoms act as the mirrors, or typical characteristics of dipole-dipole interaction. We study the coherence properties of the emitted light and show that it carries signatures of the multiple scattering processes between the atoms. The model predictions are compared with the experimental results in J. Eschner {\it et al.}, Nature {\bf 413}, 495 (2001).

id: 0805.0660
title: Exact results on decoherence and entanglement in a system of N driven atoms and a dissipative cavity mode
authors: M. Bina, F. Casagrande, A. Lulli
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, accepted in EPJD
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0660
abstract: We solve the dynamics of an open quantum system where N strongly driven two-level atoms are equally coupled on resonance to a dissipative cavity mode. Analytical results are derived on decoherence, entanglement, purity, atomic correlations and cavity field mean photon number. We predict decoherence-free subspaces for the whole system and the N-qubit subsystem, the monitoring of quantum coherence and purity decay by atomic populations measurements, the conditional generation of atomic multi-partite entangled states and of cavity cat-like states. We show that the dynamics of atoms prepared in states invariant under permutation of any two components remains restricted within the subspace spanned by the completely symmetric Dicke states. We discuss examples and applications in the cases N=3,4.

id: 0805.0726
title: Similarity-Projection structures: the logical geometry of Quantum Physics
authors: Daniel Lehmann
comments: 29 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0726
abstract: Similarity-Projection structures abstract the numerical properties of real scalar product of rays and projections in Hilbert spaces to provide a more general framework for Quantum Physics. They are characterized by properties that possess direct physical meaning. They provide a formal framework that subsumes both classical boolean logic concerned with sets and subsets and quantum logic concerned with Hilbert space, closed subspaces and projections. They shed light on the role of the phase factors that are central to Quantum Physics. The generalization of the notion of a self-adjoint operator to SP-structures provides a novel notion that is free of linear algebra.

id: 0805.0752
title: Surprising attractive potential barriers and repulsive wells
authors: B.N. Zakhariev
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0752
abstract: The fundamental fact is revealed that in the old good quantum mechanics there is possible such unexpected inversion: potential barriers can drag in wave-particles and wells can push them off.

id: 0805.0758
title: Observation of Rydberg blockade between two atoms
authors: E. Urban, T. A. Johnson, T. Henage, L. Isenhower, D. D. Yavuz, T. G. Walker, M. Saffman
comments: 4 figures
journal: Nature Phys. 5, 110 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0758
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally that a single Rb atom excited to the $79d_{5/2}$ level blocks the subsequent excitation of a second atom located more than $10 \mu\rm m$ away. The observed probability of double excitation of $\sim 30%$ is consistent with a theoretical model based on calculations of the long range dipole-dipole interaction between atoms.

id: 0805.0765
title: Controlled insertion and retrieval of atoms coupled to a high-finesse optical resonator
authors: Mkrtych Khudaverdyan, Wolfgang Alt, Igor Dotsenko, Tobias Kampschulte, Karim Lenhard, Arno Rauschenbeutel, Sebastian Reick, Karsten Sch?rner, Artur Widera, Dieter Meschede
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 073023 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0765
abstract: We experimentally investigate the interaction between one and two atoms and the field of a high-finesse optical resonator. Laser-cooled caesium atoms are transported into the cavity using an optical dipole trap. We monitor the interaction dynamics of a single atom strongly coupled to the resonator mode for several hundred milliseconds by observing the cavity transmission. Moreover, we investigate the position-dependent coupling of one and two atoms by shuttling them through the cavity mode. We demonstrate an alternative method, which suppresses heating effects, to analyze the atom-field interaction by retrieving the atom from the cavity and by measuring its final state.

id: 0805.0786
title: Number of particle creation and decoherence in the nonideal dynamical Casimir effect at finite temperature
authors: L. C. Celeri, F. Pascoal, M. A. de Ponte, M. H. Y. Moussa
comments: comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0786
abstract: In this work we investigate the dynamical Casimir effect in a nonideal cavity by deriving an effective Hamiltonian. We first compute a general expression for the average number of particle creation, applicable for any law of motion of the cavity boundary. We also compute a general expression for the linear entropy of an arbitrary state prepared in a selected mode, also applicable for any law of motion of the cavity boundary. As an application of our results we have analyzed both the average number of particle creation and linear entropy within a particular oscillatory motion of the cavity boundary. On the basis of these expressions we develop a comprehensive analysis of the resonances in the number of particle creation in the nonideal dynamical Casimir effect. We also demonstrate the occurrence of resonances in the loss of purity of the initial state and estimate the decoherence times associated with these resonances.

id: 0805.0816
title: Laguerre-Gaussian Modes and the Wigner Transform
authors: Michael VanValkenburgh
comments: 12 pages, minor corrections; submitted, Journal of Modern Optics
journal: Journal of Modern Optics. Volume 55, Issue 21, 3535--3547 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0816
abstract: Recent developments in laser physics have called renewed attention to Laguerre-Gaussian (LG) beams of paraxial light. In this paper we consider the corresponding LG modes for the two-dimensional harmonic oscillator, which appear in the transversal plane at the laser beam's waist. We see how they arise as Wigner transforms of Hermite-Gaussian modes, and we proceed to find a closed form for their own Wigner transforms, providing an alternative to the methods of Simon and Agarwal. Our main observation is that the Wigner transform intertwines the creation and annihilation operators for the two classes of modes.

id: 0805.0960
title: von Neumann Lattices in Finite Dimensions Hilbert Spaces
authors: M. Revzen, F. C. Khanna
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0960
abstract: The prime number decomposition of a finite dimensional Hilbert space reflects itself in the representations that the space accommodates. The representations appear in conjugate pairs for factorization to two relative prime factors which can be viewed as two distinct degrees freedom. These, Schwinger's quantum degrees of freedom, are uniquely related to a von Neumann lattices in the phase space that characterizes the Hilbert space and specifies the simultaneous definitions of both (modular) positions and (modular) momenta. The area in phase space for each quantum state in each of these quantum degrees of freedom, is shown to be exactly $h$, Planck's constant.

id: 0805.0970
title: Coherent Quantum Control to Arbitrary Accuracy using the Uhrig Sequence of Ideal or Finite-Width $¦Ð$-Pulses
authors: John Cardy, Deepak Dhar
comments: This paper is being withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0970
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors owing to a mistake in the proof of the basic lemma.

id: 0805.0979
title: An Optimal Tunable Josephson Element for Quantum Computing
authors: F. Chiarello, M. G. Castellano, G. Torrioli, S. Poletto, C. Cosmelli, P. Carelli, D. V. Balashov, M. I. Khabipov, A. B. Zorin
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: F. Chiarello, M. G. Castellano, G. Torrioli, S. Poletto, C. Cosmelli, P. Carelli, D. V. Balashov, M. I. Khabipov, e A. B. Zorin, Appl. Phys. Lett. 93, 042504-3 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0979
abstract: We introduce a three-junction SQUID that can be effectively used as an optimal tunable element in Josephson quantum computing applications. This device can replace the simple dc SQUID generally used as tunable element in this kind of applications, with a series of advantages for the coherence time and for the tolerance to small errors. We study the device both theoretically and experimentally at 4.2 K, obtaining a good agreement between the results.

id: 0805.0986
title: Quasiprobability distribution functions for finite-dimensional discrete phase spaces: Spin-tunneling effects in a toy model
authors: Marcelo A. Marchiolli, Evandro C. Silva, Diogenes Galetti
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures, title modified, new setences and references included, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0986
abstract: We show how quasiprobability distribution functions defined over $N^{2}$-dimensional discrete phase spaces can be used to treat physical systems described by a finite space of states which exhibit spin tunneling effects. This particular approach is then applied to the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model in order to obtain the time evolution of the discrete Husimi function, and as a by-product the energy gap for a symmetric combination of ground and first excited states. Moreover, we also show how an angle-based potential approach can be efficiently employed to explain qualitatively certain features of the energy gap in terms of a spin tunneling. Entropy functionals are also discussed in this context. Such results reinforce not only the formalism per se but also the possibility of some future potential applications in other branches of physics.

id: 0805.0995
title: Control of a nonlocal entanglement in the micromaser via two quanta non-linear processes induced by dynamic Stark shift
authors: M. S. Ateto
comments: 22 pages, 43 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0995
abstract: We show that, under certain conditions, the micromaser can act as an effective source of highly correlated atoms. It is possible to create an extended robust entanglement between two successive, initially unentangled atoms passing through a cavity filled with with a nonlinear medium taking into consideration a slight level shift. Information is transfered from the cavity to the atoms in order to build up entanglement. The scheme has an advantage over conventional creation of entanglement if the two atoms (qubits) are so far apart that a direct interaction is difficult to achieve. The interaction of the atoms with the micromaser occurs under the influence of a two-quantum transition process. Interesting phenomena are observed, and an extended robust entangled state is obtained for different values of the system parameters. Illustrative variational calculations are performed to demonstrate the effect within an analytically tractable two-qubit model.

id: 0805.1002
title: Computational power of correlations
authors: Janet Anders, Dan E. Browne
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables, v2: introduction revised and title changed to highlight generality of established framework and results, v3: published version with additional table II
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 050502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1002
abstract: We study the intrinsic computational power of correlations exploited in measurement-based quantum computation. By defining a general framework the meaning of the computational power of correlations is made precise. This leads to a notion of resource states for measurement-based \textit{classical} computation. Surprisingly, the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt problems emerge as optimal examples. Our work exposes an intriguing relationship between the violation of local realistic models and the computational power of entangled resource states.

id: 0805.1044
title: Increasing singlet fraction with entanglement swapping
authors: Joanna Modlawska, Andrzej Grudka
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032321 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1044
abstract: We consider entanglement swapping for certain mixed states. We assume that the initial states have the same singlet fraction and show that the final state can have singlet fraction greater than the initial states. We also consider two quantum teleportations and show that entanglement swapping can increase teleportation fidelity. Finally, we show how this effect can be demonstrated with linear optics.

id: 0805.1065
title: State redistribution as merging: introducing the coherent relay
authors: Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: 1 colour figure, circuit diagram available upon request
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1065
abstract: State redistribution allows one party to optimally send part of her state to another party. Here we show that this can be derived simply from two applications of coherent state-merging. This provides a protocol whereby a middle party acts as a relay station to help another party more efficiently transfer quantum states. This also gives a protocol for state splitting and the reverse Shannon theorem (assisted or unassisted by side information), and allows one to use less classical communication for partial state-merging using a sub-protocol we call ebit repackaging. Thus state-merging generates the other primitives of quantum communication theory, reducing the hierarchy between members of the first family of quantum protocols.

id: 0805.1076
title: Some Directions beyond Traditional Quantum Secret Sharing
authors: Sudhir Kumar Singh, R. Srikanth
comments: To appear in Physica Scripta, 7 pages, 1 figure, subsumes arXiv:quant-ph/0407200
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1076
abstract: We investigate two directions beyond the traditional quantum secret sharing (QSS). First, a restriction on QSS that comes from the no-cloning theorem is that any pair of authorized sets in an access structure should overlap. From the viewpoint of application, this places an unnatural constraint on secret sharing. We present a generalization, called assisted QSS (AQSS), where access structures without pairwise overlap of authorized sets is permissible, provided some shares are withheld by the share dealer. We show that no more than $\lambda-1$ withheld shares are required, where $\lambda$ is the minimum number of {\em partially linked classes} among the authorized sets for the QSS. Our result means that such applications of QSS need not be thwarted by the no-cloning theorem. Secondly, we point out a way of combining the features of QSS and quantum key distribution (QKD) for applications where a classical information is shared by quantum means. We observe that in such case, it is often possible to reduce the security proof of QSS to that of QKD.

id: 0805.1090
title: Relative entropy of entanglement for certain multipartite mixed states
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei
comments: Single column, 22 pages, 9 figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012327 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1090
abstract: We prove conjectures on the relative entropy of entanglement (REE) for two families of multipartite qubit states. Thus, analytic expressions of REE for these families of states can be given. The first family of states are composed of mixture of some permutation-invariant multi-qubit states. The results generalized to multi-qudit states are also shown to hold. The second family of states contain D\"ur's bound entangled states. Along the way, we have discussed the relation of REE to two other measures: robustness of entanglement and geometric measure of entanglement, slightly extending previous results.

id: 0805.1123
title: Measurement and control of spatial qubits generated by passing photons through double-slits
authors: Gen Taguchi, Tatsuo Dougakiuchi, Nobuaki Yoshimoto, Katsuya Kasai, Masataka Iinuma, Holger F. Hofmann, Yutaka Kadoya
comments: 19 pages, including 10 figures and 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012307 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1123
abstract: We present an experimental study of the non-classical correlations of a pair of spatial qubits formed by passing two down-converted photons through a pair of double slits. After confirming the entanglement generated in our setup by quantum tomography using separate measurements of the slit images and the interference patterns, we show that the complete Hilbert space of the spatial qubits can be accessed by measurements performed in a single plane between the image plane and the focal plane of a lens. Specifically, it is possible to obtain both the which-path and the interference information needed for quantum tomography in a single scan of the transversal distribution of photon coincidences. Since this method can easily be extended to multi-dimensional systems, it may be a valuable tool in the application of spatial qudits to quantum information processes.

id: 0805.1166
title: The Physics of Ghost Imaging
authors: Yanhua Shih
comments: extended revised version: 27 Figures, 45 PP, extensive discussion on the subject of ghost imaging with both entangled and chaotic sources, especially focusing on the physics hebind. More insights have been added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1166
abstract: One of the most surprising consequences of quantum mechanics is the nonlocal multi-particle interference observable in joint-detection of distant particle-detectors. Ghost imaging is one of such phenomena. Two types of ghost imaging have been experimentally demonstrated since 1995. Type-one ghost imaging uses entangled photon pairs as the light source. The nonlocal point-to-point image-forming correlation is the result of a constructive-destructive superposition among a large number of biphoton amplitudes, a nonclassical entity corresponding to different yet indistinguishable alternative ways of producing a joint-detction event between distant photodetectors. Type-two ghost imaging uses chaotic-thermal light. The type-two image-forming correlation is the result of interferences between paired two-photon amplitudes, corresponding to two different yet indistinguishable alternative ways of triggering a join-detection event by two independent photons. A great deal of confusion about ghost imaging comes from "ghost shadow". Similar to x-ray photography, a ghost shadow can be made in coincidences by "blocking-partial blocking-unblocking" of either co-rotating laser beams or classically correlated "speckles". "Ghost shadow" is indeed a classical phenomenon. The physics of ghost imaging, however, is fundamentally different. This article is aimed at exploring the nonlocal two-photon interference nature of ghost imaging.

id: 0805.1199
title: Generalized relation between pulsed and continuous measurements in the quantum Zeno effect
authors: J. G. Muga, J. Echanobe, A. del Campo, I. Lizuain
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41, 175501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1199
abstract: A relation is found between pulsed measurements of the excited state probability of a two-level atom illuminated by a driving laser, and a continuous measurement by a second laser coupling the excited state to a third state which decays rapidly and irreversibly. We find the time between pulses to achieve the same average detection time than a given continuous measurement in strong, weak, or intermediate coupling regimes, generalizing the results in L. S. Schulman, Phys. Rev. A 57, 1509 (1998).

id: 0805.1214
title: Quantum algorithms for spin models and simulable gate sets for quantum computation
authors: M. Van den Nest, W. D¨¹r, R. Raussendorf, H. J. Briegel
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052334 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1214
abstract: We present elementary mappings between classical lattice models and quantum circuits. These mappings provide a general framework to obtain efficiently simulable quantum gate sets from exactly solvable classical models. For example, we recover and generalize the simulability of Valiant's match-gates by invoking the solvability of the free-fermion eight-vertex model. Our mappings furthermore provide a systematic formalism to obtain simple quantum algorithms to approximate partition functions of lattice models in certain complex-parameter regimes. For example, we present an efficient quantum algorithm for the six-vertex model as well as a 2D Ising-type model. We finally show that simulating our quantum algorithms on a classical computer is as hard as simulating universal quantum computation (i.e. BQP-complete).

id: 0805.1237
title: Quantum searches on highly symmetric graphs
authors: Daniel Reitzner, Mark Hillery, Edgar Feldman, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures; major revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012323 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1237
abstract: We study scattering quantum walks on highly symmetric graphs and use the walks to solve search problems on these graphs. The particle making the walk resides on the edges of the graph, and at each time step scatters at the vertices. All of the vertices have the same scattering properties except for a subset of special vertices. The object of the search is to find a special vertex. A quantum circuit implementation of these walks is presented in which the set of special vertices is specified by a quantum oracle. We consider the complete graph, a complete bipartite graph, and an $M$-partite graph. In all cases, the dimension of the Hilbert space in which the time evolution of the walk takes place is small (between three and six), so the walks can be completely analyzed analytically. Such dimensional reduction is due to the fact that these graphs have large automorphism groups. We find the usual quadratic quantum speedups in all cases considered.

id: 0805.1256
title: Dissipation-driven quantum phase transitions in collective spin systems
authors: S. Morrison, A. S. Parkins
comments: 12 pages, 16 figures, removed section on homodyne spectra
journal: J. Phys. B 41, 195502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1256
abstract: We consider two different collective spin systems subjected to strong dissipation -- on the same scale as interaction strengths and external fields -- and show that either continuous or discontinuous dissipative quantum phase transitions can occur as the dissipation strength is varied. First, we consider a well known model of cooperative resonance fluorescence that can exhibit a second-order quantum phase transition, and analyze the entanglement properties near the critical point. Next, we examine a dissipative version of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick interacting collective spin model, where we find that either first- or second-order quantum phase transitions can occur, depending only on the ratio of the interaction and external field parameters. We give detailed results and interpretation for the steady state entanglement in the vicinity of the critical point, where it reaches a maximum. For the first-order transition we find that the semiclassical steady states exhibit a region of bistability.

id: 0805.1264
title: Chaos, entanglement and decoherence in the quantum kicked top
authors: S. Ghose, R. Stock, P. S. Jessen, R. Lal, A. Silberfarb
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1264
abstract: We analyze the interplay of chaos, entanglement and decoherence in a system of qubits whose collective behaviour is that of a quantum kicked top. The dynamical entanglement between a single qubit and the rest can be calculated from the mean of the collective spin operators. This allows the possibility of efficiently measuring entanglement dynamics in an experimental setting. We consider a deeply quantum regime and show that signatures of chaos are present in the dynamical entanglement for parameters accessible in an experiment that we propose using cold atoms. The evolution of the entanglement depends on the support of the initial state on regular versus chaotic Floquet eigenstates, whose phase-space distributions are concentrated on the corresponding regular or chaotic eigenstructures. We include the effect of decoherence via a realistic model and show that the signatures of chaos in the entanglement dynamics persist in the presence of decoherence. In addition, the classical chaos affects the decoherence rate itself.

id: 0805.1314
title: Non-Markovian dynamics of a single electron spin coupled to a nuclear spin bath
authors: E. Ferraro, H.-P. Breuer, A. Napoli, M. A. Jivulescu, A. Messina
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physical Review B 78, 064309 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1314
abstract: We apply the time-convolutionless (TCL) projection operator technique to the model of a central spin which is coupled to a spin bath via nonuniform Heisenberg interaction. The second-order results of the TCL method for the coherences and populations of the central spin are determined analytically and compared with numerical simulations of the full von Neumann equation of the total system. The TCL approach is found to yield an excellent approximation in the strong field regime for the description of both the short-time dynamics and the long time behavior.

id: 0805.1318
title: Necessary and sufficient conditions for bipartite entanglement
authors: J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 7 pages, 2 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022318 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1318
abstract: Necessary and sufficient conditions for bipartite entanglement are derived, which apply to arbitrary Hilbert spaces. Motivated by the concept of witnesses, optimized entanglement inequalities are formulated solely in terms of arbitrary Hermitian operators, which makes them useful for applications in experiments. The needed optimization procedure is based on a separability eigenvalue problem, whose analytical solutions are derived for a special class of projection operators. For general Hermitian operators, a numerical implementation of entanglement tests is proposed. It is also shown how to identify bound entangled states with positive partial transposition.

id: 0805.1322
title: Recurrence properties of unbiased coined quantum walks on infinite $d$-dimensional lattices
authors: Martin Stefanak, Tamas Kiss, Igor Jex
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032306 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1322
abstract: The P\'olya number characterizes the recurrence of a random walk. We apply the generalization of this concept to quantum walks [M. \v{S}tefa\v{n}\'ak, I. Jex and T. Kiss, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{100}, 020501 (2008)] which is based on a specific measurement scheme. The P\'olya number of a quantum walk depends in general on the choice of the coin and the initial coin state, in contrast to classical random walks where the lattice dimension uniquely determines it. We analyze several examples to depict the variety of possible recurrence properties. First, we show that for the class of quantum walks driven by independent coins for all spatial dimensions, the P\'olya number is independent of the initial conditions and the actual coin operators, thus resembling the property of the classical walks. We provide an analytical estimation of the P\'olya number for this class of quantum walks. Second, we examine the 2-D Grover walk, which exhibits localisation and thus is recurrent, except for a particular initial state for which the walk is transient. We generalize the Grover walk to show that one can construct in arbitrary dimensions a quantum walk which is recurrent. This is in great contrast with the classical walks which are recurrent only for the dimensions $d=1,2$. Finally, we analyze the recurrence of the 2-D Fourier walk. This quantum walk is recurrent except for a two-dimensional subspace of the initial states. We provide an analytical formula of the P\'olya number in its dependence on the initial state.

id: 0805.1343
title: On the divine clockwork: the spectral gap for the correspondence limit of the Nelson diffusion generator for the atomic elliptic state
authors: Richard Durran, Andrew Neate, Aubrey Truman, Feng-Yu Wang
comments: 30 pages, 5 figures, submitted to J. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1343
abstract: The correspondence limit of the atomic elliptic state in three dimensions is discussed in terms of Nelson's stochastic mechanics. In previous work we have shown that this approach leads to a limiting Nelson diffusion and here we discuss in detail the invariant measure for this process and show that it is concentrated on the Kepler ellipse in the plane z=0. We then show that the limiting Nelson diffusion generator has a spectral gap; thereby proving that in the infinite time limit the density for the limiting Nelson diffusion will converge to its invariant measure. We also include a summary of the Cheeger and Poincare inequalities both of which are used in our proof of the existence of the spectral gap.

id: 0805.1387
title: Adiabatic Quantum Counting by Geometric Phase Estimation
authors: Chi Zhang, Zhaohui Wei, Anargyros Papageorgiou
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1387
abstract: We design an adiabatic quantum algorithm for the counting problem, i.e., approximating the proportion, $\alpha$, of the marked items in a given database. As the quantum system undergoes a designed cyclic adiabatic evolution, it acquires a Berry phase $2\pi\alpha$. By estimating the Berry phase, we can approximate $\alpha$, and solve the problem. For an error bound $\epsilon$, the algorithm can solve the problem with cost of order $(\frac{1}{\epsilon})^{3/2}$, which is not as good as the optimal algorithm in the quantum circuit model, but better than the classical random algorithm. Moreover, since the Berry phase is a purely geometric feature, the result may be robust to decoherence and resilient to certain noise.

id: 0805.1402
title: QND measurements and state preparation in quantum gases by light detection
authors: Igor B. Mekhov, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 020403 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1402
abstract: We consider light scattering from ultracold atoms trapped in an optical lattice into a cavity. The measurement of photons leaking out the cavity provides a quantum nondemolition (QND) access to various atomic variables. Depending on the chosen geometry the time resolved light detection projects the atomic quantum state to various atom-number squeezed and Schroedinger cat states. Modifications of the atomic and light properties at a single quantum trajectory are demonstrated. The quantum structure of final states can be revealed by further observations of the same sample.

id: 0805.1416
title: Realization of Coherent Optically Dense Media via Buffer-Gas Cooling
authors: Tao Hong, Alexey V. Gorshkov, David Patterson, Alexander S. Zibrov, John M. Doyle, Mikhail D. Lukin, Mara G. Prentiss
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. V2: modified title, abstract, introduction, conclusion; added references; improved theoretical fit in figure 3(b); shortened slow light theory description; clarified simplicity of apparatus. Final version as published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 013806 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1416
abstract: We demonstrate that buffer-gas cooling combined with laser ablation can be used to create coherent optical media with high optical depth and low Doppler broadening that offers metastable states with low collisional and motional decoherence. Demonstration of this generic technique opens pathways to coherent optics with a large variety of atoms and molecules. We use helium buffer gas to cool 87Rb atoms to below 7 K and slow atom diffusion to the walls. Electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in this medium allows for 50% transmission in a medium with initial OD >70 and for slow pulse propagation with large delay-bandwidth products. In the high-OD regime, we observe high-contrast spectrum oscillations due to efficient four-wave mixing.

id: 0805.1443
title: The Computational Status of Physics: A Computable Formulation of Quantum Theory
authors: Mike Stannett
comments: To appear, Natural Computing (2009). 21 pages, 1 fig, 44 refs. Content revised, new material added (hypercomputation, digital physics, cosmological computing, open questions)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1443
abstract: According to the Church-Turing Thesis (CTT), effective formal behaviours can be simulated by Turing machines; this has naturally led to speculation that physical systems can also be simulated computationally. But is this wider claim true, or do behaviours exist which are strictly hypercomputational? Several idealised computational models are known which suggest the possibility of hypercomputation, some Newtonian, some based on cosmology, some on quantum theory. While these models' physicality is debatable, they nonetheless throw into question the validity of extending CTT to include all physical systems. We consider the physicality of hypercomputational behaviour from first principles, by showing that quantum theory can be reformulated in a way that explains why physical behaviours can be regarded as 'computing something' in the standard computational state-machine sense. While this does not rule out the physicality of hypercomputation, it strongly limits the forms it can take. Our model also has physical consequences; in particular, the continuity of motion and arrow of time become theorems within the basic model.

id: 0805.1456
title: Teleportation in the presence of common bath decoherence at the transmitting station
authors: D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, P. K. Panigrahi, Chiranjib Mitra
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022336 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1456
abstract: We investigate the effect of common bath decoherence on the qubits of Alice in the usual teleportation protocol. The system bath interaction is studied under the central spin model, where the qubits are coupled to the bath spins through isotropic Heisenberg interaction. We have given a more generalized representation of the protocol in terms of density matrices and calculated the average fidelity of the teleported state for different Bell state measurements performed by Alice. The common bath interaction differentiates the outcome of various Bell state measurements made by Alice. There will be a high fidelity teleportation for a singlet measurement made by Alice when both the qubits of Alice interact either ferromagnetically or antiferromagnetically with bath. In contrast if one of the Alice's qubits interact ferromagnetically and the other anti-ferromagnetically then measurement of Bell states belonging to the triplet sector will give better fidelity. We have also evaluated the average fidelity when Alice prefers non-maximally entangled states as her basis for measurement.

id: 0805.1463
title: Preparation contextuality powers parity-oblivious multiplexing
authors: Robert W. Spekkens, D. H. Buzacott, A. J. Keehn, Ben Toner, G. J. Pryde
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures; published version with supplementary material included as appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 010401 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1463
abstract: In a noncontextual hidden variable model of quantum theory, hidden variables determine the outcomes of every measurement in a manner that is independent of how the measurement is implemented. Using a generalization of this notion to arbitrary operational theories and to preparation procedures, we demonstrate that a particular two-party information-processing task, "parity-oblivious multiplexing," is powered by contextuality in the sense that there is a limit to how well any theory described by a noncontextual hidden variable model can perform. This bound constitutes a "noncontextuality inequality" that is violated by quantum theory. We report an experimental violation of this inequality in good agreement with the quantum predictions. The experimental results also provide the first demonstration of 2-to-1 and 3-to-1 quantum random access codes. Consequently, our experimental results also demonstrate better-than-classical performance for this task. They also represent the first demonstration of 2-to-1 and 3-to-1 quantum random access codes.

id: 0805.1468
title: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-type violation of local realism by mixed states
authors: X.-Q. Zhou, C.-Y. Lu, W.-B. Gao, J. Zhang, Z.-B. Chen, T. Yang, J.-W. Pan
comments: four pages, five figures, revTex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012112 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1468
abstract: Cluster states are multi-particle entangled states with special entanglement properties particularly suitable for quantum computation. It has been shown that cluster states can exhibit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ)-type non-locality even when some of their qubits have been lost. In the present work, we generated a four-photon mixed state, which is equivalent to the partial, qubit-loss state of an N-qubit cluster state up to some local transformations. By using this mixed state, we then realize a GHZ-type violation of local realism. Our results not only demonstrate a mixed state's GHZ-type non-locality but also exhibit the robustness of cluster states under qubit-loss conditions.

id: 0805.1511
title: Detection model based on representation of quantum particles by classical random fields: Born's rule and beyond
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: Relation with recent experiment on violation of Born's rule in the triple slit experiment is discussed; new experimental test which might confirm violation of Born's rule are presented (double stochsticity test and interference magnitude test); the problem of "double clicks" is discussed
journal: Physics Letters A 372, N 44, 6588-6592 (2008) [version reproducing Bron's rule, i.e., without its violation]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1511
abstract: Recently a new attempt to go beyond quantum mechanics (QM) was presented in the form of so called prequantum classical statistical field theory (PCSFT). Its main experimental prediction is violation of Born's rule which provides only an approximative description of real probabilities. We expect that it will be possible to design numerous experiments demonstrating violation of Born's rule. Moreover, recently the first experimental evidence of violation was found in the triple slits interference experiment, see \cite{WWW}. Although this experimental test was motivated by another prequantum model, it can be definitely considered as at least preliminary confirmation of the main prediction of PCSFT. In our approach quantum particles are just symbolic representations of "prequantum random fields," e.g., "electron-field" or "neutron-field"; photon is associated with classical random electromagnetic field. Such prequantum fields fluctuate on time and space scales which are essentially finer than scales of QM, cf. `t Hooft's attempt to go beyond QM \cite{H1}--\cite{TH2}. In this paper we elaborate a detection model in the PCSFT-framework. In this model classical random fields (corresponding to "quantum particles") interact with detectors inducing probabilities which match with Born's rule only approximately. Thus QM arises from PCSFT as an approximative theory. New tests of violation of Born's rule are proposed.

id: 0805.1536
title: Modular Schr?dinger equation and dynamical duality
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. E (2008)
journal: Phys. Rev. E 78, 031101, (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1536
abstract: We discuss quite surprising properties of the one-parameter family of modular (Auberson and Sabatier (1994)) nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger equations. We develop a unified theoretical framework for this family. Special attention is paid to the emergent \it dual \rm time evolution scenarios which, albeit running in the \it real time \rm parameter of the pertinent nonlinear equation, in each considered case, may be mapped among each other by means of an "imaginary time" transformation (more seriously, an analytic continuation in time procedure).

id: 0805.1538
title: Joint measurement of two unsharp observables of a qubit
authors: Sixia Yu, Naile Liu, Li Li, C.H. Oh
comments: 5 pages 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1538
abstract: We present a single inequality as the necessary and sufficient condition for two unsharp observables of a two-level system to be jointly measurable in a single apparatus and construct explicitly the joint observables. A complementarity inequality arising from the condition of joint measurement, which generalizes Englert's duality inequality, is derived as the trade-off between the unsharpnesses of two jointly measurable observables.

id: 0805.1542
title: Quantum state redistribution based on a generalized decoupling
authors: Ming-Yong Ye, Yan-Kui Bai, Z. D. Wang
comments: 
journal: PHYSICAL REVIEW A 78, 030302(R)(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1542
abstract: We develop a simple protocol for a one-shot version of quantum state redistribution, which is the most general two-terminal source coding problem. The protocol is simplified from a combination of protocols for the fully quantum reverse Shannon and fully quantum Slepian-Wolf problems, with its time-reversal symmetry being apparent. When the protocol is applied to the case where the redistributed states have a tensor power structure, more natural resource rates are obtained.

id: 0805.1547
title: Non-additive behavior of van der Walls dispersion forces due to material and surface geometry effects
authors: Carlos E Roman-Velazquez, Bo E Sernelius
comments: 7 pages and 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1547
abstract: We present a series of calculations of van der Waals (vdW) forces that show non-additive behavior. The results reveal effects of geometrical dependences of the dispersion forces, that are in strong contradictions to the results from additivity approaches like the Lennard-Jones (LJ) pairwise interaction and the proximity force approximation (PFA). For the simple geometries treated here deviations appear when the effects of the materials are taken into account. We obtain these results with a general and simple numerical method that allows for a detailed study of the vdW interactions. The method is also accurate and fast, and due to its generality makes the study of interactions between three-dimensional (3D) objects, with arbitrary geometries and configurations, feasible. We present results for normal, lateral and rotational forces.

id: 0805.1556
title: Quantum Multiobservable Control
authors: Raj Chakrabarti, Rebing Wu, Herschel Rabitz
comments: To appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1556
abstract: We present deterministic algorithms for the simultaneous control of an arbitrary number of quantum observables. Unlike optimal control approaches based on cost function optimization, quantum multiobservable tracking control (MOTC) is capable of tracking predetermined homotopic trajectories to target expectation values in the space of multiobservables. The convergence of these algorithms is facilitated by the favorable critical topology of quantum control landscapes. Fundamental properties of quantum multiobservable control landscapes that underlie the efficiency of MOTC, including the multiobservable controllability Gramian, are introduced. The effects of multiple control objectives on the structure and complexity of optimal fields are examined. With minor modifications, the techniques described herein can be applied to general quantum multiobjective control problems.

id: 0805.1576
title: Manifestation of Hamiltonian chaos in an open quantum system with ballistic atoms in an optical lattice
authors: V.Yu. Argonov, S.V. Prants
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1576
abstract: Manifestation of dynamical instability and Hamiltonian chaos in the fundamental near-resonant matter-radiation interaction has been found analitically and in a Monte Carlo simulation in the behavior of atoms moving in a rigid optical lattice. Character of diffusion of spontaneously emitting atoms changes abruptly in the range of the values of parameters and initial conditions where their Hamiltonian dynamics is shown to be chaotic

id: 0805.1608
title: High-sensitivity monitoring of micromechanical vibration using optical whispering gallery mode resonators
authors: A. Schliesser, G. Anetsberger, R. Rivi¨¨re, O. Arcizet, T. J. Kippenberg
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1608
abstract: The inherent coupling of optical and mechanical modes in high finesse optical microresonators provide a natural, highly sensitive transduction mechanism for micromechanical vibrations. Using homodyne and polarization spectroscopy techniques, we achieve shot-noise limited displacement sensitivities of 10^(-19) m Hz^(-1/2). In an unprecedented manner, this enables the detection and study of a variety of mechanical modes, which are identified as radial breathing, flexural and torsional modes using 3-dimensional finite element modelling. Furthermore, a broadband equivalent displacement noise is measured and found to agree well with models for thermorefractive noise in silica dielectric cavities. Implications for ground-state cooling, displacement sensing and Kerr squeezing are discussed.

id: 0805.1632
title: Separability and Entanglement of Quantum States Based on Covariance Matrices
authors: Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 11 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 41, Math. Theor.(2008)202002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1632
abstract: We investigate the separability of quantum states based on covariance matrices. Separability criteria are presented for multipartite states. The lower bound of concurrence proposed in Phys. Rev. A. 75, 052320 (2007) is improved by optimizing the local orthonormal observables.

id: 0805.1639
title: Non-Gaussianity and purity in finite dimension
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 7, 97 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1639
abstract: We address truncated states of continuous variable systems and analyze their statistical properties numerically by generating random states in finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces. In particular, we focus to the distribution of purity and non-Gaussianity for dimension up to d=21. We found that both quantities are distributed around typical values with variances that decrease for increasing dimension. Approximate formulas for typical purity and non-Gaussianity as a function of the dimension are derived.

id: 0805.1645
title: Quantifying the non-Gaussian character of a quantum state by quantum relative entropy
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Matteo G. A. Paris, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. v2: Slightly revised version and reference added. v3: minor corrections, to appear on Phys. Rev. A (Rapid Communication). v4: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 78, 060303 (R), (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1645
abstract: We introduce a novel measure to quantify the non-Gaussian character of a quantum state: the quantum relative entropy between the state under examination and a reference Gaussian state. We analyze in details the properties of our measure and illustrate its relationships with relevant quantities in quantum information as the Holevo bound and the conditional entropy; in particular a necessary condition for the Gaussian character of a quantum channel is also derived. The evolution of non-Gaussianity (nonG) is analyzedfor quantum states undergoing conditional Gaussification towards twin-beam and de-Gaussification driven by Kerr interaction. Our analysis allows to assess nonG as a resource for quantum information and, in turn, to evaluate the performances of Gaussification and de-Gaussification protocols.

id: 0805.1651
title: Quantum Mechanics of Proca Fields
authors: Farhad Zamani, Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: Published version, typos fixed, a change in symbol, 1 fig
journal: J.Math.Phys.50:052302,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1651
abstract: We construct the most general physically admissible positive-definite inner product on the space of Proca fields. Up to a trivial scaling this defines a five-parameter family of Lorentz invariant inner products that we use to construct a genuine Hilbert space for the quantum mechanics of Proca fields. If we identify the generator of time-translations with the Hamiltonian, we obtain a unitary quantum system that describes first-quantized Proca fields and does not involve the conventional restriction to the positive-frequency fields. We provide a rather comprehensive analysis of this system. In particular, we examine the conserved current density responsible for the conservation of the probabilities, explore the global gauge symmetry underlying the conservation of the probabilities, obtain a probability current density, construct position, momentum, helicity, spin, and angular momentum operators, and determine the localized Proca fields. We also compute the generalized parity ($\cP$), generalized time-reversal ($\cT$), and generalized charge or chirality ($\cC$) operators for this system and offer a physical interpretation for its $\cP\cT$-, $\cC$-, and $\cC\cP\cT$-symmetries.

id: 0805.1668
title: Decoherence measurement of single phonons using spectral interference
authors: F. C. Waldermann, B. J. Sussman, J. Nunn, V. O. Lorenz, K. C. Lee, K. Surmacz, K. H. Lee, D. Jaksch, I. A. Walmsley, P. Spizziri, P. Olivero, S. Prawer
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures. Rewritten version with added theory section
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1668
abstract: A technique to measure the decoherence time of optical phonons in a solid is presented. Phonons are excited with a pair of time delayed 80 fs, near infrared pulses via spontaneous, transient Raman scattering. The fringe visibility of the resulting Stokes pulse pair, as a function of time delay, is used to measure the phonon dephasing time. The method avoids the need to use either narrow band or few femtosecond pulses and is useful for low phonon excitations. The dephasing time of phonons created in bulk diamond is measured to be tau = 6.8ps (1.56cm-1).

id: 0805.1676
title: Contribution of drifting carriers to the Casimir-Lifshitz and Casimir-Polder interactions with semiconductor materials
authors: Diego A. R. Dalvit, Steve K. Lamoreaux
comments: 4 pages version 2: improved discussion of perfect conductor and perfect dielectric limits. Version 3; includes discussion of limits of applicability of the analysis. Version $; updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 163203 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1676
abstract: We develop a new theory for Casimir-Lifshitz and Casimir-Polder interactions with semiconductor surfaces that takes into account charge drift in the bulk material. The corresponding frequency-dependent dispersion relations describe a crossover between Lifshitz results for dielectrics and for good conductors. In the quasi-static limit, our calculated reflection amplitudes coincide with those recently computed to account for Debye screening in the thermal Lifshitz force with conducting surfaces with small density of carriers.

id: 0805.1682
title: Generation of time-bin entangled photons without temporal post-selection
authors: Alessandro Rossi, Giuseppe Vallone, Francesco De Martini, Paolo Mataloni
comments: RevTex, 6 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012345 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1682
abstract: We report on the implementation of a new interferometric scheme that allows the generation of photon pairs entangled in the time-energy degree of freedom. This scheme does not require any kind of temporal post-selection on the generated pairs and can be used even with lasers with short coherence time.

id: 0805.1686
title: Improved constructions of quantum automata
authors: Andris Ambainis, Nikolajs Nahimovs
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1686
abstract: We present a simple construction of quantum automata which achieve an exponential advantage over classical finite automata. Our automata use \frac{4}{\epsilon} \log 2p + O(1) states to recognize a language that requires p states classically. The construction is both substantially simpler and achieves a better constant in the front of \log p than the previously known construction of Ambainis and Freivalds (quant-ph/9802062). Similarly to Ambainis and Freivalds, our construction is by a probabilistic argument. We consider the possibility to derandomize it and present some results in this direction.

id: 0805.1687
title: Riccati and Ermakov Equations in Time-Dependent and Time-Independent Quantum Systems
authors: Dieter Schuch
comments: This is a contribution to the Proc. of the Seventh International Conference ''Symmetry in Nonlinear Mathematical Physics'' (June 24-30, 2007, Kyiv, Ukraine), published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 4 (2008), 043, 16 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1687
abstract: The time-evolution of the maximum and the width of exact analytic wave packet (WP) solutions of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation (SE) represents the particle and wave aspects, respectively, of the quantum system. The dynamics of the maximum, located at the mean value of position, is governed by the Newtonian equation of the corresponding classical problem. The width, which is directly proportional to the position uncertainty, obeys a complex nonlinear Riccati equation which can be transformed into a real nonlinear Ermakov equation. The coupled pair of these equations yields a dynamical invariant which plays a key role in our investigation. It can be expressed in terms of a complex variable that linearizes the Riccati equation. This variable also provides the time-dependent parameters that characterize the Green's function, or Feynman kernel, of the corresponding problem. From there, also the relation between the classical and quantum dynamics of the systems can be obtained. Furthermore, the close connection between the Ermakov invariant and the Wigner function will be shown. Factorization of the dynamical invariant allows for comparison with creation/annihilation operators and supersymmetry where the partner potentials fulfil (real) Riccati equations. This provides the link to a nonlinear formulation of time-independent quantum mechanics in terms of an Ermakov equation for the amplitude of the stationary state wave functions combined with a conservation law. Comparison with SUSY and the time-dependent problems concludes our analysis.

id: 0805.1690
title: Generalized W-Class State and its Monogamy Relation
authors: Jeong San Kim, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41(49): 495301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1690
abstract: We generalize the W class of states from $n$ qubits to $n$ qudits and prove that their entanglement is fully characterized by their partial entanglements even for the case of the mixture that consists of a W-class state and a product state $\ket{0}^{\otimes n}$.

id: 0805.1694
title: Dynamics of Global Entanglement under Decoherence
authors: Afshin Montakhab, Ali Asadian
comments: 5 pages and 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 77 062322 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1694
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of global entanglement, the Meyer-Wallach measure, under decoherence, analytically. We study two important class of multi-partite entangled states, the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and the W state. We obtain exact results for various models of system-environment interactions (decoherence). Our results shows distinctly different scaling behavior for these initially entangled states indicating a relative robustness of the W state, consistent with previous studies.

id: 0805.1697
title: Detecting of photons in optical fields of complicated spatial structure
authors: V.V. Klimov, D. Bloch, M. Ducloy, J.R.Rios Leite
comments: 34 pages,14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1697
abstract: We show that a photon detector, sensitive to the gradients of electromagnetic fields, or to magnetic fields, should be a useful tool to characterize the quantum properties of spatially-dependent optical fields. We discuss the excitation of an atom on a magnetic dipole or electric quadrupole transitions with the spiral photons of a Laguerre-Gauss (LG) or Bessel beams. We show that these beams are not true hollow beams, due to the presence of magnetic fields and gradients of electric fields on beam axis. This approach paves the way to an analysis at the quantum level of the spatial structure and angular momentum properties of singular light beams.

id: 0805.1701
title: Statistics of multiphoton events in spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Wojciech Wasilewski, Czeslaw Radzewicz, Robert Frankowski, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 033831 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1701
abstract: We present an experimental characterization of the statistics of multiple photon pairs produced by spontaneous parametric down-conversion realized in a nonlinear medium pumped by high-energy ultrashort pulses from a regenerative amplifier. The photon number resolved measurement has been implemented with the help of a fiber loop detector. We introduce an effective theoretical description of the observed statistics based on parameters that can be assigned direct physical nterpretation. These parameters, determined for our source from the collected experimental data, characterize the usefulness of down-conversion sources in multiphoton interference schemes that underlie protocols for quantum information processing and communication.

id: 0805.1714
title: Light scattering and localization in an ultracold and dense atomic system
authors: I.M. Sokolov, M.D. Kupriyanova, D.V. Kupriyanov, M.D. Havey
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 053405 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1714
abstract: The quantum optical response of high density ultracold atomic systems is critical to a wide range of fundamentally and technically important physical processes. These include quantum image storage, optically based quantum repeaters and ultracold molecule formation. We present here a microscopic analysis of the light scattering on such a system, and we compare it with a corresponding description based on macroscopic Maxwell theory. Results are discussed in the context of the spectral resonance structure, time-dependent response, and the light localization problem.

id: 0805.1728
title: Efficient Hidden-Variable Simulation of Measurements in Quantum Experiments
authors: Borivoje Dakic, Milovan Suvakov, Tomasz Paterek, Caslav Brukner
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 190402 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1728
abstract: We prove that the results of a finite set of general quantum measurements on an arbitrary dimensional quantum system can be simulated using a polynomial (in measurements) number of hidden-variable states. In the limit of infinitely many measurements, our method gives models with the minimal number of hidden-variable states, which scales linearly with the number of measurements. These results can find applications in foundations of quantum theory, complexity studies and classical simulations of quantum systems.

id: 0805.1739
title: Coherent control of low loss surface polaritons
authors: Ali Kamli, Sergey A. Moiseev, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 263601 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1739
abstract: We propose fast all-optical control of surface polaritons (SPs) by placing an electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) medium at an interface between two materials. EIT provides longitudinal compression and a slow group velocity while matching properties of the two materials at the interface provides strong transverse confinement. In particular we show that an EIT medium near the interface between a dielectric and a negative-index metamaterial can establish tight longitudinal and transverse confinement plus extreme slowing of SPs, in both transverse electric and transverse magnetic polarizations, while simultaneously avoiding losses.

id: 0805.1769
title: Regularised Tripartite Continuous Variable EPR-type States with Wigner Functions and CHSH Violations
authors: Sol H. Jacobsen, P.D. Jarvis
comments: 17 pages, LaTeX, 4.eps figures. Changes made: new appendix added, typos corrected, references added, additional explanatory comments given
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. and Theor. Vol.41 (36) 365301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1769
abstract: We consider tripartite entangled states for continuous variable systems of EPR type, which generalise the famous bipartite CV EPR states (eigenvectors of conjugate choices X1 - X2, P1+ P2, of the systems' relative position and total momentum variables). We give the regularised forms of such tripartite EPR states in second-quantised formulation, and derive their Wigner functions. This is directly compared with the established NOPA-like states from quantum optics. Whereas the multipartite entangled states of NOPA type have singular Wigner functions in the limit of large squeezing, r --> infinity, or tanh r --> 1^- (approaching the EPR states in the bipartite case), our regularised tripartite EPR states show singular behaviour not only in the approach to the EPR-type region (s --> 1 in our notation), but also for an additional, auxiliary regime of the regulator (s --> \sqrt{2}). While the s -->1 limit pertains to tripartite CV states with singular eigenstates of the relative coordinates and remaining squeezed in the total momentum, the s --> \sqrt{2} limit yields singular eigenstates of the total momentum, but squeezed in the relative coordinates. Regarded as expectation values of displaced parity measurements, the tripartite Wigner functions provide the ingredients for generalised CHSH inequalities. Violations of the tripartite CHSH bound (B3 \le 2) are established, with B3 ~ 2.09 in the canonical regime (s -->1^+), as well as B3 ~ 2.32 in the auxiliary regime (s --> \sqrt{2^+}).

id: 0805.1777
title: Uncertainty relations for arbitrary measurement in terms of Renyi entropies
authors: A. E. Rastegin
comments: 4 pages, no figures. Improved state-dependent entropic bounds are presented. The bibliography is extended. The supplementary material is contained in arXiv:0807.2691
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1777
abstract: Uncertainty relations for a pair of arbitrary measurements and for a single measurement are posed in the form of inequalities using the Renyi entropies. The formulation deals with discrete observables. Both the relations with state-dependent and state-independent bounds are presented. The entropic bounds are illustrated within the distinction between non-orthogonal states.

id: 0805.1779
title: Bohm's realist interpretation of Quantum mechanics
authors: Virendra Singh
comments: 20 pages. To appear in a volume to be published by ICPR edited by P. Ghosh
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1779
abstract: A brief account of the world view of classical physics is given first. We then recapitulate as to why the Copenhagen interpretation of the quantum mechanics had to renounce most of the attractive features of the clasical world view such as a causal description, locality, scientific realism and introduce a fundamental distinction between system and apparatus. The crucial role is played in this by the Bohr's insistence on the wavefunction providing the most complete description possible for an even individual system. The alternative of introducing extra dynamical variables, called hidden variables, in addition to the wavefunction of the system so as to be able to retain at least some of the desirable features of classical physics, is then explored. The first such successful attempt was that of Bohm in 1952 who showed that a realistic interpretation of the quantum mechanics can be given which maintains a causal description as well as does not treat systems and measuring appeartus differently. We begin with the construction of the Bohm's theory. He introduces particle positions as the hidden variables. The particle positions play a special role in Bohm theory. The particle trajectories are guided by the wavefunction. The Bohm theory is deterministic. The probability enters through a special assumption, ``quantum equilibrium'' hypothesis, for the initial conditions on the ensemble of particle trajectories. The ``wave or particle'' dilemma is resolved by a ``wave and particle'' resolution. The measurements in Bohm theory can be described without mysticism. Bohm's theory is however nonlocal.

id: 0805.1812
title: Two-particle states in the Hubbard model
authors: Manuel Valiente, David Petrosyan
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41, 161002 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1812
abstract: We consider a pair of bosonic particles in a one-dimensional tight-binding periodic potential described by the Hubbard model with attractive or repulsive on-site interaction. We derive explicit analytic expressions for the two-particle states, which can be classified as (i) scattering states of asymptotically free particles and (ii) interaction-bound dimer states. Our results provide a very transparent framework to understand the properties of interacting pairs of particles in a lattice.

id: 0805.1831
title: Sub-Rayleigh Quantum Imaging Using Single Photon Sources
authors: C. Thiel, T. Bastin, J. von Zanthier, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 013820 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1831
abstract: We propose a technique capable of imaging a distinct physical object with sub-Rayleigh resolution in an ordinary far-field imaging setup using single-photon sources and linear optical tools only. We exemplify our method for the case of a rectangular aperture and two or four single-photon emitters obtaining a resolution enhanced by a factor of two or four, respectively.

id: 0805.1844
title: Practical recipes for the model order reduction, dynamical simulation, and compressive sampling of large-scale open quantum systems
authors: John A. Sidles, Joseph L. Garbini, Lee E. Harrell, Alfred O. Hero, Jonathan P. Jacky, Joseph R. Malcomb, Anthony G. Norman, Austin M. Williamson
comments: 104 pages, 13 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1844
abstract: This article presents numerical recipes for simulating high-temperature and non-equilibrium quantum spin systems that are continuously measured and controlled. The notion of a spin system is broadly conceived, in order to encompass macroscopic test masses as the limiting case of large-j spins. The simulation technique has three stages: first the deliberate introduction of noise into the simulation, then the conversion of that noise into an equivalent continuous measurement and control process, and finally, projection of the trajectory onto a state-space manifold having reduced dimensionality and possessing a Kahler potential of multi-linear form. The resulting simulation formalism is used to construct a positive P-representation for the thermal density matrix. Single-spin detection by magnetic resonance force microscopy (MRFM) is simulated, and the data statistics are shown to be those of a random telegraph signal with additive white noise. Larger-scale spin-dust models are simulated, having no spatial symmetry and no spatial ordering; the high-fidelity projection of numerically computed quantum trajectories onto low-dimensionality Kahler state-space manifolds is demonstrated. The reconstruction of quantum trajectories from sparse random projections is demonstrated, the onset of Donoho-Stodden breakdown at the Candes-Tao sparsity limit is observed, a deterministic construction for sampling matrices is given, and methods for quantum state optimization by Dantzig selection are given.

id: 0805.1847
title: Coherent state quantization of angle, time, and more irregular functions and distributions
authors: Biswajit Chakraborty, Jean Pierre Gazeau, Ahmed Youssef
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1847
abstract: The domain of application of quantization methods is traditionally restricted to smooth classical observables. We show that the coherent states or "anti-Wick" quantization enables us to construct fairly reasonable quantum versions of irregular observables living on the classical phase space, such as the angle function, the time function of a free particle and even a large set of distributions comprising the tempered distributions.

id: 0805.1866
title: Perfect transfer of m-qubit GHZ states
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, R. Sufiani, S. F. Taghavi, E. Barati
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1866
abstract: By using some techniques such as spectral distribution and stratification associated with the graphs, employed in [1,2] for the purpose of Perfect state transfer (PST) of a single qubit over antipodes of distance-regular spin networks and PST of a $d$-level quantum state over antipodes of pseudo-distance regular networks, PST of an m-qubit GHZ state is investigated. To do so, we employ the particular distance-regular networks (called Johnson networks) J(2m,m) to transfer an m-qubit GHZ state initially prepared in an arbitrary node of the network (called the reference node) to the corresponding antipode, perfectly. Keywords: Perfect state transferenc, GHZ states, Johnson network, Stratification, Spectral distribution PACs Index: 01.55.+b, 02.10.Yn

id: 0805.1890
title: Instantaneous Multiphoton Ionization Rate and Initial Distribution of Electron Momenta
authors: Denys I. Bondar
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 015405 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1890
abstract: The Yudin-Ivanov formula [Phys. Rev. A 64, 013409 (2001)] is generalized such that the most general analytical expression for single-electron spectra, which includes the dependence on the instantaneous laser phase, is obtained within the strong field approximation. No assumptions on the momentum of the electron are made. Previously known formulas for single-electron spectra can be obtained as approximations to the general formula.

id: 0805.1924
title: Extrinsic orbital angular momentum of entangled photon-pairs in spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Sheng Feng, Prem Kumar
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, Some clarification added in calculations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1924
abstract: Starting from the standard Hamiltonian describing the optical non-linear process of spontaneous parametric down-conversion, we theoretically show that the generated entangled photon-pairs carry non-negligible orbital angular momentum in the degrees of freedom of relative movement in the type-II cases due to spatial symmetry breaking. We also show that the orbital angular momentum carried by photon-pairs in these degrees of freedom escapes detection in the traditional measurement scheme, which demands development of new techniques for further experimental investigations.

id: 0805.1927
title: Optimal light storage with full pulse shape control
authors: Irina Novikova, Nathaniel B. Phillips, Alexey V. Gorshkov
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1927
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate optimal storage and retrieval of light pulses of arbitrary shape in atomic ensembles. By shaping auxiliary control pulses, we attain efficiencies approaching the fundamental limit and achieve precise retrieval into any predetermined temporal profile. Our techniques, demonstrated in warm Rb vapor, are applicable to a wide range of systems and protocols. As an example, we present their potential application to the creation of optical time-bin qubits and to controlled partial retrieval.

id: 0805.1933
title: Schr?dinger equation with delta potential in superspace
authors: Hendrik De Bie
comments: 4 pages, accepted for publication in Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1933
abstract: A superspace version of the Schr\"odinger equation with a delta potential is studied using Fourier analysis. An explicit expression for the energy of the single bound state is found as a function of the super-dimension M in case M is smaller than or equal to 1. In the case when there is one commuting and 2n anti-commuting variables also the wave function is given explicitly.

id: 0805.1986
title: Cooper Pair Boxes Weakly Coupled to External Environments
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, J. Realpe-Gomez
comments: 12 pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1986
abstract: We study the behaviour of charge oscillations in Superconducting Cooper Pair Boxes weakly interacting with an environment. We found that, due to the noise and dissipation induced by the environment, the stability properties of these nanodevices differ according to whether the charge oscillations are interpreted as an effect of macroscopic quantum coherence, or semiclassically in terms of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. More specifically, occupation number states, used in the quantum interpretation of the oscillations, are found to be much more unstable than coherent ones, typical of the semiclassical explanation.

id: 0805.1993
title: Full characterization of Gaussian bipartite entangled states by a single homodyne detector
authors: V. D'Auria, S. Fornaro, A. Porzio, S. Solimeno, S. Olivares, M. G. A. Paris
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, slightly longer version of published PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 102, 020502 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1993
abstract: We present the full experimental reconstruction of Gaussian entangled states generated by a type--II optical parametric oscillator (OPO) below threshold. Our scheme provides the entire covariance matrix using a single homodyne detector and allows for the complete characterization of bipartite Gaussian states, including the evaluation of purity, entanglement and nonclassical photon correlations, without a priori assumptions on the state under investigation. Our results show that single homodyne schemes are convenient and robust setups for the full characterization of OPO signals and represent a tool for quantum technology based on continuous variable entanglement.

id: 0805.2017
title: Quantum mechanics and umbral calculus
authors: E. Lopez-Sendino, J. Negro, M. A. del Olmo, E. Salgado
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures, Proceedings of the V International Symposium on Quantum Theory and Symmetries (Valladolid, Spain, July 22-28, 2007)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2017
abstract: In this paper we present the first steps for obtaining a discrete Quantum Mechanics making use of the Umbral Calculus. The idea is to discretize the continuous Schroedinger equation substituting the continuous derivatives by discrete ones and the space-time continuous variables by well determined operators that verify some Umbral Calculus conditions. In this way we assure that some properties of integrability and symmetries of the continuous equation are preserved and also the solutions of the continuous case can be recovered discretized in a simple way. The case of the Schroedinger equation with a potential depending only in the space variable is discussed.

id: 0805.2037
title: Sub-- and super--fidelity as bounds for quantum fidelity
authors: J. A. Miszczak, Z. Pucha?a, P. Horodecki, A. Uhlmann, K. ?yczkowski
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Vol.9 No.1&2 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2037
abstract: We derive several bounds on fidelity between quantum states. In particular we show that fidelity is bounded from above by a simple to compute quantity we call super--fidelity. It is analogous to another quantity called sub--fidelity. For any two states of a two--dimensional quantum system (N=2) all three quantities coincide. We demonstrate that sub-- and super--fidelity are concave functions. We also show that super--fidelity is super--multiplicative while sub--fidelity is sub--multiplicative and design feasible schemes to measure these quantities in an experiment. Super--fidelity can be used to define a distance between quantum states. With respect to this metric the set of quantum states forms a part of a $N^2-1$ dimensional hypersphere.

id: 0805.2040
title: Quantum Accelerator Modes near Higher-Order Resonances
authors: Italo Guarneri, Laura Rebuzzini
comments: Inaccurate reference [12] has been amended
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 234103, (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2040
abstract: Quantum Accelerator Modes have been experimentally observed, and theoretically explained, in the dynamics of kicked cold atoms in the presence of gravity, when the kicking period is close to a half-integer multiple of the Talbot time. We generalize the theory to the case when the kicking period is sufficiently close to any rational multiple of the Talbot time, and thus predict new rich families of experimentally observable Quantum Accelerator Modes.

id: 0805.2054
title: Suitability of the approximate superposition of squeezed coherent states for various quantum protocols
authors: Petr Marek, M. S. Kim
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022309 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2054
abstract: A state in a d-dimensional Hilbert space can be simulated by a state defined in a different dimension with high fidelity. We assess how faithfully such the approximated state can perform quantum protocols, using an example of the squeezed coherent superposition state which was recently experimentally generated.

id: 0805.2056
title: Entanglement - A Queer In The World Of Quantum : Some Perspectives
authors: Indrani Chattopadhyay
comments: Ph.D. Thesis, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2056
abstract: The work is intended to represent some interesting and apparently peculiar features of entangled system in both pure as well as mixed states level. In the pure state level, we are largely concerned about the existence and characteristics of bipartite incomparable pair of states. We have found some schemes for local transformation of one pure bipartite state to another, incomparable in nature, by exploiting free unpreserved entanglement. Also, we observed that different incomparable pair of states in $3\times 3$ may co-operate with each other to cross the barrier of incomparability. Our next goal was to probe critically the roots of the existence of incomparable states. We have succeeded in connecting incomparability with some famous no-go theorems of quantum mechanics. We have established it with no-flipping principle, general anti-unitary operators and lastly with inner product preserving operations. Thus we are able to pose incomparability as a good detector of some non-physical operations. In the next part, we provide a new class of multipartite bound entanglement in mixed state level. The class of states are activable bound entangled. There are exactly four orthogonal activable bound entangled states in any even number of qubit system. They have some interesting features like Bell correlation, permutation symmetry, local Pauli connection, non-compatibility, etc. Apart from those properties, the class of bound entangled states have the remarkable feature of local indistinguishability in quantum systems.

id: 0805.2070
title: Efficient generation of random multipartite entangled states using time optimal unitary operations
authors: A. Borras, A. Majtey, M. Casas
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. New title, improved explanation of the algorithm. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022328 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2070
abstract: We review the generation of random pure states using a protocol of repeated two qubit gates. We study the dependence of the convergence to states with Haar multipartite entanglement distribution. We investigate the optimal generation of such states in terms of the physical (real) time needed to apply the protocol, instead of the gate complexity point of view used in other works. This physical time can be obtained, for a given Hamiltonian, within the theoretical framework offered by the quantum brachistochrone formalism. Using an anisotropic Heisenberg Hamiltonian as an example, we find that different optimal quantum gates arise according to the optimality point of view used in each case. We also study how the convergence to random entangled states depends on different entanglement measures.

id: 0805.2078
title: Barrier transmission for the Nonlinear Schr?dinger Equation: Surprises of nonlinear transport
authors: K. Rapedius, H. J. Korsch
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 355001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2078
abstract: In this communication we report on a peculiar property of barrier transmission that systems governed by the nonlinear Schroedinger equation share with the linear one: For unit transmission the potential can be divided at an arbitrary point into two sub-potentials, a left and a right one, which have exactly the same transmission. This is a rare case of an exact property of a nonlinear wave function which will be of interest, e.g., for studies of coherent transport of Bose-Einstein condensates through mesoscopic waveguide

id: 0805.2110
title: A case of entanglement generation between causally disconnected atoms
authors: Juan Le¨®n, Carlos Sab¨ªn
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 7, 187-193 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2110
abstract: We analyze the entanglement generated in a finite time between a pair of space-like separated atoms, one of which emits a photon. As we show to order $e^2$, the origin of entanglement can be traced back to the uncertainty about which one of the atoms emitted the photon. We check this by comparing the time behaviors of the emission processes allowed by energy conservation vs. those forbidden by the same reason. No physical signal propagates between the atoms in the processes considered, however an effective light cone separating non-entangled from entangled regions in space-time emerges from our calculations.

id: 0805.2120
title: Quantum Billiards in Optical Lattices
authors: Simone Montangero, Diego Frustaglia, Tommaso Calarco, Rosario Fazio
comments: 
journal: EPL, 88 (2009) 30006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2120
abstract: We study finite two dimensional spin lattices with definite geometry (spin billiards) demonstrating the display of collective integrable or chaotic dynamics depending on their shape. We show that such systems can be quantum simulated by ultra-cold atoms in optical lattices and discuss how to identify their dynamical features in a realistic experimental setup. Possible applications are the simulation of quantum information tasks in mesoscopic devices.

id: 0805.2134
title: Comparison of Quantum and Classical Local-field Effects on Two-Level Atoms in a Dielectric
authors: Michael E. Crenshaw
comments: Published version with rewritten abstract and introduction
journal: Physical Review A 78, 053827 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2134
abstract: The macroscopic quantum theory of the electromagnetic field in a dielectric medium interacting with a dense collection of embedded two-level atoms fails to reproduce a result that is obtained from an application of the classical Lorentz local-field condition. Specifically, macroscopic quantum electrodynamics predicts that the Lorentz redshift of the resonance frequency of the atoms will be enhanced by a factor of the refractive index n of the host medium. However, an enhancement factor of (n*n+2)/3 is derived using the Bloembergen procedure in which the classical Lorentz local-field condition is applied to the optical Bloch equations. Both derivations are short and uncomplicated and are based on well-established physical theories, yet lead to contradictory results. Microscopic quantum electrodynamics confirms the classical local-field-based results. Then the application of macroscopic quantum electrodynamic theory to embedded atoms is proved false by a specific example in which both the correspondence principle and microscopic theory of quantum electrodynamics are violated.

id: 0805.2165
title: Trapped-ion quantum logic gates based on oscillating magnetic fields
authors: C. Ospelkaus, C. E. Langer, J. M. Amini, K. R. Brown, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 090502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2165
abstract: Oscillating magnetic fields and field gradients can be used to implement single-qubit rotations and entangling multi-qubit quantum gates for trapped-ion quantum information processing (QIP). With fields generated by currents in microfabricated surface-electrode traps, it should be possible to achieve gate speeds that are comparable to those of optically induced gates for realistic distances between the ion crystal and the electrode surface. Magnetic-field-mediated gates have the potential to significantly reduce the overhead in laser beam control and motional state initialization compared to current QIP experiments with trapped ions and will eliminate spontaneous scattering, a fundamental source of decoherence in laser-mediated gates.

id: 0805.2180
title: Quantum Metrology: Dynamics vs. Entanglement
authors: Sergio Boixo, Animesh Datta, Matthew J. Davis, Steven T. Flammia, Anil Shaji, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 040403 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2180
abstract: A parameter whose coupling to a quantum probe of $n$ constituents includes all two-body interactions between the constituents can be measured with an uncertainty that scales as $1/n^{3/2}$, even when the constituents are initially unentangled. We devise a protocol that achieves the $1/n^{3/2}$ scaling without generating any entanglement among the constituents, and we suggest that the protocol might be implemented in a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate.

id: 0805.2193
title: Ultra fast quantum key distribution over a 97 km installed telecom fiber with wavelength-division multiplexing clock synchronization
authors: Akihiro Tanaka, Mikio Fujiwara, Sae Woo Nam, Yoshihiro Nambu, Seigo Takahashi, Wakako Maeda, Ken-ichiro Yoshino, Shigehito Miki, Burm Baek, Zhen Wang, Akio Tajima, Masahide Sasaki, Akihisa Tomita
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, v2 : We added a comment on the significance of our work, some minor corrections, and references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2193
abstract: We demonstrated ultra fast BB84 quantum key distribution (QKD) transmission at 625 MHz clock rate through a 97 km field-installed fiber using practical clock synchronization based on wavelength-division multiplexing (WDM). We succeeded in over-one-hour stable key generation at a high sifted key rate of 2.4 kbps and a low quantum bit error rate (QBER) of 2.9%. The asymptotic secure key rate was estimated to be 0.78-0.82 kbps from the transmission data with the decoy method of average photon numbers 0, 0.15, and 0.4 photons/pulse.

id: 0805.2209
title: Properties of Local Quantum Operations with Shared Entanglement
authors: Gus Gutoski
comments: 25 pages, 11pt font, full page compilation of final journal version. v3: strong NP-hardness result added, other minor revisions; v2: new title, major revisions
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, 9(9&10):739--764, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2209
abstract: Multi-party local quantum operations with shared quantum entanglement or shared classical randomness are studied. The following facts are established: (i) There is a ball of local operations with shared randomness lying within the space spanned by the no-signaling operations and centred at the completely noisy channel. (ii) The existence of the ball of local operations with shared randomness is employed to prove that the weak membership problem for local operations with shared entanglement is strongly NP-hard. (iii) Local operations with shared entanglement are characterized in terms of linear functionals that are ``completely'' positive on a certain cone K of separable Hermitian operators, under a natural notion of complete positivity appropriate to that cone. Local operations with shared randomness (but not entanglement) are also characterized in terms of linear functionals that are merely positive on that same cone K. (iv) Existing characterizations of no-signaling operations are generalized to the multi-party setting and recast in terms of the Choi-Jamiolkowski representation for quantum super-operators. It is noted that the standard nonlocal box is an example of a no-signaling operation that is separable, yet cannot be implemented by local operations with shared entanglement.

id: 0805.2282
title: Quantum Computation with Generalized Binomial States in Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Rosario Lo Franco, Giuseppe Compagno, Antonino Messina, Anna Napoli
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 7, 155 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2282
abstract: We study universal quantum computation in the cavity quantum electrodynamics (CQED) framework exploiting two orthonormal two-photon generalized binomial states as qubit and dispersive interactions of Rydberg atoms with high-$Q$ cavities. We show that an arbitrary qubit state may be generated and that controlled-NOT and 1-qubit rotation gates can be realized via standard atom-cavity interactions.

id: 0805.2333
title: Towards variance-matrix characterization of complementarity relations in a continuous variable system
authors: S. Springer, M. Paternostro
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, RevTeX4
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 55, 3049 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2333
abstract: We discuss complementarity relations in a bipartite continuous variable system. Building up from the work done on discrete d-dimensional systems, we prove that for symmetric two-mode states, quantum complementarity relations can be put in a simple relation with the elements of the variance matrix. When this condition is not satisfied, such a connection becomes non-trivial. Our investigation is the first step towards an operative characterization of the complementarity in a scenario that has not been investigated so far.

id: 0805.2352
title: Coexistence of Quantum Theory and Special Relativity in signaling scenarios
authors: Pedro Sancho
comments: See also the comment by G C Hegerfeldt in the online version of the journal, including more references
journal: Concepts of Physics, Volume V (2008), Number 2, 345
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2352
abstract: The coexistence between Quantum Mechanics and Special Relativity is usually formulated in terms of the no-signaling condition. Several authors have even suggested that this condition should be included between the basic postulates of Quantum Theory. However, there are several scenarios where signaling is, in principle, possible: based on previous results and the analysis of the relation between unitarity and signaling we present an example of a two-particle interferometric arrangement for which the dynamics is, in principle, compatible with superluminal transmission of information. This type of non-locality is not in the line of Bell's theorem, but closer in spirit to the one-particle acausality studied by Hegerfeldt and others. We analyze in this paper the meaning of this non-locality and how to preserve the coexistence of the two fundamental theories in this signaling scenario.

id: 0805.2364
title: Polarized light bursts from kicked quantum rings
authors: A.S. Moskalenko, J. Berakdar
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2364
abstract: Non-equilibrium quantum rings emit circular polarized subterahertz radiation with a polarization degree controllable on nano- to picosecond time scales. This we conclude using a theory developed here for the time-dependent detection of the circular polarization of polychromatic radiations, valid for time scales comparable to the reciprocal of characteristic emission frequencies. The theory is applied to driven quantum rings whereby the influence of radiative and non-radiative processes on the properties of the emitted light is incorporated.

id: 0805.2370
title: Quantitative Evaluation of Decoherence and Applications for Quantum-Dot Charge Qubits
authors: L. Fedichkin, V. Privman
comments: 
journal: J. Sci. Eng. A 5, 112-139 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2370
abstract: We review results on evaluation of loss of information in quantum registers due to their interactions with the environment. It is demonstrated that an optimal measure of the level of quantum noise effects can be introduced via the maximal absolute eigenvalue norm of deviation of the density matrix of a quantum register from that of ideal, noiseless dynamics. For a semiconductor quantum dot charge qubits interacting with acoustic phonons, explicit expressions for this measure are derived. For a broad class of environmental modes, this measure is shown to have the property that for small levels of quantum noise it is additive and scales linearly with the size of the quantum register.

id: 0805.2413
title: Quantum spin models with electrons in Penning traps
authors: G. Ciaramicoli, I. Marzoli, P. Tombesi
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure, added minor changes and typos, accepted for publication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2413
abstract: We propose a scheme to engineer an effective spin Hamiltonian starting from a system of electrons confined in micro-Penning traps. By means of appropriate sequences of electromagnetic pulses, alternated to periods of free evolution, we control the shape and strength of the spin-spin interaction. Moreover, we can modify the effective magnetic field experienced by the particle spin. This procedure enables us to reproduce notable quantum spin systems, such as Ising and XY models. Thanks to its scalability, our scheme can be applied to a fairly large number of trapped particles within the reach of near future technology.

id: 0805.2437
title: Scalable, efficient ion-photon coupling with phase Fresnel lenses for large-scale quantum computing
authors: E.W. Streed, B.G. Norton, J.J. Chapman, D. Kielpinski
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Quant. Inform. Comp
journal: Quant. Inform. Comp. 9, 0203 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2437
abstract: Efficient ion-photon coupling is an important component for large-scale ion-trap quantum computing. We propose that arrays of phase Fresnel lenses (PFLs) are a favorable optical coupling technology to match with multi-zone ion traps. Both are scalable technologies based on conventional micro-fabrication techniques. The large numerical apertures (NAs) possible with PFLs can reduce the readout time for ion qubits. PFLs also provide good coherent ion-photon coupling by matching a large fraction of an ion's emission pattern to a single optical propagation mode (TEM00). To this end we have optically characterized a large numerical aperture phase Fresnel lens (NA=0.64) designed for use at 369.5 nm, the principal fluorescence detection transition for Yb+ ions. A diffraction-limited spot w0=350+/-15 nm (1/e^2 waist) with mode quality M^2= 1.08+/-0.05 was measured with this PFL. From this we estimate the minimum expected free space coherent ion-photon coupling to be 0.64%, which is twice the best previous experimental measurement using a conventional multi-element lens. We also evaluate two techniques for improving the entanglement fidelity between the ion state and photon polarization with large numerical aperture lenses.

id: 0805.2450
title: Ion-trap quantum information processing: experimental status
authors: D. Kielpinski
comments: review article for Frontiers of Physics replace corrupted TeX file
journal: Front. Phys. China, 3, 365 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2450
abstract: Atomic ions trapped in ultra-high vacuum form an especially well-understood and useful physical system for quantum information processing. They provide excellent shielding of quantum information from environmental noise, while strong, well-controlled laser interactions readily provide quantum logic gates. A number of basic quantum information protocols have been demonstrated with trapped ions. Much current work aims at the construction of large-scale ion-trap quantum computers using complex microfabricated trap arrays. Several groups are also actively pursuing quantum interfacing of trapped ions with photons.

id: 0805.2472
title: Stochastic local operations and classical communication properties of the n-qubit symmetric Dicke states
authors: D. Li, X. Li, H. Huang, X. Li
comments: 16 pages, no figues, some changes including the title
journal: EPL 87, 20006 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2472
abstract: Recently, several schemes for the experimental creation of Dicke states were described. In this paper, we show that all the $n$-qubit symmetric Dicke states with $l$ ($2\leq l\leq (n-2)$) excitations are inequivalent to the $% |GHZ>$ state or the $|W>$ state under SLOCC, that the even $n$% -qubit symmetric Dicke state with $n/2$ excitations is inequivalent to any even $n$-qubit symmetric Dicke state with $l\neq n/2$ excitations under SLOCC, and that all the $n$-qubit symmetric Dicke states with $l$ ($2\leq l\leq (n-2)$) excitations satisfy Coffman, Kundu and Wootters' generalized monogamy inequality $C_{12}^{2}+...+C_{1n}^{2}<C_{1(2...n)}^{2}<1$.

id: 0805.2592
title: Classicality of spin states
authors: Olivier Giraud, Petr Braun, Daniel Braun
comments: 9 pages revtex, 1 figure eps; includes tcilatex.tex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042112 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2592
abstract: We extend the concept of classicality in quantum optics to spin states. We call a state ``classical'' if its density matrix can be decomposed as a weighted sum of angular momentum coherent states with positive weights. Classical spin states form a convex set C, which we fully characterize for a spin-1/2 and a spin-1. For arbitrary spin, we provide ``non-classicality witnesses''. For bipartite systems, C forms a subset of all separable states. A state of two spins-1/2 belongs to C if and only if it is separable, whereas for a spin-1/2 coupled to a spin-1, there are separable states which do not belong to C. We show that in general the question whether a state is in C can be answered by a linear programming algorithm.

id: 0805.2613
title: Microscopic atom optics: from wires to an atom chip
authors: R. Folman, P. Kruger, J. Schmiedmayer, J. Denschlag, C. Henkel
comments: published version can be downloaded at: this http URL -> Review Articles
journal: Advances in Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics, 48, 263-356 (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2613
abstract: We give a comprehensive overview of the development of micro traps, from the first experiments on guiding atoms using current carrying wires in the early 1990's to the creation of a BEC on an atom chip.

id: 0805.2651
title: Generalized W-states and Quantum Communication Protocols
authors: B. Pradhan, Pankaj Agrawal, A. K. Pati
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2651
abstract: We consider W-states and generalized W-states for $n$-qubit systems. We obtain conditions to use these states as quantum resources to teleport unknown states. Only a limited class of multi-qubit states can be teleported. For $one$-qubit states, we use protocols which are simple extensions of the conventional teleportation protocol. We also show that these resource states can be used to transmit {\em at most} $n + 1$ classical bits by sending $n$ qubits if the appropriate conditions are met. Therefore these states are not suitable for maximal teleportation or superdense coding when $ n > 3$.

id: 0805.2714
title: Topological Quantum Computation by Manipulating Quantum Tunneling Effect of the Toric Codes
authors: Su-Peng Kou
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2714
abstract: Quantum computers are predicted to utilize quantum states to perform memory and to process tasks far faster than those of conventional classical computers. In this paper we show a new road towards building fault tolerance quantum computer by tuning quantum tunneling effect of the degenerate quantum states in topological order, instead of by braiding anyons. Using a designer Hamiltonian - the Wen-Plaquette model as an example, we study its quantum tunneling effect of the toric codes and show how to control the toric code to realize topological quantum computation (TQC). In particular, we give a proposal to the measurement of TQC. In the end the realization of the Wen-Plaquette model in cold atoms is discussed.

id: 0805.2725
title: Physics-based mathematical models for quantum devices via experimental system identification
authors: Sonia Schirmer, Daniel Oi, Simon Devitt
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures, published in proceedings of workshop on Physics-based mathematical models of low-dimensional semi-conductor nanostructures (18-23 November, 2007, Banff International Research Station, Alberta, Canada)
journal: Institute of Physics: Conferences Series 107, 012011 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2725
abstract: We consider the task of intrinsic control system identification for quantum devices. The problem of experimental determination of subspace confinement is considered, and simple general strategies for full Hamiltonian identification and decoherence characterization of a controlled two-level system are presented.

id: 0805.2727
title: A novel active quenching circuit for single photon detection with Geiger mode avalanche photodiodes
authors: Mario Stipcevic
comments: 9 pages, 13 figures, 15 references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2727
abstract: In this paper we present a novel construction of an active quenching circuit intended for single photon detection. For purpose of evaluation, we have combined this circuit with a standard avalanche photodiode C30902S to form a single photon detector. A series of measurements, presented here, show that this single photon detector has a dead time of less than 40ns, maximum random counting frequency of over 14MHz, low after pulsing, detection efficiency of over 20% and a good noise performance. This simple and robust active quenching circuit can be built from of-the-shelf electronic components and needs no complicated adjustments.

id: 0805.2741
title: Environment-Assisted Quantum Walks in Photosynthetic Energy Transfer
authors: Masoud Mohseni, Patrick Rebentrost, Seth Lloyd, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, improved presentation, updated references, to appear in Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: Journal of Chemical Physics 129, 174106 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2741
abstract: Energy transfer within photosynthetic systems can display quantum effects such as delocalized excitonic transport. Recently, direct evidence of long-lived coherence has been experimentally demonstrated for the dynamics of the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) protein complex [Engel et al., Nature 446, 782 (2007)]. However, the relevance of quantum dynamical processes to the exciton transfer efficiency is to a large extent unknown. Here, we develop a theoretical framework for studying the role of quantum interference effects in energy transfer dynamics of molecular arrays interacting with a thermal bath within the Lindblad formalism. To this end, we generalize continuous-time quantum walks to non-unitary and temperature-dependent dynamics in Liouville space derived from a microscopic Hamiltonian. Different physical effects of coherence and decoherence processes are explored via a universal measure for the energy transfer efficiency and its susceptibility. In particular, we demonstrate that for the FMO complex an effective interplay between free Hamiltonian and thermal fluctuations in the environment leads to a substantial increase in energy transfer efficiency from about 70% to 99%.

id: 0805.2757
title: Robustness of Adiabatic Quantum Computing
authors: Seth Lloyd
comments: 7 pages, plain TeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2757
abstract: Adiabatic quantum computation for performing quantum computations such as Shor's algorithm is protected against thermal errors by an energy gap of size $O(1/n)$, where $n$ is the length of the computation to be performed.

id: 0805.2761
title: An Information-Geometric Reconstruction of Quantum Theory, I: The Abstract Quantum Formalism
authors: Philip Goyal
comments: 26 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052120 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2761
abstract: In this paper and a companion paper, we show how the framework of information geometry, a geometry of discrete probability distributions, can form the basis of a derivation of the quantum formalism. The derivation rests upon a few elementary features of quantum phenomena, such as the statistical nature of measurements, complementarity, and global gauge invariance. It is shown that these features can be traced to experimental observations characteristic of quantum phenomena and to general theoretical principles, and thus can reasonably be taken as a starting point of the derivation. When appropriately formulated within an information geometric framework, these features lead to (i) the abstract quantum formalism for finite-dimensional quantum systems, (ii) the result of Wigner's theorem, and (iii) the fundamental correspondence rules of quantum theory, such as the canonical commutation relationships. The formalism also comes naturally equipped with a metric (and associated measure) over the space of pure states which is unitarily- and anti-unitarily invariant. The derivation suggests that the information geometric framework is directly or indirectly responsible for many of the central structural features of the quantum formalism, such as the importance of square-roots of probability and the occurrence of sinusoidal functions of phases in a pure quantum state. Global gauge invariance is seen to play a crucial role in the emergence of the formalism in its complex form.

id: 0805.2765
title: An Information-Geometric Reconstruction of Quantum Theory, II: The Correspondence Rules of Quantum Theory
authors: Philip Goyal
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2765
abstract: In a companion paper (hereafter referred to as Paper I), we have presented an attempt to derive the finite-dimensional abstract quantum formalism within the framework of information geometry. In this paper, we formulate a correspondence principle, the Average-Value Correspondence Principle, that allows relations between measurement results which are known to hold in a classical model of a system to be systematically taken over into the quantum model of the system. Using this principle, we derive the explicit form of the temporal evolution operator (thereby completing the derivation of the abstract quantum formalism begun in Paper I), and derive many of the correspondence rules (such as operator rules, commutation relations, and Dirac's Poisson bracket rule) that are needed to apply the abstract quantum formalism to model particular physical systems.

id: 0805.2770
title: From Information Geometry to Quantum Theory
authors: Philip Goyal
comments: v3: 5 pages. Minor clarifications throughout. v2: 5 pages; abstract shortened, introduction significantly improved, citations added
journal: New J. Phys. 12 023012 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2770
abstract: In this paper, we show how information geometry, the natural geometry of discrete probability distributions, can be used to derive the quantum formalism. The derivation rests upon three elementary features of quantum phenomena, namely complementarity, measurement simulability, and global gauge invariance. When these features are appropriately formalized within an information geometric framework, and combined with a novel information-theoretic principle, the central features of the finite-dimensional quantum formalism can be reconstructed.

id: 0805.2847
title: SOMIM: An open-source program code for the numerical Search for Optimal Measurements by an Iterative Method
authors: Kean Loon Lee, Jiangwei Shang, Wee Kang Chua, Shiang Yong Looi, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: Version 2.0: Brief description of, and user manual for, an open source code that implements the iteration procedure introduced in quant-ph/0408134; 10 pages, 3 figures; the program code is available at this http URL Version 2.0 has a more convenient graphical user interface and a more detailed manual than version 1.0
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2847
abstract: SOMIM is an open-source code that implements a Search for Optimal Measurements by using an Iterative Method. For a given set of statistical operators, SOMIM finds the POVMs that maximizes the accessed information, and thus determines the accessible information and one or all of the POVMs that retrieve it. The maximization procedure is a steepest-ascent method that follows the gradient in the POVM space, and uses conjugate gradients for speed-up.

id: 0805.2848
title: Non-Markovian dynamics of cavity losses
authors: M. Scala, B. Militello, A. Messina, S. Maniscalco, J. Piilo, K.-A. Suominen
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2848
abstract: We provide a microscopic derivation for the non-Markovian master equation for an atom-cavity system with cavity losses and show that they can induce population trapping in the atomic excited state, when the environment outside the cavity has a non-flat spectrum. Our results apply to hybrid solid state systems and can turn out to be helpful to find the most appropriate description of leakage in the recent developments of cavity quantum electrodynamics.

id: 0805.2853
title: Multi-photon entanglement and interferometry
authors: Jian-Wei Pan, Zeng-Bing Chen, Chao-Yang Lu, Harald Weinfurter, Anton Zeilinger, Marek Zukowski
comments: 71 pages, 38 figures; updated version accepted by Rev. Mod. Phys
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 84. 777-838 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2853
abstract: Multi-photon interference reveals strictly non-classical phenomena. Its applications range from fundamental tests of quantum mechanics to photonic quantum information processing, where a significant fraction of key experiments achieved so far comes from multi-photon state manipulation. We review the progress, both theoretical and experimental, of this rapidly advancing research. The emphasis is given to the creation of photonic entanglement of various forms, tests of the completeness of quantum mechanics (in particular, violations of local realism), quantum information protocols for quantum communication (e.g., quantum teleportation, entanglement purification and quantum repeater), and quantum computation with linear optics. We shall limit the scope of our review to "few photon" phenomena involving measurements of discrete observables.

id: 0805.2859
title: Constructive physics
authors: Yuri Ozhigov
comments: 300 pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2859
abstract: Discussion of the necessity to use the constructive mathematics as the formalism of quantum theory for systems with many particles.

id: 0805.2870
title: The Noncommutative Poisson Algebra of Classical and Quantum Mechanics
authors: G. Morchio, F. Strocchi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2870
abstract: The Lie-Rinehart algebra of a manifold M, defined by the Lie structure of the vector fields, their action and their module structure on the infinitely differentiable functions on M, is a common, diffeomorphism invariant, algebra for both classical and quantum mechanics. Its (noncommutative) Poisson universal enveloping algebra contains a central variable Z which relates the commutators to the Lie products; classical and quantum mechanics are its only factorial realizations, corresponding to the indentification of Z with i times the Planck constant. In this form, canonical quantization appears therefore as a consequence of such a general geometrical structure. The regular factorial Hilbert space representations are, for nonzero values of Z, unitarily equivalent, apart from multiplicity, to one of the irreducible quantum representations, which are locally Schroedinger and in one to one correspondence with the unitary irreducible representations of the fundamental group of M. For Z = 0, if Diff(M) is unitarily implemented, they are unitarily equivalent, up to multiplicity, to the representation defined by classical mechanics on M.

id: 0805.2873
title: Multiparticle entanglement under the influence of decoherence
authors: O. G¨¹hne, F. Bodoky, M. Blaauboer
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, v2: final version, to appear as a Rapid Communication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 060301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2873
abstract: We present a method to determine the decay of multiparticle quantum correlations as quantified by the geometric measure of entanglement under the influence of decoherence. With this, we compare the robustness of entanglement in GHZ-, cluster-, W- and Dicke states of four qubits and show that the Dicke state is most robust. Finally, we determine the geometric measure analytically for decaying GHZ and cluster states of an arbitrary number of qubits.

id: 0805.2876
title: Finite time decoherence could be suppressed efficiently in photonic crystal
authors: Fa-Qiang Wang, Zhi-Ming Zhang, Rui-Sheng Liang
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2876
abstract: The decoherence of two initially entangled qubits in anisotropic band gap photonic crystal has been studied analytically without Born or Markovian approximation. It is shown that the decoherence dynamics of two qubits in photonic crystal is greatly different from that of two qubits in vacuum or subjected to usual non-Markovian reservoir. The results also show that the finite time decoherence invoked by spontaneous emission could be suppressed efficiently and the entanglement of the Bell state possesses odd parity is more easily preserved in photonic crystal than that of the Bell state possesses even parity under the same condition. A store scheme for entangled particle pair is proposed.

id: 0805.2878
title: Quantum phase transition in a far from equilibrium steady state of XY spin chain
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Iztok Pizorn
comments: 4 pages (in RevTex) with 5 figures - essentially identical with a published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 105701 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2878
abstract: Using quantization in the Fock space of operators we compute the non-equilibrium steady state in an open Heisenberg XY spin 1/2 chain of finite but large size coupled to Markovian baths at its ends. Numerical and theoretical evidence is given for a far from equilibrium quantum phase transition with spontaneous emergence of long-range order in spin-spin correlation functions, characterized by a transition from saturation to linear growth with the size of the entanglement entropy in operator space.

id: 0805.2882
title: Analysis of Lyapunov Control for Hamiltonian Quantum Systems
authors: Xiaoting Wang, Sonia Schirmer
comments: 7 pages, no figures, mainly a concise summary of 0701.0702
journal: Proceedings of ENOC 2008 (St Petersburg, Russia, June 30-July 4, 2008), http://lib.physcon.ru/?item=1761
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2882
abstract: We present detailed analysis of the convergence properties and effectiveness of Lyapunov control design for bilinear Hamiltonian quantum systems based on the application of LaSalle's invariance principle and stability analysis from dynamical systems and control theory. For a certain class of Hamiltonians, strong convergence results can be obtained for both pure and mixed state systems. The control Hamiltonians for realistic physical systems, however, generally do not fall in this class. It is shown that the effectiveness of Lyapunov control design in this case is significantly diminished.

id: 0805.2890
title: Control Paradigms for Quantum Engineering
authors: Sonia Schirmer, Gajendran Kandasamy, Simon Devitt
comments: 6 pages, presented at ISCCP08 in Malta, to appear in IEEE Proceedings
journal: Proceedings of ISCCSP 2008 (Malta, March 12-14, 2008), 966--971
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2890
abstract: We give an overview of different paradigms for control of quantum systems and their applications, illustrated with specific examples. We further discuss the implications of fault-tolerance requirements for quantum process engineering using optimal control, and explore the possibilities for architecture simplification and effective control using a minimum number of simple switch actuators.

id: 0805.2894
title: Improving quantum gate fidelities using optimized Euler angles
authors: K. Ch. Chatzisavvas, G. Chadzitaskos, C. Daskaloyannis, S. G. Schirmer
comments: approx. 11 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 052329 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2894
abstract: An explicit algorithm for calculating the optimized Euler angles for both qubit state transfer and gate engineering given two arbitary fixed Hamiltonians is presented. It is shown how the algorithm enables us to efficiently implement single qubit gates even if the control is severely restricted and the experimentally accessible Hamiltonians are far from orthogonal. It is further shown that using the optimized Euler angles can significantly improve the fidelity of quantum operations even for systems where the experimentally accessible Hamiltonians are nearly orthogonal. Unlike schemes such as composite pulses, the proposed scheme does not significantly increase the number of local operations or gate operation times.

id: 0805.2902
title: Implementation of Quantum Gates via Optimal Control
authors: Sonia Schirmer
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 56, 831 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2902
abstract: Starting with the basic control system model often employed in NMR pulse design, we derive more realistic control system models taking into account effects such as off-resonant excitation for systems with fixed inter-qubit coupling controlled by globally applied electromagnetic fields, as well as for systems controlled by a combination of a global fields and local control electrodes. For both models optimal control is used to find controls that implement a set of two- and three-qubit gates with fidelity greater than 99.99%. While in some cases the optimal pulses obtained appear to be surprisingly simple and experimentally realistic, the results also show that the "optimal" pulses obtained in other cases are experimentally infeasible, and more sophisticated parametrization of the control fields and numerical algorithms are needed.

id: 0805.2910
title: Collective States and Symmetric Local Decoherence in Large Ensembles of Qubits
authors: Bradley A. Chase, J. M. Geremia
comments: 4 pages with 2 figures; please see arXiv:0805.2911 for more details
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2910
abstract: The symmetric collective states of an atomic spin ensemble (i.e., many-body states that are invariant under particle exchange) are not preserved by decoherence that acts identically but individually on members of the ensemble. We develop a class of collective states in an ensemble of N spin-1/2 particles that is invariant under symmetric local decoherence and find that the dimension of the Hilbert space spanned by these collective states scales only as N^2. We then investigate the open system dynamics of experimentally relevant non-classical collective atomic states, including Schroedinger cat and spin squeezed states, subject to various symmetric but local decoherence models.

id: 0805.2911
title: Collective processes of an ensemble of spin-1/2 particles
authors: Bradley A. Chase, J. M. Geremia
comments: 12 pages, see 0805.2910 for simulations using these methods
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052101 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2911
abstract: When the dynamics of a spin ensemble are expressible solely in terms of symmetric processes and collective spin operators, the symmetric collective states of the ensemble are preserved. These many-body states, which are invariant under particle relabeling, can be efficiently simulated since they span a subspace whose dimension is linear in the number of spins. However, many open system dynamics break this symmetry, most notably when ensemble members undergo identical, but local, decoherence. In this paper, we extend the definition of symmetric collective states of an ensemble of spin-1/2 particles in order to efficiently describe these more general collective processes. The corresponding collective states span a subspace which grows quadratically with the number of spins. We also derive explicit formulae for expressing arbitrary identical, local decoherence in terms of these states.

id: 0805.2942
title: Genuine multipartite entanglement of symmmetric Gaussian states: Strong monogamy, unitary localization, scaling behavior, and molecular sharing structure
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures; web and paper abstracts differ; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042310 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2942
abstract: We investigate the structural aspects of genuine multipartite entanglement in Gaussian states of continuous variable systems. Generalizing the results of [Adesso & Illuminati, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 150501 (2007)], we analyze whether the entanglement shared by blocks of modes distributes according to a strong monogamy law. This property, once established, allows to quantify genuine N-partite entanglement in terms of the "residual contangle" not encoded into 2,...,K,...,(N-1)-partite quantum correlations. The explicit expression of this entanglement measure is derived, by a recursive formula, for a subclass of Gaussian states. These are fully symmetric (permutation-invariant) states multi-partitioned into blocks, each consisting of an arbitrary number of modes. We compute the genuine multipartite entanglement shared by the blocks ("molecules") and investigate its scaling properties with the number and size of the molecules, the total number of modes, the global mixedness of the state, and the squeezed resources. To achieve the exact computation we prove a general result of symplectic analysis: Correlations among K molecules in N-mode multi-symmetric Gaussian states can be transformed by a local unitary operation into correlations shared by K single modes, one per molecule, in effective non-symmetric states. Due to this theorem, the above results extend to the subclass of non-symmetric Gaussian states that are obtained by unitarily localizing the multipartite molecular entanglement of symmetric states. These findings provide evidence that distributed Gaussian entanglement is strongly monogamous even beyond specific symmetry constraints, and that the residual contangle is a bona fide measure of genuine multipartite entanglement for permutation-invariant Gaussian states under any multi-partition of the modes.

id: 0805.2961
title: Comment on "Why Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen did not prove that quantum mechanics is 'incomplete'"
authors: Dirk Fischer
comments: 3 pages, PDFLatex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2961
abstract: This comment on the recently published article "Why Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen did not prove that quantum mechanics is 'incomplete'" (arXiv:0805.0217) by J.H.Field shows that some conclusions, made in the referred-to article, result from an invalid use of dirac delta-distributions.

id: 0805.2977
title: Tripartite entanglement transformations and tensor rank
authors: Eric Chitambar, Runyao Duan, Yaoyun Shi
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 140502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2977
abstract: Understanding the nature of multipartite entanglement is a central mission of quantum information theory. To this end, we investigate the question of tripartite entanglement convertibility. We find that there exists no easy criterion to determine whether a general tripartite transformation can be performed with a nonzero success probability and in fact, the problem is NP-hard. Our results are based on the connections between multipartite entanglement and tensor rank (also called Schmidt rank), a key concept in algebraic complexity theory. Not only does this relationship allow us to characterize the general difficulty in determining possible entanglement transformations, but it also enables us to observe the previously overlooked fact that {\em the Schmidt rank is not an additive entanglement measure}. As a result, we improve some best known transformation rates between specific tripartite entangled states. In addition, we find obtaining the most efficient algorithm for matrix multiplication to be precisely equivalent to determining the optimal rate of conversion between the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state and a triangular distribution of three Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen states.

id: 0805.2980
title: Spin lattices with two-body Hamiltonians for which the ground state encodes a cluster state
authors: Tom Griffin, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, comments welcome; v2 added some new results about exact solutions to this model; v3 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062306 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2980
abstract: We present a general procedure for constructing lattices of qubits with a Hamiltonian composed of nearest-neighbour two-body interactions such that the ground state encodes a cluster state. We give specific details for lattices in one-, two-, and three-dimensions, investigating both periodic and fixed boundary conditions, as well as present a proof for the applicability of this procedure to any graph. We determine the energy gap of these systems, which is shown to be independent of the size of the lattice but dependent on the type of lattice (in particular, the coordination number), and investigate the scaling of this gap in terms of the coupling constants of the Hamiltonian. We provide a comparative analysis of the different lattice types with respect to their usefulness for measurement-based quantum computation.

id: 0805.2990
title: Motion of quantum particle in dilute Bose-Einstein condensate at zero temperature
authors: Alexey Novikov, Mikhail Ovchinnikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2990
abstract: The motion of single quantum particle through Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) is considered within perturbation theory with respect to the particle-BEC interaction. The Hamiltonian of BEC is diagonalized by means of Bogoliubov's method. The process of dissipation due to the creation of excitation in BEC is analyzed and the dissipation rate is calculated in the lowest order of perturbation theory. The Landau's criterion for energy dissipation in BEC is then recovered. The energy spectrum of the impurity particle due to the interaction with BEC and its effective mass are evaluated.

id: 0805.3042
title: Controlling Quasibound States in 1D Continuum Through Electromagnetic Induced Transparency Mechanism
authors: Z. R. Gong, H. Ian, Lan Zhou, C. P. Sun
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 78, 053806 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3042
abstract: We study the coherent scattering process of a single photon confined in an one-dimensional (1D) coupled cavity-array, where a $\Lambda$-type three-level atom is placed inside one of the cavities in the array and behaves as a functional quantum node (FQN). We show that, through the electromagnetic induced transparency (EIT) mechanism, the $\Lambda$-type FQN bears complete control over the reflection and transmission of the incident photon along the cavity-array. We also demonstrate the emergence of a quasibound state of the single photon inside a secondary cavity constructed by two distant FQN's as two end mirrors, from which we are motivated to design an all-optical single photon storage device of quantum coherence.

id: 0805.3056
title: Entanglement Trapping in Structured Environments
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Rosario Lo Franco, Sabrina Maniscalco, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett. on Friday 16 May 2008
journal: Physical Review A (Rapid Communication) 78, 060302(R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3056
abstract: The entanglement dynamics of two independent qubits each embedded in a structured environment under conditions of inhibition of spontaneous emission is analyzed, showing entanglement trapping. We demonstrate that entanglement trapping can be used efficiently to prevent entanglement sudden death. For the case of realistic photonic band-gap materials, we show that high values of entanglement trapping can be achieved. This result is of both fundamental and applicative interest since it provides a physical situation where the entanglement can be preserved and manipulated, e.g. by Stark-shifting the qubit transition frequency outside and inside the gap.

id: 0805.3060
title: Postulates for measures of genuine multipartite correlations
authors: Charles H. Bennett, Andrzej Grudka, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Ryszard Horodecki
comments: Significantly extended version, an author added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012312 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3060
abstract: A lot of research has been done on multipartite correlations. However, it seems strange that there is no definition of so called genuine multipartite correlations. In this paper we propose three reasonable postulates which each measure or indicator of genuine multipartite correlations (or genuine multipartite entanglement) should satisfy. We also introduce degree of correlations which gives partial characterization of multipartite correlations. Then, we show that covariance does not satisfy two postulates and hence, it cannot be used as an indicator of genuine multipartite correlations. Finally, we propose candidate for a measure of genuine multipartite correlations based on the work that can be drawn from local bath by means of a multipartite state.

id: 0805.3065
title: Temperature Correction to Casimir-Lifshitz Free Energy at Low Temperatures: Semiconductors
authors: Simen A. Ellingsen, Iver Brevik, Johan S. H\oye, Kimball A. Milton
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures; minor changes in the discussion, some references added. To appear in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E, 78, 021117 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3065
abstract: The Casimir force and free energy at low temperatures has been the subject of focus for some time. We calculate the temperature correction to the Casimir-Lifshitz free energy between two parallel plates made of dielectric material possessing a constant conductivity at low temperatures, described through a Drude-type dielectric function. For the transverse magnetic (TM) mode such a calculation is new. A further calculation for the case of the TE mode is thereafter presented which extends and generalizes previous work for metals. A numerical study is undertaken to verify the correctness of the analytic results.

id: 0805.3069
title: Mott Plateau in Trapped Bose-Fermi Mixture
authors: Akiko Masaki, Sota Tsukada, Hiroyuki Mori
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of the Physical Society of Japan, vol 77, No.5, May, 2008, 054301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3069
abstract: Boson-Fermion mixture confined on an optical lattice is numerically studied. Mott-plateau like behavior is observed under certain conditions in the density profile of the bosons and fermions as one sees in bosonic atoms in a trap potential. In the Mott plateau area, the total number of the bosons and fermions at each site is kept to an integer value but both local density of the bosons and that of the fermions take some intermediate values. Unlike bosonic or fermionic Mott insulators, the bosons and fermions can move even in the Mott plateau area by exchanging their positions. With Monte Carlo simulations we demonstrate the formation of the Mott plateau, examine the property of the bosons and fermions by measuring the densities and local density fluctuations, and give discussion on this rather new state.

id: 0805.3081
title: Quantum Theory of Radical-Ion-Pair Recombination: A New Physical Paradigm for Low-Magnetic-Field Effects
authors: I. K. Kominis
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3081
abstract: A new paradigm emerging in the description of magnetic-sensitive radical-ion-pair recombination reactions is presented. This paradigm is founded on the realization that the recombination process of radical-ion pairs is a continuous quantum measurement. In the regime of low magnetic fields we describe the appearance of purely quantum phenomena, that fade away as the magnetic field increases. We will analyze the magnetic sensitivity of these reactions under this perspective and bridge the new full quantum theory with the existing classical reaction theory applicable at high magnetic fields. Based on the quantum theory of recombination we will then explain experimental observations incompatible with classical reaction theory, in particular the effect of deuteration on the magnetic sensitivity of radical-ion pair recombination yields.

id: 0805.3083
title: Generation of nonground-state Bose-Einstein condensates by modulating atomic interactions
authors: E. R. F. Ramos, E. A. L. Henn, J. A. Seman, M. A. Caracanhas, K. M. F. Magalh?es, K. Helmerson, V. I. Yukalov, V. S. Bagnato
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 063412 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3083
abstract: A technique is proposed for creating nonground-state Bose-Einstein condensates in a trapping potential by means of the temporal modulation of atomic interactions. Applying a time-dependent spatially homogeneous magnetic field modifies the atomic scattering length. An alternating modulation of the scattering length excites the condensate, which, under special conditions, can be transferred to an excited nonlinear coherent mode. It is shown that there occurs a phase-transition-like behavior in the time-averaged population imbalance between the ground and excited states. The application of the suggested technique to realistic experimental conditions is analyzed and it is shown that the considered effect can be realized for experimentally available condensates.

id: 0805.3085
title: Intrinsic Cavity QED and Emergent Quasi-Normal Modes for Single Photon
authors: H. Dong, Z. R. Gong, H. Ian, Lan Zhou, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages,5 figures, Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3085
abstract: We propose a special cavity design that is constructed by terminating a one-dimensional waveguide with a perfect mirror at one end and doping a two-level atom at the other. We show that this atom plays the intrinsic role of a semi-transparent mirror for single photon transports such that quasi-normal modes (QNM's) emerge spontaneously in the cavity system. This atomic mirror has its reflection coefficient tunable through its level spacing and its coupling to the cavity field, for which the cavity system can be regarded as a two-end resonator with a continuously tunable leakage. The overall investigation predicts the existence of quasi-bound states in the waveguide continuum. Solid state implementations based on a dc-SQUID circuit and a defected line resonator embedded in a photonic crystal are illustrated to show the experimental accessibility of the generic model.

id: 0805.3088
title: Mixed state localizable entanglement for continuous variables
authors: Ladislav Mi?ta, Jr., Jarom¨ªr Fiur¨¢?ek
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012359 (2008).
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3088
abstract: We investigate localization of entanglement of multipartite mixed Gaussian states into a pair of modes by local Gaussian measurements on the remaining modes and classical communication. We provide a detailed proof that for arbitrary symmetric Gaussian state maximum entanglement can be localized by homodyne detection of either amplitude or phase quadrature on each mode. We then consider arbitrary mixed three-mode Gaussian states and show that the optimal Gaussian measurement on one mode yielding maximum entanglement among the other two modes can be determined by calculating roots of a high-order polynomial. Finally, we discuss localization of entanglement with single-photon detection.

id: 0805.3127
title: Klein-Gordon and Dirac gyroscopes
authors: Emerson Sadurni
comments: 13 pages, no figures. Accepted for publication in J Phys A: Math Theor
journal: J.Phys.A42:015209,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3127
abstract: The formulation of a rigid body in relativistic quantum mechanics is studied. Departing from an alternate approach at the relativistic classical level, the corresponding Klein-Gordon and Dirac operators for the rigid body are obtained in covariant form. The resulting wave equations are shown to be consistent, by construction, with earlier definitions of a relativistic rigid body by Aldinger et al (1983). Wave functions and spectra for both cases are obtained explicitly, including the Dirac gyroscope with asymmetries.

id: 0805.3134
title: Closed formula for the relative entropy of entanglement
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Satoshi Ishizaka
comments: 7 pages, the title was modified as suggested by the PRA editors
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 032310 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3134
abstract: The long-standing problem of finding a closed formula for the relative entropy of entanglement (REE) for two qubits is addressed. A compact-form solution to the inverse problem, which characterizes an entangled state for a given closest separable state, is obtained. Analysis of the formula for a large class of entangled states strongly suggests that a compact analytical solution of the original problem, which corresponds to finding the closest separable state for a given entangled state, can be given only in some special cases. A few applications of the compact-form formula are given to show additivity of the REE, to relate the REE with the Rains upper bound for distillable entanglement, and to show that a Bell state does not have a unique closest separable state.

id: 0805.3178
title: Foundations of Quantum Decoherence
authors: John Gamble
comments: Senior Undergraduate Thesis, The College of Wooster, May 2008, 110 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3178
abstract: The conventional interpretation of quantum mechanics, though it permits a correspondence to classical physics, leaves the exact mechanism of transition unclear. Though this was only of philosophical importance throughout the twentieth century, over the past decade new technological developments, such as quantum computing, require a more thorough understanding of not just the result of quantum emergence, but also its mechanism. Quantum decoherence theory is the model that developed out of necessity to deal with the quantum-classical transition explicitly, and without external observers. In this thesis, we present a self-contained and rigorously argued full derivation of the master equation for quantum Brownian motion, one of the key results in quantum decoherence theory. We accomplish this from a foundational perspective, only assuming a few basic axioms of quantum mechanics and deriving their consequences. We then consider a physical example of the master equation and show that quantum decoherence successfully represents the transition from a quantum to classical system.

id: 0805.3180
title: GHZ and W Entanglement Witnesses for the Non-interacting Fermi gas
authors: Hessam Habibian, John W. Clark, Naeimeh Behbood, Kurt Hingerl
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures, minor changes, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 032302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3180
abstract: The existence and nature of tripartite entanglement of a noninteracting Fermi gas (NIFG) is investigated. Three new classes of parameterized entanglement witnesses (EWs) are introduced with the aim of detecting genuine tripartite entanglement in the three-body reduced density matrix and discriminating between the presence of the two types of genuine tripartite entanglement, W\B and GHZ\W. By choosing appropriate EW operators, the problem of finding GHZ and W EWs is reduced to linear programming. Specifically, we devise new W EWs based on a spin-chain model with periodic boundary conditions, and we construct a class of parametrized GHZ EWs by linearly combining projection operators corresponding to all the different state-vector types arising for a three-fermion system. A third class of EWs is provided by a GHZ stabilizer operator capable of distinguishing W\B from GHZ\B entanglement, which is not possible with $W$ EWs. Implementing these classes of EWs, it is found that all states containing genuine tripartite entanglement are of W type, and hence states containing GHZ\W genuine tripartite entanglement do not arise. Some genuine tripartite entangled states that have a positive partial transpose (PPT) with respect to some bipartition are detected. Finally, it is demonstrated that a NIFG does not exhibit "pure" W\B genuine tripartite entanglement: three-party entanglement without any separable or biseparable admixture does not occur.

id: 0805.3185
title: Femtosecond dynamics and laser control of charge transport in trans-polyacetylene
authors: Ignacio Franco, Moshe Shapiro, Paul Brumer
comments: 14 pages, 13 figs. Accepted in J. Chem. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3185
abstract: The induction of dc electronic transport in rigid and flexible trans-polyacetylene oligomers according to the $\omega$ vs. $2\omega$ coherent control scenario is investigated using a quantum-classical mean field approximation. The approach involves running a large ensemble of mixed quantum-classical trajectories under the influence of $\omega+2\omega$ laser fields, and choosing the initial conditions by sampling the ground-state Wigner distribution function for the nuclei. The vibronic couplings are shown to change the mean single-particle spectrum, introduce ultrafast decoherence, and enhance intramolecular vibrational and electronic relaxation. Nevertheless, even in the presence of significant couplings, limited coherent control of the electronic dynamics is still viable, the most promising route involving the use of fs pulses with a duration that is comparable to the electronic dephasing time. The simulations offer a realistic description of the behavior of a simple coherent control scenario in a complex system, and provide a detailed account of the femtosecond photoinduced vibronic dynamics of a conjugated polymer.

id: 0805.3187
title: Laser-induced currents along molecular wire junctions
authors: Ignacio Franco, Moshe Shapiro, Paul Brumer
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures. Accepted in J. Chem. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3187
abstract: The treatment of the previous paper is extended to molecular wires. Specifically, the effect of electron-vibrational interactions on the electronic transport induced by femtosecond $\omega+2\omega$ laser fields along unbiased molecular nanojunctions is investigated. For this, the photoinduced vibronic dynamics of trans-polyacetylene oligomers coupled to macroscopic metallic leads is followed in a mean-field mixed quantum-classical approximation. A reduced description of the dynamics is obtained by introducing projective lead-molecule couplings and deriving an effective Schr\"odinger equation satisfied by the orbitals in the molecular region. Two possible rectification mechanisms are identified and investigated. The first one relies on near-resonance photon-absorption and is shown to be fragile to the ultrafast electronic decoherence processes introduced by the wire's vibrations. The second one employs the dynamic Stark effect and is demonstrated to be highly efficient and robust to electron-vibrational interactions.

id: 0805.3188
title: Equation of motion for process matrix: Hamiltonian identification and dynamical control of open quantum systems
authors: M. Mohseni, A. T. Rezakhani
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 010101(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3188
abstract: We develop a general approach for monitoring and controlling evolution of open quantum systems. In contrast to the master equations describing time evolution of density operators, here, we formulate a dynamical equation for the evolution of the process matrix acting on a system. This equation is applicable to non-Markovian and/or strong coupling regimes. We propose two distinct applications for this dynamical equation. We first demonstrate identification of quantum Hamiltonians generating dynamics of closed or open systems via performing process tomography. In particular, we argue how one can efficiently estimate certain classes of sparse Hamiltonians by performing partial tomography schemes. In addition, we introduce a novel optimal control theoretic setting for manipulating quantum dynamics of Hamiltonian systems, specifically for the task of decoherence suppression.

id: 0805.3190
title: Optimal ratio between phase basis and bit basis in QKD
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, Vol. 79, 020303(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3190
abstract: In the original BB84 protocol, the bit basis and the phase basis are used with equal probability. Lo et al (J. of Cryptology, 18, 133-165 (2005)) proposed to modify the ratio between the two bases by increasing the final key generation rate. However, the optimum ratio has not been derived. In this letter, in order to examine this problem, the ratio between the two bases is optimized for exponential constraints given Eve's information distinguishability and the final error probability.

id: 0805.3202
title: Topological cluster state quantum computing
authors: Austin G. Fowler, Kovid Goyal
comments: 11 pages, 20 figures, v2 substantially revised and simplified to remove the need for prior exposure to cluster state quantum computing
journal: Quant. Info. Comput. 9, 721-738 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3202
abstract: The quantum computing scheme described in Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 190504 (2007), when viewed as a cluster state computation, features a 3-D cluster state, novel adjustable strength error correction capable of correcting general errors through the correction of Z errors only, a threshold error rate approaching 1% and low overhead arbitrarily long-range logical gates. In this work, we review the scheme in detail framing discussion solely in terms of the required 3-D cluster state and its stabilizers.

id: 0805.3221
title: Hidden structures in quantum mechanics
authors: Vladimir Dzhunushaliev
comments: text is changed, acknowledgment is added
journal: J. Gen. Lie Th. Appl., Vol. 3, No.1, 33-38 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Rings and Algebras (math.RA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3221
abstract: It is shown that some operators in quantum mechanics have hidden structures that are unobservable in principle. These structures are based on a supersymmetric decomposition of the momentum operator, and a nonassociative decomposition of the spin operator.

id: 0805.3228
title: Relativistic probability waves
authors: M. Grigorescu
comments: 18 pages, replaced to add Figure 1, Appendix 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3228
abstract: A canonical structure compatible with the action of the Lorentz group can be obtained considering the energy and time as conjugate variables of an extended phase space. Scalar probability waves, describing free relativistic particles, are associated with functional coherent states for an extended Liouville equation. Relativistic action waves are provided by distributions localized in the momentum space, evolving according to the continuity and Hamilton-Jacobi equations. Presuming the existence of minimum space and time intervals, the action distributions take the form of relativistic Wigner functions. The nonrelativistic quantum dynamics is retrieved approximating the time distribution function by a Gaussian wave packet.

id: 0805.3231
title: Perfect Reflection of Light by an Oscillating Dipole
authors: G. Zumofen, N.M. Mojarad, V. Sandoghdar, M. Agio
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3231
abstract: We show theoretically that a directional dipole wave can be perfectly reflected by a single point-like oscillating dipole. Furthermore, we find that in the case of a strongly focused plane wave up to 85 % of the incident light can be reflected by the dipole. Our results hold for the full spectrum of the electromagnetic interactions and have immediate implications for achieving strong coupling between a single propagating photon and a single quantum emitter.

id: 0805.3239
title: A robust system for Quantum Computation using Coherent Population Trap states of neutral atoms
authors: Ashok Vudayagiri
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, appeared in Pramana, Journal of Physics, India, vol. 77, 1127 (2011)
journal: Pramana - Journal of Physics, vol 77, 1127 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3239
abstract: A robust system for use of Quantum Computation using neutral atoms is presented in this communication. This scheme exploits a multilevel atomic system interacting with two lasers in such a way that it leads to formation of two Coherent Population Trap (CPT) states. The atomic population can be pumped alternatively between these two CPT states or any desired superposition of the two can also be formed. These two CPT states can then be mapped to two Qubits for Quantum Computation. Preparation of any desired state and formation of CNOT gates are explained below. A scheme for preparing 1-D lattice of mutually interacting spin systems, which mimic behaviour of magnetic spin systems is also shown. Atoms in CPT states do not interact with the lasers that prepare it and hence are free of perturbation. The states involved here are also made up of only ground states of bare atoms and hence are free of decoherence due to spontaneous emission. Thus, the configuration studied here is a good example of a very robust system.

id: 0805.3258
title: Analysis of the role of von Neumann's projection postulate in the canonical scheme of quantum teleportation and main quantum algorithms
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: The paper is completed by analysis of basis quantum algorithm from the viewpoint of von Neumann's theory
journal: J. Russian Laser Research 29, N 3, 296-301 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3258
abstract: Modern development of quantum technologies based on quantum information theory stimulated analysis of proposed computational, cryptographic and teleportational schemes from the viewpoint of quantum foundations. It is evident that not all mathematical calculations performed in complex Hilbert space can be directly realized in physical space. Recently by analyzing the original EPR paper we found that they argument was based on the misuse of the von Neumann's projection postulate. Opposite to von Neumann, Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen (EPR) applied this postulate to observables represented by operators with degenerate spectra. It was completely forbidden by von Neumann's axiomatics of QM. It is impossible to repeat the EPR considerations in the von Neumann's framework. In this note we analyze quantum teleportation by taking into account von Neumann's projection postulate. Our analysis shows that so called quantum teleportation is impossible in von Neumann's framework. On the other hand, our analysis implies that the main quantum algorithms are totally consistent with von Neumann's projection postulate.

id: 0805.3325
title: Protecting, Enhancing and Reviving Entanglement
authors: J. G. Oliveira Jr., R. Rossi Jr., M. C. Nemes
comments: 
journal: Physical Review. A, v. 78, p. 044301, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3325
abstract: We propose a strategies not only to protect but also to enhance and revive the entanglement in a double Jaynes-Cummings model. We show that such surprising features arises when Zeno-like measurements are performed during the dynamical process.

id: 0805.3330
title: Electromagnetic energy flow lines as possible paths of photons
authors: M. Davidovic, A. S. Sanz, D. Arsenovic, M. Bozic, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. T135, 14009 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3330
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments where interference patterns behind a grating are obtained by accumulating single photon events, here we provide an electromagnetic energy flow-line description to explain the emergence of such patterns. We find and discuss an analogy between the equation describing these energy flow lines and the equation of Bohmian trajectories used to describe the motion of massive particles.

id: 0805.3348
title: Optimal light storage in atomic vapor
authors: Nathaniel B. Phillips, Alexey V. Gorshkov, Irina Novikova
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3348
abstract: We study procedures for the optimization of efficiency of light storage and retrieval based on the dynamic form of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in warm Rb vapor. We present a detailed analysis of two recently demonstrated optimization protocols: a time-reversal-based iteration procedure, which finds the optimal input signal pulse shape for any given control field, and a procedure based on the calculation of an optimal control field for any given signal pulse shape. We verify that the two procedures are consistent with each other, and that they both independently achieve the maximum memory efficiency for any given optical depth. We observe good agreement with theoretical predictions for moderate optical depths (<25), while at higher optical depths the experimental efficiency falls below the theoretically predicted values. We identify possible effects responsible for this reduction in memory efficiency.

id: 0805.3352
title: Coding for quantum channels with side information at the transmitter
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3352
abstract: We consider the problem of coding for quantum channels with side information that is available ahead of time at the transmitter but not at the receiver. We find a single-letter expression for the entanglement-assisted quantum capacity of such channels which closely parallels Gel'fand and Pinsker's solution to the classical version of the same problem. This theorem can also be used to find a lower bound on the unassisted quantum capacity of these channels.

id: 0805.3353
title: Stimulated Raman process in a scattering medium in application to quantum memory scheme
authors: O.S. Mishina, N.V. Larionov, A.S. Sheremet, I.M. Sokolov, D.V. Kupriyanov
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures; corrected typos in references,added reference in 4B clarifying changes (2 B, 3A, 4B)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042313 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3353
abstract: We consider the coherent stimulated Raman process developing in an optically dense disordered atomic medium, which can also incoherently scatter the light over all outward directions. The Raman process is discussed in the context of a quantum memory scheme and we point out the difference in its physical nature from a similar but not identical protocol based on the effect of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). We show that the Raman and EIT memory schemes do not compete but complement one another and each of them has certain advantages in the area of its applicability. We include in our consideration an analysis of the transient processes associated with switching the control pulse off or on and follow how they modify the probe pulse dynamics on the retrieval stage of the memory protocol.

id: 0805.3357
title: Mechanical Systems that are both Classical and Quantum
authors: Norman Margolus
comments: 24 pages, 10 figures. v2 fixed unclear wording and added one reference
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cellular Automata and Lattice Gases (nlin.CG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3357
abstract: Quantum dynamics can be regarded as a generalization of classical finite-state dynamics. This is a familiar viewpoint for workers in quantum computation, which encompasses classical computation as a special case. Here this viewpoint is extended to mechanics, where classical dynamics has traditionally been viewed as a macroscopic approximation of quantum behavior, not as a special case. When a classical dynamics is recast as a special case of quantum dynamics, the quantum description can be interpreted classically. For example, sometimes extra information is added to the classical state in order to construct the quantum description. This extra information is then eliminated by representing it in a superposition as if it were unknown information about a classical statistical ensemble. This usage of superposition leads to the appearance of Fermions in the quantum description of classical lattice-gas dynamics and turns continuous-space descriptions of finite-state systems into illustrations of classical sampling theory. A direct mapping of classical systems onto quantum systems also allows us to determine the minimum possible energy scale for a classical dynamics, based on a localized rate of state change. We use a partitioning description of dynamics to define locality, and discuss the ideal energy of two model systems.

id: 0805.3392
title: A Low Complexity Scheme for Entanglement Distributor Buses
authors: Majid Ghojavand
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures, Major revision, title changed, published version
journal: Quantum Information Processing 10, 4 (August 2011), 519-532
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3392
abstract: For technological purposes and theoretical curiosity, it is very interesting to have a building block that produces a considerable amount of entanglement between on-demand sites through a simple control of a few sites. Here, we consider permanently-coupled spin networks and study entanglement generation between qubit pairs to find low-complexity structures capable of generating considerable entanglement between various qubit pairs. We find that in axially symmetric networks the generated entanglement between some qubit pairs is rather larger than generic networks. We show that in uniformly-coupled spin rings each pair can be considerably entangled through controlling suitable vertices. To set the location of controlling-vertices, we observe that the symmetry has to be broken for a definite time. To achieve this, a magnetic flux can be applied to break symmetry via Aharonov-Bohm effect. Such a set up can serve as an efficient entanglement distributor bus in which each vertex-pair can be efficiently entangled through exciting only one fixed vertex and controlling the evolution time. The low-complexity of this scheme makes it attractive for use in nanoscale quantum information processors.

id: 0805.3396
title: Dynamics of entanglement in a one-dimensional Ising chain
authors: G.B. Furman, V. M. Meerovich, V.L. Sokolovsky
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3396
abstract: The evolution of entanglement in a one-dimensional Ising chain is numerically studied under various initial conditions. We analyze two problems concerning the dynamics of the entanglement: (i) generation of the entanglement from the pseudopure separable state and (ii) transportation of the entanglement from one end of the chain to the other. The investigated model is a one-dimensional Ising spin-1/2 chain with nearest-neighbor interactions placed in an external magnetic field and irradiated by a weak resonant transverse field. The possibility of selective initialization of partially entangled states is considered. It was shown that, in spite of the use of a model with the direct interactions between the nearest neighbors, the entanglement between remote spins is generated.

id: 0805.3398
title: Proposed Experimental Test for Proving Quantum Contextuality with Non-entangled Photons
authors: Yoshihiro Nambu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX, revised introduction
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3398
abstract: We present a new and feasible test proving quantum contextuality in four-dimensional Hiltbert space. In our scheme, a contradiction between quantum mechanics and noncontextual hidden variables is revealed through the measurement statistics of two joint measurements of an ensemble of non-entangled qubits. The origin of nonclassicality is fully attributed to the measurement process. Quantum optical realization using photon pairs and linear optics are presented.

id: 0805.3414
title: Gigahertz quantum key distribution with InGaAs avalanche photodiodes
authors: Z. L. Yuan, A. R. Dixon, J. F. Dynes, A. W. Sharpe, A. J. Shields
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 92, 201104(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3414
abstract: We report a demonstration of quantum key distribution (QKD) at GHz clock rates with InGaAs avalanche photodiodes (APDs) operating in a self-differencing mode. Such a mode of operation allows detection of extremely weak avalanches so that the detector afterpulse noise is sufficiently suppressed. The system is characterized by a secure bit rate of 2.37 Mbps at 5.6 km and 27.9 kbps at 65.5 km when the fiber dispersion is not compensated. After compensating the fiber dispersion, the QKD distance is extended to 101 km, resulting in a secure key rate of 2.88 kbps. Our results suggest that InGaAs APDs are very well suited to GHz QKD applications.

id: 0805.3466
title: Extrema of discrete Wigner functions and applications
authors: Andrea Casaccino, Ernesto F. Galvao, Simone Severini
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. v2: minor changes, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022310 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3466
abstract: We study the class of discrete Wigner functions proposed by Gibbons et al. [Phys. Rev. A 70, 062101 (2004)] to describe quantum states using a discrete phase-space based on finite fields. We find the extrema of such functions for small Hilbert space dimensions, and present a quantum information application: a construction of quantum random access codes. These are constructed using the complete set of phase-space point operators to find encoding states and to obtain the codes' average success rates for Hilbert space dimensions 2,3,4,5,7 and 8.

id: 0805.3485
title: Experimental realization of highly-efficient broadband coupling of single quantum dots to a photonic crystal waveguide
authors: T. Lund-Hansen, S. Stobbe, B. Julsgaard, H. Thyrrestrup, T. S¨¹nner, M. Kamp, A. Forchel, P. Lodahl
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 113903 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3485
abstract: We present time-resolved spontaneous emission measurements of single quantum dots embedded in photonic crystal waveguides. Quantum dots that couple to the photonic crystal waveguide are found to decay up to 27 times faster than uncoupled quantum dots. From these measurements $\beta$-factors of up to 0.89 are derived, and an unprecedented large bandwidth of 20 nm is demonstrated. This shows the promising potential of photonic crystal waveguides for efficient single-photon sources. The scaled frequency where the enhancement is observed is in excellent agreement with theory taking into account that the light-matter coupling is strongly enhanced due to the significant slow-down of light in the photonic crystal waveguide.

id: 0805.3496
title: Optimal quantum state reconstruction for cold trapped ions
authors: A.B. Klimov, A. Fern¨¢ndez, C. Mu?oz, C. Saavedra
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A as Rap. Comm
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3496
abstract: We study the physical implementation of an optimal tomographic reconstruction scheme for the case of determining the state of a multi-qubit system, where trapped ions are used for defining qubits. The protocol is based on the use of mutually unbiased measurements and on the physical information described in H. H\"{a}ffner \emph{et. al} [Nature \textbf{438}, 643-646 (2005)]. We introduce the concept of physical complexity for different types of unbiased measurements and analyze their generation in terms of one and two qubit gates for trapped ions.

id: 0805.3510
title: Energy distribution and cooling of a single atom in an optical tweezer
authors: C. Tuchendler, A. M. Lance, A. Browaeys, Y. R. P. Sortais, P. Grangier
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 033425 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3510
abstract: We investigate experimentally the energy distribution of a single rubidium atom trapped in a strongly focused dipole trap under various cooling regimes. Using two different methods to measure the mean energy of the atom, we show that the energy distribution of the radiatively cooled atom is close to thermal. We then demonstrate how to reduce the energy of the single atom, first by adiabatic cooling, and then by truncating the Boltzmann distribution of the single atom. This provides a non-deterministic way to prepare atoms at low microKelvin temperatures, close to the ground state of the trapping potential.

id: 0805.3542
title: Entanglement of Valence-Bond-Solid on an Arbitrary Graph
authors: Ying Xu, Vladimir E Korepin
comments: Revised version, 20 pages, 2 figures; typos corrected, references added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 505302 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3542
abstract: The Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki (AKLT) spin interacting model can be defined on an arbitrary graph. We explain the construction of the AKLT Hamiltonian. Given certain conditions, the ground state is unique and known as the Valence-Bond-Solid (VBS) state. It can be used in measurement-based quantum computation as a resource state instead of the cluster state. We study the VBS ground state on an arbitrary connected graph. The graph is cut into two disconnected parts: the block and the environment. We study the entanglement between these two parts and prove that many eigenvalues of the density matrix of the block are zero. We describe a subspace of eigenvectors of the density matrix corresponding to non-zero eigenvalues. The subspace is the degenerate ground states of some Hamiltonian which we call the block Hamiltonian.

id: 0805.3553
title: Teleportation in General Probabilistic Theories
authors: Howard Barnum, Jonathan Barrett, Matthew Leifer, Alexander Wilce
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3553
abstract: In a previous paper, we showed that many important quantum information-theoretic phenomena, including the no-cloning and no-broadcasting theorems, are in fact generic in all non-classical probabilistic theories. An exception is teleportation, which most such theories do not support. In this paper, we investigate which probabilistic theories, and more particularly, which composite systems, {\em do} support a teleportation protocol. We isolate a natural class of composite systems that we term {\em regular}, and establish necessary and sufficient conditions for a regular tripartite system to support a conclusive, or post-selected, teleportation protocol. We also establish a sufficient condition for deterministic teleportation that yields a large supply of theories, neither classical nor quantum, that support such a protocol.

id: 0805.3576
title: Entanglement sudden birth of two trapped ions interacting with a time-dependent laser field
authors: Mahmoud Abdel-Aty, Ting Yu
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Journal of Physics B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41 (2008) 235503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3576
abstract: We explore and develop the mathematics of the two multi-level ions. In particular, we describe some new features of quantum entanglement in two three-level trapped ions confined in a one-dimensional harmonic potential, allowing the instantaneous position of the center-of-mass motion of the ions to be explicitly time-dependent. By solving the exact dynamics of the system, we show how survivability of the quantum entanglement is determined by a specific choice of the initial state settings.

id: 0805.3592
title: Deterministic optical quantum computer using photonic modules
authors: A. M. Stephens, Z. W. E. Evans, S. J. Devitt, A. D. Greentree, A. G. Fowler, W. J. Munro, J. L. O'Brien, Kae Nemoto, L. C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures, minor revisions
journal: PRA 78, 032318 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3592
abstract: The optical quantum computer is one of the few experimental systems to have demonstrated small scale quantum information processing. Making use of cavity quantum electrodynamics approaches to operator measurements, we detail an optical network for the deterministic preparation of arbitrarily large two-dimensional cluster states. We show that this network can form the basis of a large scale deterministic optical quantum computer that can be fabricated entirely on chip.

id: 0805.3625
title: Exchange Symmetry and Multipartite Entanglement
authors: Tsubasa Ichikawa, Toshihiko Sasaki, Izumi Tsutsui, Nobuhiro Yonezawa
comments: 12 pages, appendix added
journal: Phys. Rev. A78 (2008) 052105
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3625
abstract: Entanglement of multipartite systems is studied based on exchange symmetry under the permutation group S_N. With the observation that symmetric property under the exchange of two constituent states and their separability are intimately linked, we show that anti-symmetric (fermionic) states are necessarily globally entangled, while symmetric (bosonic) states are either globally entangled or fully separable and possess essentially identical states in all the constituent systems. It is also shown that there cannot exist a fully separable state which is orthogonal to all symmetric states, and that full separability of states does not survive under total symmetrization unless the states are originally symmetric. Besides, anyonic states permitted under the braid group B_N should also be globally entangled. Our results reveal that exchange symmetry is actually sufficient for pure states to become globally entangled or fully separable.

id: 0805.3626
title: Method of Linear Invariants for description of beam dynamics of FEL undulator
authors: A. Angelow, D. Trifonov, V. Angelov, H. Hristov
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure. Proccedings of 9th Workshop Nanoscience & Nanotechnology, Edited by E.Balabanova, I.Dragieva, Heron Press Ltd. 2008 (accepted)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3626
abstract: We propose a new model for description of electrons beam dynamics in Free Electron Laser (FEL) undulator, based on the method of linear time-dependent invariants of quantum-mechanical charge particle. The magnetic field has periodic structure along the undulator. For this problem, described by time-dependent quadratic Hamiltonian, we obtain exact solution. The time-evolutions of the tree quantum fluctuations: covariance cov(q,p), var(q) and var(p) for the charge particle in this case are also determined. This research will help to optimize the FEL undulator: for example, using a 2.5 GeV linear electron accelerator it will be possible to emit radiation at 1.5 nm and shorter length. This method could be applicable also to any device with periodic structure of applied field (e.g. Tokamak, cyclic accelerators) for the case of charge non-relativistic quantum particles.

id: 0805.3629
title: Experimental quantum key distribution based on a Bell test
authors: Alexander Ling, Matthew P. Peloso, Ivan Marcikic, Valerio Scarani, Antia Lamas-Linares, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 5 pages ReVTeX, 3 figures; version v2 with updated references and minor corrections, author spelling fixed
journal: Physical Review A 78, 020301 (R) (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3629
abstract: We report on a complete free-space field implementation of a modified Ekert91 protocol for quantum key distribution using entangled photon pairs. For each photon pair we perform a random choice between key generation and a Bell inequality. The amount of violation is used to determine the possible knowledge of an eavesdropper to ensure security of the distributed final key.

id: 0805.3632
title: Testing the EPR Locality using B-Mesons
authors: Tsubasa Ichikawa, Satoshi Tamura, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: 14 pages, PlainTeX, minor revision
journal: Phys.Lett.A373:39-44,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3632
abstract: We study the possibility of testing local realistic theory (LRT), envisioned implicitly by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen in 1935, based on the Bell inequality for the correlations in the decay modes of entangled K or B-mesons. It is shown that such a test is possible for a restricted class of LRT, despite the passive nature of decay events and/or the non-unitary treatment of the correlations which invalidate the test for general LRT. Unfortunately, the present setup of the KEKB (Belle) experiment, where the coherence of entangled B-mesons has been confirmed recently, does not admit such a test due to the inability of determining the decay times of the entangled pairs separately. The indeterminacy also poses a problem for ensuring the locality of the test, indicating that improvement to resolve the indeterminacy is crucial for the test of LRT.

id: 0805.3637
title: Optimal state for keeping reference frames aligned and the Platonic solids
authors: Piotr Kolenderski, Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 052333 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3637
abstract: The optimal N qubit states featuring highest sensitivity to small misalignment of cartesian reference frames are found using the Quantum Cramer-Rao bound. It is shown that the optimal states are supported on the symmetric subspace and hence are mathematically equivalent to a single spin J=N/2. Majorana representation of spin states is used to reveal a beautiful connection between the states optimal for aligning reference frames and the platonic solids.

id: 0805.3666
title: Exact invariant states of the generalized squeezing operator
authors: Andrey Pereverzev, Eric R. Bittner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3666
abstract: We explicitly construct the states that are invariant under the action of the generalized squeezing operator $\exp{(z{a^{\dagger}}^k-z^*a^k)}$ with integer $k \geq 3$. There are $k$ such states for a given value of $k$. We show that in the number representation the states behave as $n^{-k/4}$ for large $n$'s. This implies that for any $k\geq3$ the states are normalizable. However, for a given $k$ the expectation values of operators of the form $(a^{\dagger} a)^j$ diverge for the integer $j\geq (k/2-1)$. For $k=3$ we also give an explicit form of these states in the momentum representation in terms of Bessel functions.

id: 0805.3711
title: Quantum communication between trapped ions through a dissipative environment
authors: H. T. Ng, S. Bose
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 182001 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3711
abstract: We study two trapped ions coupled to the axial phonon modes of a one-dimensional Coulomb crystal. This system is formally equivalent to the "two spin-boson" model. We propose a scheme to dynamically generate a maximally entangled state of two ions within a decoherence-free subspace. Here the phononic environment of the trapped ions, whatever its temperature and number of modes, serves as the entangling bus. The efficient production of the pure singlet state can be exploited to perform short-ranged quantum communication which is essential in building up a large-scale quantum computer.

id: 0805.3723
title: Dispersive optomechanics: a membrane inside a cavity
authors: A. M. Jayich, J. C. Sankey, B. M. Zwickl, C. Yang, J. D. Thompson, S. M. Girvin, A. A. Clerk, F. Marquardt, J. G. E. Harris
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3723
abstract: We present the results of theoretical and experimental studies of dispersively coupled (or "membrane in the middle") optomechanical systems. We calculate the linear optical properties of a high finesse cavity containing a thin dielectric membrane. We focus on the cavity's transmission, reflection, and finesse as a function of the membrane's position along the cavity axis and as a function of its optical loss. We compare these calculations with measurements and find excellent agreement in cavities with empty-cavity finesses in the range 10^4 to 10^5. The imaginary part of the membrane's index of refraction is found to be approximately 10^(-4). We calculate the laser cooling performance of this system, with a particular focus on the less-intuitive regime in which photons "tunnel" through the membrane on a time scale comparable to the membrane's period of oscillation. Lastly, we present calculations of quantum non-demolition measurements of the membrane's phonon number in the low signal-to-noise regime where the phonon lifetime is comparable to the QND readout time.

id: 0805.3735
title: Coupling nanomechanical cantilevers to dipolar molecules
authors: S. Singh, M. Bhattacharya, O. Dutta, P. Meystre
comments: 3 figures, 4pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3735
abstract: We investigate the coupling of a nanomechanical oscillator in the quantum regime with molecular (electric) dipoles. We find theoretically that the cantilever can produce single-mode squeezing of the center-of-mass motion of an isolated trapped molecule and two-mode squeezing of the phonons of an array of molecules. This work opens up the possibility of manipulating dipolar crystals, which have been recently proposed as quantum memory, and more generally, is indicative of the promise of nanoscale cantilevers for the quantum detection and control of atomic and molecular systems.

id: 0805.3776
title: Measurement of the Casimir force between a gold sphere and silicon surface with nanoscale trench arrays
authors: H. B. Chan, Y. Bao, J. Zou, R. A. Cirelli, F. Klemens, W. M. Mansfield, C. S. Pai
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 030401 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3776
abstract: We report measurements of the Casimir force between a gold sphere and a silicon surface with an array of nanoscale, rectangular corrugations using a micromechanical torsional oscillator. At distance between 150 nm and 500 nm, the measured force shows significant deviations from the pairwise additive formulism, demonstrating the strong dependence of the Casimir force on the shape of the interacting bodies. The observed deviation, however, is smaller than the calculated values for perfectly conducting surfaces, possibly due to the interplay between finite conductivity and geometry effects.

id: 0805.3785
title: Entanglement in Weisskopf-Wigner theory of atomic decay in free space
authors: J. F. Leandro, F. L. Semi?o
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, changed from purity to entropy of entanglement calculations in the replaced version
journal: Opt. Commun. 282, 4736 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3785
abstract: In this paper, we use the Weisskopf-Wigner theory to study the entanglement in the state of the free-space radiation field produced from vacuum due to atomic decay. We show how bipartite entanglement is shared between different partitions of the radiation modes. We investigate the role played by the size of the partitions and their detuning with the decaying atom. The dynamics of the atom-field entanglement during the atomic decay is also briefly discussed. From this dynamics, we assert that such entanglement is the physical quantity that fix the statistical atomic decay time.

id: 0805.3797
title: Faraday spectroscopy of atoms confined in a dark optical trap
authors: Matthew L. Terraciano, Mark Bashkansky, Fredrik Fatemi
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3797
abstract: We demonstrate Faraday spectroscopy with high duty cycle and sampling rate using atoms confined to a blue-detuned optical trap. Our trap consists of a crossed pair of high-charge-number hollow laser beams, which forms a dark, box-like potential. We have used this to measure transient magnetic fields in a 500-micron-diameter spot over a 400 ms time window with nearly unit duty cycle at a 500 Hz sampling rate. We use these measurements to quantify and compensate time-varying magnetic fields to ~10 nT per time sample.

id: 0805.3801
title: Photo-detection using Bose-condensed atoms in a micro trap
authors: S. Wallentowitz, A. B. Klimov
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures; revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3801
abstract: A model of photo-detection using a Bose--Einstein condensate in an atom-chip based micro trap is analyzed. Atoms absorb photons from the incident light field, receive part of the photon momentum and leave the trap potential. Upon counting of escaped atoms within predetermined time intervals, the photon statistics of the incident light is mapped onto the atom-count statistics. Whereas traditional photo-detection theory treats the emission centers of photo electrons as distinguishable, here the centers of escaping atoms are condensed and thus indistinguishable atoms. From this an enhancement of the photon-number resolution as compared to the commonly known counting formula is derived.

id: 0805.3803
title: Coupling of electrons to the electromagnetic field in a localized basis
authors: Roland E. Allen
comments: 6 pages, Physical Review B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3803
abstract: A simple formula is obtained for coupling electrons in a complex system to the electromagnetic field. It includes the effect of intra-atomic excitations and nuclear motion, and can be applied in. e.g., first-principles-based simulations of the coupled dynamics of electrons and nuclei in materials and molecules responding to ultrashort laser pulses. Some additional aspects of nonadiabatic dynamical simulations are also discussed, including the potential of "reduced Ehrenfest'" simulations for treating problems where standard Ehrenfest simulations will fail.

id: 0805.3820
title: Reasoning about quantum systems at the macroscopic level
authors: Jochen Rau
comments: 31 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3820
abstract: In this didactical note I review in depth the rationale for using generalised canonical distributions in quantum statistics. Particular attention is paid to the proper definitions of quantum entropy and quantum relative entropy, as well as to quantum state reconstruction on the basis of incomplete data. There are two appendices in which I outline how generalised canonical distributions link to the conventional formulation of statistical mechanics, and how classical probability calculus emerges at the macroscopic level.

id: 0805.3854
title: Single Atom Detection With Optical Cavities
authors: R. Poldy, B. C. Buchler, J. C. Close
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures, submitted to PRA, minor changes in Secs. I and IVD.2, and revised Fig.2
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 013640 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3854
abstract: We present a thorough analysis of single atom detection using optical cavities. The large set of parameters that influence the signal-to-noise ratio for cavity detection is considered, with an emphasis on detunings, probe power, cavity finesse and photon detection schemes. Real device operating restrictions for single photon counting modules and standard photodiodes are included in our discussion, with heterodyne detection emerging as the clearly favourable technique, particularly for detuned detection at high power.

id: 0805.3867
title: Correlation in states of two identical particles
authors: D.L. Zhou
comments: 3.6 pages
journal: EPL 88 (2009) 10006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3867
abstract: We identify the correlation in a state of two identical particles as the residual information beyond what is already contained in the 1-particle reduced density matrix, and propose a correlation measure based on the maximum entropy principle. We obtain the analytical results of the correlation measure, which make it computable for arbitrary two-particle states. We also show that the degrees of correlation in the same two-particle states with different particle types will decrease in the following order: bosons, fermions, and distinguishable particles.

id: 0805.3885
title: Partial-state fidelity and quantum phase transitions induced by continuous level crossing
authors: Ho-Man Kwok, Chun-Sing Ho, Shi-Jian Gu
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 062302 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3885
abstract: The global-state fidelity cannot characterize those quantum phase transitions (QPTs) induced by continuous level crossing due to its collapse around each crossing point. In this paper, we take the isotropic Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick (LMG) model and the antiferromagnetic one-dimensional Heisenberg model as examples to show that the partial-state fidelity can signal such level-crossing QPTs. Extending to the thermodynamic limit we introduce the partial-state fidelity susceptibility and study its scaling behavior. The maximum of the partial-state fidelity susceptibility goes like $N$ for the LMG model and $N^3$ for the Heisenberg model.

id: 0805.3951
title: Quantum strategy in moving frames
authors: Jian-Chuan Tan, An Min Wang
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3951
abstract: We investigate quantum strategy in moving frames by considering Prisoner's Dilemma and propose four thresholds of $\gamma$ for two players to determine their \textit{Nash Equilibria}. Specially, an interesting phenomenon appears in relativistic situation that the quantum feature of the game would be enhanced and diminished for different players whose particle's initial spin direction are respectively parallel and antiparallel to his/her movement direction, that is, for the former the quantum feature of the game is enhanced while for the latter the quantum feature would be diminished. Thus a classical latter could still maintain his/her strictly dominant strategy (classical strategy) even if the game itself is highly entangled.

id: 0805.3974
title: Finite quantum dissipation: the challenge of obtaining specific heat
authors: Peter H?nggi, Gert-Ludwig Ingold, Peter Talkner
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 115008 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3974
abstract: We consider a free particle coupled with finite strength to a bath and investigate the evaluation of its specific heat. A harmonic oscillator bath of Drude type with cutoff frequency omega_D is employed to model an ohmic friction force with dissipation strength gamma. Two scenarios for obtaining specific heat are presented. The first one uses the measurement of the kinetic energy of the free particle while the second one is based on the reduced partition function. Both descriptions yield results which are consistent with the Third Law of thermodynamics. Nevertheless, the two methods produce different results that disagree even in their leading quantum corrections at high temperatures. We also consider the regime where the cutoff frequency is smaller than the friction strength, i.e. omega_D<gamma. There, we encounter puzzling results at low temperatures where the specific heat based on the thermodynamic prescription becomes negative. This anomaly is rooted in an ill-defined density of states of the damped free particle which assumes unphysical negative values when gamma/omega_D>1.

id: 0805.3975
title: Local controllability of quantum networks
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Sougato Bose, Christoph Bruder, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 060305(R) (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3975
abstract: We give a sufficient criterion that guarantees that a many-body quantum system can be controlled by properly manipulating the (local) Hamiltonian of one of its subsystems. The method can be applied to a wide range of systems: it does not depend on the details of the couplings but only on their associated topology. As a special case, we prove that Heisenberg and Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki chains can be controlled by operating on one of the spins at their ends. In principle, arbitrary quantum algorithms can be performed on such chains by acting on a single qubit.

id: 0805.4002
title: A Wave Function approach to dissipative processes
authors: Yvan Castin, Jean Dalibard, Klaus Molmer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4002
abstract: Due to growing interest in quantum measurement, control and feedback, we reproduce a manuscript from 1992, presenting a simple physical and mathematical derivation of stochastic differential equations for wave functions of probed quantum systems. V. P. Belavkins seminal quantum filtering theory with similar equations, developed in the 1980es, was not known to the authors at the time of writing of the present manuscript.

id: 0805.4026
title: Quantum Pareto Optimal Control
authors: Raj Chakrabarti, Rebing Wu, Herschel Rabitz
comments: Submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4026
abstract: We describe algorithms, and experimental strategies, for the Pareto optimal control problem of simultaneously driving an arbitrary number of quantum observable expectation values to their respective extrema. Conventional quantum optimal control strategies are less effective at sampling points on the Pareto frontier of multiobservable control landscapes than they are at locating optimal solutions to single observable control problems. The present algorithms facilitate multiobservable optimization by following direct paths to the Pareto front, and are capable of continuously tracing the front once it is found to explore families of viable solutions. The numerical and experimental methodologies introduced are also applicable to other problems that require the simultaneous control of large numbers of observables, such as quantum optimal mixed state preparation.

id: 0805.4036
title: Diagrammatic calculation of energy spectrum of quantum impurity in degenerate Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Alexey Novikov, Mikhail Ovchinnikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4036
abstract: In this paper we considered a quantum particle moving through delute Bose-Einstein condensate at zero temperature. In our formulation the impurity particle interacts with the gas of uncoupled Bogoliubov's excitations. We constructed the perturbation theory for the Green's function of the impurity particle with respect to the impurity-condensate interaction employing the coherent-state path integral approach. The perturbative expansion for the Green's function is resumed into the expansion for its poles with the help of the diagrammatic technique developed in this work. The dispersion relation for the impurity clothed by condensate excitations is obtained and effective mass is evaluated beyond the Golden rule approximation.

id: 0805.4062
title: Reduced fidelity susceptibility and its finite-size scaling behaviors
authors: Jian Ma, Lei Xu, Hengna Xiong, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 78, 051126 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4062
abstract: We derive a general formula of the reduced fidelity susceptibility when the reduced density matrix is $2\times2$ block-diagonal. By using this result and the continuous unitary transformations, we study finite-size scaling of the reduced fidelity susceptibility in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick Model. It is found that it can be used to characterize quantum phase transitions, implying that we can extract information of quantum phase transitions only from the fidelity of a subsystem, which is of practical meaning in experiments.

id: 0805.4092
title: Universal coding for classical-quantum channel
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: 
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics Volume 289, Number 3, 1087-1098 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4092
abstract: We construct a universal code for stationary and memoryless classical-quantum channel as a quantum version of the universal coding by Csisz\'{a}r and K\"{o}rner. Our code is constructed by the combination of irreducible representation, the decoder introduced through quantum information spectrum, and the packing lemma.

id: 0805.4102
title: Effective Hamiltonian approach to the Kerr nonlinearity in an optomechanical system
authors: Z. R. Gong, H. Ian, Yu-xi Liu, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 065801 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4102
abstract: Using the Born-Oppenheimer approximation, we derive an effective Hamiltonian for an optomechanical system that leads to a nonlinear Kerr effect in the system's vacuum. The oscillating mirror at one edge of the optomechanical system induces a squeezing effect in the intensity spectrum of the cavity field. A near-resonant laser field is applied at the other edge to drive the cavity field, in order to enhance the Kerr effect. We also propose a quantum-nondemolition-measurement setup to monitor a system with two cavities separated by a common oscillating mirror, based on our effective Hamiltonian approach.

id: 0805.4149
title: Complexity of thermal states in quantum spin chains
authors: Marko Znidaric, Tomaz Prosen, Iztok Pizorn
comments: 5 pages, 3 eps figures; v2. minor changes, sections added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022103 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4149
abstract: We study quantum correlations and complexity of simulation, characterized by quantum mutual information and entanglement entropy in operator space respectively, for thermal states in critical, non-critical and quantum chaotic spin chains. A simple general relation between the two quantities is proposed. We show that in all cases mutual information and entanglement entropy saturate with the system size, whereas as a function of the inverse temperature, we find logarithmic divergences for critical cases and uniform bounds in non-critical cases. A simple efficient quasi-exact method for computation of arbitrary entropy related quantities in thermalized XY spin chains is proposed.

id: 0805.4164
title: Multimode quantum memory based on atomic frequency combs
authors: Mikael Afzelius, Christoph Simon, Hugues de Riedmatten, Nicolas Gisin
comments: Final version: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 052329 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4164
abstract: An efficient multi-mode quantum memory is a crucial resource for long-distance quantum communication based on quantum repeaters. We propose a quantum memory based on spectral shaping of an inhomogeneously broadened optical transition into an atomic frequency comb (AFC). The spectral width of the AFC allows efficient storage of multiple temporal modes, without the need to increase the absorption depth of the storage material, in contrast to previously known quantum memories. Efficient readout is possible thanks to rephasing of the atomic dipoles due to the AFC structure. Long-time storage and on-demand readout is achieved by use of spin-states in a lambda-type configuration. We show that an AFC quantum memory realized in solids doped with rare-earth-metal ions could store hundreds of modes or more with close to unit efficiency, for material parameters achievable today.

id: 0805.4173
title: Occurrence of pairwise energy level degeneracies in q,p-oscillator model
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, A.P. Rebesh
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, uses ujp.sty, to appear in Ukr. J. Phys
journal: Ukr. J. Phys. 53 (2008) 586-594
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4173
abstract: It is demonstrated that a two-parameter deformed oscillator with the deformation parameters q,p such that 0 < q,p \le 1 exhibits the property of "accidental" two-fold (pairwise) energy level degeneracy of the classes E_m=E_{m+1} and E_0=E_{m}. The most general case of degeneracy of q,p-oscillators of the form E_{m+k}=E_m (with k\ge 1 for m\ge 1 or k\ge 2 for m=0) is briefly discussed.

id: 0805.4213
title: Latency in local, two-dimensional, fault-tolerant quantum computing
authors: Federico M. Spedalieri, Vwani P. Roychowdhury
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4213
abstract: We analyze the latency of fault-tolerant quantum computing based on the 9-qubit Bacon-Shor code using a local, two-dimensional architecture. We embed the data qubits in a 7 by 7 array of physical qubits, where the extra qubits are used for ancilla preparation and qubit transportation by means of a SWAP chain. The latency is reduced with respect to a similar implementation using Steane's 7-qubit code (K. M. Svore, D. P. DiVincenzo, and B. M. Terhal, Quantum Information & Computation {\bf 7}, 297 (2007)). Furthermore, the error threshold is also improved to $2.02 \times 10^{-5}$, when memory errors are taken to be one tenth of the gate error rates.

id: 0805.4252
title: Nonclassicality of single quantum excitation of a thermal field in thermal environments
authors: Shang-Bin Li
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, revtex4, Welcome any comments
journal: Phys. Lett. A 372, 6875 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4252
abstract: The nonclassicality of single photon-added thermal states in the thermal channel is investigated by exploring the volume of the negative part of the Wigner function. The Wigner functions become positive when the decay time exceeds a threshold value $\gamma{t}_c$, which only depends on the effective temperature or mean thermal photon number of the thermal channel, but not depends on the effective temperature of the initial thermal state. This phenomenon is similar with the case of single quantum excitation of classical coherent states in thermal channel. Furthermore, we firstly demonstrate $\gamma{t}_c$ is the same for arbitrary pure or mixed nonclassical optical fields with zero population in vacuum state. PACS numbers: 42.50.Dv, 03.65.Yz, 05.40.Ca

id: 0805.4254
title: Remote atom entanglement in a fiber-connected three-atom system
authors: Guo Yan-Qing, Chen Jing, Song He-Shan
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Chinese Physics B, 17(2008) 1607
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4254
abstract: An Ising-type atom-atom interaction is obtained in a fiber-connected three-atom system. The interaction is effective when $\Delta\approx \gamma _{0}\gg g$. The preparations of remote two-atom and three-atom entanglement governed by this interaction are discussed in specific parameters region. The overall two-atom entanglement is very small because of the existence of the third atom. However, the three-atom entanglement can reach a maximum very close to 1.

id: 0805.4277
title: Spin chain model for correlated quantum channels
authors: Davide Rossini, Vittorio Giovannetti, Simone Montangero
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 10, 115009 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4277
abstract: We analyze the quality of the quantum information transmission along a correlated quantum channel by studying the average fidelity between input and output states and the average output purity, giving bounds for the entropy of the channel. Noise correlations in the channel are modeled by the coupling of each channel use with an element of a one dimensional interacting quantum spin chain. Criticality of the environment chain is seen to emerge in the changes of the fidelity and of the purity.

id: 0805.4322
title: A Novel Attack Strategy on Entanglement Swapping QKD Protocols
authors: Stefan Schauer, Martin Suda
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, accepted in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4322
abstract: Li et al. presented a protocol [Int. Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 4, No. 6 (2006) 899-906] for quantum key distribution based on entanglement swapping. In this protocol they use random and certain bits to construct a classical key and they claim that this key is secure. In our article we show that the protocol by Li et al. is insecure presenting a new type of attack strategy which gives an adversary full information about the key without being detected. This strategy is based on entanglement swapping, too, and manages to preserve the correlation between the measurement results of the legitimate parties. Further we present a modified version of the protocol and show that it is secure against this new attack strategy.

id: 0805.4327
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency of an interacting cold Rydberg ensemble
authors: K. J. Weatherill, J. D. Pritchard, R. P. Abel, M. G. Bason, A. K. Mohapatra, C. S. Adams
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B. (41), 201002 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4327
abstract: We study electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) of a weakly interacting cold Rydberg gas. We show that the onset of interactions is manifest as a depopulation of the Rydberg state and numerically model this effect by adding a density-dependent non-linear term to the optical Bloch equations. In the limit of a weak probe where the depopulation effect is negligible, we observe no evidence of interaction induced decoherence and obtain a narrow Rydberg dark resonance with a linewidth of <600 kHz, limited by the Rabi frequency of the coupling beam

id: 0805.4345
title: Building an entanglement measure on physical ground
authors: D. Teresi, A. Napoli, A. Messina
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4345
abstract: We introduce on physical grounds a new measure of multipartite entanglement for pure states. The function we define is discriminant and monotone under LOCC and moreover can be expressed in terms of observables of the system.

id: 0805.4347
title: Optimized quantum random-walk search algorithms
authors: V. Potocek, A. Gabris, T. Kiss, I. Jex
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. Major revision according to referee report
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 012325 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4347
abstract: Shenvi, Kempe and Whaley's quantum random-walk search (SKW) algorithm [Phys. Rev. A 67, 052307 (2003)] is known to require $O(\sqrt N)$ number of oracle queries to find the marked element, where $N$ is the size of the search space. The overall time complexity of the SKW algorithm differs from the best achievable on a quantum computer only by a constant factor. We present improvements to the SKW algorithm which yield significant increase in success probability, and an improvement on query complexity such that the theoretical limit of a search algorithm succeeding with probability close to one is reached. We point out which improvement can be applied if there is more than one marked element to find.

id: 0805.4357
title: Dynamic nuclear polarization with simultaneous excitation of electronic and nuclear transitions
authors: G. W. Morley, K. Porfyrakis, A. Ardavan, J. van Tol
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Magn. Reson. 34, 347-353 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4357
abstract: Dynamic nuclear polarization transfers spin polarization from electrons to nuclei. We have achieved this by a new method, simultaneously exciting transitions of electronic and nuclear spins. The efficiency of this technique improves with increasing magnetic field. Experimental results are shown for N@C60 with continuous-wave microwaves, which can be expected to produce even higher polarization than the corresponding pulsed techniques for electron spins greater than 1/2. The degree of nuclear polarization in this case can be easily monitored through the intensities of the well resolved hyperfine components in the EPR spectrum. The nuclear spin-lattice relaxation time is orders of magnitude longer than that of the electrons.

id: 0805.4365
title: Perfect state transfer on a spin-chain without state initialization
authors: C. Di Franco, M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 230502 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4365
abstract: We demonstrate that perfect state transfer can be achieved using an engineered spin chain and clean local end-chain operations, without requiring the initialization of the state of the medium nor fine tuning of control-pulses. This considerably relaxes the prerequisites for obtaining reliable transfer of quantum information across interacting-spin systems. Moreover, it allows us to shed light on the interplay among purity, entanglement and operations on a class of many-body systems potentially useful for quantum information processing tasks.

id: 0805.4392
title: Holographic generation of complex fields with spatial light modulators: application to quantum key distribution
authors: Mark T. Gruneisen, Warner A. Miller, Raymond C. Dymale, Ayman M. Sweiti
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures, LaTex
journal: Appl. Opt. 47 (no. 4) (2008) A32-A42
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4392
abstract: There has been considerable interest recently in the generation of azimuthal phase functions associated with photon orbital angular momentum (OAM) for high-dimensional quantum key distribution (QKD). The generation of secure quantum keys requires not only this pure phase basis, but also additional bases comprised of orthonormal superposition states formed from the pure states. These bases are also known as mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) and include quantum states whose wave functions are modulated in both phase and amplitude. While modulo 2\pi optical path control with high-resolution spatial light modulators (SLMs) is well suited to creating the azimuthal phases associated with the pure states, it does not introduce the amplitude modulation associated with the MUB superposition states. Using computer-generated holography (CGH) with the Leith-Upatnieks approach to hologram recording however, both phase and amplitude modulation can be achieved. This paper presents a description of the OAM states of a 3-dimensional MUB system and analyzes the construction of these states via CGH with a phase modulating SLM. The effects of phase holography artifacts on quantum-state generation are quantified and a prescription for avoiding these artifacts by preconditioning the hologram function is presented. Practical effects associated with spatially isolating the first-order diffracted field are also quantified and a demonstration utilizing a liquid crystal SLM is presented.

id: 0805.4447
title: Sign of tunnel coupling in barrier-separated Bose-Einstein condensates and stability of double-ring systems
authors: Joachim Brand, Tania J. Haigh, Ulrich Z¨¹licke
comments: 4 pages, comment on Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 050401 (2007) [arXiv:quant-ph/0609133v2]
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 025602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4447
abstract: We revisit recent claims about the instability of non-rotating tunnel coupled annular Bose-Einstein condensates leading to the emergence of angular-momentum Josephson oscillation [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 050401 (2007), arXiv:quant-ph/0609133v2]. It was predicted that all stationary states with uniform density become unstable in certain parameter regimes. By careful analysis, we arrive at a different conclusion. We show that there is a stable non-rotating and uniform ground state for any value of the tunnel coupling and repulsive interactions. The instability of an excited state with $\pi$ phase difference between the condensates can be interpreted in terms of the familiar snake instability. We further discuss the sign of the tunnel coupling through a separating barrier, which carries significance for the nature of the stationary states. It is found to always be negative for physical reasons.

id: 0805.4467
title: Path and Path Deviation equations of Fractal Space-Times: A Brief Introduction
authors: M. E. Kahil, T. Harko
comments: 4 pages, no figures, talk delivered at the IAU Regional Meeting, April 5-10 2008, Cairo; typo corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4467
abstract: The idea that the quantum space-time of microphysics may be fractal everywhere was intensively investigated recently, and several authors have presented the geodesic equations of different fractal space - times. In the present work we obtain the geodesic and the geodesic deviation equations in fractal space-times by using the Bazanski method. We also extend this approach to obtain the equations of motion for spinning and spinning charged particles in the above-mentioned spaces, in a similar way to their counterparts in Riemannian geometry.

id: 0805.4493
title: Remote generation of entanglement for individual atoms via optical fibers
authors: Y. Q. Guo, H. Y. Zhong, Y. H. Zhang, H. S. Song
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4493
abstract: The generation of atomic entanglement is discussed in a system that atoms are trapped in separate cavities which are connected via optical fibers. Two distant atoms can be projected to Bell-state by synchronized turning off the local laser fields and then performing a single quantum measurement by a distant controller. The distinct advantage of this scheme is that it works in a regime that $\Delta\approx\kappa\gg g$, which makes the scheme insensitive to cavity strong leakage. Moreover, the fidelity is not affected by atomic spontaneous emission.

id: 0805.4568
title: Quantum coherent control of self-induced ultraslow light
authors: B. S. Ham, J. S. Han
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4568
abstract: Quantum coherent control of slow light for all-optical switching is investigated in a multi-level system of solids for an understanding of self-induced ultraslow light. In an optical population shelving system of a rare-earth doped solid, dynamics of the slow light are presented by using a third optical field controlling shelved atom population. Unlike two-photon coherence-based delayed all-optical switching utilizing electromagnetically induced transparency, the present method relies on one-photon coherence controlling shelved atom population.

id: 0805.4593
title: Quantum deficits and correlations of two superconducting charge qubits
authors: Nasser Metwally, Mahamoud Abde-Aty
comments: 
journal: Physica C: Volume 469, Issues 2-3, 1 February 2009, Pages 111-115
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4593
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments [Pashkin et al. Nature, \textbf{421}, 823 (2003)] which showed coherent oscillations of two superconducting qubits system, we consider a system of two charge qubits coupled to a common stripline microwave resonator. We discuss the separable and entangled behavior as well as the quantum and classical information deficits. Numerical computation of these quantities for several regimes is performed. We find that for less entangled states the partner can extract much more information by means of classical communication and local operations

id: 0805.4659
title: Induced Entanglement Enhanced by Quantum Criticality
authors: Qing Ai, Tao Shi, Guilu Long, C. P. Sun
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 022327 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4659
abstract: Two qubit entanglement can be induced by a quantum data bus interacting with them. In this paper, with the quantum spin chain in the transverse field as an illustration of quantum data bus, we show that such induced entanglement can be enhanced by the quantum phase transition (QPT) of the quantum data bus. We consider two external spins simultaneously coupled to a transverse field Ising chain. By adiabatically eliminating the degrees of the chain, the effective coupling between these two spins are obtained. The matrix elements of the effective Hamiltonian are expressed in terms of dynamical structure factor (DSF) of the chain. The DSF is the Fourier transformation of the Green function of Ising chain and can be calculated numerically by a method introduced in [O. Derzhko, T. Krokhmalskii, Phys. Rev. B \textbf{56}, 11659 (1997)]. Since all characteristics of QPT are embodied in the DSF, the dynamical evolution of the two external spins displays singularity in the vicinity of the critical point.

id: 0805.4681
title: Stability of Fock states in a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate with a regular classical counterpart
authors: Wen-ge Wang, Jie Liu, Baowen Li
comments: 8 pages and 8 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.E, {\bf 77}, 056218 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4681
abstract: We study the stability of a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in the parameter regime in which its classical counterpart has regular motion. The stability is characterized by the fidelity for both the same and different initial states. We study as initial states the Fock states with definite numbers of atoms in each component of the BEC. It is found that for some initial times the two Fock states with all the atoms in the same component of the BEC are stabler than Fock states with atoms distributed in the two components. An experimental scheme is discussed, in which the fidelity can be measured in a direct way.

id: 0805.4723
title: Dynamical symmetries of the Klein-Gordon equation
authors: Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 4 p
journal: J.Math.Phys.50:032301,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4723
abstract: The dynamical symmetries of the two-dimensional Klein-Gordon equations with equal scalar and vector potentials (ESVP) are studied. The dynamical symmetries are considered in the plane and the sphere respectively. The generators of the SO(3) group corresponding to the Coulomb potential, and the SU(2) group corresponding to the harmonic oscillator potential are derived. Moreover, the generators in the sphere construct the Higgs algebra. With the help of the Casimir operators, the energy levels of the Klein-Gordon systems are yielded naturally.

id: 0805.4726
title: Generalization of short coherent control pulses: extension to arbitrary rotations
authors: S. Pasini, G. S. Uhrig
comments: 6 pages, no figures; published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 312005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4726
abstract: We generalize the problem of the coherent control of small quantum systems to the case where the quantum bit (qubit) is subject to a fully general rotation. Following the ideas developed in Pasini et al (2008 Phys. Rev. A 77, 032315), the systematic expansion in the shortness of the pulse is extended to the case where the pulse acts on the qubit as a general rotation around an axis of rotation varying in time. The leading and the next-leading corrections are computed. For certain pulses we prove that the general rotation does not improve on the simpler rotation with fixed axis.

id: 0805.4741
title: Dynamical programming of continuously observed quantum systems
authors: Viacheslav P. Belavkin, Antonio Negretti, Klaus Molmer
comments: 11 pages, no figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 022123 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4741
abstract: We develop dynamical programming methods for the purpose of optimal control of quantum states with convex constraints and concave cost and bequest functions of the quantum state. We consider both open loop and feedback control schemes, which correspond respectively to deterministic and stochastic Master Equation dynamics. For the quantum feedback control scheme with continuous non-demolition observations we exploit the separation theorem of filtering and control aspects for quantum stochastic dynamics to derive a generalized Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation. If the control is restricted to only Hamiltonian terms this is equivalent to a Hamilton-Jacobi equation with an extra linear dissipative term. In this work, we consider, in particular, the case when control is restricted to only observation. A controlled qubit is considered as an example throughout the development of the formalism. Finally, we discuss optimum observation strategies to obtain a pure state from a mixed state of a quantum two-level system.

id: 0805.4790
title: Environment Induced Bipartite Entanglement
authors: Fabio Benatti, Alexandra M. Liguori, Adam Nagy
comments: 14 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 49, 042103 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4790
abstract: Recently, a sufficient condition on the structure of the Kossakowski-Lindblad master equation has been given such that the generated reduced dynamics of two qubits results entangling for at least one among their initial separable pure states. In this paper we study to which extent this condition is also necessary. Further, we find sufficient conditions for bath-mediated entanglement generation in higher dimensional bipartite open quantum systems.

id: 0805.4794
title: Structure of quantum correlations in momentum space and off diagonal long range order in eta pairing and BCS states
authors: Paolo Giorda, Alberto Anfossi
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 012106 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4794
abstract: The quantum states built with the eta paring mechanism i.e., eta pairing states, were first introduced in the context of high temperature superconductivity where they were recognized as important example of states allowing for off-diagonal long-range order (ODLRO). In this paper we describe the structure of the correlations present in these states when considered in their momentum representation and we explore the relations between the quantum bipartite/multipartite correlations exhibited in k space and the direct lattice superconducting correlations. In particular, we show how the negativity between paired momentum modes is directly related to the ODLRO. Moreover, we investigate the dependence of the block entanglement on the choice of the modes forming the block and on the ODLRO; consequently we determine the multipartite content of the entanglement through the evaluation of the generalized "Meyer Wallach" measure in the direct and reciprocal lattice. The determination of the persistency of entanglement shows how the network of correlations depicted exhibits a self-similar structure which is robust with respect to "local" measurements. Finally, we recognize how a relation between the momentum-space quantum correlations and the ODLRO can be established even in the case of BCS states.

id: 0805.4825
title: Error characterization in Quantum Information Processing: a protocol for analyzing spatial correlations and its experimental implementation
authors: C. C. L¨®pez, B. L¨¦vi, D. G. Cory
comments: Added extra comments to version 2. Accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042328 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4825
abstract: We present a protocol for error characterization and its experimental implementation with 4 qubits in liquid state NMR. The method is designed to retrieve information about spatial correlations and scales as $O(n^w)$, where $w$ is the maximum number of qubits that have non-negligible interaction. We discuss the practical aspects regarding accuracy and implementation.

id: 0805.0030
title: Introduction of an Elementary Method to Express $¦Æ(2n+1)$ in Terms of $¦Æ(2k)$ with $k\geq 1$
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Tatsuo Suzuki
comments: Latex ; 11 pages ; no figure ; typos corrected. This is our mathematical note
journal: International Journal of Mathematics and Computer Science, 8(2013), 25-34
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0030
abstract: In this note we give the most elementary method (as far as we know) to express $\zeta(2n+1)$ in terms of $\{\zeta(2k)|k\geq 1\}$. The method is based on only some elementary works by Leonhard Euler, so it is very instructive to non-experts or students.

id: 0805.0163
title: Inflationary Cosmology as a Probe of Primordial Quantum Mechanics
authors: Antony Valentini
comments: 44 pages. Minor changes in v2
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:063513,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0163
abstract: We show that inflationary cosmology may be used to test the statistical predictions of quantum theory at very short distances and at very early times. Hidden-variables theories, such as the pilot-wave theory of de Broglie and Bohm, allow the existence of vacuum states with non-standard field fluctuations ('quantum nonequilibrium'). We show that inflationary expansion can transfer microscopic nonequilibrium to macroscopic scales, resulting in anomalous power spectra for the cosmic microwave background. The conclusions depend only weakly on the details of the de Broglie-Bohm dynamics. We discuss, in particular, the nonequilibrium breaking of scale invariance for the primordial (scalar) power spectrum. We also show how nonequilibrium can generate primordial perturbations with non-random phases and inter-mode correlations (primordial non-Gaussianity). We address the possibility of a low-power anomaly at large angular scales, and show how it might arise from a nonequilibrium suppression of quantum noise. Recent observations are used to set an approximate bound on violations of quantum theory in the early universe.

id: 0805.0166
title: Bethe Ansatz Solutions to Quasi Exactly Solvable Difference Equations
authors: Ryu Sasaki, Wen-Li Yang, Yao-Zhong Zhang
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 5 (2009), 104, 16 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0166
abstract: Bethe ansatz formulation is presented for several explicit examples of quasi exactly solvable difference equations of one degree of freedom which are introduced recently by one of the present authors. These equations are deformation of the well-known exactly solvable difference equations of the Meixner-Pollaczek, continuous Hahn, continuous dual Hahn, Wilson and Askey-Wilson polynomials. Up to an overall factor of the so-called pseudo ground state wavefunction, the eigenfunctions within the exactly solvable subspace are given by polynomials whose roots are solutions of the associated Bethe ansatz equations. The corresponding eigenvalues are expressed in terms of these roots.

id: 0805.0181
title: Nondiscriminatory Propagation on Trees
authors: Simone Severini
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 482002, 2008
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0181
abstract: We consider a discrete-time dynamical process on graphs, firstly introduced in connection with a protocol for controlling large networks of spin 1/2 quantum mechanical particles [Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 100501 (2007)]. A description is as follows: each vertex of an initially selected set has a packet of information (the same for every element of the set), which will be distributed among vertices of the graph; a vertex v can pass its packet to an adjacent vertex w only if w is its only neighbour without the information. By mean of examples, we describe some general properties, mainly concerning homeomorphism, and redundant edges. We prove that the cardinality of the smallest sets propagating the information in all vertices of a balanced m-ary tree of depth k is exactly (m^{k+1}+(-1)^{k})/(m+1). For binary trees, this number is related to alternating sign matrices.

id: 0805.0457
title: Repulsive shield between polar molecules
authors: A. V. Gorshkov, P. Rabl, G. Pupillo, A. Micheli, P. Zoller, M. D. Lukin, H. P. B¨¹chler
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 073201 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0457
abstract: We propose and analyze a technique that allows to suppress inelastic collisions and simultaneously enhance elastic interactions between cold polar molecules. The main idea is to cancel the leading dipole-dipole interaction with a suitable combination of static electric and microwave fields in such a way that the remaining van-der-Waals-type potential forms a three-dimensional repulsive shield. We analyze the elastic and inelastic scattering cross sections relevant for evaporative cooling of polar molecules and discuss the prospect for the creation of crystalline structures.

id: 0805.0487
title: Localization of the relative phase via measurements
authors: G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Low Temp. Phys. 153, 285 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0487
abstract: When two independently-prepared Bose-Einstein condensates are released from their corresponding traps, the absorbtion image of the overlapping clouds presents an interference pattern. Here we analyze a model introduced by Javanainen and Yoo (J. Javanainen and S. M. Yoo, Phys. Rev. Lett. 76, 161 (1996)), who considered two atomic condensates described by plane waves propagating in opposite directions. We present an analytical argument for the measurement-induced breaking of the relative phase symmetry in this system, demonstrating how the phase gets localized after a large enough number of detection events.

id: 0805.0502
title: Fermi's golden rule and exponential decay as a RG fixed point
authors: E. Langmann, G. Lindblad
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Stat. Phys. (2009) 134: 749-768
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0502
abstract: We discuss the decay of unstable states into a quasicontinuum using models of the effective Hamiltonian type. The goal is to show that exponential decay and the golden rule are exact in a suitable scaling limit, and that there is an associated renormalization group (RG) with these properties as a fixed point. The method is inspired by a limit theorem for infinitely divisible distributions in probability theory, where there is a RG with a Cauchy distribution, i.e. a Lorentz line shape, as a fixed point. Our method of solving for the spectrum is well known; it does not involve a perturbation expansion in the interaction, and needs no assumption of a weak interaction. We use random matrices for the interaction, and show that the ensemble fluctuations vanish in the scaling limit. Thus the limit is the same for every model in the ensemble with probability one.

id: 0805.0503
title: Levy processes and Schroedinger equation
authors: Nicola Cufaro Petroni, Modesto Pusterla
comments: 10 pages; changed the TeX documentclass; added references [21] and [22] and comments about them; changed definitions (11) and (12); added acknowledgments; small changes scattered in the text
journal: Phys A 388 (2009) 824
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0503
abstract: We analyze the extension of the well known relation between Brownian motion and Schroedinger equation to the family of Levy processes. We consider a Levy-Schroedinger equation where the usual kinetic energy operator - the Laplacian - is generalized by means of a selfadjoint, pseudodifferential operator whose symbol is the logarithmic characteristic of an infinitely divisible law. The Levy-Khintchin formula shows then how to write down this operator in an integro--differential form. When the underlying Levy process is stable we recover as a particular case the fractional Schroedinger equation. A few examples are finally given and we find that there are physically relevant models (such as a form of the relativistic Schroedinger equation) that are in the domain of the non-stable, Levy-Schroedinger equations.

id: 0805.0539
title: Delocalization induced by nonlinearity in systems with disorder
authors: Ignacio Garcia-Mata, Dima L. Shepelyansky
comments: 8 pages, 13 figures. New data and references added. Research at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. E 79, 026205 (2009)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0539
abstract: We study numerically the effects of nonlinearity on the Anderson localization in lattices with disorder in one and two dimensions. The obtained results show that at moderate strength of nonlinearity an unlimited spreading over the lattice in time takes place with an algebraic growth of number of populated sites $\Delta n \propto t^{\nu}$. The numerical values of $\nu$ are found to be approximately $0.15 - 0.2$ and 0.25 for the dimension $d=1$ and 2 respectively being in a satisfactory agreement with the theoretical value $d/(3d+2)$. The localization is preserved below a certain critical value of nonlinearity. We also discuss the properties of the fidelity decay induced by a perturbation of nonlinear field.

id: 0805.0608
title: Analysis of averaged multichannel delay times
authors: N. G. Kelkar, M. Nowakowski
comments: 15 pages, LaTex
journal: Phys.Rev.A78:012709,2008
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0608
abstract: The physical significances and the pros and cons involved in the usage of different time delay formalisms are discussed. The delay time matrix introduced by Eisenbud, where only s-waves participate in a reaction, is in general related to the definition of an angular time delay which is shown not to be equivalent to the so-called phase time delay of Eisenbud and Wigner even for single channel scattering. Whereas the expression due to Smith which is derived from a time delayed radial wave packet is consistent with a lifetime matrix which is Hermitian, this is not true for any Eisenbud-type lifetime matrix which violates time reversal invariance. Extending the angular time delay of Nussenzveig to multiple channels, we show that if one performs an average over the directions and subtracts the forward angle contribution containing an interference of the incident and scattered waves, the multichannel angle dependent average time delay reduces to the one given by Smith. The present work also rectifies a recently misinterpreted misnomer of the relation due to Smith.

id: 0805.0666
title: Classical and Quantum Radiation Reaction
authors: Giles D. R. Martin
comments: PhD Thesis, 239 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0666
abstract: This thesis reports on work undertaken in comparing the effects of the phenomenon of radiation reaction in classical and quantum theories of electrodynamics. Specifically, it is concerned with the prediction of the change in position of a particle due to the inclusion of the self-force in the theory. We calculate this position shift for the classical theory, treating radiation reaction as a perturbation in line with the reduction of order procedure. We calculate the contributions to the position shift in the $\hbar\to 0$ limit of quantum field theory to order $e^2$ in the coupling, the order of the classical self-force. These calculations contain the emission and forward scattering one loop processes of quantum electrodynamics. The quantum calculations are completed for the case of a particle represented by a scalar field wave packet and then for a particle represented by the Dirac spinor field. We additionally give an alternative derivation of the scalar results using the interpretation of radiation reaction via a Green's function decomposition, in order to explain and contrast the results achieved.

id: 0805.0798
title: Exploring local quantum many-body relaxation by atoms in optical superlattices
authors: M. Cramer, A. Flesch, I.P. McCulloch, U. Schollwoeck, J. Eisert
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, version to published in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 063001 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0798
abstract: We establish a setting - atoms in optical superlattices with period 2 - in which one can experimentally probe signatures of the process of local relaxation and apparent thermalization in non-equilibrium dynamics without the need of addressing single sites. This opens up a way to explore the convergence of subsystems to maximum entropy states in quenched quantum many-body systems with present technology. Remarkably, the emergence of thermal states does not follow from a coupling to an environment, but is a result of the complex non-equilibrium dynamics in closed systems. We explore ways of measuring the relevant signatures of thermalization in this analogue quantum simulation of a relaxation process, exploiting the possibilities offered by optical superlattices.

id: 0805.0806
title: Modelling a Particle Detector in Field Theory
authors: Fabio Costa, Federico Piazza
comments: 13 pages, references added, final version
journal: New J.Phys.11:113006,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0806
abstract: Particle detector models allow to give an operational definition to the particle content of a given quantum state of a field theory. The commonly adopted Unruh-DeWitt type of detector is known to undergo temporary transitions to excited states even when at rest and in the Minkowski vacuum. We argue that real detectors do not feature this property, as the configuration "detector in its ground state + vacuum of the field" is generally a stable bound state of the underlying fundamental theory (e.g. the ground state-hydrogen atom in a suitable QED with electrons and protons) in the non-accelerated case. As a concrete example, we study a local relativistic field theory where a stable particle can capture a light quantum and form a quasi-stable state. As expected, to such a stable particle correspond energy eigenstates of the full theory, as is shown explicitly by using a dressed particle formalism at first order in perturbation theory. We derive an effective model of detector (at rest) where the stable particle and the quasi-stable configurations correspond to the two internal levels, "ground" and "excited", of the detector.

id: 0805.0847
title: Dynamics of two-component Bose-Einstein condensates in rotating traps
authors: I. Corro, R.G. Scott, A.M. Martin
comments: v4: more material added. 9 pages, 6 figures v5: figures fixed v6:some rewording v7:fixed figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0847
abstract: The dynamics of two-component Bose-Einstein condensates in rotating traps is investigated. In the Thomas-Fermi limit, equations of motion are derived showing multiple static solutions for a vortex free condensate. Dynamic stability analysis of these solutions and comparison with Truncated Wigner simulations enables us to identify the regimes for which vortex states will occur. In addition, our analysis predicts centre-of-mass oscillations that are induced by interspecies interactions and affect each component separately. For attractive interspecies interactions, these oscillations lead to a stable symmetry broken state.

id: 0805.1025
title: Winding up by a quench: Insulator to superfluid phase transition in a ring of BECs
authors: J. Dziarmaga, J. Meisner, W.H. Zurek
comments: minor typo corrections; version to appear in Phys.Rev.Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 115701 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1025
abstract: We study phase transition from the Mott insulator to superfluid in a periodic optical lattice. Kibble-Zurek mechanism predicts buildup of winding number through random walk of BEC phases, with the step size scaling as a the third root of transition rate. We confirm this and demonstrate that this scaling accounts for the net winding number after the transition.

id: 0805.1183
title: Torsion Balance Investigation of the Casimir Effect
authors: G. Rajalakshmi
comments: Graduate thesis work done in Indian Institute of Astrophysics, submitted in May 2004
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1183
abstract: The presence of finite energy in quantum vacuum has profound implications to physics at the microscopic and macroscopic levels. One of the direct consequences of vacuum energy is the Casimir Force, which is a force of attraction experienced by a pair of infinite planar conductive plates placed in vacuum. Experiments to measure Casimir force have been carried out since the 1950s. This thesis presents a measurement of Casimir force between a flat and a spherical conducting surface using a torsion balance for separations in the range of 1 micron to 8 micron. The details of the construction of the torsion balance apparatus, the experimental procedure and the analysis to obtain the Casimir force as a function of separation are described. There are indications of the finite temperature effects which become important for separations greater than ~ 3microns. The combined import of this experiment with others at shorter distances is to favor the finite temperature theory of Casimir forces. The contributions of this experiment towards bounding the strength of inverse square law short-range violating interactions are presented.

id: 0805.1315
title: Apparent superluminal advancement of a single photon far beyond its coherence length
authors: S. Cialdi, I. Boscolo, F. Castelli, V. Petrillo
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: New. J. Phys. 11, 023036 (2009)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1315
abstract: We present experimental results relative to superluminal propagation based on a single photon traversing an optical system, called 4f-system, which acts singularly on the photon's spectral component phases. A single photon is created by a CW laser light down{conversion process. The introduction of a linear spectral phase function will lead to the shift of the photon peak far beyond the coherence length of the photon itself (an apparent superluminal propagation of the photon). Superluminal group velocity detection is done by interferometric measurement of the temporal shifted photon with its correlated untouched reference. The observed superluminal photon propagation complies with causality. The operation of the optical system allows to enlighten the origin of the apparent superluminal photon velocity. The experiment foresees a superluminal effect with single photon wavepackets.

id: 0805.1432
title: The decoherence of coupled spin qubits system
authors: Toshifumi Itakura
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1432
abstract: In this report, we examine the decoherence of a spin qubits system coupled to counted spin chain with a $1/r^2$ interaction by using influence functional. We also examine the time evolution of density matrix numerically when environment is Gaussian noise.

id: 0805.1471
title: Entanglement of Quantum Fluctuations in the Inflationary Universe
authors: Yasusada Nambu
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, final version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:044023,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1471
abstract: We investigate quantum entanglement of a scalar field in the inflationary universe. By introducing a bipartite system using a lattice model of scalar field, we apply the separability criterion based on the partial transpose operation and numerically calculate the bipartite entanglement between separate spatial regions. We find that the initial entangled state becomes separable or dis-entangled when the size of the spatial regions exceed the Hubble horizon. This is necessary condition for the appearance of classicality of the quantum fluctuation. We further investigate the condition for the appearance of the classical distribution function and find that the condition is given by the inequality for the symplectic eigenvalue of the covariance matrix of the scalar field.

id: 0805.1484
title: HBT interferometry with quantum transport of the interfering pair
authors: Li-Li Yu, Wei-Ning Zhang, Cheuk-Yin Wong
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.C78:014908,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1484
abstract: In the late stage of the evolution of a pion system in high-energy heavy-ion collisions when pions undergo multiple scatterings, the quantum transport of the interfering pair of identical pions plays an important role in determining the characteristics of the Hanbury-Brown-Twiss (HBT) interference. We study the quantum transport of the interfering pair using the path-integral method, in which the evolution of the bulk matter is described by relativistic hydrodynamics while the paths of the two interfering pions by test particles following the fluid positions and velocity fields. We investigate in addition the effects of secondary pion sources from particle decays, for nuclear collisions at AGS and RHIC energies. We find that quantum transport of the interfering pair leads to HBT radii close to those for the chemical freeze-out configuration. Particle decays however lead to HBT radii greater than those for the chemical freeze-out configuration. As a consequence, the combined effects give rise to HBT radii between those extracted from the chemical freeze-out configuration and the thermal freeze-out configuration. Proper quantum treatments of the interfering pairs in HBT calculations at the pion multiple scattering stage are important for our understanding of the characteristics of HBT interferometry in heavy-ion collisions.

id: 0805.1559
title: Geometric phase via adiabatic manipulations of the environment
authors: S. V. Syzranov, Yu. Makhlin
comments: 
journal: Pisma v ZhETF 87, 453 (2008) [JETP Lett. 87, 390 (2008)]
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1559
abstract: We show that geometric phases may be generated in a quantum system subject to noise by adiabatic manipulations of the fluctuating fields, e.g., by variation of the system-environment coupling. For a two-state quantum system we express this phase in terms of the geometry of the path, traversed by the slowly varying direction and amplitude of the fluctuations. We discuss the origin of this phase and possibilities to separate it from the known environment-induced modification of the Berry phase.

id: 0805.1656
title: Interface between Hermitian and non-Hermitian Hamiltonians in a model calculation
authors: H. F. Jones
comments: In this revised version we use a single metric operator for both bound and scattering states. The Discussion is amplified and extended
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:065032,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1656
abstract: We consider the interaction between the Hermitian world, represented by a real delta-function potential $-\alpha\delta(x)$, and the non-Hermitian world, represented by a PT-symmetric pair of delta functions with imaginary coefficients $i\beta(\delta(x-L)-\delta(x+L))$. In the context of standard quantum mechanics, the effect of the introduction of the imaginary delta functions on the bound-state energy of the real delta function and its associated wave-function is small for L large. However, scattering from the combined potentials does not conserve probability as conventionally defined. Both these problems can be studied instead in the context of quasi-Hermiticity, whereby quantum mechanics is endowed with a new metric $\eta$, and consequently a new wave-function $\Psi(x)$, defined in terms of the original wave-function $\psi(x)$ by means of $\eta$. In this picture, working perturbatively in $\beta$, the bound-state wave-function is actually unchanged from its unperturbed form for $|x|<< L$. However, the scattering wave-function, for $|x|>>L$, is changed in a significant manner. In particular there are incoming and outgoing waves on both sides of the potential. One can then no longer talk in terms of reflection and transmission coefficients, but the total right-moving flux is now conserved.

id: 0805.1751
title: Universal Long-time Behavior of Nuclear Spin Decays in a Solid
authors: Steven W. Morgan, Boris V. Fine, Brian Saam
comments: 4 pages main paper + 3 pages supporting material, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 067601 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1751
abstract: Magnetic resonance studies of nuclear spins in solids are exceptionally well suited to probe the limits of statistical physics. We report experimental results indicating that isolated macroscopic systems of interacting nuclear spins possess the following fundamental property: spin decays that start from different initial configurations quickly evolve towards the same long-time behavior. This long-time behavior is characterized by the shortest ballistic microscopic timescale of the system and therefore falls outside of the validity range for conventional approximations of statistical physics. We find that the nuclear free induction decay and different solid echoes in hyperpolarized solid xenon all exhibit sinusoidally modulated exponential long-time behavior characterized by identical time constants. This universality was previously predicted on the basis of analogy with resonances in classical chaotic systems.

id: 0805.1780
title: Scientific Realism and Classical Physics
authors: Virendra Singh
comments: 10 pages. To appear in a volume to be published by ICPR edited by P. Ghosh
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1780
abstract: We recount the successful long career of classical physics, from Newton to Einstein, which was based on the philosophy of scientific realism. Special emphasis is given to the changing status and number of ontological entitities and arguments for their necessity at any time. Newton, initially, began with (i) point particles, (ii) aether, (iii) absolute space and (iv) absolute time. The electromagnetic theory of Maxwell and Faraday introduced `fields' as a new ontological entity not reducible to earlier ones. Their work also unified electricity, magnetism and optics. Repeated failure to observe the motion of earth through aether led Einstein to modify the Newtonian absolute space and time concepts to a fused Minkowski space-time and the removal of aether from basic ontological entities in his special theory of relativity. Later Einstein in his attempts to give a local theory of gravitation was led to further modify flat Minkowski space-time to the curved Riemannian space time. This reduced gravitational phenomenon to that of geometry of the space time. Space-time, matter and fields all became dynamical. We also abstract some general features of description of nature in classical physics and enquire whether these could be features of any scientific description?

id: 0805.1819
title: A semiconductor exciton memory cell based on a single quantum nanostructure
authors: H. J. Krenner, C. E. Pryor, J. He, P. M. Petroff
comments: 23 pages
journal: Nano Letters 8, 1750-1755 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1819
abstract: We demonstrate storage of excitons in a single nanostructure, a self-assembled Quantum Post. After generation electron and holes forming the exciton are separated by an electric field towards opposite ends of the Quantum Post inhibiting their radiative recombination. After a defined time such spatially indirect excitons are reconverted to optically active direct excitons by switching the electric field. The emitted light of the stored exciton is detected in the limit of a single nanostructure and storage times exceeding 30 msec are demonstrated. We identify a slow tunneling of the electron out of the Quantum Post as the dominant loss mechanism by comparing the field dependent temporal decay of the storage signal to models for this process and radiative losses.

id: 0805.1910
title: Aharonov-Bohm effect with many vortices
authors: Fabio Franchini, Alfred Scharff Goldhaber
comments: 15 pages, 7 Figures. Revised as accepted for publication. Accepted in Physica Scripta
journal: Phys. Scr. 78 (2008) 065002
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.1910
abstract: The Aharonov-Bohm effect is the prime example of a zero-field-strength configuration where a non-trivial vector potential acquires physical significance, a typical quantum mechanical effect. We consider an extension of the traditional A-B problem, by studying a two-dimensional medium filled with many point-like vortices. Systems like this might be present within a Type II superconducting layer in the presence of a strong magnetic field perpendicular to the layer, and have been studied in different limits. We construct an explicit solution for the wave function of a scalar particle moving within one such layer when the vortices occupy the sites of a square lattice and have all the same strength, equal to half of the flux quantum. From this construction we infer some general characteristics of the spectrum, including the conclusion that such a flux array produces a repulsive barrier to an incident low-energy charged particle, so that the penetration probability decays exponentially with distance from the edge.

id: 0805.2124
title: Noncommutative gravity, a `no strings attached' quantum-classical duality, and the cosmological constant puzzle
authors: T. P. Singh
comments: 7 pages. Second Prize in Gravity Research Foundation Essay Competition, 2008. Two paragraphs added to original essay to enhance clarity. To appear in Gen. Rel. Grav
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav.40:2037-2042,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2124
abstract: There ought to exist a reformulation of quantum mechanics which does not refer to an external classical spacetime manifold. Such a reformulation can be achieved using the language of noncommutative differential geometry. A consequence which follows is that the `weakly quantum, strongly gravitational' dynamics of a relativistic particle whose mass is much greater than Planck mass is dual to the `strongly quantum, weakly gravitational' dynamics of another particle whose mass is much less than Planck mass. The masses of the two particles are inversely related to each other, and the product of their masses is equal to the square of Planck mass. This duality explains the observed value of the cosmological constant, and also why this value is nonzero but extremely small in Planck units.

id: 0805.2210
title: Dynamical Casimir effect for magnons in a spinor Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Hiroki Saito, Hiroyuki Hyuga
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 033605 (2008)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2210
abstract: Magnon excitation in a spinor Bose-Einstein condensate by a driven magnetic field is shown to have a close analogy with the dynamical Casimir effect. A time-dependent external magnetic field amplifies quantum fluctuations in the magnetic ground state of the condensate, leading to magnetization of the system. The magnetization occurs in a direction perpendicular to the magnetic field breaking the rotation symmetry. This phenomenon is numerically demonstrated and the excited quantum field is shown to be squeezed.

id: 0805.2536
title: The entropic boundary law in BF theory
authors: Etera R. Livine, Daniel R. Terno
comments: 17 pages
journal: Nucl.Phys.B806:715-734,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2536
abstract: We compute the entropy of a closed bounded region of space for pure 3d Riemannian gravity formulated as a topological BF theory for the gauge group SU(2) and show its holographic behavior. More precisely, we consider a fixed graph embedded in space and study the flat connection spin network state without and with particle-like topological defects. We regularize and compute exactly the entanglement for a bipartite splitting of the graph and show it scales at leading order with the number of vertices on the boundary (or equivalently with the number of loops crossing the boundary). More generally these results apply to BF theory with any compact gauge group in any space-time dimension.

id: 0805.2555
title: Quantum black-hole information missing in the semiclassical treatment
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2555
abstract: In the semiclassical treatment of gravity, an external observer can measure only the mean (not the exact) mass of the black hole (BH). By contrast, in fully quantum gravity the exact (not only mean) BH mass is measurable by the external observer. This additional information (missing in the semiclassical treatment) available to the external observer significantly helps to understand how information leaks out during the BH evaporation.

id: 0805.2900
title: On almost randomizing channels with a short Kraus decomposition
authors: Guillaume Aubrun
comments: We added some background on geometry of Banach spaces
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics 288 (2009) 1103-1116
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.2900
abstract: For large d, we study quantum channels on C^d obtained by selecting randomly N independent Kraus operators according to a probability measure mu on the unitary group U(d). When mu is the Haar measure, we show that for N>d/epsilon^2$, such a channel is epsilon-randomizing with high probability, which means that it maps every state within distance epsilon/d (in operator norm) of the maximally mixed state. This slightly improves on a result by Hayden, Leung, Shor and Winter by optimizing their discretization argument. Moreover, for general mu, we obtain a epsilon-randomizing channel provided N > d (\log d)^6/epsilon^2$. For d=2^k (k qubits), this includes Kraus operators obtained by tensoring k random Pauli matrices. The proof uses recent results on empirical processes in Banach spaces.

id: 0805.3015
title: Probing Quantum Nonlinearities through Neutrino Oscillations
authors: Wei Khim Ng, Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: 
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A25:793-804,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3015
abstract: We investigate potential quantum nonlinear corrections to Dirac's equation through its sub-leading effect on neutrino oscillation probabilities. Working in the plane-wave approximation and in the $\mu-\tau$ sector, we explore various classes of nonlinearities, with or without an accompanying Lorentz violation. The parameters in our models are first delimited by current experimental data before they are used to estimate corrections to oscillation probabilities. We find that only a small subset of the considered nonlinearities have the potential to be relevant at higher energies and thus possibly detectable in future experiments. A falsifiable prediction of our models is an energy dependent effective mass-squared, generically involving fractional powers of the energy.

id: 0805.3294
title: Two-photon probe of the Jaynes-Cummings model and symmetry breaking in circuit QED
authors: Frank Deppe, Matteo Mariantoni, E. P. Menzel, A. Marx, S. Saito, K. Kakuyanagi, H. Tanaka, T. Meno, K. Semba, H. Takayanagi, E. Solano, R. Gross
comments: Accepted for publication in Nature Physics, 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 4, pp686-691 (2008)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3294
abstract: Superconducting qubits behave as artificial two-level atoms and are used to investigate fundamental quantum phenomena. In this context, the study of multi-photon excitations occupies a central role. Moreover, coupling superconducting qubits to on-chip microwave resonators has given rise to the field of circuit QED. In contrast to quantum-optical cavity QED, circuit QED offers the tunability inherent to solid-state circuits. In this work, we report on the observation of key signatures of a two-photon driven Jaynes-Cummings model, which unveils the upconversion dynamics of a superconducting flux qubit coupled to an on-chip resonator. Our experiment and theoretical analysis show clear evidence for the coexistence of one- and two-photon driven level anticrossings of the qubit-resonator system. This results from the symmetry breaking of the system Hamiltonian, when parity becomes a not well-defined property. Our study provides deep insight into the interplay of multiphoton processes and symmetries in a qubit-resonator system.

id: 0805.3786
title: Fermionization and bosonization of expanding 1D anyonic fluids
authors: A. del Campo
comments: 5 figures, 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 045602 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3786
abstract: The momentum distribution of an expanding cloud of one-dimensional hard-core anyons is studied by an exact numerical approach, and shown to become indistinguishable from that of a non-interacting spin-polarized Fermi gas for large enough times (dynamical fermionization). We also consider the expansion of one-dimensional anyons with strongly attractive short-range interactions suddenly released from a parabolic external potential, and find that momentum distribution approaches that of its dual system, the ideal Bose gas (dynamical bosonization). For both processes the characteristic time scales are identified, and the effect of the initial confinement is analyzed comparing the dynamics associated with both harmonic and hard-wall traps.

id: 0805.3850
title: Quantum Structure in Cognition
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 58 pages, 1 figure. Reworked version after review process
journal: Journal of Mathematical Psychology, 53, 314-348, 2009.
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3850
abstract: The broader scope of our investigations is the search for the way in which concepts and their combinations carry and influence meaning and what this implies for human thought. More specifically, we examine the use of the mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics as a modeling instrument and propose a general mathematical modeling scheme for the combinations of concepts. We point out that quantum mechanical principles, such as superposition and interference, are at the origin of specific effects in cognition related to concept combinations, such as the guppy effect and the overextension and underextension of membership weights of items. We work out a concrete quantum mechanical model for a large set of experimental data of membership weights with overextension and underextension of items with respect to the conjunction and disjunction of pairs of concepts, and show that no classical model is possible for these data. We put forward an explanation by linking the presence of quantum aspects that model concept combinations to the basic process of concept formation. We investigate the implications of our quantum modeling scheme for the structure of human thought, and show the presence of a two-layer structure consisting of a classical logical layer and a quantum conceptual layer. We consider connections between our findings and phenomena such as the disjunction effect and the conjunction fallacy in decision theory, violations of the sure thing principle, and the Allais and Elsberg paradoxes in economics.

id: 0805.3873
title: Weak Cosmic Censorship: As Strong as Ever
authors: Shahar Hod
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.100:121101,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3873
abstract: Spacetime singularities that arise in gravitational collapse are always hidden inside of black holes. This is the essence of the weak cosmic censorship conjecture. The hypothesis, put forward by Penrose 40 years ago, is still one of the most important open questions in general relativity. In this Letter, we reanalyze extreme situations which have been considered as counterexamples to the weak cosmic censorship conjecture. In particular, we consider the absorption of scalar particles with large angular momentum by a black hole. Ignoring back reaction effects may lead one to conclude that the incident wave may overspin the black hole, thereby exposing its inner singularity to distant observers. However, we show that when back reaction effects are properly taken into account, the stability of the black-hole event horizon is irrefutable. We therefore conclude that cosmic censorship is actually respected in this type of gedanken experiments.

id: 0805.3879
title: Non-hermitian radial momentum operator and path integrals in polar coordinates
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: A comment on the difference of the hermitian radial momentum operator in the present context of path integrals and in the conventional operator Schroedinger problem is added. To be published in Prog. Theor. Phys.. 17 pages
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys.120:181-195,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3879
abstract: A salient feature of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation is that the classical radial momentum term $p_{r}^{2}$ in polar coordinates is replaced by the operator $\hat{P}^{\dagger}_{r} \hat{P}_{r}$, where the operator $\hat{P}_{r}$ is not hermitian in general. This fact has important implications for the path integral and semi-classical approximations. When one defines a formal hermitian radial momentum operator $\hat{p}_{r}=(1/2)((\frac{\hat{\vec{x}}}{r}) \hat{\vec{p}}+\hat{\vec{p}}(\frac{\hat{\vec{x}}}{r}))$, the relation $\hat{P}^{\dagger}_{r} \hat{P}_{r}=\hat{p}_{r}^{2}+\hbar^{2}(d-1)(d-3)/(4r^{2})$ holds in $d$-dimensional space and this extra potential appears in the path integral formulated in polar coordinates. The extra potential, which influences the classical solutions in the semi-classical treatment such as in the analysis of solitons and collective modes, vanishes for $d=3$ and attractive for $d=2$ and repulsive for all other cases $d\geq 4$. This extra term induced by the non-hermitian operator is a purely quantum effect, and it is somewhat analogous to the quantum anomaly in chiral gauge theory.

id: 0805.4024
title: Hamiltonian Systems Inspired by the Schr?dinger Equation
authors: Vasyl Kovalchuk, Jan Jerzy Slawianowski
comments: This is a contribution to the Proc. of the Seventh International Conference ''Symmetry in Nonlinear Mathematical Physics'' (June 24-30, 2007, Kyiv, Ukraine), published in SIGMA (Symmetry, Integrability and Geometry: Methods and Applications) at this http URL
journal: SIGMA 4 (2008), 046, 9 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4024
abstract: Described is n-level quantum system realized in the n-dimensional ''Hilbert'' space H with the scalar product G taken as a dynamical variable. The most general Lagrangian for the wave function and G is considered. Equations of motion and conservation laws are obtained. Special cases for the free evolution of the wave function with fixed G and the pure dynamics of G are calculated. The usual, first- and second-order modified Schr\"odinger equations are obtained.

id: 0805.4038
title: The perfect magnetic conductor (PMC) Casimir piston in d+1 dimensions
authors: A. Edery, V. Marachevsky
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D78:025021,2008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4038
abstract: Perfect magnetic conductor (PMC) boundary conditions are dual to the more familiar perfect electric conductor (PEC) conditions and can be viewed as the electromagnetic analog of the boundary conditions in the bag model for hadrons in QCD. Recent advances and requirements in communication technologies have attracted great interest in PMC's and Casimir experiments involving structures that approximate PMC's may be carried out in the not too distant future. In this paper, we make a study of the zero-temperature PMC Casimir piston in $d+1$ dimensions. The PMC Casimir energy is explicitly evaluated by summing over $p+1$-dimensional Dirichlet energies where p ranges from 2 to $d$ inclusively. We derive two exact $d$-dimensional expressions for the Casimir force on the piston and find that the force is negative (attractive) in all dimensions. Both expressions are applied to the case of 2+1 and 3+1 dimensions. A spin-off from our work is a contribution to the PEC literature: we obtain a useful alternative expression for the PEC Casimir piston in 3+1 dimensions and also evaluate the Casimir force per unit area on an infinite strip, a geometry of experimental interest.

id: 0805.4045
title: Transport Control in Low-Dimensional Spin-1/2 Heisenberg Systems
authors: L. F. Santos
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 78, 031125 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4045
abstract: We analyze transport of local magnetization and develop schemes to control transport behavior in finite spin-1/2 Heisenberg chains and spin-1/2 Heisenberg two-leg ladders at zero temperature. By adjusting parameters in the Hamiltonians, these quantum systems may show both integrable and chaotic limits. We provide examples of chaotic systems leading to diffusive and to ballistic transport. In addition, methods of coherent quantum control to induce a transition from diffusive to ballistic transport are proposed.

id: 0805.4078
title: Exact spectrum of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model in the thermodynamic limit and finite-size corrections
authors: P. Ribeiro, J. Vidal, R. Mosseri
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 78, 021106 (2008)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4078
abstract: The spectrum of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model is exactly derived in the thermodynamic limit by means of a spin coherent states formalism. In the first step, a classical analysis allows one to distinguish between four distinct regions in the parameter space according to the nature of the singularities arising in the classical energy surface; these correspond to spectral critical points. The eigenfunctions are then analyzed more precisely in terms of the associated roots of the Majorana polynomial, leading to exact expressions for the density of states in the thermodynamic limit. Finite-size effects are also analyzed, leading in particular to logarithmic corrections near the singularities occuring in the spectrum. Finally, we also compute expectation values of the spin operators in a semi-classical analysis in order to illustrate some subtle effects occuring in one region of the parameter space.

id: 0805.4079
title: Landau levels and Riemann zeros
authors: German Sierra, Paul K. Townsend
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, minor corrections added
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.101:110201,2008
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Number Theory (math.NT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4079
abstract: The number $N(E)$ of complex zeros of the Riemann zeta function with positive imaginary part less than $E$ is the sum of a `smooth' function $\bar N(E)$ and a `fluctuation'. Berry and Keating have shown that the asymptotic expansion of $\bar N(E)$ counts states of positive energy less than $E$ in a `regularized' semi-classical model with classical Hamiltonian $H=xp$. For a different regularization, Connes has shown that it counts states `missing' from a continuum. Here we show how the `absorption spectrum' model of Connes emerges as the lowest Landau level limit of a specific quantum mechanical model for a charged particle on a planar surface in an electric potential and uniform magnetic field. We suggest a role for the higher Landau levels in the fluctuation part of $N(E)$.

id: 0805.4137
title: Some open questions in "wave chaos"
authors: St¨¦phane Nonnenmacher
comments: 
journal: Nonlinearity 21 (2008) T113-T121
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4137
abstract: The subject area referred to as "wave chaos", "quantum chaos" or "quantum chaology" has been investigated mostly by the theoretical physics community in the last 30 years. The questions it raises have more recently also attracted the attention of mathematicians and mathematical physicists, due to connections with number theory, graph theory, Riemannian, hyperbolic or complex geometry, classical dynamical systems, probability etc. After giving a rough account on "what is quantum chaos?", I intend to list some pending questions, some of them having been raised a long time ago, some others more recent.

id: 0805.4198
title: Realizing the strongly correlated $d$-Mott state in a fermionic cold atom optical lattice
authors: Michael R. Peterson, Chuanwei Zhang, Sumanta Tewari, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 150406 (2008) v2 is final version
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4198
abstract: We show that a new state of matter, the d-wave Mott-insulator state (d-Mott state) (introduced recently by [H. Yao, W. F. Tsai, and S. A. Kivelson, Phys. Rev. B 76, 161104 (2007)]), which is characterized by a non-zero expectation value of a local plaquette operator embedded in an insulating state, can be engineered using ultra-cold atomic fermions in two-dimensional double-well optical lattices. We characterize and analyze the parameter regime where the $d$-Mott state is stable. We predict the testable signatures of the state in the time-of-flight measurements.

id: 0805.4203
title: $p_{x}+ip_{y}$ superfluid from s-wave interactions of fermionic cold atoms
authors: Chuanwei Zhang, Sumanta Tewari, Roman Lutchyn, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 160401 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4203
abstract: Two-dimensional ($p_{x}+ip_{y}$) superfluids/superconductors offer a playground for studying intriguing physics such as quantum teleportation, non-Abelian statistics, and topological quantum computation. Creating such a superfluid in cold fermionic atom optical traps using p-wave Feshbach resonance is turning out to be challenging. Here we propose a method to create a $p_{x}+ip_{y}$ superfluid directly from an s-wave interaction making use of a topological Berry phase, which can be artificially generated. We discuss ways to detect the spontaneous Hall mass current, which acts as a diagnostic for the chiral p-wave superfluid.

id: 0805.4268
title: Primordial matter density contrast and the size of the very early universe in the Quantum Big Bang theory of the cosmological constant
authors: Budh Ram
comments: 7 pages, no figs. v2: 8 pages, title changed, abstract and text enlarged. Refs added
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Astrophysics (astro-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4268
abstract: We calculate the amount of primordial matter density contrast and the size of the very early universe in the recent Quantum Big Bang theory [arXiv:0705.4549 [gr-qc](2007)] of the cosmological constant. We obtain $(\delta\rho/\rho)_M = 1.75 \times 10^{-5}$, {\it without} the introduction of an adjustable free parameter. Harrison-Zel'dovich $k$-dependence with $A = 64/9\pi^2 = 0.72$ and $n = 1$ in $|\delta_k|^2 = Ak^n$ arises inherently. The size of the universe with which it enters the classical Friedmann-Robertson-Walker (FRW) phase comes out to be 0.2 cm. We conclude that the hypothesis of classical inflation at an early stage of cosmic evolution is {\bf not} needed.

id: 0805.4270
title: Particle creation in a time-dependent electric field revisited
authors: Gaurang Mahajan
comments: RevTeX 4; 9 pages; 4 figures
journal: Annals Phys.324:361-370,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4270
abstract: We adopt the general formalism for analyzing evolution of gaussian states of quantized fields in time-dependent backgrounds in the Schrodinger picture (presented in detail in arXiv:0708.1233 and 0708.1237) to study the example of a spatially uniform electric field background (in a time-dependent gauge) which is kept turned on for a finite duration of time. In particular, we study the \emph{time-dependent} particle content, defined in terms of the concept of instantaneous eigenstates, and describe how it captures the time evolution of the quantized field modes. The actual particle creation process occurs over a relatively short interval in time, and the particle content saturates rather quickly. We also compare the \emph{power spectrum} of the field modes, computed in the asymptotic limit, with the corresponding situation in a cosmological de Sitter background. Particle creation under the influence of a spiked electric field localized in time, as a particular limiting case of the above general model, is also considered.

id: 0805.4294
title: Nonlinear Quantum Cosmology
authors: Le-Huy Nguyen, Rajesh R. Parwani
comments: Final Journal version: Further clarification in Introduction and Conclusion. references added. figures same as in version 1
journal: Gen.Rel.Grav.41:2543-2560,2009
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4294
abstract: We study the effects of an information-theoretically motivated nonlinear correction to the Wheeler-deWitt equation in the minisuperspace scheme for flat, $k=0$, Friedmann-Robertson-Walker (FRW) universes. When the only matter is a cosmological constant, the nonlinearity can provide a barrier that screens the original Big Bang, leading to the quantum creation of a universe through tunneling just as in the $k=1$ case. When the matter is instead a free massless scalar field, the nonlinearity can again prevent a contracting classical universe from reaching zero size by creating a bounce. Our studies here are self-consistent to leading order in perturbation theory for the nonlinear effects.

id: 0805.4525
title: Perturbation Theory Without Diagrams: The Polaron Case
authors: R. Rosenfelder
comments: 32 pages, 7 figures, 4 tables, Latex, v2: misprints corrected, small changes in text following referee comments and PR style conventions, matches published version
journal: Phys.Rev.E79:016705,2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4525
abstract: Higher-order perturbative calculations in Quantum (Field) Theory suffer from the factorial increase of the number of individual diagrams. Here I describe an approach which evaluates the total contribution numerically for finite temperature from the cumulant expansion of the corresponding observable followed by an extrapolation to zero temperature. This method (originally proposed by Bogolyubov and Plechko) is applied to the calculation of higher-order terms for the ground-state energy of the polaron. Using state-of-the-art multidimensional integration routines two new coefficients are obtained corresponding to a four- and five-loop calculation. Several analytical and numerical procedures have been implemented which were crucial for obtaining reliable results.

id: 0805.4531
title: Do subleading corrections to Bekenstein-Hawking entropy hold the key to quantum gravity?
authors: S. Shankaranarayanan
comments: 6 pages, Final version, To appear in MPLA
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A23:1975-1980,2008
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.4531
abstract: Black-holes are considered to be theoretical laboratories for testing models of quantum gravity. It is usually believed that any candidate for quantum gravity must explain the microscopic origin of the Bekenstein-Hawking ($S_{_{\rm BH}}$) entropy. In this letter, we argue (i) the requirement for a candidate approach to go beyond $S_{_{\rm BH}}$ and provide generic subleading corrections, and (ii) the importance to {\it disentangle} and identify the degrees of freedom leading to $S_{_{\rm BH}}$ and its subleading corrections. Using the approach of entanglement of modes across the horizon, we show that the microscopic degrees of freedom that lead to $S_{_{\rm BH}}$ and subleading corrections are different. We further show, using microcanonical and canonical ensemble approaches, that the quantum entanglement predicts generic power-law corrections to $S_{_{\rm BH}}$ and that the corrections can be identified with the kinematical properties of the event-horizon.

id: 0805.0477
title: Probing a Bose-Einstein Condensate with an Atom Laser
authors: D. D?ring, N. P. Robins, C. Figl, J. D. Close
comments: published version, 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Express 16, 13893 (2008)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.0477
abstract: A pulsed atom laser derived from a Bose-Einstein condensate is used to probe a second target condensate. The target condensate scatters the incident atom laser pulse. From the spatial distribution of scattered atoms, one can infer important properties of the target condensate and its interaction with the probe pulse. As an example, we measure the s-wave scattering length that, in low energy collisions, describes the interaction between the |F=1,m_F=-1> and |F=2,m_F=0> hyperfine ground states in 87Rb.

id: 0805.3917
title: Covariant quantum instruments
authors: Claudio Carmeli, Teiko Heinosaari, Alessandro Toigo
comments: Minor corrections in v2
journal: Journal of Functional Analysis 257 (2009), 3353-3374
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3917
abstract: The structure of covariant instruments is studied and a general structure theorem is derived. A detailed characterization is given to covariant instruments in the case of an irreducible representation of a locally compact group.

